Bob Dole Saw Every Stage of the GOP. When Bob Dole returned to the Senate in 1988 after the second of his three presidential defeats, he told the assembled crowd of staffers and supporters, “I am bloodied, but unbowed, as the poet said.” The famous quote from Invictus defined few American politicians of the 20th century as much as Dole, who died this morning at the age of 98.The son of Russell, Kansas, Dole was bloodied first on the European battlefield in World War II, when an artillery shell cost him a kidney, one of his shoulders, and, permanently, the use of his right arm. During a political career spanning nearly 50 years, he would serve for a decade as the Republican leader in the Senate, helping to usher in legislation reforming Social Security under President Ronald Reagan and the landmark Americans With Disabilities Act under President George H. W. Bush.But Dole fell short in all four of his bids for national office and held the unfortunate distinction of being the only man ever to lose campaigns both as the Republican nominee for vice president, in 1976, and for president, in 1996. None of those defeats, however, pushed Dole out of the arena. He amassed seniority and power representing Kansas for four terms in the Senate, finally joining House Speaker Newt Gingrich as a foil to Bill Clinton before the young Democratic president ended Dole’s political career with a decisive reelection victory.Dole had resigned from the Senate to focus on the presidential campaign, but even after the loss he did not retire from public life. He became a television pitchman and a lobbyist for foreign governments. He was instrumental in the creation of the National World War II Memorial, which opened on the Mall in Washington in 2004. Three years later, President George W. Bush asked him to serve as a co-chair of a bipartisan commission that sprung out of a scandal over the treatment of military veterans at Walter Reed Medical Center.Born in 1923, Dole was a star athlete in high school and played varsity basketball at the University of Kansas. He had been studying for a degree in medicine before enlisting in the Army during World War II. On April 14, 1945, Dole’s unit in the 10th Mountain Division was part of an offensive against German soldiers in Italy when he was hit by exploding shrapnel that shattered his right shoulder and left him unable to feel either of his arms. He spent more than three years recovering in hospitals, but the injuries left him permanently disabled. For the rest of his life, Dole could not tie his own shoes, cut his food with a knife, or lift up his young daughter. In public, he carried a pen in his right hand at all times, both to prevent his fingers from splaying and as a signal for people to shake his left hand instead.Dole went to college and law school on the GI Bill and entered politics in 1950, winning a seat in the Kansas House of Representatives. He served a single two-year term before becoming a county attorney. In 1960, he won his first race for the U.S. House and after four terms, he moved up to the Senate, where he would stay for the next 38 years.Dole’s rise in national politics began in 1971, when he became chair of the Republican National Committee. In 1976, President Gerald Ford had decided to replace Vice President Nelson Rockefeller as his running mate in a bid to keep conservatives from backing Ronald Reagan for the GOP nomination. Ford announced Dole as his choice on the first day of the convention. “I’m not sure what I can add to the ticket,” Dole said at his introduction, “but I’ll do the best I can.”Ford lost to Jimmy Carter, and Dole returned to the Senate. He made a brief foray into the 1980 campaign for the Republican nomination, but he finished far back in the New Hampshire primary and withdrew from a race that was dominated by Reagan and George H. W. Bush. Dole would go up again against Bush, then the sitting vice president, eight years later, and he made a much stronger showing. He won the Iowa caucuses and two other states before Bush overtook him in the South on Super Tuesday. The battle became heated, and during an interview with Tom Brokaw on NBC, Dole was asked if he had anything to say to his rival. “Yeah, tell him to stop lying about my record,” he snapped.By this time, Dole was already minority leader of the Senate, a perch from which he helped pass the Americans With Disabilities Act in 1990. He rose to majority leader after the Republican wave of 1994, teaming—and occasionally battling—with Gingrich to take on Clinton over health care, welfare reform, and government spending. Dole and Gingrich were not close, and he later recalled that he’d sometimes ask Clinton to deal with his Republican ally instead. “I’m not going to talk to him, you talk to him,” Dole would say to Clinton about Gingrich, he told GQ in 2012. “No, you talk to him.”There was little doubt Dole would seek the presidency in 1996. Republicans had been making a habit of nominating the man who had finished second the last time around, and Dole would continue the pattern. But there were hints of the GOP’s rightward shift to come, as the conservative commentator Pat Buchanan surprised Dole by winning the New Hampshire primary. Dole also found himself hamstrung by the budget fight that shut down the government in early 1996, a standoff that would bolster Clinton. Five months later, he quit the Senate altogether as a signal to voters that he was all in for the presidency—that he had, in his words, “nowhere to go but the White House or home.”What Dole lacked in oratorical skills he made up for with a wry and often self-deprecating sense of humor. “Tomorrow’s the first day in my life I’m not going to have anything to do,” was how Dole started his concession speech after losing to Clinton in 1996. He also frequently referred to himself in the third person, a habit memorably satirized by Dan Aykroyd on Saturday Night Live. When Clinton awarded him the Presidential Medal of Freedom just a day before his second inauguration the following January, Dole stepped to the lectern and said, “I, Robert J. Dole, do solemnly swear …” the room erupted in laughter. “Sorry, wrong speech,” Dole deadpanned. Two years later, Dole took another spin in the national spotlight by becoming a spokesperson for anti-impotency drug Viagra.By the 21st century, Dole was, like the man who defeated him in 1996, largely a political spouse. Dole’s first marriage ended in divorce, and in 1975, he married Elizabeth Hanford, who would go on to become a Cabinet secretary under two Republican presidents and head of the American Red Cross. She made a brief run for the GOP presidential nomination in 2000 and then followed Dole to the Senate in 2002, serving a single term representing North Carolina.In Dole’s later years, leaders in both parties would hold him up, along with Bush, his longtime GOP rival, as an emblem of a bygone era when politics wasn’t so personal, or partisan. But that legacy seemed to paper over Dole’s earlier image, first as a party chair during the Nixon era and then during the 1976 campaign, as a political “hatchet man.” And he was very much a party man to the end. Dole dutifully backed GOP nominees in each of the five campaigns after his final run in 1996, including even Donald Trump, whose slashing personal attacks on his opponents clashed so sharply with the tenor Dole espoused. By the summer of 2016, Dole was nearly 93 and used a wheelchair, but he nonetheless was the only former Republican presidential nominee to attend Trump’s nominating convention in Cleveland.His influence within the party, however, had long since faded. In 2012, Dole urged Republicans in the Senate to ratify a United Nations treaty banning discrimination against the disabled. He had been wheeled onto the Senate floor by his wife, Elizabeth, herself also a former GOP senator. “Don’t let Bob Dole down,” Democratic Senator John Kerry implored his colleagues. But in the years since Dole had led the party, the GOP had drifted away from the internationalism embodied by his World War II generation, and concerns about U.S. sovereignty, antipathy toward the UN, and opposition to agreements backed by the Obama administration prevailed. The treaty failed to gain the needed two-thirds majority, and Bob Dole was defeated one last time.
A Very Small Animal Entirely Surrounded by Water. the world was already [young | sick | lost] when we came to it we were busy looking [for | at | through] god went to the dance and brought our new [shoes | father | flask] borrowed a [shirt | religion | mask] & sat in the bleachers [music | oil | trash] filled our rivers stayed up for the after [party | life | math] the forests were [protected | sold | ash] wrote [letters | checks | ads] against corruption blamed [science | systems | depression] for our cities when the [oceans | fires | droughts] came when the [rains | bomb | flu] came when the [weather | weather | weather] came we [weathered | welcomed | watered] it we were [prepared | shocked | responsible] please for one line look nowhere else who made our [life | language | living] here whoever eats [rivers | ash | lambs] will return each time we turn our mouths to [sob | scream | song] children are blameless as they become [gone | ghosts | gods]
Red Rocket Is a Terrifyingly Honest Look at a Shameless Man. Mikey Saber, the preening, confident chump who’s the ostensible hero of Sean Baker’s new film, Red Rocket, enters on-screen to a loud and familiar tune: “Bye Bye Bye,” by *NSync. The song is a piece of mainstream pop from yesteryear (it’s a shiver-inducing 21 years old), and its usage in this arty indie film seems laced with irony. Baker knows, though, that for all its non-subtlety, “Bye Bye Bye” is still as catchy as it was the day of its release, and he uses it to suggest the same of Mikey (played by Simon Rex): He’s his own kind of relic, rolling back into his hometown after a failed career in Los Angeles, but he’s still got a glint of charm to him.Baker has always told small-scale stories set on the margins of America—2015’s Tangerine was a bittersweet Christmas tale about trans sex workers, and 2017’s The Florida Project was about “hidden homeless” families living in a motel. Both of those films were empathetic works about people enduring incredibly challenging circumstances—Baker, who often casts first-time actors in his work, is a master of displaying unvarnished truth on-screen. Red Rocket is far more sour than sweet, but that’s part of the point; Mikey is a reprehensible fellow, but he’s clawed his way through life by sheer force of will, and as such, the camera simply can’t look away.Mikey is a former porn star given to bragging about his many accolades in the industry, but he has fallen on hard-enough times to have to return to his birthplace of Texas City, Texas, and knock on the door of his estranged wife, Lexi (Bree Elrod). Despite obvious enmity from Lexi and her mother (Brenda Deiss), Mikey somehow talks them into letting him crash, and from there he gets busy with a few foolish schemes—dealing drugs, hooking up with old high-school friends, and trying to worm his way into the affections of a pretty 17-year-old he meets at a local doughnut shop.Red Rocket is set in the months leading up to the 2016 election—occasional snippets overheard on TV news discuss Donald Trump’s presidential campaign—and Baker clearly wants the viewer to draw a connection between the outsize personalities of the former president and his witless but street-smart protagonist. Any audience member likely knows that Mikey is bad news, as do all the people in his life, but he’s still mesmerizing as he fires up his motormouth and lets another self-aggrandizing monologue loose.Rex, a former MTV VJ, rapper (he went by the moniker Dirt Nasty), comedian, and actor, is an inspired casting choice. He’s a product of the early 2000s, maybe best remembered for his role in the Scary Movie franchise or for his modeling gigs. That long gap since he was last relevant means Rex has exactly the right desperate, sweaty edge to portray Mikey, a man with no money in his pockets and few appreciable skills (except for those one might employ on a porn set). Watching him scramble back to his feet is undeniably thrilling, even though Mikey’s chronic nervous energy suggests he knows that a ton of bricks could fall on him at any second.His connection with Strawberry (Suzanna Son), the cashier at the doughnut shop, seems powered half by horniness and half by a creepy business sense—Mikey begins to operate as a “suitcase pimp,” proposing to mold her as a new porn talent that might help him launch himself back to stardom in L.A. Strawberry is on the verge of turning 18, and she’s both wildly naive and remarkably self-possessed. (Son is one of many amateur actors in the film, but you wouldn’t know it.) Her genuine attraction to Mikey keeps the audience on their toes—Mikey’s selfishness is almost indistinguishable from his pure id, which is part of his charm and also why he’s doomed to crash and burn once again.Their romance might sound ridiculous on paper, but it works on-screen. Baker is depicting an America filled with characters who plainly present as buffoons, but seem to skate through life nonetheless. Mikey is one of Baker’s most thought-through creations, and Rex brings him to life with terrifying honesty. Through him, Red Rocket is issuing a challenge to the audience. Are they rubbernecking, watching this car wreck of a person stumble through life, horrified by his sheer shamelessness? Or are they along for the ride, enjoying themselves in spite of his profound flaws? Baker wants the viewer to ponder these questions, and their own complicity in his ill-advised adventures.
Plankton May Have Escaped ‘Survival of the Fittest’. This article was originally published by Hakai Magazine.There’s a long-standing conundrum in ecology called the paradox of the plankton. Famously articulated by ecologist George Evelyn Hutchinson in 1961, the paradox explores how odd it is that there are thousands of species of phytoplankton in the upper reaches of the ocean. The top few meters of water are basically a well-mixed soup, meaning all of these species of phytoplankton are relying on the same nutrients. The theory of competitive exclusion says that one of these species ought to be a little stronger, and should out-compete the rest. But none has. Why?Hutchinson published the paradox at the height of the Cold War, when the air was thick with debates over the values of competition and the sharing of resources. Ecological thinking was itself dominated by the idea that competition drives some species to thrive and others to go extinct. But Hutchinson saw this way of thinking as an oversimplification, and he held up phytoplankton as an example of how there must be additional forces shaping biodiversity.Over the past few decades, ecologists have suggested many explanations for why multiple phytoplankton species persist, including the effects of rapid environmental shifts, the existence of species codependencies, the uneven distributions of phytoplankton species, and the fact that some phytoplankton release toxins that may give them an edge over the competition. But a new study by Oregon State University ecologist Michael Behrenfeld and his colleagues seeks to solve the dilemma by taking a different perspective: the plankton’s.Phytoplankton are so small, and the distances between them so vast—from their perspective—that it’s likely phytoplankton aren’t competing at all, says Behrenfeld. If you imagine that a phytoplankton is roughly the size of a tree’s root ball, he says, the next nearest phytoplankton would be kilometers away.A phytoplankton’s small size also means that it experiences water as a thick substance, perhaps akin to how honey feels to us. When an individual phytoplankton moves, a layer of water called the “boundary layer” moves with it. This means that phytoplankton spend most of their time firmly separated from one another.“When you think of it that way, it’s like, well, how can phytoplankton that are that physically distant actually directly compete with each other?” Behrenfeld says.Inspired by this insight, Behrenfeld decided to model phytoplankton biodiversity using an approach called neutral theory. Rather than modeling the ecosystem dynamics as competition-fueled, this framework says that a community loses species when, by chance, too many members die at the same time, and gains species when they immigrate or when genetic mutations create them anew.For about a thimbleful of water, neutral theory worked great—the number of species Behrenfeld’s model predicted to be present was about what scientists have observed in at-sea surveys. But when he scaled the model up to represent a larger body of water, a crack began to form.“We have to remember that the water is being mixed continuously,” Behrenfeld says. In a world dictated by neutral theory, phytoplankton would have to die at an unreasonable rate to make room for all of the new plankton coming in from other parts of the ocean. Instead of explaining why there is more than one phytoplankton species, Behrenfeld’s neutral-theory-based model predicted that there should actually be an astronomical number of phytoplankton species.So Behrenfeld and his colleagues considered other forces that could limit the number of plankton species even in a competition-free utopia, such as how attractive phytoplankton are to predators, how fast they reproduce, and how asexual reproduction affects genetic variation within a species. Their work paid off—adding these elements to their model gave them close to the same number of species that scientists have observed in the ocean.Nick Record, a computational ecologist at Bigelow Laboratory for Ocean Sciences in Maine, says Behrenfeld’s results highlight how the ocean’s constant churning forces scientists to come up with new ways of thinking about relationships between species. “Marine systems are really different” from those on land, he says. “And they behave in these really different ways.”Yet Record has a different take on the paradox of the plankton. “It’s not really a paradox to be solved,” Record says. “It’s part of a narrative.”Rather than assuming that some solutions are right while others are wrong, Record thinks that all proposed solutions to the paradox point to a bigger truth about marine ecosystems—that they are complex enough that ecologists may never find a one-size-fits-all model to describe how they function.Perhaps the next 60 years will see just as many proposed solutions to the paradox as the last. And maybe that’s exactly how it should be when it comes to a good paradox.
How to Care Less About Work. At the bleakest moment in the pandemic, when you felt your most stressed, most scared, least centered, you probably heard some variation of the phrase This is really hard. Maybe you read it; maybe your manager said it to you; maybe you said it to yourself. But that’s the truth: Our nearly two years of living through a pandemic have been hard. And like everything else in the United States, that difficulty has not been evenly distributed. It has been hardest for those on the front lines, those afraid of how customers will react to their requests to put on a mask, those out of work or in constant fear of the way COVID variants are whipping through their community. It has been hard, in different ways, for those attempting to work and supervise school from home, for those in complete isolation, for those terrified of being around other people. It is fucking hard, in so many intersecting and unfair ways.All that hard, seemingly never-ending work has been worth doing so that others—especially the most vulnerable in our lives—might be safer. Even in your most lonely, overwhelmed, or terrified moments, you can still grasp at that purpose. But many knowledge workers long ago arrived at a breaking point—if we’re being honest, this happened well before the pandemic for a lot of people. We worked far beyond the 40 hours of the prescribed workweek, but the goal of all that work became opaque. It was seldom to create work that was meaningful or innovative, even if we could mumble something to that effect when asked what we like about our job. It wasn’t so that we could someday work less overall. We worked hard to prove that we were alert and available for more work.Societally, we are taught to revere and strive for hard work, even as we internalize that we’re never quite doing it. You might be working excessive hours, or you might feel as if you are suffocating under the weight of demands on your time and body, but that labor will always fall short of the venerated hard work of someone else. Many of our preconceptions of hard work are still rooted in an agrarian or industrial mindset, and they strengthen as the percentage of the American workforce laboring in those fields has declined. To labor outdoors, or in a factory, or in any way that taxes the body, is considered good, noble, even patriotic work. If you work indoors, at a computer—even if it affects the body in ways that don’t leave calluses—it is distinctly less venerable.So what work is actually valuable? It’s incredibly unclear. Many knowledge workers, ourselves included, find themselves insecure in some capacity about the work they’re doing: how much they do, whom they do it for, its value, their value, how their work is rewarded and by whom. We respond to this confusion in pretty confusing ways. Some become deeply disillusioned or radicalized against the extractive, capitalist system that makes all of this so muddled. And others throw themselves into work, centering it as the defining element of their self-worth. In response to the existential crisis of personal value, they jump on the productivity treadmill, praying that in the process of constant work they might eventually stumble across purpose, dignity, and security.The treadmill rarely provides the kind of value and meaning that we hope it will. People are growing more certain in the notion that the status quo of American working life is untenable. But the pandemic has created an opportunity to reconsider and reimagine the structure of our lives and, perhaps, remove the vestigial, extractive elements. We believe that flexible work—not flexible work during a pandemic, not flexible work under duress—can change your life. It can remove you from the wheel of constant productivity. It can make you happier and healthier, but it can also make your community happier and healthier. It can make the labor in your home more equitable and it can help you be a better friend, parent, and partner. It can, somewhat ironically, increase worker solidarity. It can allow you to actually live the sort of life you pretend to live in your Instagram posts, liberating you to explore the nonwork corners of your life, including hobbies and civic involvement. We are trying to get off the damn treadmill so that we can remember the purpose and dignity that can come from the whole of our life.So ask yourself this: Who would you be if work was no longer the axis of your life? How would your relationship with your close friends and family change, and what role would you serve within your community at large? Whom would you support, how would you interact with the world, and what would you fight for?We are so overextended, so anxious, and so conditioned to approach our life as something to squeeze in around work that just asking these questions can feel indulgent. If you really try to answer them, what you’re left with will likely feel silly or far-fetched: like a Hallmark movie of your life, if you got to cast people to play you and the rest of your family who were well rested, filled with energy and intentionality and follow-through. Your mind will try to tell you it’s a fantasy. But it’s supposed to sound amazing, because you need to want it, really yearn for it, to a degree that will motivate you to shift your life in ways that will make the fantasy a reality.Think back on a time in your life before you regularly worked for pay. Recall, if you can, an expanse of unscheduled time that was, in whatever manner, yours. What did you actually like to do? Not what your parents said you should do, not what you felt as if you should do to fit in, not what you knew would look good on your application for college or a job.The answer might be spectacularly simple: You liked riding your bike with no destination in mind, making wild experiments in the kitchen, playing around with eyeshadow, writing fan fiction, playing cards with your grandfather, lying on your bed and listening to music, trying on all your clothes and making ridiculous outfits, thrifting, playing Sims for hours, obsessively sorting baseball cards, playing pickup basketball, taking photos of your feet with black-and-white film, going on long drives, learning to sew, catching bugs, skiing, playing in a band, making forts, harmonizing with other people, putting on mini-plays—whatever it was, you did it because you wanted to. Not because it would look interesting if you posted it on social media, or because it somehow optimized your body, or because it would give you better things to talk about at drinks, but because you took pleasure in it.Once you figure out what that thing is, see if you can recall its contours. Were you in charge? Were there achievable goals or no goals at all? Did you do it alone or with others? Was it something that really felt as if it was yours, not your siblings’? Did it mean regular time spent with someone you liked? Did it involve organizing, creating, practicing, following patterns, or collaborating? See if you can describe, out loud or in writing, what you did and why you loved it. Now see if there’s anything at all that resembles that experience in your life today.If your answer is your job, that makes sense. A lot of us find something that we’re good at and like, and then try to make a career out of it in some way. Those who have followed the pernicious advice to “do what you love” know this endgame: It’s a burnout trap, and a fantastic way to evacuate all pleasure and passion from an activity. Do what you love, and you’ll work every day for the rest of your life.A lot of us have only the faintest traces of those childhood and early-adulthood activities in our life—what we might dare call “hobbies.” They largely exist as conversational markers and rhetorical placeholders for who we once were. We have so many reasons for neglecting them: We don’t have the means, financial or otherwise, to pursue them; we don’t have the time; we’ve neglected them so long that our previous skills have atrophied; we simply don’t have the wherewithal to even begin thinking about how to start doing them again.All of those are excuses, most of them valid, that we cling to out of overwork. It just seems so much easier to not do something, to not have plans, to not try something new or find time to do something you used to love. But that’s your exhaustion speaking. When work devours your waking hours, it also devours your will to do things that truly nourish you. The reality is that we don’t prioritize these activities because—other than seeking ways to optimize ourselves as workers or desirable bodies—we don’t actually prioritize ourselves.A real hobby isn’t a way to adorn your personality, or perform to masquerade your class status. It’s just something you like to do, full stop.Be patient with yourself as you figure that out. When you first start trying to put the guardrails on a flexible, post-pandemic schedule, you still might want to spend your newly protected time napping or ambiently watching sports. That’s totally normal and expected: You will essentially be in recovery, not just from years of overwork, but from the accumulated, consolidated stress of the pandemic. But just because you’ve lost sight of who you are, and what you like—outside child care and Netflix—doesn’t mean those things have disappeared altogether. Again, be patient and gentle with yourself. This isn’t “self-care.” It’s recuperation.When the haze of burnout begins to clear, fight the urge to feel productive and channel that into beginning to explore your own pleasures. When we did this in our household, pre-pandemic, it led us down two routes. We started skiing, something that Anne had absolutely loved as a kid but had been reluctant to restart because, well, everything: Her skis were too old. She didn’t have anyone to go with. Who would take care of the dogs? She didn’t have goggles. It would eat up an entire weekend she could spend working. What if she wasn’t as good as she used to be?The story she told herself about why she shouldn’t go had so many twists and turns, with a ready, well-rehearsed rebuttal for every argument against why she should just go. But then we just did it. Charlie got lessons; we rented some gear. It felt spectacular. For Anne, it was like visiting a memory of her younger self and getting to restart it in real time.Charlie had wanted to relearn how to play the guitar but was reluctant to make the investment in a new one: What if it became yet another hobby he invested in and then neglected? He bought a middle-of-the-line model—just good enough to make the experience feel special—and proceeded to suck. It felt uncomfortable at first. We all have so much pressure on us to excel in everything that mediocrity feels wrong. But soon, all the lessons from his youth came streaming back. He began noodling around on new and old chord progressions, learning theory, playing until his fingers regrew calluses. It turns out that embracing mediocrity means opening yourself up to the wonder of constant little improvements. And, crucially, those improvements are in service only to the joy of learning something new for yourself. The guitar became a lifeline: a means to concentrate fully on something that had absolutely nothing to do with work, or anything else, really.Whatever your thing might be—and maybe there are many things—the most important component should be aiming to make it as unlike work as possible. This means resisting the very contemporary capitalist urge to commodify it in some way, even when people say to you, “Oh, you’re so good at [this thing]; you should sell it!” But it also means resisting the urge to master it, or display it in a way that transforms it into some mode of performance. You can want to improve, or make something for others, but that’s different from trying to be the best, and beating yourself up (or quitting entirely) because of your inadequacies.One day last winter, a subscriber to Anne’s newsletter told her that she’d recently taken up drawing. She’d never drawn before in her life, had no natural skill, and didn’t really aspire to cultivate it. She just liked making what she called “shit-tier” renderings of scenes in her life—such as her dog, say—and then sending them to her friends as amusement. Her pleasure isn’t in the product itself, or trying to perfect it. It is in the transportative process, the radical delight of doing something that has no purpose or value other than you like it, because it grabs something indescribable in you and refuses to let go.In How to Do Nothing, Jenny Odell conceives of these sorts of activities as a means of wresting back control of your own attention. You’re harnessing a desire and acting on it, instead of ceding your time and effort to others’ ideas of what’s important. Which is why it’s crucial to try to remove yourself from ideas of hobbies that are cool or popular in some capacity, and deflect the voice that says you should try to find an activity that you can “share” with your partner or your kid. They can come along later, if they want, but focus at first on excavating what you like. In the beginning, that’ll mean avoiding pursuits that require significant investment, time or financial, which will just place outsize pressure on the activity itself.Find the path of least resistance to whatever will create this feeling for you, clear time for it, and then make a promise to yourself for when you’ll find that time again. It might feel weird, as if you are forming a habit out of selfishness, or scheduling yourself as you would a child. But shut that voice up. If you live alone, it’s probably just your work addiction talking; hanging out with your own hobbies is not selfish. If you have partner or parenting obligations, carving out this time is possible, even if it means being intentional and collaborative about clearing that space for each other. Sublimating your desire for activities that don’t involve your children does not make you a more impressive parent; it just makes you a more exhausted and resentful one.This maxim holds true for other areas of your life as well. When you get a good night’s sleep, you’re better at basically everything. When you take rest days, you’re a better athlete. The restoration we find in hobbies can make us better partners, better friends, better listeners and collaborators—just overall better people to be around. Hobbies help cultivate essential parts of us that have been suffocated by productivity obsessions and proliferating obligations. The hobby itself ultimately matters far less than what its existence provides: a means of tilting your identity away from “person who is good at doing a lot of work.”We love to talk about kids’ personalities, how unique and weird and joyful they are. We don’t grow out of those characteristics so much as subsume them with duties. But they remain the building blocks of our humanness, the enduring difference between us and robots. We must preserve those inclinations toward delight and whimsy, toward the ineffable and the unimpressive, the feelings you can’t re-create with a machine or optimize for peak productivity. They are worth rediscovering not because they will allow us to rest and, as such, make us better workers—but because they anchor us to who, at heart, we’ve always been.This article has been excerpted from Charlie Warzel and Anne Helen Petersen’s forthcoming book, Out of Office: The Big Problem and Bigger Promise of Working From Home.
A Billion Sea Creatures Cooked to Death. This article was originally published by High Country NewsDuring this summer’s stifling heat wave, Robin Fales patrolled the same sweep of shore on Washington’s San Juan Island every day at low tide. The stench of rotting sea life grew as temperatures edged toward triple digits—roughly 30 degrees above average—and Fales watched the beds of kelp she studies wilt and fade. “They were bleaching more than I had ever seen,” recalls Fales, a Ph.D. candidate and marine ecologist at the University of Washington. She didn’t know if they would make it.Never in recorded history had the Pacific Northwest experienced anything like the “heat dome” that clamped down on the region in late June 2021. Temperatures reached a withering 116 degrees Fahrenheit in Portland, Oregon, and 121 degrees in Lytton, British Columbia—the highest ever recorded north of the 45th parallel.Scientists say the event would have been “virtually impossible” without climate change. It killed hundreds of people, damaged roads and power lines, and devastated crops. It also caused widespread ecological fallout, the full extent of which scientists have yet to grasp.Initial reports were sobering: A billion shellfish and other marine animals baked to death on the coast of British Columbia. The Portland Audubon Society declared a “hawkpocalypse” as it tended to scores of sick and injured birds. And in eastern Oregon, state officials estimated that tens of thousands of sculpin, a bottom-dwelling fish, perished in streams already throttled by drought.By fall, headlines and memories had faded, but the heat wave’s impacts linger on. In fact, researchers have learned that short bursts of high temperatures can pose a greater threat to plants and animals than long-term warming, and may even increase the risk of extinction.In one recent study, researchers looked at 538 species from around the world, nearly half of which had already disappeared from at least one location. They found that the doomed populations endured greater (and faster) increases in maximum yearly temperature than others. Surprisingly, though, many experienced smaller changes in average temperature, says John Wiens, an evolutionary ecologist at the University of Arizona and a co-author of the study. “The most important variable is these hottest summer temperatures.”Extreme heat can kill organisms outright, especially if they are also exposed to intense sunlight. Dehydration sets in and organs fail as enzymes stop working and proteins sustain damage. The trauma can make survivors more susceptible to disease and predation, and reduce or delay reproduction. Hot weather can also cost animals by discouraging them from foraging or hunting. And these events are happening more often: By 2040, heat waves are projected to become 12 times as frequent as in a non-warming world.After the latest episode in the Pacific Northwest, researchers began tracking the damage to a variety of species and ecosystems, such as coastal forests, which fared especially poorly. Scorched leaves turned hillsides sickly shades of orange, and trees already stressed by drought dropped their needles prematurely. But the deadliest impacts may be invisible, says Christine Buhl, an entomologist at the Oregon Department of Forestry: Thirsty trees, for example, may have suffered damage to their roots and vascular systems if they couldn’t pull enough moisture from the ground. “We will know in coming years how bad it was,” Buhl says.Australia provides a grim preview. After a string of heat waves hit the western part of the country in 2010 and 2011, scientists documented widespread tree death, among other impacts, which later contributed to beetle outbreaks and wildfires, says Joe Fontaine, a fire ecologist at Murdoch University in Perth. Even now, he says, “you can still go around and find the legacy of that event.”Yet heat waves may also help species adapt to long-term warming by driving rapid evolutionary changes, says Lauren Buckley, a climate-change ecologist at the University of Washington. They can weed out unfit individuals, giving those that tolerate hotter temperatures an advantage. Scientists have seen evidence for such shifts in populations of Douglas fir and fruit flies. But “there’s sort of a sweet spot,” Buckley says, between a stress test and a massacre.It’s too early to know whether the recent temperature spike hit the sweet spot for some—if any—Northwest species. On San Juan Island, however, Fales found a measure of hope. After the heat wave, Fales surveyed the damage to the kelp she studies and determined that while it had lost about half its biomass, most of the plants were still alive. Many mussels survived, too.That may be because warm spring temperatures spurred them to mount defenses prior to the heat wave, Fales says, by producing heat-shock proteins that repair other damaged proteins, for example. But there’s another possible factor: By celestial happenstance, summer low tides on the island always occur during mid-day, exposing intertidal organisms to peak temperatures and making it “a hot-spot location,” Fales says. Perhaps the kelp and its neighbors had already begun to adapt.
Tucker Carlson Is Completing the Work That Trump Began. Earlier this week, Fox News Channel’s Tucker Carlson, the host of the top-rated news show on cable, rose in defense of the right-wing conspiracy theorist Alex Jones.“Jones is often mocked for his flamboyance,” Carlson said, “but the truth is he has been a far better guide to reality in recent years—in other words, a far better journalist—than, say, NBC News national-security correspondent Ken Dilanian or Margaret Brennan of CBS.”Flamboyance is a rather interesting word to apply to Jones; there are others.Last month Jones, the host of Infowars, was found liable for damages in a defamation lawsuit brought by parents of children killed in the 2012 Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, whose victims included 20 young children. Jones claimed that the shooting was a “false flag” operation carried out by “crisis actors.” He mocked grieving parents, saying, “I’ve looked at it, and undoubtedly there’s a cover-up, there’s actors, they’re manipulating, they’ve been caught lying, and they were preplanning before it and rolled out with it.”This shows a level of depravity and cruelty unusual even among right-wing conspiracists. Yet there was Carlson on Wednesday night, offering praise for Jones, whom Carlson referred to as “one of the most popular journalists on the right.” (Aaron Blake of The Washington Post has provided a useful summary of Jones’s crazed claims.)Jones’s validation by Carlson is hardly surprising—but it is significant. Tucker Carlson, after all, is not some fringe figure; he is the most influential media personality on the right, the individual Republican lawmakers seek to impress and whom they genuflect before. (Carlson seems most impressed not by American politicians such as Ted Cruz and Josh Hawley, but by the authoritarian leader of Hungary, Viktor Orbán.)There was a time—and it wasn’t all that long ago—when Alex Jones would have been far too toxic and deranged a figure for any influential member of the right to embrace. No more. Jones fits right in, just as Marjorie Taylor Greene, Paul Gosar, Lauren Boebert, Madison Cawthorn, Ron Johnson, and many others do. The right wing and the Republican Party are more, not less, radical than they were when Donald Trump was president.In praising Jones, one of the most prominent conspiracists in American politics, Carlson called him “a far better guide to reality” than mainstream journalists. This is the kind of tactic that propagandists such as Trump and Vladimir Putin have employed so well: making claims that are so brazen, so outrageous, so untrue that they are disorienting, aimed at destroying critical thinking. Such claims are not just an attack on objective truth; they are an inversion of it, turning people such as Tucker Carlson and Alex Jones into the gatekeepers of reality.What Carlson is doing is poisonous to a free society, not just because our society can’t operate without shared public facts but also because he is inciting paranoia, which may well lead to political violence.That’s the reason Republican leaders’ effort to portray the 2020 election as stolen and the insurrection on January 6 as justified is so significant. They aim to convince ordinary Republicans that they have been victims of what Trump has called the “crime of the century,” the greatest election fraud in history. In Trump’s words, “the real insurrection happened on November 3rd, the Presidential Election, not on January 6th—which was a day of protesting the Fake Election results.”Carlson recently released a three-part documentary suggesting that the January 6 insurrection was a “false flag” operation, while Jones was subpoenaed by the House committee investigating the Capitol attack. He reportedly helped organize the rally at the Ellipse near the White House the day of the riot; was among the group of Trump allies who met in and around a hotel near the White House the day before the riot; and spread the false narrative of a stolen election the day before the insurrection.Time after time after time over the past half-dozen years, people who care about American democracy have underestimated a movement that is inflicting enormous harm upon it. They became his enthusiastic backers. Many other Republicans who were privately horrified by Trump looked the other way, went silent, or signed up for the ride. At every key moment, when called upon, they publicly defended Trump. They might not have liked it, but they found a way to rationalize it. It would be an affectation to deny that there are policy achievements they can point to, but they should be honest about the enormous costs that accompanied their accommodation with such a corrupt and deranged president.A lot of Republicans I know assumed that after the Trump presidency, things would snap back. The opposite has happened. Trump is no longer president, but the damage to democracy doesn’t require his presence in office. People like Tucker Carlson and Alex Jones and a bevy of others are ready to complete the work Trump began.They can be stopped, but who in the Republican Party is willing to stop them?
The Atlantic Daily: Five Shows to Spice Up Your Weekend. Now that it’s December, you may be tempted to settle in and get cozy. That doesn’t mean your entertainment has to be bland.To help spice up this first weekend of the last month of the year, I asked our culture writer Shirley Li to pick a few spunky or nerve-wracking shows to stave off the winter slump. Happy watching.1. YellowjacketsThis new coming-of-age survival thriller is “sort of like Lost meets Lord of the Flies meets Jennifer’s Body,” Shirley tells me. “The pilot is one of the best I’ve seen this year, and the show is incredibly twisty.”Where to watch: Showtime2. The Great“The black comedy’s satirical tone captures how theatrical and nearsighted politics can become amid a crisis,” she wrote in 2020.Where to watch: Hulu3. Hawkeye“Small-scale in focus, but not in ambition,” as Shirley notes in her review, the new series frees the least exciting Avenger—Hawkeye, played by Jeremy Renner—from Marvel’s universe-building.Where to watch: Disney+4. SuccessionThe HBO show is a favorite at The Atlantic—notwithstanding some concerns about season three’s trajectory. If you’re already a fan, you can read Shirley’s review of the latest episode on our site.Where to watch: HBO5. Cowboy BebopNo, not the new live-action remake: Shirley recommends streaming the original anime, “a cult success” that first aired in the U.S. in the early 2000s and is “anchored by a collection of vividly drawn personalities.”Where to watch: Netflix and HuluExplore the week that was. Our senior editor Alan Taylor compiles scenes from around the world.Read. In this week’s Books Briefing, my colleague Kate Cray explores the connections between storytelling and clothing, using writers such as Haruki Murakami and Joan Didion as examples.Watch. Viewing Peter Jackson’s Get Back—a three-part documentary on the Beatles, now streaming on Disney+—is like witnessing four marriages fall apart, James Parker writes.Licorice Pizza, playing in theaters, is “a bittersweet reminiscence about how difficult embracing adulthood can be,” David Sims writes.The scariest movie of the year isn’t a horror film, Shirley Li warns: It’s The Humans, a movie set around the Thanksgiving table (available on Showtime).Listen. “Mommy’s been having a lot of big feelings recently.” On this week’s episode of The Review, our critics unpack the new Adele album.On The Experiment, our hosts discuss whether, when it comes to murder, intent matters.
Enes Kanter Freedom Is Letting Himself Be Used. The NBA player Enes Freedom is showing the danger of attracting the wrong kind of supporters.Formerly Enes Kanter, the 29-year-old Boston Celtics center took a new surname when he became an American citizen on Monday. For months, he has been a vocal critic of the Chinese government for its many human-rights violations—specifically its repression of Tibetans, democracy advocates in Hong Kong, and Uyghurs, a Muslim minority group that, according to Amnesty International and extensive news reporting, has been subjected to concentration camps, torture, and systematic efforts to erase its culture.Freedom, who himself is Muslim, has also been calling out the NBA for prioritizing its business relationship with China over the rights of Uyghurs and others. It was an admirable and understandable position for Freedom to take, because he has firsthand experience with an authoritarian regime. Freedom has been exiled from his home country of Turkey for speaking out against Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan. In 2018, Freedom’s father was sentenced to 15 years in prison for allegedly supporting a group that Erdoğan blames for a coup attempt, but those charges were eventually dropped.In recent weeks, though, Freedom has zeroed in on the Los Angeles Lakers’ LeBron James—whose nickname, “King James,” hints at his stature as pro basketball’s preeminent figure—for not being more outspoken about China. “Money over Morals for the ‘King,’” Freedom wrote recently on Twitter, as if single-handedly leading a charge against China should be James’s responsibility.But strident criticism of James vaulted Freedom, a journeyman who has played for five different NBA franchises, into a new level of fame—at least among conservatives who resent James’s advocacy for Black Americans and bristle at his criticism of former President Donald Trump. A few years ago, the Fox News commentator Laura Ingraham insisted that, instead of getting involved in U.S. politics, basketball players should just “shut up and dribble”—a demand that James rejected.When Freedom talks with his new supporters, he shows little regard for the right to political dissent in the United States. On Monday, Freedom appeared on Fox News’s Tucker Carlson Tonight, whose namesake anchor breathlessly asked Freedom if he was more grateful for his citizenship than some of his teammates who had been born in America. The subtext of Carlson’s question was obvious: Most NBA players are Black, and Carlson frequently portrays people of color who seek political and social change as ungrateful and unpatriotic.Freedom took the bait. “People should feel really blessed and lucky to be in America,” he responded. “They love to criticize it, but when you live in a country like Turkey or China or somewhere else, you will appreciate the freedoms you have here.” And then Freedom went further. In a dramatic turn for someone who has suffered the consequences of political repression, he suggested that other players “should just keep their mouth shut and stop criticizing the greatest nation in the world, and they should focus on their freedoms and their human rights and democracy.”Carlson grinned and said, “That’s how I feel.”Freedom made his feelings about James known before his team’s November 19 game against the Lakers. The Celtics center wore custom shoes bearing an image of James being crowned by Xi Jinping, China’s Communist leader, as James stood next to bags of money. When Freedom tweeted a photo of the shoes the previous day, the caption read in part: “Sad & disgusting how these athletes pretend they care about social justice ... They really do ‘shut up & dribble’ when Big Boss [China] says so.” The conservative media personality Dana Loesch replied with several fire emojis. Donald Trump Jr., who recently called James a “bitch” on Instagram after the four-time NBA champion had two fans removed from a game for inappropriately heckling him, retweeted Freedom’s post. Freedom also drew praise from former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.Yet Freedom wasn’t nearly as bold when saw James at the game. The two never even spoke. Instead, Freedom saved his indignation for Fox News. Appearing on America’s Newsroom with the hosts Bill Hemmer and Dana Perino on Tuesday, Freedom explained his problem with James: “When you’re an athlete and you’re signing with hypocritical companies like Nike, and when China becomes your big boss, obviously you have to remain silent. It’s just a shame.” Someone had to speak up, Freedom has argued.But if Freedom really wants to promote human rights and stop the oppression of Muslims, Tucker Carlson makes a bizarre ally. The Fox host has stirred up xenophobia and embraced the white-supremacist “great replacement” theory, which claims that people of European descent are being pushed aside by nonwhite immigrants from Latin America, Africa, and the Middle East. Even as Freedom judges James for the NBA’s appeasement of China, he himself has made unsavory allies while trying to raise his own profile.Indeed, criticizing prominent Black athletes has made Freedom a media mainstay and a new friend of the right. On CNN Newsroom With Pamela Brown last week, he insisted that the Chicago Bulls legend Michael Jordan “hasn’t done anything, nothing, for the Black community in America besides just, you know, giving them money.”In fact, Jordan did face criticism during his playing days for not speaking forcefully about issues affecting the Black community, but minimizing his financial contributions is a mistake. Jordan is a founding donor of the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and Culture, and pledged last year to donate $100 million to social-justice causes over the next decade. And that’s just a snippet of his long list of charitable works.Although anyone with strong views will inevitably alienate people, taking shots at prominent Black athletes who have done significant social-justice work will not help Freedom advance freedom. All he’s doing is empowering right-wingers who delight in silencing social-justice advocates.Even so, Freedom kept attacking James after practice in Boston on Tuesday. “Sure, I’d love to sit down and talk to [James],” Freedom said. “I’m sure it’s going to be a very uncomfortable conversation for him. I don’t know if he’s gonna want that.” Freedom patronizingly added, “I don’t know if he’s educated enough, but I’m here to educate him, and I’m here to help him, because it’s not about money. It’s about morals, principles, and values. It’s about what you stand for. There are way bigger things than money. If LeBron stopped making money now, his grandkids and grandkids and grandkids can have the best life ever.”Odds are that conversation will never take place. James said after last week’s Lakers-Celtics game that the journeyman center is “definitely not someone I would give my energy to.”But if for some reason a conversation between the two does take place, it might be more uncomfortable for Freedom, who perhaps needs to be “educated” about how Carlson and others on the right are giving him a platform only because he’s criticizing some of the country’s highest-profile Black voices.Maybe the onslaught of attention has damaged his memory, but Freedom used to understand the need to protect everyone’s right to speak up. Last summer, as protests were taking place around the world after the killings of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery, Freedom addressed the crowd at a Black Lives Matter rally in Boston. “First of all, I want to thank you all for what you’re doing,” he said. “I really, really appreciate it. The second thing I want to say, man: We need change, and change cannot wait, you know?”If Freedom wants to maintain any credibility on social-justice and human-rights issues, he can’t allow himself to be played so easily by the very people who seek to undermine everything that he claims to stand for.
Adele’s 30 and the Year of the Breakup Album. For most everyone, 2021 has been a long and lonely year. Pop stars, it seems, are no exception. Although music about heartbreak has been around for as long as there’s been music, this past year’s charts have looked particularly lovelorn.Pop music has been a months-long opera of celebrity splits. We went from Olivia Rodrigo’s world-conquering “Drivers License” in January to Adele’s new album, 30, which she’s said is about “divorce, babe, divorce.” In between, Kacey Musgraves also dropped a divorce album and Taylor Swift rerecorded 2012’s Red, including a 10-minute version of the breakup anthem “All Too Well.”On the podcast The Review, Shirley Li, Spencer Kornhaber, and Sophie Gilbert discuss how these albums approach loss and why 2021 was the year of the breakup album. Listen to their conversation here:The following transcript has been edited for length and clarity. It contains spoilers.Shirley Li: Today we're talking about Adele’s new album, 30. But since it continues the theme of breakup records this year, we thought we’d go into that trend a little bit as well. There’s Kacey Musgraves’s divorce album, Star-Crossed; Taylor Swift’s rerecorded breakup album, Red (Taylor's version); and of course, Olivia Rodrigo’s Sour, which kicked off this big year of big emotions. But before we get into all that, let’s talk about Adele. You know, Adele is, in her own words, talking about “divorce, babe, divorce,” on the album 30. Spencer, a while back you wrote about how it’s a good idea to think of Adele as akin to a blockbuster-film franchise. What makes Adele such a powerhouse?Spencer Kornhaber: We live in this era where we don’t have that many huge stars that everyone can agree on. But there’s nobody who unites grocery stores across the country quite in the way that Adele has for more than a decade now. And she’s done it by being a really classic, traditional-minded musician who also brings a certain amount of personality and pop chops to a very familiar brew. And she’s been out of it for a while now, and she takes enough time between her albums that whenever they’re released, it feels like a major event and the world stops and everyone has to at least listen to it once to have something to say about it. And so, here we are at 30. Each of her albums are named for the year of her life in which she created them.Li: Yeah, she has described the way she names her albums as a way to let the listener know that these are snapshots of her life. Sophie, what do you think is the key to Adele being such a powerhouse?Sophie Gilbert: Her voice is insane. Her heartbreak is potent. And what makes this album really interesting to me is that, typically, her albums have been about the pain that she feels because of someone else. Whereas with 30, it’s really about the pain that she feels that she has inflicted on herself and her family. It’s about her wrangling with feelings of unhappiness in her marriage and her desire to break that marriage up, and then her feelings of guilt over her son. It’s kind of a solipsistic album in that sense. It’s much more about: How am I feeling? How should I feel? Is this my fault? Like, what is a person supposed to do in this situation? And I did find this sort of wrangling with that in song to be really compelling.Li: The opener is called “Strangers by Nature,” and it starts with that incredible cinematic line: “I’ll be taking flowers to the cemetery of my heart.” And it sounds like something out of a classic movie musical score.Kornhaber: There is something very cinematic about the way the album unfolds and tells a story over time. It does that by moving through a bunch of different styles, and some of them are quite modern and almost shocking to hear from Adele. There’s that one song, “Can I Get It,” produced by Max Martin and Shellback, the Swedish producers who wrote all your favorite Britney Spears songs. It has whistling and breakbeats. It’s a total corny dance song and I kind of love it.Li: It is so corny, but also so chaotic because you go into this album expecting it to be divorce ballads all the way through.Kornhaber: Yeah, there was one song, “Send My Love,” on her last album, 25, that I feel sets the tone for this new album. It’s rhythmic and dancy, and more interested in being a modern pop song. And there are a couple of those kinds of tracks in the middle of this new album that are like: “Hey, record label, look; I’m still trying to make a hit.” And then that gives her the license to record five songs that are longer than six minutes that just exist only so that you can cry to them in the shower.Li: I’m really curious about what you thought of the voice notes sprinkled through the songs on this album. Adele incorporates these voice notes that she recorded, I believe, partly as a therapeutic exercise to explain why she’s feeling what she’s feeling. She recorded conversations with her son, Angelo, and they are such intimate voice notes that are sprinkled through this song that’s addressed to her son. And I wonder what you think about it, because Adele is this artist who can capture every single emotion in a single breath, right?Kornhaber: It’s a little “tell, not show,” right? And artists often do little skits or monologues in their albums. But Adele tells her story with the emotion in her voice, and this felt like an attempt to say, “This is a concept album. I’m really telling my story.”Li: Sophie, what do you make of them as the one parent on this podcast?Gilbert: Well, I do want to thank Adele for giving us the instant classic of a sentence, which is: “Mommy’s been having a lot of big feelings recently.”Kornhaber: (Laughs)Gilbert: If I could get that in GIF form somehow, I could use it in every situation in my life. I found the voice memos really devastating. I felt like a voyeur because she does keep her son out of the spotlight and keeps her family life very private. And so, to have access to this moment where she’s trying to explain the drastic upheaval of her child’s family, it felt a little uncomfortable to me, but also really, really sad. And I’m sure that’s what she was going for.Li: I think my favorite track from 30 is “To Be Loved,” but that’s also a track that she has said that she will not perform live, that even when she listens to it, she wants to cry.Kornhaber: It is such a doozy. Yeah, that’s a song about how she walked out on this relationship and it’s like, Did I do the right thing? It’s a weird emotion to hear someone work out in a song.Gilbert: Yeah. That line “I’ll be the one to catch myself this time” feels like a good motif for the album—that she’s maybe been relying on other people for emotional strength that she needs to find within herself, as we all do.Li: We all could use what Adele is singing about it. And we should also zoom out because, as we mentioned at the top of the episode, this album comes after a string of divorce or breakup albums this year. In a single year, we went from Olivia Rodrigo singing about her very first heartbreak to Adele singing about divorce. We went through a lifetime of relationship drama in 2021.Gilbert: Is it COVID? Is COVID breaking everyone else up because they’ve been forced together? I mean, that’s basically what happened with Kacey Musgraves, right? She blamed the pandemic for giving her no distractions from her marriage and forcing her to assess what was not working within it.Li: I’m glad you brought up Kacey, because I do think that one of the tracks on her divorce album, Star-Crossed, called “Good Wife,” was written at the very beginning of that marriage. And when you listen to that song, you’re like: “Oh, this is someone with a lot of doubts about marriage.”Gilbert: Yeah. And it has kind of a strange idea of what marriage is, like that template of the ’50s housewife who stands by her man, which obviously I know is a country staple. I love this album and I know Kacey has said Sade is one of her inspirations, but she also has this similarity to Sade, where she doesn’t have a lot of emotion in her voice. So it’s this fascinating album that expresses all these emotions, but in an almost flat, slightly numb way.Kornhaber: That’s such a good way to put it. I’ve always enjoyed Kacey. She’s always been a chill, easy listen that I don’t have a very passionate response to. And that’s maybe kind of why she’s been popular in this era. You can put her music on your Spotify playlist and it usually fits in. She’s clever and modern, but without ruffling too many feathers. And so it’s really interesting to hear her now talk about this disruption in her life and try to articulate a really specific story. I thought it was very cool how this album is her stepping outside of her own life and analyzing it.Li: Yeah, she’s become a very vibes artist. On this album, though, I think she sold it a little too heavily as a big divorce, Romeo and Juliet–inspired album. It’s titled Star-Crossed. It comes with a whole visual album. And so I went in with these high expectations for big emotions, but because it was a vibes-y album, it felt like going into a Christopher Nolan movie and then getting a rom-com.Kornhaber: (Laughs)Li: I don’t have anything against rom-coms! The more I’ve listened to Star-Crossed and set aside the way it was sold, I can enjoy it.Gilbert: One of the issues that goes along with what you were saying, Shirley, is that the album is divided into three acts. The first act is supposed to be about the issues, then the middle act is the breakup, and the final act is catharsis and coming to terms with things. But it’s hard to see it that way when the general tone is so “I’m getting divorced, but everything’s okay.” It makes it a little harder to feel the drama of that structure.Li: Yeah, it is inherently sad that here’s an artist who’s trying to convince herself that she’s absolutely fine. But you can’t quite get that from the music when everything’s almost jingle-y. Like, a song like “Easier Said,” where the message is just: Boy, love is easier said than done!Gilbert: (Laughs) Yeah, that’s a fridge magnet, not a song.Li: Yes, but in the scope of there being so many breakup albums this year, the ones that don’t go into big emotions are also valuable on their own.Gilbert: Right, we have Adele for crying in the shower, and we have Kacey for playing in the backyard barbecue where we bitch about our exes. And so with that in mind, how are we listening to Red (Taylor’s Version)? While scrapbooking?Li: When you’re knitting a scarf?Kornhaber: Yes! So this is Taylor Swift’s rerecording all of her albums to get back at a business rival. She did her 2012 album, Red, and added a 10-minute version of the most devastating song on it, and everyone got in their breakup feelings for a few days in October.Li: Her entire rerecording project really depends on that nostalgia for where you were at those times.Kornhaber: The project has taken on its own life, where every six months now, Swift’s fans worldwide get to do another lap around the memory circuit and revisit their favorite albums, and Taylor gets to make another play for making those albums a hit again. And with Red, she’s really done an extraordinary thing of placing a 10-minute-long song at No. 1 on the Hot 100 and performing on SNL and making everyone cry to this 10-minute song. It’s like something that’s literally never been done before on the level she’s done it. What do you guys think of that song?Li: Oh, I’ve listened to it a lot. We were talking about Spotify Wrapped [the music streaming platform’s year-end summaries for users] before hopping on here, and I don’t know how it skyrocketed into my top five. But what’s so fascinating about Taylor is that these songs don’t sound significantly different. She has more mature vocals. Some songs she’s fiddled with the production, but mostly what’s interesting about what she’s doing is the packaging around these songs, the way that you market music in 2021 versus in 2012.Like when a track from 1989 started trending and going viral on TikTok, she released Taylor’s version of that song. That’s a big shift in the way that she has to sell these rerecords versus the way she sold these albums when they were first released. It’s fascinating to me. And this is where I’ll bring in Olivia Rodrigo. She kind of came out of nowhere in January with “Drivers License,” a ballad about a breakup that you don’t really see being No. 1 on Billboard for eight weeks straight. Everyone was in a Big Emotions phase in the pandemic, but it also really sparked something in Gen Z on TikTok. It’s just got this dizzying array of emotions that captured people’s imaginations.Kornhaber: Yeah, I’m particularly confused about the era that we live in and whether it’s an earnest era or an ironic era or an era that is completely beyond those paradigms. Olivia Rodrigo is this Disney Channel star who most adults had not heard of until January of this year, when her song started smashing chart records and amazing everyone because it’s really slow and sad and she sounds on the verge of tears, and it’s about ... getting your driver’s license? And it’s like: Well, I guess we were ready to feel some things!But Olivia Rodrigo is a huge student of Taylor Swift, and at least part of what the success of her career came from is her incredible ability to blend music and art with the sheer power of gossip. This was a breakup single, allegedly about another Disney Channel star, and there was another young star involved in a love triangle. And that gave it a little bit of the activation energy that you need to have a hit. And of course, Taylor Swift, with this reissue of Red, we’re all talking about a relationship that ended at least a decade ago with a movie star I will not name.Gilbert: What I find so interesting is that Taylor Swift had such a remarkable 2020. She dropped those two albums, Evermore and Folklore. She’s 32 now, and she’s expressed frustration in the past that she’s often been reduced to this figure of drama with her personal life. And yet here she is, after making these two albums of pretty incredible artistry that stepped out of the personal narratives, but now here we are in 2021 and suddenly all we’re talking about is the breakup of this relationship that lasted for three months when she was 20. And I know that there’s a choice in that and I’m sure there is something savvy in courting TikTok with: My life has ended because my boyfriend of three months broke up with me.Li: I do think that she’s kind of caught between a rock and a hard place, though, right? Like because part of this is a business decision that she’s molded into a moral argument, this project of rerecording her old albums. But then part of it, too, are these vault tracks, like a 10-minute version of a fan-favorite song. All of this is for the fans, and I believe she’s been trying to express in interviews that, to her, “All Too Well” is no longer a song about that breakup. It’s a song celebrating how far we’ve come together.Gilbert: But that’s just not true! There are new lines added about how his new girlfriend is the same age that she was then when she was too young.Kornhaber: Taylor Swift is the ultimate breakup artist. And if you’re going to revisit your catalog, you’re going to have to reckon with the breakups in it. But part of what I really love about the rerecording of Red and the 10-minute “All Too Well” is that they really emphasize how, all along, this music was about reassessing something in your past. And what is a breakup piece of art about if not trying to impose a narrative on something that was kind of messy?These songs are about nostalgia. They’re about feeling like you were in that car with your hot boyfriend, remembering particular fights and trying to figure out who is right. And there’s something universal in that we all kind of go through that process. But, you know, she’s also such a savvy celebrity that she’s going to put the little bacon bits of gossip in there.Li: The great thing about breakup albums is that they validate the big emotions you have. I keep saying “big feelings” over and over. But it’s also specifically this year, these past two years, really, when it feels like the rest of the world is spinning kind of out of control. There are so many other impactful and tragic and horrible things that a breakup can feel like something you shouldn’t really bring up. And so, I’m glad that there’s this music that kind of validates how sad you are about personal things versus the bigger picture.Kornhaber: It’s also music about being alone, right? And that’s something that we’ve all had to think about a lot. These are all works that are like: Yeah, maybe it was nice to be with someone else, but you know what? There’s something really righteous about making it on your own. Gilbert: Like Adele says, she’s not used to being lonely.
Joe Biden’s Year Was Ruined. Whose Fault Is That?. Sign up for Derek’s newsletter here.Imagine it’s November 2020, and I offer you the following vision of Joe Biden’s first year in office:Stocks will soar. Consumer-spending growth will set land-speed records, and the president will oversee the best labor market of this young century. Coming off a flash-freeze recession, the U.S. unemployment rate will dip under 5 percent, lower than it was in every month of 2016. Blessedly, pay is rising fastest for low-wage workers. The number of job openings will set an all-time record, making this year possibly the best for finding a new gig since the end of the Second World War.Sounds pretty good, huh? Then I offer another vision:Americans hate foreign-policy mess on TV, but the U.S. will withdraw from Afghanistan with (no matter where you stand on the ethics) an indisputably messy finale. Americans are sick of plague, but over the summer, a new coronavirus variant will take over the country, killing tens of thousands of people and keeping masks pinned to faces. Americans don’t like overall inflation, and they really, really don’t like higher gas prices, but both will increase faster than at any point since the early 1990s.Biden’s first year has been an unpredictable, best-of-times, worst-of-times mishmash. For now, the public seems to be holding the president responsible mostly for the worst bits: Biden’s approval rating at the end of his first year in office is lower than that of any American president since 1945, besides Donald Trump. More than 60 percent of voters say Biden is responsible for rising inflation, and now they’re souring on his handling of the Delta surge as well. On Fox News, commentators are regularly blaming the president for prices “spiraling out of control … like the ’70s.”Both the public and the media sometimes see the president as the commander of our ship of state—a kind of all-powerful steward of all affairs economic, geopolitical, and biological. But they should take the nautical metaphor more literally. Navy captains seem in control, but they inherit ships built by other people and steer vessels through wind and waves that don’t obey any sort of direction. That—not omnipotence—is the reality of the American presidency.“Presidents get way more credit than they deserve when things go well and way more blame than they deserve when things go badly,” Jason Furman, the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Barack Obama, told me.Presidents aren’t powerless, and it’s unhelpful to pretend so. Biden’s decision to stick with Fed Chair Jerome Powell was wise and meaningful. Biden had extraordinary control over the Afghanistan pullout and could still do much more to accelerate the distribution of cheap rapid COVID-19 tests. Furman himself warned the White House in February that the Biden stimulus bill might contribute to inflationary pressures (and I believe that, at least in part, Furman was right).But when it comes to the issues that are most likely driving the majority of public dissatisfaction right now—such as gasoline inflation, supply-chain snafus, and the rise of Delta and other coronavirus variants—the president’s circumscribed powers are best analogized to a small rudder turned by a captain amid an angry sea.“It’s likely that things will be in better shape a year from now, but most of the economy’s problems can only be solved with time,” Furman said. “That’s a really hard thing to say as president.”Biden inherited an economy he didn’t build, sundered by a pandemic he didn’t start. He oversaw the distribution of a vaccine he didn’t develop, and his inoculation campaign ran headfirst into vaccine resistance he couldn’t control. He was slammed with a viral mutation he didn’t ask for, then got punished by an international supply-chain mess, which slammed into domestic logistics problems overseen by private-sector transportation companies he can’t command, compounded by trucker shortages and port inefficiencies he couldn’t go back in time to fix.And then there’s gas. Strong evidence shows that voters reserve special hatred for rising gasoline prices. But this is another phenomenon that is largely out of Biden’s control. The economy has snapped back to normal and so have gasoline prices, which—for all the panic inducement you’ll see on TV—are still lower than they were for much of the 2010s and only $0.50 per gallon more than they were in 2019. Biden is being blamed largely for rising prices in a quickly expanding economy—a predictable outcome of catch-up growth (over which, again, he has at best limited control).So what should Biden do, recognizing the limits of his own power? Cheer and vow.The president should speak up about what’s been accomplished—“This is the best labor market of the century!”—and cheer on private-sector companies, such as those in domestic transportation logistics, whose increased efficiency is necessary to resolving America’s painful shortages. He should also tell people that he feels their pain on COVID-19 and inflation and announce a small number of easily achievable goals, like the production of several hundred million rapid COVID-19 tests made free for—and even personally mailed to—every American.If that doesn’t work, there is always the serenity prayer. The White House can’t control the variants, or supply chains, or global energy markets. If COVID-19 and the global supply chain of November 2022 resemble those of November 2021, Democrats are going to get clobbered, no matter what. Some of Biden’s problems, however, may resolve themselves: Oil and natural-gas prices have come down in the past week, analysts at Morgan Stanley have predicted that supply-chain bottlenecks will be normalized within the next year, freight rates for goods shipped from Asia to the U.S. are dropping, and, blessedly, chicken inflation is slowing too.“If rising food and gas prices and global supply chains don’t get better, Biden will be in trouble, and if they do get better, it may have almost nothing to do with what he’s done, and he’ll get credit anyway,” Furman said. After a pause, he added: “Well, that, or people will find another reason to complain about him.”
Office Holiday Parties Really Might Never Be the Same. For companies with the cash to go all out on a holiday party, the ideal spot might look something like Freehold. The industrial-chic venue in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, is equipped with everything an urban Millennial could want: It has a coffee shop, a lounge, a courtyard with twinkly lights, and a Ping-Pong table. The last holiday party I went to in the Before Times was there. It wasn’t exactly a raucous bash—in an effort to cut down on the risk of drunken misconduct, the company limited everyone to two drinks—but the turnout was easily in the hundreds. I remember a line down the block to get in, the press of bodies on the way to the bathroom, and making small talk in a distracted manner, as you do in any large crowd.Brad Gallagher, a co-founder of Freehold, remembers this party too: He wound up working the door because so many people showed up. For obvious reasons, it’s been a while since the venue hosted a holiday party of that magnitude, he told me. Among all of the other things the pandemic did last year, it forced companies to forgo the December tradition of the office holiday party, whether that meant an unfussy, in-office gathering or an extravagant function costing tens of thousands of dollars or more. “Last year I really look at as a mulligan,” Gallagher said. “It really didn’t happen.” With no other option, companies trying to round out a terrible year with something nice for their workers went the route of Zoom parties (somewhat of an oxymoron) or, if they had the budget, gifts.But things are different this year. Only 11.3 percent of employed Americans are still working from home because of the pandemic, and thanks to vaccines, getting together in person is no longer the COVID threat it once was. The nature of holiday parties has gradually been changing for years, and exactly how—and whether—companies decide to ring in the holidays this year is the first step in figuring out yet another pandemic unknown: Will the office holiday party ever be the same?The HR experts and event professionals I reached out to agreed on this: The company holiday party has officially returned, though in fits and starts. Elissa Jessup, an HR adviser at the Society for Human Resource Management, told me that even pre-Omicron she’d heard of fewer in-person parties overall, and that those still happening are generally smaller than they were before the pandemic. She said that in-person parties seem to be concentrated among companies that have fewer than 50 employees and those based in places with a warm climate that allows for gathering outdoors. At Freehold, Gallagher is also seeing holiday parties coming back in a smaller, more intimate form. These micro-parties are a far cry from the ones with hundreds of attendees that the venue hosted pre-pandemic: “I’d say 10-to-30-person parties are really what we’re seeing, and then the 40-to-70 [range],” Gallagher said. He’s getting more inquiries from start-ups with small staffs, and the relatively few large companies that have reached out tend to be interested in breaking up their parties by team to keep the gatherings as small as possible.But while many companies want to do something for employees to boost morale and end the year on a positive note, in-person parties are far from the obvious choice. “I don’t think it’s a priority in 2021,” Bronson van Wyck, an event planner based in New York, told me. So far, his brand-events firm, Workshop, has been asked to do about half as many corporate holiday parties as it did in 2019. Now that Omicron is here and COVID-19 cases are rising, even more companies may opt out of the in-person party. While van Wyck and Gallagher said they hadn’t seen any cancellations or revised plans in recent days, the Society for Human Resource Management’s Ruhal Dooley told me that “not an insignificant” number of companies are changing their plans as a direct result of the variant.Every possible alternative to the traditional party is in play: Jessup has heard from companies doing hybrid parties, fully virtual parties, or gifts for employees. (Hybrid options tend to involve a separate Zoom party or remote employees tuning in to watch portions of an in-person gathering, not, as I was hoping, workers having their faces projected onto a wall above the partygoers like the Wizard of Oz.) Companies are requesting van Wyck’s help in figuring out exactly what to send their workers. They did the same last year, and popular presents included garlands, wreaths, and even powder that can be thrown into a fire to turn it amethyst purple or sapphire blue. Jessup, too, has heard about employers giving staffers everything from gift cards and baskets to virtual cooking classes and wine tastings.As companies experiment with how they celebrate the holidays during a pandemic, it’s not clear that they’ll snap back to their pre-pandemic routines next year, or the year after that. In the same way that employers are rethinking the value of offices and in-person work, they may reevaluate what they’re really achieving with their wintertime festivities. Holiday parties have been trending in a more restrained direction for years, and the pandemic’s shake-up of the tradition provides a natural and perhaps needed opportunity to consider whether a traditional party is indeed the best way to invest in company culture.The office holiday party has a reputation for being either a painfully awkward form of social purgatory or a messy bacchanal—or both. In decades past, it was more common to encounter holiday parties that were blowout affairs with lots of free drinks, expensive food, dancing, inappropriate behavior, and next-day embarrassment, Peter Cappelli, an HR expert and a business professor at the University of Pennsylvania, told me. “They were much more like college parties than adult parties,” he said, noting that out-of-control work events date back to the days when corporations were exclusively male at the management level.That didn’t change when women entered the ranks of corporate America. But over the past few decades, businesses have gradually scaled back their holiday celebrations, first because of pushback against Christmas decorations during the 1990s and later due to liability concerns when it comes to drunken behavior. The #MeToo movement pushed things in an even more toned-down direction, with employers cutting back on alcohol and dancing. Cappelli believes that the social atmosphere of a holiday party can have a useful humanizing effect among managers and colleagues. But achieving that doesn’t require getting drunk and making a fool of oneself.Though it’s not necessarily in his best interest to say so, van Wyck feels that volunteer days and team activities can have a better return on investment than a holiday party. In recent years, his own team has done service work instead of having a party. “Another party can, for us, be exhausting,” he explained. By being forced to come up with new ways to celebrate, companies will possibly move out of the pandemic with a better, safer, more enjoyable—and perhaps less expensive—approach to holiday gatherings. Gallagher, for one, is hopeful that this year’s smaller parties will prove to be more special than massive events, with employees getting meaningful face time with the higher-ups. And if we continue to see COVID surges in the winter for years to come, companies may have little choice but to eschew large indoor holiday parties like the one I went to at Freehold.Whether companies hold in-person affairs, bring back the dreaded Zoom party, or send out treats to their employees, finding some way to celebrate is probably better than letting the year slip away without any kind of acknowledgment. Sure, the free drinks can be nice, but the opportunity to bond with your colleagues in a casual way is what really matters. “It could very well be that nobody wants parties anymore and it’s not a good use of money,” Cappelli said. “You could say that not everybody benefited and not everybody liked them. But nobody likes nothing.”
Comics Made Them Friends. Their Friendship Made Great Comics.. Each installment of “The Friendship Files” features a conversation between The Atlantic’s Julie Beck and two or more friends, exploring the history and significance of their relationship.This week she talks with three artists and one writer, who all work on titles for DC Comics, about their collaboration on the page and their friendship off of it. They discuss how working in comics can be isolating, how rare it is to meet your collaborators, and how their friendship helps them take risks in their work.This interview has been edited for length and clarity.Julie Beck: Tell me how you met and became friends. Did you know one another’s work before you met?Mitch Gerads: I’ve known Doc the longest, since 2009, from Twitter. Then we met in person at the Wizard World Chicago [convention], and that’s where our friendship began.Tom King: I was a fanboy for Doc and Mitch before I knew them. I followed them online and loved their art from back in the day. I don’t think I ever waited in line to see them—hopefully I didn’t embarrass myself like that—but I knew them first as a fan. Clay’s art I really didn’t care for, so I never had that problem.No, I met Clay at a convention after I became a professional. I met all these guys professionally first.Beck: In comics, it seems like it’s pretty rare that one person would be both writing and illustrating. Is that fair to say?Tom: Yeah. Probably 10 percent of the industry does that and 90 percent does it the other way.Beck: So most of the time you’re really relying on this relationship between writer and artist. What is that relationship like in your experience?Mitch: It’s rare that legitimate friendships come out of the working relationship. Usually it’s a job. You get paired, you do a thing, and then you get paired with another person and do another thing. Tom and I just worked so well together that we started declaring ourselves a unit.Tom: Historically in comics you hear more about writers and artists who eventually ended up hating each other. Stan Lee and Jack Kirby had a huge disagreement. A lot just don’t know each other—probably 70 percent of writers and artists never meet or even talk to one another.Mitch: Without conventions, I doubt a lot of people would meet each other in this industry.Beck: Normally, would your workflow be: Send the script, do the art, with not a lot of back-and-forth or collaboration?Tom: It depends. A comic-book script isn’t like a Hollywood script. The best way to describe it is as a letter you write to your artist. That person reads your letter and interprets it into a comic book. You can write a letter in different ways. With people you don’t know, maybe you’re more strict. With friends, you do get a language between the two of you.I did a whole project with a guy named Barnaby Bagenda whom I’ve never talked to or emailed. I’ve never seen him in person. I wouldn’t know him if he walked down the street. Then there are these three guys who I talk to every single day about everything that goes on in my life.Beck: How did your working relationship develop into a friendship?Evan “Doc” Shaner: Mitch and Tom have been working together for so long. I’ve known them for a long time, but I’ve only worked with them for the last year or two. It was like walking into a working friendship that was already there.Clay Mann: Mitch definitely came with Tom.Mitch: Tom and I got paired together by an editor to do a book called The Sheriff of Babylon. We gelled really well while we were making that, and realized we gelled together as friends too. He writes things that I want to draw. When you’re working on a creative project, a lot of yourself comes out, so when two creative minds meet, it creates something more than just work.Tom: We all got more successful together. We live in a weird liminal space between normal people and celebrities. We’re nowhere near celebrities, but we sometimes have to do things like this interview, and it’s weird. Going through that together bonds you.Beck: How is the collaboration different when it is with a friend than when it’s with someone you have never met? Do you think that that affects the work in some way?Clay: In the beginning, I cared more about what I was doing for Tom than for normal writers.Tom: Where is he going, “in the beginning”?Clay: It’s weirdly turned 180 degrees. Now I’ll go my own way more. I have 180-ed from caring way too much to thinking I have leeway because he’s someone I know.Mitch: It makes total sense. In a different type of working relationship, you have to consider that email you’re about to send: Is it going to make me look stupid? Is it going to tick them off? Whereas with this group, I can throw out a random idea that might or might not be good, without worry of any sort of repercussion.Doc: Before working on Strange Adventures with Tom and Mitch, I was hopping from one book to another and working with a number of different writers. Coming on to Strange Adventures was a revelation in terms of feeling comfortable and stretching to do different things. Before, especially if it was a writer I didn’t know very well, I played everything very safe and for the most part stuck to the script that was given to me.Beck: Do you have in mind an example of a risk that you wanted to take or something creative you wanted to try that you might not have done in another relationship?Clay: I have an example where Tom didn’t listen to his friend.Tom: What did I do?Clay: I said to Tom, “I don’t think this is going to fly,” but he was like, “People will love it.” It was Harley Quinn defeating the Trinity [of Superman, Batman, and Wonder Woman].Tom: That didn’t work. I should have listened to you.[Another example of how our relationship affects the work] is I know at least a little bit what’s hard to draw and what’s not. Maybe I have something in my head that took me two seconds to come up with and it’s going to take them a week to draw. It can be an asshole move, especially if you know the guys and you’re like, Oh man, his wife wants to go on vacation next week.On the other side, when Mitch signed up for Mister Miracle, I was like, “I want to do this all as nine-panel grids.” That’s something I would never do with other artists, because it’s really hard, but I thought, Maybe Mitch will forgive me for doing this to him.Beck: Mitch, have you forgiven him?Mitch: Oh yeah. It was actually a lot of fun. Now I’ve developed this weird affinity for them, but they still take forever.Tom: The three artists you’re looking at are literally the best at what they do. This is an art form that tons of people attempt, and this is the very top of the pyramid. So it’s not hard to write for them. I asked halfway through the last project we did, “Why don’t you guys ever tell me that what I wrote doesn’t work and you want to draw something else?” They said, “Oh, we just draw; we don’t even ask.” I was not disappointed or mad at that answer. I was like, Thank God, they have my back.Beck: What do you think are one another’s greatest storytelling strengths?Mitch: I think Clay is the best Batman and Catwoman and Joker artist in the game right now.Clay: I think Mitch is amazing at false compliments.Mitch: In our friendship, Clay is a good counterbalance to positivity.Clay: I'm rude, negative, and sarcastic.Mitch: He’s the Raphael of the group. He’s rude, but cool.Clay: This is going to sound like it’s not a compliment, but Tom’s scripts, in a 20-page book, feel like they go on forever. There’s a lot going on. Someone make that sound smarter for me?Mitch: I know what you mean. Tom considers every panel on every page. You get a really good, meaty book out of Tom’s work.Doc: When I didn’t know Tom very well, I got a script of his, and I texted Mitch right after I read it, “Hey Tom’s actually good.” I’ve drawn a few books where Character A goes from here to here, fights somebody along the way, and that’s the whole issue. That can be fun, but it can also be very dry. Tom’s books are actually trying to say something. So many comics aren’t.Beck: Outside of work, what is your friendship like?Clay: Some artists don’t have a life outside of comics and I’m one of them, so I only see these guys at cons.Mitch: Tom is actually the godfather of my son.Tom: Oh crap. I’ve got to get a Christmas present.Throughout the pandemic we’ve had a running group text that goes 24/7; that has kept me sane. It’s been my crutch.Mitch: Recently it’s been more work-related, but for a long time there we didn’t really talk about work at all. It was mostly nonsense.The nature of the job is we’re all stuck in our offices talking to no one but our pets. So it’s nice to connect with actual humans.Beck: What have you learned from this friendship?Tom: I learned I should trust Clay about Harley Quinn.I have learned that jobs will come and go, but the friendships are more important. When I’m talking to an editor, whatever makes these guys’ lives the best is what I want to happen. That sounds corny, but it’s also professionally beneficial. The editor always wants things to be done faster. But if you give these guys room, you’re going to get the best work.Mitch: Good comics can be made, but you need some sort of special mind meld in order to create great comics.Doc: This job can be really, really lonely. I don’t know about the other guys, but I’ve gone through stretches where I don’t talk to anybody while I’m working. Having any kind of shared experience with people in this job is so helpful for mental health alone.Beck: Do you think this isolation of artists and writers is to the detriment of the quality of the comics industry?Clay: I think it’s a detriment to people.Doc: It can be really harmful for folks to spend this much time alone. And then when you have an entire industry of people who work by themselves, you get a lot of weirdos who make terrible stuff.Mitch: On the flip side, I can’t imagine anything more terrifying than if everyone who worked at DC Comics was all in a big warehouse cubicle system.Clay: If these people didn’t talk to me, I would disappear. I’m just not the type of person who reaches out. So it’s nice to have a couple friends to share this stuff with.If you or someone you know should be featured in “The Friendship Files,” get in touch at friendshipfiles@theatlantic.com, and tell us a bit about what makes the friendship unique​​When you buy a book using a link on this page, we receive a commission. Thank you for supporting The Atlantic.
How Outfits Define Those Who Wear Them. Once, while on a trip to Maui, Haruki Murakami caught a glimpse of a garment that fascinated him—a simple yellow T-shirt that read TONY TAKITANI in blue letters. “What kind of person could Tony Takitani be?” the novelist wondered. So he bought the shirt (which cost just $1), wrote a short story inspired by the name, and eventually met the real-life Mr. Takitani (a political candidate turned lawyer).The book Murakami T honors this T-shirt and the many others the author has accumulated. It’s both a fascinating taxonomy of his accidental collection and an intimate look at the meaning nestled within our closets. Indeed, across artistic mediums, outfits can come to define those who wear them. Sir Arthur Conan Doyle may have been sparing in his descriptions of Sherlock Holmes’s attire, but the few nuggets about the detective’s wardrobe scattered throughout the books have taken an outsize role in the public’s imagining of him. In Black Panther, the high-tech, pan-African-inspired fashion reflects not just individual personalities but also the broader cultural and political environment of the movie’s imagined setting, Wakanda. The clothes are more than mere decoration; they shape the story itself. This type of power is present in the work of the designer Larry Legaspi as well, who worked with musical groups such as Parliament-Funkadelic. Legaspi didn’t merely create costumes for the band. He used glam space suits and futuristic footwear to tell sartorial stories that deepened the music’s intergalactic, sci-fi mythology—a process that his longtime admirer Rick Owens wrote of in the coffee-table book Legaspi.For the writer Joan Didion, clothes can bear a particularly deep emotional weight. Her memoirs Blue Nights and The Year of Magical Thinking, which grapple with the deaths of her daughter and of her husband, respectively, are filled with unworn shoes and sundresses and sweaters. These items highlight the absence of the family members she’s lost; they linger in her home, physical manifestations of her all-consuming grief.Yasutomo EbisuThe personality test in your closet“The choices we make about what we find and keep point to our interior worlds. Whether impulsively or concertedly, we might choose items because they align with our values, or because we desire to see a facet of our character reflected back at us. Perhaps our personal collections actually say more about our identities than what might be revealed in overtly private details.”Courtesy of the Museum of LondonSherlock Holmes, unlikely style icon“[Holmes’s] lasting fashion legacy is all the more extraordinary considering how stingy Conan Doyle was with descriptions of dress.”MarvelWhy fashion is key to understanding the world of Black Panther“[Black Panther’s costume designer, Ruth Carter,] said she kept four words on her vision board as she designed: Beautiful. Positive. Forward. Colorful … The result is a dramatic look that makes clear that Wakandans use clothing as an important form of self- and community expression, to honor their ancestors, and to maintain a progressive social order.”Michael Ochs Archives / Getty ImagesThe 1970s fashion designer who was outlandishly ahead of his time“Legaspi’s prescient vision seems to guide many of today’s leading-edge artists.”AP / The AtlanticSlouching towards Bendel’s“What someone is wearing betrays not just the aesthetic of a certain moment but the emotional weight that [Joan] Didion assigns to it.”
The Rare Experimental Musician to Embrace the Spotlight. Something about listening to Arca, arguably the most important experimental musician working today, reminds me of sitting in a hot car to avoid getting hit by fake bullets. That memory is from adolescence, when my group of male friends would spend whole days playing at a paintball course on the military base near where we lived. I participated, but I did not love the rude thwack of colorful projectiles exploding on my helmet. I did not love the pathetic feeling of missing all my shots. I tended to get eliminated early from matches, head to the car, and encase myself in the headphones of my portable CD player.Some of those solitary moments were spent listening to Aphex Twin, the influential British electronic musician I, as a budding snob, had read about on the internet. Aphex Twin’s Richard D. James arranged electronic beats in complex designs that stimulated both hypnosis and hyperawareness. His music was disorienting and intriguing and generally inexplicable. Staring at James’s creepy grin on the album art, I didn’t know if I loved all of what I was listening to. But I did love the feeling of escaping a suburban machismo competition for what felt like a rave in another reality.The music of Arca, the 32-year-old Venezuelan named Alejandra Ghersi, includes a similar blend of twisted rhythms, luminous synths, and lurid vibes. Yet the deeper link to Aphex Twin is in how her music makes me, and clearly many other people, feel. Many experimental artists labor in obscurity, but some gain prominence by creating music whose enjoyment feels like deciphering the code to one’s own identity.If in the past decade you’ve encountered music in which earthquakes of electro noise overtake all else, it may have been Arca’s doing. She produced songs on Kanye West’s 2013 album, Yeezus, and went on to make pivotal contributions to the work of FKA Twigs and Björk. Both in collaborations and in her own material, Arca’s style is not subtle. She sculpts sound so that it seems to enter the listener from their gut rather than their ears. Her melodies have the quality of summoning spells. I found her first three solo albums—2014’s Xen, 2015’s Mutant, and 2017’s Arca—to be, in a word, terrifying.Yet over the years, a funny thing has happened. Trawl around social media—especially circles where pop, queerness, or fashion is emphasized—and you’ll run into Arca’s name and image pretty often. You’ll encounter stans whose worshipfulness is more typical of Taylor Swift listeners than the followers of radical sound designers. In a recent TikTok with more than half a million views, someone is asked what they’re listening to on their headphones. The answer is “Whip,” by Arca, and as the song’s violent sound effects slam in, the subject of the TikTok starts sashaying, as if to Missy Elliott. The joke captures a feeling vital to the evolution of art: pride in dissonance, pride in difference.Four new albums of often breathtaking music arrived this week from Arca, totaling about two and a half hours of listening time. That sheer volume feels like a provocation, on top of all the others: robot voices stammering about gore and sex, beats that thunder like garbage trucks over potholes, chords that evoke bruised fruit in their ugliness and allure. Yet these albums include some of Arca’s most accessible and delectable work. Despite stretches likely to bore or bug, the best parts demand an obsessive level of replay.The albums are sequels to Arca’s 2020 release, KiCk i, which announced a new, poppier phase for the artist. She herself was on that album’s cover (sporting claws and stilts), the guests were splashy (Björk and Rosalía howling), and the songs were catchy (but still scary). The standout track, “Mequetrefe,” subjected playful keyboards to fluttering sound effects, making the listener feel as though they were watching a fancy toucan survive a windstorm. As the music video squashed and stretched Arca without ever moving her from the center of the frame, it drove home how the key to her art is, counterintuitively, constancy. Even as every piece of an arrangement seems to mutate over the course of a few minutes, you absolutely feel that a singular personality is driving the action.This week’s four albums push that principle to a new limit as they hop between sounds and subgenres. The thump of reggaeton, the fervor of Brazilian funk, and the beauty of Venezuelan folk have long influenced Arca, but KICK ii is her fullest tribute to Latin music; for a few songs, she even lets her grooves unfurl smoothly, resulting in bangers that would only mildly perturb most listeners. KicK iii, the masterpiece of the series, uses hyperactive breakbeats and rapping to create micro-moments that lodge in the brain. Then comes the slow climax of kick iiii—a churn of shimmery, sometimes warm atmospheres—followed by a fragile comedown on kiCK iiiii.Part of what keeps this sprawling scrapbook coherent is Arca’s voice, or rather her approach to voice: as a tool to be filtered into a multiplicity of characters, jabbering and hissing from all directions. Such vocal effects highlight her knack for contrast and pleasurable surprise, and she has internalized hip-hop’s lesson that words can be as crucial a timekeeper as a drumbeat. When Arca swan-dives from singsong ghostliness into deeper registers on the single “Prada,” it feels like the sky is conversing with the earth. On another highlight, the explosive “Ripples,” every element of the music seems to express the squeakily sung refrain—“ripples make ripples!”—on a subatomic level.The centrality of voice on the Kick albums makes a statement: Some of Arca’s obvious predecessors (see Aphex Twin) kept their own identity enigmatic, and Arca herself mostly forwent singing until her third album. Yet Arca’s art includes spectacles of self-revelation, including chatty Twitch streams and body-baring photo shoots. In arresting images that are part Westworld and part Hieronymus Bosch, the five Kick album covers each depict her as a cyborg deity—one plainly on a mission to inspire. “I got tears, but tears of fire,” goes one kick iiii chorus, sung by the artist Planningtorock. “Tears of power, tears of power ... Queer power.”Queer power both underlies Arca’s radicalism and connects her to broader musical trends. Glitches—sounds that intentionally evoke malfunctioning machines—are everywhere these days: in the chaotic loops of TikTok, in the choppy samples of Hot 100 rap, in the aggressive bustle of hyperpop. For Arca, as she explained in a 2020 Glamcult interview, such glitches represent the insufficiency of language to express internal truth—a dissonance that we can all understand on some level, but that she has felt acutely as a transgender woman. “I think sometimes conversations about gender are specifically complicated,” she said, “because maybe they are, in a good way, a dead end.”Indeed, there is a way of listening to Arca’s music as a tangle of metaphors about identity. Speaking to the performance artist Marina Abramović, Arca once described transitioning as revealing “static that was inside me that others didn’t realize was there … so now it can cause friction between my environment and my identity, but it feels less noisy that way than to keep it in.” As she sings about the body in terms that others might find gruesome, the shape-shifting brutality of the music illustrates the nature of uncompromising expression.Queerness also informs her music’s more inviting characteristics. With the Kick series, Arca has put herself more in conversation with the archetype of the pop diva—that feminine dominator of the masses who historically draws the most fervent worship from LGBTQ fans. (Deconstructing such women’s power was also the project of the late artist Sophie, a trans producer who felt like the kandi-raver yang to Arca’s leather-dungeon yin over the past decade.) On Kick ii, Arca collaborates with Sia on a track that only lightly complicates the hitmaker’s grand crooning. Another diva of sorts, Shirley Manson, of the band Garbage, shows up on kick iiii to monologue about “the alien inside.”The notion of an “alien inside” is certainly a queer one—but it also speaks to the broader sense of social dislocation and mysterious individuality that experimental music can stoke. My recent days of consuming the Kick series in headphones while jostling on subway cars and walking past sidewalk brunches gave me that teenage thrill of using music as a separator between yourself and your environment. But as I’ve grown closer to understanding the creator of the madness in my ears, Arca has also offered a reminder of the ways in which sounds—no matter how strange—can bind people.
What Roe Could Take Down With It. The consensus of Supreme Court watchers after Wednesday’s oral argument in Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization is that the demise of Roe v. Wade, or at least its dilution to a point that virtually any government-imposed “burden” on abortion would be constitutionally acceptable, is coming. After all, this Court allowed a Texas law effectively banning most abortions after six weeks to stand pending litigation, rejecting multiple pleas for a temporary stay—as clear a signal as any that at least five justices on the current Court have no problem with women’s constitutional rights (as currently recognized) being violated in the interim.Many of the dangers of overruling Roe have been long discussed. If women lose the right to an abortion, pregnancy-related deaths are estimated to rise substantially and suddenly. (Currently, 26 states have so-called trigger laws on the books that would outlaw most abortions the moment the Court reverses Roe.) The impact of Roe’s fall would hit low-income women especially hard, as they’re five times as likely as affluent women to experience unplanned childbearing and twice as likely to face sexual violence.Those are the dangers of restricting access to abortion. The thing is, the dangers of dispensing with Roe go far beyond abortion, because the legal logic that threatens this particular right could quite easily extend to others, inviting states to try out new laws that regulate choices about whom to marry, whom to be intimate with, what contraception to use, and how to rear one’s own children.The contention that Roe is uniquely built on a foundation of sand ignores the inconvenient fact that lots of other rights are not expressly articulated in the Constitution. The question that a reversal of Roe accordingly poses is whether the “textualists” and “originalists” on this conservative-heavy Court would allow those implied rights to go by the wayside as well.Most people tether Roe’s legal foundations to the right to privacy identified in Griswold v. Connecticut, a 1965 decision striking down state laws rendering illegal the use of contraceptives by married couples. The Court ultimately identified a constitutional “right to privacy” within protective “penumbras” that emanate from the Bill of Rights—in particular the First, Fourth, Fifth, Ninth, and Fourteenth Amendments—and reasoned that these penumbras operate to shield “an intimate relation of husband and wife and their physician’s role in one aspect of that relation” from government intrusion. Picking up on Griswold in 1973, the Court in Roe acknowledged that “the Constitution does not explicitly mention any right to privacy,” but seized on the earlier case’s recognition of “a guarantee of certain areas or zones of privacy” to strike down a Texas law criminalizing abortion.Bemoaning the analytical shortcomings of Roe, the late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, a champion of gender equality under the Constitution, noted that critics were “charging the Court with reading its own values into the due process clause.” (In her view, “the Court presented an incomplete justification for its decision” and should have added “a distinct sex discrimination theme” to its balancing of fetal versus maternal interests.) Those charges have endured, culminating in the Dobbs case, which tees up a reversal of Roe, despite the fact that a majority of Americans across the political spectrum favor some measure of safe and legal abortion access.But Griswold was not the Court’s first word on the scope of “liberty” under the Fourteenth Amendment’s due-process clause, which protects individuals from arbitrary governmental deprivations of “life, liberty or property” without articulating with any precision what the word liberty actually means. In a series of cases beginning in the early 1920s, the Court carved out a protected space for family, marriage, and children that the government is constrained from regulating. A rollback of Roe could split this sphere open if the conservative theory that implied rights are constitutionally invalid takes hold, and states begin passing draconian laws that creep into other areas of intimate personal life.Consider the 1923 case Meyer v. Nebraska, in which the Court struck down a law criminalizing the teaching of German in private schools. “The obvious purpose of this statute,” the Court wrote, “was that the English language should be and become the mother tongue of all children reared in this state.” Although its enactment “comes reasonably within the police power of the state,” the Court found that the law ”unreasonably infringes the liberty guaranteed to the plaintiff in error by the Fourteenth Amendment”—the precise grounding of the now-precarious individual right to decide whether to carry a fetus to term. Two years later, in Pierce v. Society of Sisters of the Holy Names of Jesus & Mary, the Court struck down an Oregon criminal law forcing parents to send their children to public school. “The manifest purpose” of the law, the Court noted, “is to compel general attendance at public schools by normal children, between eight and sixteen, who have not completed the eighth grade.” Citing Meyer, the Court ruled, “We think it entirely plain that the Act of 1922 unreasonably interferes with the liberty of parents and guardians to direct the upbringing and education of children.”The Court has construed liberty to safeguard numerous other personal safe spaces: the right to marry regardless of race (1967’s Loving v. Virginia) and sex (2015’s Obergefell v. Hodges). The right to use contraception (Griswold). The right to be free from compulsory sterilization by the state (1942’s Skinner v. Oklahoma). The right to be free of government-mandated surgery involving “a virtually total divestment of respondent’s ordinary control over surgical probing beneath his skin” (1985’s Winston v. Lee). And the right to engage in intimate sexual conduct with a partner of one’s choice without fear of criminal prosecution (2003’s Lawrence v. Texas).In Dobbs, the state of Mississippi’s answer to this line of cases is to suggest that the life of an unborn fetus is especially sacred under the Constitution: “Nowhere else in the law does a right of privacy or right to make personal decisions provide a right to destroy a human life,” it claims. But saying so does not mean that critics of other privacy-based rights could not find their own reasons why those rights, too, must be balanced against some other competing interest.Thus, to say that Roe is a one-off constitutional blunder, built on a flimsy foundation, while other rights are grounded in concrete, is a myth—and a dangerous one. Nothing in the Constitution says anything to specifically protect couples’ ability to choose to have sex, use contraception, get married, decide how to educate their children, refuse bodily inspection or medical treatments, and, yes, terminate a pregnancy. From a legal perspective, if Roe falls, it’s hard to see what else will still stand.
The Tech Moguls Are Looking for a New Playground. Jack Dorsey, who stepped down as Twitter’s CEO this week, holds the dubious distinction of being one of Silicon Valley’s most important woolgathering sages. Speaking with him can be incredibly disorienting, the journalist Ashley Feinberg once remarked, “not because he’s particularly clever or thought-provoking, but because he sounds like he should be.” That echoes my own experience: Dorsey is quiet and reserved in interviews—a departure from the usual chief-executive bravado—and he seems genuinely interested in giving thoughtful answers, also rare. Yet however earnest his engagement, he almost never gives a straight or satisfying response. Press him to account for specific problems on his platform, and he’ll launch into a game of tech-founder Mad Libs that takes the conversation nowhere.I don’t think Dorsey means to stonewall by meandering; rather, he’s expressing, in his elliptical way, the disconnect between his lofty ideals for social media and the toxic discourse it creates. It’s as if he has a perfect version of Twitter in his head but lacks the language to describe it. Now, with his departure from the company, that tension can at last be swept aside. Like other Big Tech leaders, he’s pivoting away from his teenage, problem-ridden platform in the hopes of getting to a better, different kind of place. Imagine a version of the distracted-boyfriend meme in which the guy in the middle is a CEO, and he’s ogling a decentralized metaverse.Dorsey has always had a reputation as an ideas guy. After Twitter’s storybook launch, in 2006, he set to work on another company, one to help democratize mobile payments, which became Square. His tech “visionary” status meant that Dorsey could be eccentric, which he capitalized on by fasting, drinking a concoction of suspect nutritional value called “salt juice,” walking five miles to work, and sporting a trademark beard and nose ring. Visionary status also allowed him to juggle two part-time CEO jobs, and it provided cover when, a few years ago, he began tweeting intensely about cryptocurrency. In August, Dorsey claimed that bitcoin would eventually “unite the world.” This could well be the context for his next big idea in tech, and his next multibillion-dollar company. But also, it was @jack being @jack.Being at the helm of Twitter in 2021 is hard. In early 2020, Elliott Management, the activist investor, took a sizable stake in the company and pressured Dorsey to hit growth targets. And although Twitter is working on some new products, the platform is, to a large degree, mature. Leading a mature company—especially one that has an outsize influence on politics and culture—involves a lot of maintenance work. It’s also kind of a nightmare. In the past 18 months, Dorsey has had to navigate a flood of COVID misinformation across his platform, multiple testimonies before Congress, and a deeply contentious election season, which culminated in his executive decision to ban the sitting president of the United States. I’m not suggesting that we shed a tear for this billionaire, but I’ve been tagged in enough of Dorsey’s mentions to know that part of his management experience is absorbing justified criticism from, well, basically everyone. Not exactly what a visionary wants to do all day.Legacy tech platforms make plenty of money from their hundreds of millions, if not billions, of users, but they’re also riddled with problems. Those problems must feel quotidian to the people who dreamed the platforms up. Rolling out new products, updates, and rules is a logistical challenge, and users are cranky and resistant to change. The successes of Web 2.0—the social internet—are no longer playgrounds of possibility; they’re not the future. That’s why many venture capitalists, programmers, and Silicon Valley CEOs such as Dorsey are eyeing Web3.To put it in simple terms, Web3 refers to a third generation of the internet where online services and platforms have been transitioned to a model based on blockchains and cryptographic tokens. In theory, that means they are decentralized, and anyone who owns tokens has some amount of ownership or voting control over them. This model of the web represents a financialized vision of the internet, backed heavily by investors and speculative currencies. It is also the kind of chaotic space to which developers and creatives instinctively flock. Blockchain-based projects are sometimes confusing, they can have barriers to entry (like requiring a crypto wallet), and they seem to generate their own, varied countercultures. There is an immense amount of money to be made. It’s exciting—a new playground.Dorsey is among the crypto world’s best-known evangelists. At a conference in Miami this summer, he remarked on bitcoin’s supposedly unlimited potential for good. “For me, bitcoin changes absolutely everything,” he said, extolling its ability to be a universal asset and a utility for unbanked people in the developing world. He described having spent November 2019 in Nigeria, Ethiopia, and Ghana with entrepreneurs, and said he’d learned that the technology is transformative, even beautiful. In an act of foreshadowing, Dorsey added that he would be working fully on bitcoin if he weren’t the CEO of Twitter and Square.Dorsey’s bitcoin musings hit familiar notes for him: They are full of hope and possibility, but they are also extremely vague. “What I’m drawn to the most about it,” Dorsey said of cryptocurrency, “is the ethos, is what it represents, the conditions that created it, which are so rare and so special and so precious. I don’t think there’s anything more important in my lifetime to work on, and I don’t think there’s anything more enabling for people around the world.”Dorsey’s vision for bitcoin, much like his vision for Twitter, is confidently idealistic. In 2019, when he was confronted about Twitter’s harassment features, he offered mumbly, circuitous responses. And now, when he is confronted with bitcoin’s problems —such as the environmental impacts from “mining” cryptocurrencies—his answers are just as opaque and unsatisfying. “I believe fully that bitcoin, over time and today, does incentivize more renewable energy,” he told the crowd in Miami. “And I think it does incentivize more awareness around how we’re getting that power and gives people more freedom to convert unused, wasted power into something that provides value for billions of people around the world.”I believe that Dorsey believes what he says. Of all the major tech CEOs, Dorsey has always been the most responsive to criticism and has pushed Twitter to tackle important harassment problems. But his visions for bitcoin, like his past hopes for Twitter, take for granted that somebody will eventually solve the biggest problems facing a piece of technology. It’s a nice idea, the kind you might expect from an “ideas guy.” But the parallels are clear between his vision for Web3 and, say, the free-speech idealism he espoused before a sitting president used his platform to deny the results of an election. Web3 is, in theory, more egalitarian and inclusive than our current, messy internet. The way we get there, according to the Web3 prophets, is to trust the process and follow their lead. The logistics will work themselves out.In that respect, Jack Dorsey’s departure from Twitter and embrace of crypto resembles Mark Zuckerberg’s rebrand of Facebook in favor of the metaverse. Big Tech’s founders have jettisoned the escape pod from their bloated, boring second incarnations of the internet and set off for a new frontier. Their ambitions would be admirable if not for the harms that their platforms have already wrought. Dorsey and company may, in fact, be visionaries—city planners who can deftly sketch the thoroughfares and public spaces we will eventually traverse. But city plans don’t make a city, nor does a collection of parks and avenues. Cities are the result of a meticulously managed infrastructure. They need a sanitation department to make sure that garbage doesn’t pile up in the streets, and transit authorities to keep the trains on time. They need bureaucrats, not visionaries.It makes sense that Dorsey, a man with a vision so grand that he could barely articulate it, would find bureaucratic work to be stifling. If anything signals the end of the second iteration of the internet, it’s the dreamers moving on.
The Biblical Clash at the Core of The Power of the Dog. The banjo may seem like an innocent instrument, but in The Power of the Dog, it’s downright menacing. The swaggering rancher Phil Burbank (played by Benedict Cumberbatch) at the center of Jane Campion’s new film is introduced as a thin-skinned bully who’s quick to insult those around him. But I didn’t realize what a frightening character he was going to be until Phil retired to his bed, pulled out a banjo, and started angrily plucking at it; that humble string instrument hasn’t been played so malevolently on-screen since the notorious “dueling banjos” of Deliverance.Campion’s first feature film in 12 years, based on the novel of the same name by Thomas Savage, is set on a 1925 Montana ranch that’s surrounded by spiky mountains and acres of barren landscape filled with both promise and hostility. There, Phil has proudly carved out a lonely existence for himself as a cattle herder, while his full-hearted brother, George (Jesse Plemons), is dissatisfied with their spartan life and seeking companionship. Into this dynamic wanders local widow Rose (Kirsten Dunst) and her son, Peter (Kodi Smit-McPhee). George marries Rose, seeing the newcomers as the beginning of a real family, but Phil derides them as too weak for life on the range.Westerns almost always wrestle with masculinity in some way, whether through a simple yarn about heroes and villains in the open country, or through a darker reckoning with Americans’ desire to conquer land that is not their own. In The Power of the Dog, Campion embraces the genre’s many possibilities. Each member of her wounded foursome reflects a different aspect of the tainted promise of the West. But Phil, played magnificently by Cumberbatch in a role that’s completely against type, is the furious engine of the film’s heartbreak.Phil sees himself as the ultimate cowboy. He constantly invokes a now-dead mentor named Bronco Henry who taught him how to survive on the frontier and lashes out at anyone else who dares to try to forge a connection with him. He castrates bulls by hand, binds twine together to make his own ropes, and rarely bathes; whenever he’s inside the drafty mansion his brother has constructed, he feels out of place, like some grimy poltergeist disrupting George’s facade of civility. George may not be spoiling for a fight in the same way that Phil is, but the symbolic fracture between the brothers is undeniable: George desires domesticity, moving grand pianos into the house and hosting dinner parties with politicians, while Phil craves eternal wilderness—the kind of world he can prove his own toughness in. The clash feels almost biblical in nature, a face-off between a harsh, unjust world and a gentle, modern one.An entire movie about Phil’s cruelty to everyone around him might be unwatchable. But Campion is an empathetic director, and she’s long been drawn to characters whose emotions are buried deep, such as the electively mute Ada of The Piano, the squirrelly older sister Kay of Sweetie, or the introverted academic Frannie of In the Cut. Phil is one of the most layered, enthralling protagonists in her filmography. He has erected impenetrable force fields around his anxieties about manliness, but Peter, whom he initially dismisses as an effeminate mama’s boy, forces him to begin to confront hidden neuroses about his own sexuality. Every twitch on Cumberbatch’s face feels like an earthquake for the viewers, as he draws out the drama in the barest hint of feeling.The Power of the Dog is structured in chapters, and each new one veers in a surprising direction. George and Rose’s romance is tender at first, but eventually crumbles under external pressures. Dunst’s performance is achingly nervy, some of the best work she’s done in years; Plemons registers his adoration and his apprehensions quietly, keeping a stiff upper lip in the face of Phil’s abuse and Rose’s inner demons. Smit-McPhee initially plays Peter as a sensitive teen making paper-flower arrangements to keep his mother happy, but he gradually reveals the character’s brutal side. Campion builds his antagonistic yet fraternal dynamic with Phil into a fascinating puzzle for audiences to try to solve.But the film offers no definitive judgments on its anguished ensemble. The cinematographer Ari Wegner’s camera will occasionally zoom out for massive aerial shots that underline the insignificance of the people milling among the mountains, trying to make something of themselves. Campion never takes a side in the ongoing conflict between George and Phil, instead brilliantly capturing the purpose, and the futility, in each brother’s approach, making The Power of the Dog an inimitable viewing experience.
Photos of the Week: Santa School, Snowy Soccer, Dinosaur Lantern. 
The Atlantic Daily: Omicron Could Be Bad, or Really Bad—Or Maybe Good. Every discovery of a fast-spreading new variant sets off another wave of uncertainty, and this time, Omicron is to blame.Although it’s true that we know frustratingly little about this new variant (other than that it’s here—and here, and here), today we understand a lot more about the coronavirus generally—how it travels, how vaccines work against it—than we did a year ago. We can rely on what we’ve learned as we prepare for Omicron.The news in three sentences:(1) President Joe Biden announced new pandemic measures in response to Omicron. (2) Germany imposed more stringent restrictions on unvaccinated people. (3) Congress will attempt to avert a government shutdown before tomorrow’s deadline, as some Senate Republicans still frustrated by Biden's vaccine mandate threaten to delay a compromise.Today’s Atlantic-approved activity:Meet the people turning leisure time into a productivity challenge.A break from the news:Human error is often cited as the most common cause of car accidents. That’s a myth.
