Covid: Germany puts major restrictions on unvaccinated. Germany's national and regional leaders have agreed to bar unvaccinated people from much of public life in a bid to fend off a fourth wave of Covid-19. Outgoing Chancellor Angela Merkel described the far-reaching measures as an act of "national solidarity". Only those who have been vaccinated or recently recovered from Covid will be allowed in restaurants, cinemas, leisure facilities and many shops. Vaccinations could be made mandatory by February, the chancellor added. Germany's fourth wave of Covid is its most severe so far, with another 388 deaths recorded in the past 24 hours. There is also growing concern about the spread of the Omicron variant, which EU health officials warn is likely to cause over half of all Covid cases in the next few months. Mrs Merkel said hospitals were stretched to the point of patients having to be moved to different areas for treatment. "The fourth wave must be broken and this has not yet been achieved." "Given the situation, I think it is appropriate to adopt compulsory vaccination," she said, while making clear that this would have to be approved by parliament. Her successor Olaf Scholz, who is expected to take over as chancellor next Wednesday, had already said he backed the move, which would come a few weeks later than a similar Austrian law. Berlin Mayor Michael Müller said the vast majority of Covid cases were down to unvaccinated people. The country locking down the unvaccinatedOmicron drives major surge in S Africa Covid casesMerkel picks punk singer for big farewell event The new measures are not described as a lockdown on the unvaccinated, although outgoing Health Minister Jens Spahn spoke earlier of a "quasi lockdown". Some German states already operate so-called 2G policies, and these will now become nationwide - 2G stands for genesen (recovered in the past six months) or geimpft (vaccinated). Under the measures agreed by Germany's 16 states and federal leaders: Unvaccinated people will be limited to meetings with their own household and two other peopleThe 2G rule will be enforced at restaurants and cultural venues and non-essential shopsClubs will shut in areas where 350 cases have been recorded per 100,000 people in the past seven days - the national rate is over 400Up to 30 million vaccinations will be carried out by Christmas - first, second or boostersOutdoor events, including Bundesliga football, will have limited crowds of 15,000 and 2G rulesFireworks on New Year's Eve will be banned While vaccinations have been stepped up in Germany - with almost a million carried out on Wednesday alone - only 68.7% of the population has been vaccinated, a relatively low rate for Western Europe. Seventy-nine cases of the new Omicron variant of Covid-19 have been reported in 15 European countries so far, according to the EU's European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. Most cases were linked to travel to African countries while others were linked to connecting flights between Africa and Europe. The ECDC does not cover the UK.
Covid: The country locking down the unvaccinated. Carina, a yoga teacher in Vienna, is not vaccinated against Covid-19 and wants to remain that way. So she is now under lockdown, like around two million other unvaccinated Austrians. She is only allowed to leave her home for essential reasons like work or shopping for food, and is barred from cafés and restaurants. So I met her in a Vienna park, where she is allowed to take exercise. Carina says she doesn't understand the rationale behind the lockdown and that it makes her feel sad. "I was walking by some cafes this morning," she told me. "It's a bit strange to look inside and to know that I couldn't go in. It makes you feel really excluded, and ostracised." "I'm one of these people that is made into the enemy," she said. "And that doesn't sit well." "I don't want people to get sick. I am careful. I get tested. I'm not at very great risk [from Covid-19] and I feel like it's a very personal decision. I understand people who do get vaccinated and when people don't want to get vaccinated." There have been demonstrations in several parts of the country in protest against the lockdown. Police say they'll carry out random spot checks on people in public places and fine anyone who can't show a certification of vaccination or recovery. Austria introduces lockdown for unvaccinatedCovid passes set to stay as Europe heads for winterHow fast is vaccine progress around the world? Around 65% of Austria's population is fully vaccinated, one of the lowest rates in western Europe. The country is currently seeing the highest rate of daily infections for Covid-19 since the pandemic began. Chancellor Alexander Schallenberg says the government was forced to act because of the surge in new infections. He said the vaccination rate was "shamefully low" and would "keep us trapped in a vicious circle, from one lockdown to the next". Since the measures tightened, more Austrians have been getting jabbed. Long lines have formed outside one Vienna vaccination centre. Some were coming for booster shots, others for their first injections. Dr Thomas Szekeres, head of the Austrian Medical Chamber, says he is hoping the vaccination rate will rise to 80% or more. "We know that vaccination is the only way to decrease the number of infections," he says. "We know this from other countries. We hope that the lockdown for unvaccinated Austrians will be enough to decrease the number of infections. But the experts are not sure about that. Maybe we will need additional measures to reach the goal to decrease the number." Many Austrians have welcomed the increase in vaccinations, but some are concerned the lockdown for the unvaccinated isn't constitutional. Karl Weller, a Viennese businessman, told me he is very much in favour of the jab. "It is necessary for our health and our economy," he said. "But I think it's a catastrophe, to divide between the vaccinated and not vaccinated. People start to become more and more angry and they are afraid." Shopping for clothes and other non-essentials is now only possible for the vaccinated. Doris, who was out in central Vienna, said she was losing patience with those who refuse to get jabbed. "The only solution is that we all have to be vaccinated. That's the only solution. Otherwise, we have the problem for quite a long time. And we really want to get rid of it."
Omicron: Biden tightens travel rules amid new Omicron cases. President Joe Biden has unveiled stricter Covid-19 travel rules as the US confirmed multiple cases of the Omicron variant from coast to coast. Mr Biden said his plan "doesn't include shutdowns or lockdowns" and does not expand vaccine mandates. Cases have been detected in California, Colorado, Minnesota, New York and in Hawaii, where officials say that person had no recent travel history. Local health officials have reported only mild symptoms in the cases. The variant has now been found up to 30 countries, according to reports. It is still not clear whether the highly-mutated Omicron strain is associated with more transmission or more risk of evading vaccines. How worrying is the new Covid variant?Covid variants: Do we need new vaccines yet?Biden: Omicron lockdown not needed for now Under the details unveiled on Thursday, all international passengers will have to be tested for the virus in the 24 hours before they leave for the US, regardless of their vaccination status. Mask requirements on planes, trains and buses will be extended until March. The US government will seek to make available millions of free at-home tests through private insurance companies for those who have coverage and through health centres and rural clinics for those who do not. The administration's plan for the winter months also consists of steps to encourage all adults to get their booster vaccines, including through a public education campaign and more targeted outreach. Over 40 million Americans have received their boosters, but Mr Biden said nearly 100 million more are eligible and have not yet had theirs. Hundreds of family vaccination clinics will be set up across the country in an attempt to increase vaccination rates among children and teenagers. The US and several other countries have banned travel from eight southern African countries. Health experts have said travel restrictions will buy them time to study the new variant. Five cases of the variant have been detected in New York, state Governor Kathy Hochul said on Thursday. A man who attended a convention in Manhattan in late November tested positive for the variant, said officials. One of the cases was a vaccinated 67-year-old woman in Suffolk County who was experiencing mild symptoms of a cough and a headache, said Governor Hochul. The other four were in New York City. A case confirmed in California on Wednesday and in Colorado Thursday were identified in travellers who had recently flown back from South Africa. A Omicron-positive individual in Minnesota had recently returned from a three-day anime (Japanese cartoon) convention in New York City. The person in Hawaii, who was unvaccinated and had previously been infected with coronavirus in 2020, had no recent travel history, meaning community transmission there has already probably begun, health officials say. The Hawaii case was experiencing mild to moderate symptoms and was isolated at home, said officials. With the rise of the Omicron variant, Joe Biden is back in front of the American people with another set of steps to stop the spread of Covid-19. Unlike his last major action, however, the administration's plan is light on government mandates - perhaps a reflection of the political firestorm his previous orders created and the legal morass that has enveloped them. Instead, Mr Biden is pushing for greater access to testing and encouraging, but not requiring, all Americans to get vaccination booster shots. He also makes specific mention of keeping schools open and children in classrooms - a reflection of the white-hot rage last year's extended closures generated among some suburban parents, who have become a key part of the Democrats' electoral voting bloc. When Mr Biden assumed the presidency earlier this year, he acknowledged the success of his tenure would be determined in large part by his ability to contain the pandemic and return a semblance of normalcy to American life. After some early positive results, the rise of new variants - along with vaccine hesitancy among some in the US - dampened those hopes and exacted an economic and political toll. Thursday's actions suggest Mr Biden knows a return to normal is still a long way off.
US and Mexico to restart Trump-era 'Remain in Mexico' policy. Would-be asylum seekers who cross the US southern border will be sent to Mexico to await claims decisions following the restart of a controversial programme. The US and Mexican governments said Thursday that they will reinstate the Trump-era policy known as Remain in Mexico. US President Joe Biden had suspended the programme, calling it "inhumane". A court order forced a reversal, however. Former President Donald Trump used the programme, then known as the Migrant Protection Protocols, to send more than 60,000 asylum applicants back to Mexico. Migrants were often left waiting in Mexico for months, where they sometimes fell prey to criminal gangs. According to charity Human Rights First, there have been more than 1,500 publicly reported cases of kidnapping, rape, torture and other crimes against migrants returned to Mexico. Mr Biden, a Democrat, had suspended the programme almost immediately after taking office, as part of a campaign pledge to reverse hardline immigration policies enacted by his predecessor. In June, Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas terminated the policy. The programme's resurrection follows an August ruling by federal court Judge Matthew Kacsmaryk, a Trump appointee, who found that the Biden administration had improperly cancelled the policy earlier this year. Asked about the resumption of the policy on Thursday, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said that both Mr Biden and Mr Mayorkas stand by previous statements describing the programme as one with "endemic flaws" with "unjustified human costs". "But we also believe in following the law," she said. The revived policy includes new steps to address Mexico's human rights concerns about the policy - reportedly a caveat for their participation. Under guidance from Mexico, the US will now include providing Covid-19 vaccinations for migrants, and expanded exemptions, such as for those with physical and mental health challenges. Also at Mexico's request, the US agreed to limit time spent to six months for each asylum applicant. The Mexican government said it was committed to maintaining the health and safety of migrants. The administration is appealing Judge Kacsmaryk's order, but was legally required to enforce the ruling. Judge Kacsmaryk acknowledged that the policy could only be implemented with Mexico's consent, prompting a months-long negotiation between the two countries. Implementation is expected to begin next week, first in El Paso and Brownsville, Texas, as well as San Diego, California. The move was slammed by the pro-immigration Washington-DC based American Immigration Council. "We categorically reject the Biden administration's claims that it can administer the Remain in Mexico program in a more humane manner," the group said in a statement, adding: "Today is a dark day for the United States and for the rule of law." They added that by expanding the programme to include any migrants from the Western Hemisphere - including non-Spanish speaking groups such as Haitians - Mr Biden "made the programme even broader than under Trump".
Margaux Pinot: Shock over release of judoka’s partner in assault case. French athletes have expressed disbelief over the acquittal of a coach accused of domestic violence against Olympic judo champion Margaux Pinot. Ms Pinot accused her partner and judo trainer Alain Schmitt of punching and attempting to strangle her during an altercation over the weekend. The Olympic gold medallist, 27, filed a complaint against Mr Schmitt. He was arrested but denied the allegations and was acquitted in court. A judge said there was not "enough proof of guilt" for the prosecution to proceed when delivering his verdict in a preliminary hearing on Wednesday. "A court is never there to tell who is telling the truth and who is lying," the judge said. Shortly after the hearing, Ms Pinot tweeted a picture of her swollen face, marked by cuts and several bruises. In one tweet, in which she alluded to her wounds and "the blood strewn on the floor of my apartment", she asked: "What was missing? My death at the end, perhaps?" "It was probably judo that saved me," she added in the tweet. "And my thoughts are also with those women who can't say the same." The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter Prosecutors have said they will appeal against the verdict. In court, they requested a one-year suspended prison sentence for what they described as "very serious violence". In her complaint, Ms Pinot accused Mr Schmitt of assaulting her at her home in a suburb of Paris during the night of Saturday and early hours of Sunday. She said she had escaped and taken refuge with neighbours, who called the police. Ms Pinot said she had been taken to hospital where she received treatment for several injuries, including a broken nose. But Mr Schmitt, 38, appeared in court to deny the allegations. He called them "100% false" and accused Ms Pinot of starting the fight, which he said had involved judo holds, according to French reports. French media said bruises were visible on his face as he described the incident as a fight between lovers. "I have never hit a woman in my life, it's rubbish," he told the court. His defence lawyer, Malik Behloul, disputed Ms Pinot's version of events. "With the strength that this man [Mr Schmitt] has, he is quite capable of doing a great deal more harm than that," Mr Behloul argued. Mr Schmitt was arrested hours before he was expected to take over as head coach of the Israeli national women's judoka team. But the Israel Judo Association told AFP news agency it had suspended all contact with Mr Schmitt following the allegations. On Thursday afternoon, Mr Schmitt and Ms Pinot held separate news conferences to explain the circumstances of the altercation in more detail. Mr Schmitt, who appeared to have a black eye, said he had gone for a drink before visiting Ms Pinot's home, where he intended to print documents before flying out to Israel. The pair started arguing and Ms Pinot "threw herself on me", Mr Schmitt said. He described a violent struggle in which they banged into walls, a radiator and a door. He denied punching Ms Pinot and said there had been a "media lynching" against him. But at her news conference, Ms Pinot disputed his account and accused Mr Schmitt of trying to "make me look like a hysterical woman". Ms Pinot's lawyer, Rachid Madid, said he would seek to "set the record straight in this case" and gather additional information to support the appeal. Earlier, some members of the judo community in France shared messages of support for Ms Pinot, including three-time Olympic champion Teddy Riner. The president of the French Judo Federation, Stéphane Nomis, and female French judo star Clarisse Agbégnénou said they were shocked by the court's decision. Ms Pinot has mostly competed in the women's 70 kg event for France. She has had a career decorated with medals, including a gold in the mixed team event at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, and a bronze at the World Championships in 2019.
Laverne & Shirley star Eddie Mekka dies aged 69. US actor Eddie Mekka - best known for starring in the Laverne & Shirley TV sitcom in the 1970s-80s - has died aged 69, local media report. He was found dead at his California home last Saturday, Mekka's brother Warren Mekjian is quoted as saying. Reports say concerned neighbours decided to alert police after not hearing from the actor for a few days. Mr Mekjian said there was no indication that his brother's death was suspicious, according to NBC News. Mekka played Carmine Ragusa, Shirley's love interest, in the popular sitcom that run on ABC from 1976 to 1983. Paying tributes, Cindy Williams, who played Shirley, tweeted: "My darling Eddie, A world-class talent who could do it all. I love you dearly. I'll miss you so much. But oh the marvellous memories." The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter Born in Massachusetts on 14 June 1952, Mekka rose to fame for his lead role in the Lieutenant musical in 1975, garnering a Tony Award nomination for best actor. Mekka - who later moved to Los Angeles - also played in a number of TV series, including The Love Boat and Family Matters. In 1982, he married actress DeLee Lively, divorcing in 1992. Two years later he married Yvonne Marie Grace, with whom he had a daughter.
Ikea customers and staff sleep in store after snowstorm. Customers and staff at an Ikea store in Denmark had the ultimate sleepover after getting stranded by a snowstorm. Up to 30cm (12in) of snow fell in the city of Aalborg, leaving at least 25 staff and customers unable to go home. So the group bedded down in the showroom, dined on the store's food and watched television. Parts of northern Denmark were heavily affected by the snow, with 300 people spending the night in Aalborg's airport. Police advised against driving in the region due to the weather conditions. Several staff members from a toy shop next door also asked the Ikea store for shelter. The store's manager, Peter Elmrose, said the group slept in the showroom, where there are beds, mattresses and sofa beds. "This is certainly a new situation for us," he told local newspaper Nordjyske. Erik Bangsgaard and his wife were among the customers trapped in the store. "We gathered in the canteen, where we got food and drink, and there was television," he recalled. "There was nothing we could do about the situation. We were just really happy to get shelter," he told the Ekstra Bladet newspaper. The group was treated to a breakfast of cinnamon rolls and coffee before leaving the store. Mr Elmrose told the Danish Broadcasting Corporation that the beds would be ready with clean bedding when the store opened on Thursday morning.
Covid: South Africa new cases surge as Omicron spreads. The new coronavirus variant Omicron has now become dominant in South Africa and is driving a sharp increase in new infections, health officials say. Some 11,500 new Covid infections were registered in the latest daily figures. That is a sharp rise on the 8,500 cases confirmed the previous day. By contrast, daily infections were averaging between 200 and 300 in mid-November, a top South African scientist told the BBC. Omicron has now been detected in at least 24 countries around the world, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). Those who have already had other variants of coronavirus do not appear to be protected against Omicron but vaccines are still believed to protect against severe disease, according to top scientists from the global health body and South Africa's National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD). "Previous infection used to protect against Delta but now with Omicron that doesn't seem to be the case," said Anne von Gottberg, microbiologist at NICD. The full picture in South Africa will not become clear until "people get so sick that they need to go to hospital" which is generally "three, four weeks later," says Prof Salim Abdool Karim of the Africa Task Force for Coronavirus. "But the feedback we're getting from the ground is that there's really no red flags - we're not seeing anything dramatically different, what we're seeing is what we are used to," he told the BBC's Newsday programme. The BBC's Pumza Fihlani in South Africa's biggest city, Johannesburg, says that restaurants and supermarkets remain packed, ahead of the Christmas and New Year holidays. People are talking about the new variant - but so far there's little panic and, according to scientists, there shouldn't be. How can I tell I have Omicron?Covid map: Where are cases the highest? South Africa was the first country to report on the highly mutated new variant. The NICD says more than 70% of all the virus genomes it sequenced last month have been of the new variant. India, Ghana, Saudi Arabia and the UAE are among the latest countries to have confirmed their first cases of Omicron. Others including the UK, US and Germany have also seen people infected by the new variant. Many questions about Omicron remain to be answered, including how much protection current vaccines provide. The WHO has categorised it as a "variant of concern", and says early evidence suggests it has a higher re-infection risk. Earlier this week, countries around the world restricted travel from southern Africa as details of the spread emerged. This prompted South Africa's foreign ministry to complain that it was being punished - instead of applauded - for discovering Omicron. WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus later warned that blanket Covid measures were penalising southern Africa. The rate of new infection is expected to increase in what is now the beginning of the fourth wave in South Africa, and the national health department says there has also been a slight increase in hospital admissions. Most of the people who have been hospitalised in South Africa had not been vaccinated against coronavirus, according to the NICD. There are no vaccine shortages in the country, and Mr Ramaphosa has urged more people to get jabbed, saying this remains the best way to fight the virus. About 24% of South Africans have so far been fully vaccinated - far more than the 7% average recorded across the African continent, but lower than the latest European average of 54%. Officials in South Africa are ramping up efforts to get more people vaccinated. Before the detection of the Omicron variant late last month, vaccination campaigns had stalled, in part because of the low rate of reported new infections, experts say. But our South Africa reporter says that seems to be changing - on 25 November about 120,000 vaccines were administered and a week later the number had risen to just over 160,000 new vaccinations a day. It could be the silver lining that health officials were hoping for, she says. What this means for the rest of the world remains very uncertain. South Africa had a wave driven by another variant - Beta -  that did not take off in other places. Levels of a later variant, Delta, were very low when Omicron took hold in South Africa - meaning the new variant did not have to work hard to compete. South Africa has low levels of vaccination although it has had high levels of infection and that brings its own immunity. How it fares in places like the UK, where there is plenty of Delta circulating but the population is heavily vaccinated, therefore, remains to be seen.
Ghislaine Maxwell: Defence lawyers seek to discredit key accuser. Defence lawyers for British socialite Ghislaine Maxwell have been trying to find inconsistencies in the testimony of a key accuser at her trial. The accuser, known as "Jane", says she was abused by Ms Maxwell and convicted paedophile Jeffrey Epstein aged 14. But on Wednesday, defence counsel Laura Menninger presented documents suggesting Jane was uncertain about Ms Maxwell's participation in the abuse. Ms Maxwell denies sex-trafficking charges. She has pleaded not guilty to eight charges of sex trafficking and other crimes, covering a period from 1994-2004. She has been in a US jail since her arrest last year, and faces up to 80 years in prison if convicted. The defence claims she is being used as a scapegoat for Epstein's crimes, following his death in prison in 2019. Prosecutors argue the pair were "partners in crime" in sex abuse. They say Ms Maxwell, who also has American and French citizenship, recruited and groomed underage girls for her long-term companion Epstein to abuse. Epstein died in a New York prison cell on 10 August 2019 as he awaited trial on sex-trafficking charges in a federal case. His death was ruled to be a suicide. Ghislaine Maxwell 'won't get fair trial' - brotherWho is Ghislaine Maxwell, Epstein's ex-girlfriend?Panorama: The Prince and the Epstein ScandalWho was Jeffrey Epstein? Jane is the first of four alleged victims to testify at the trial. Cross-examining the witness, defence lawyer Laura Menninger produced documents from law enforcement dating back to December 2019 suggesting that Jane was unclear about whether Ms Maxwell was present during the abuse, or whether she touched or kissed her. In her court appearance on Tuesday, Jane had described the alleged abuse - which went on from 1994 to 1997 -  in graphic detail, saying that Ms Maxwell was present for much of it and was "very casual" about the encounters. Under cross-examination she denied changing her story and questioned the accuracy of the documents, adding that the statements she made then were never recorded. Through tears she said she had found it difficult to tell the officers involved in initial questioning "the most shameful, deepest secrets that I've been carrying around with me my whole life". Jane also denied using her experience as a soap opera actor to embellish her testimony, and said she had no financial interest in testifying. She said that while she had received $5m (£3.75m) from the victims' compensation fund she wished she had never received that money. "I guess in this country compensation is the only thing you can get to try and move on with your life," Jane added. Her only motivation for testifying, she said, was to "find some sort of closure". Four charges relate to the years 1994-97 when Ms Maxwell was, according to an indictment, among Epstein's closest associates and also in an "intimate relationship" with him. Two other charges - of sex trafficking conspiracy and sex trafficking of a minor - came in an amended indictment and relate to the period 2001 and 2004. Born outside Paris on Christmas Day, 1961, Ms Maxwell grew up in a country mansion, went to Oxford University and speaks several languages. She is the youngest child of late media mogul Robert Maxwell. She is said to have had a very close relationship with her late father, and he named his luxury yacht - the Lady Ghislaine - after her. Soon after her father's death in 1991, Ms Maxwell left the UK to settle in America, where she worked in real estate, and not long after met Jeffrey Epstein. She sold her Manhattan townhouse in 2016, and kept a low profile until she was arrested last July at her secluded mansion in the state of New Hampshire.
Meghan wins ruling in Mail on Sunday privacy fight. The Duchess of Sussex has won the latest stage in her legal fight against the publisher of the Mail on Sunday over a letter she sent to her father. The Court of Appeal rejected Associated Newspapers' attempt to have a trial in the privacy and copyright case. Meghan said it was a win "not just for me, but for anyone who has ever felt scared to stand up for what's right". Associated Newspapers said it was disappointed, and was considering a further appeal to the Supreme Court. A judge had previously ruled in favour of Meghan after extracts from the letter appeared in the paper. In a statement issued after the ruling, the duchess urged people to be "brave enough to reshape a tabloid industry that... profits from the lies and pain that they create". Meghan, who started the civil action against newspaper group in 2019, said: "In the nearly three years since this began, I have been patient in the face of deception, intimidation and calculated attacks." She added: "The courts have held the defendant to account and my hope is that we all begin to do the same. Because as far removed as it may seem from your personal life, it's not. Tomorrow it could be you. "These harmful practices don't happen once in a blue moon - they are a daily fail that divide us and we all deserve better." Will Meghan's big win change public opinion?Profile: Duchess of SussexWhere do Harry and Meghan get their money?Who's in the UK Royal Family and how does it work? A spokesman for Associated Newspapers said: "It is our strong view that judgment should be given only on the basis of evidence tested at trial, and not on a summary basis in a heavily contested case." The Court of Appeal accepted Meghan's argument that the letter to Thomas Markle in August 2018 - three months after her wedding to Prince Harry - was "deeply personal". It had been given to the Mail on Sunday by Mr Markle, who wanted to address what he thought were unfair media accounts. The judges were told that 585 out of the 1,250 words in the letter to her estranged father had been republished in five articles. In their decision, the three judges said the letter's contents were "personal, private and not matters of legitimate public interest". In February, the High Court had ruled against the newspaper group on the issue of privacy and copyright - saying the issues in the case were so clear cut that there was no need for a full hearing. Associated Newspapers was refused permission to appeal against the decision but went to the Court of Appeal in an attempt to get the original ruling overturned. But on Thursday, judges at the appeal said it was hard to see what evidence at a trial would have altered the situation. They added: "The judge had correctly decided that, whilst it might have been proportionate to publish a very small part of the letter for that purpose, it was not necessary to publish half the contents of the letter." ONE OF THE MOST DRAMATIC PERIODS IN MODERN ROYAL HISTORY: The Princes and the Press At the three-day appeal hearing last month, lawyers for Associated Newspapers presented evidence to support its contention that Meghan's privacy and copyright claims against the publisher should be heard at a full trial. During the case, it was revealed that Meghan had authorised her former communications secretary, Jason Knauf, to co-operate with the authors of a book about her and Prince Harry, something she had previously denied. They also produced a witness statement from Mr Knauf, which indicated that the duchess had written the letter knowing it might be leaked. Mr Knauf said Meghan sent him an early draft of the letter and had written: "Obviously everything I have drafted is with the understanding that it could be leaked so I have been meticulous in my word choice, but please do let me know if anything stands out for you as a liability." But in written evidence, Meghan denied she thought it likely that her father would leak the letter, saying she "merely recognised that this was a possibility". A statement issued by Associated Newspapers after the latest ruling said "Mr Knauf's evidence raises issues as to the duchess's credibility". Explaining why it was considering a Supreme Court challenge, Associated said its article raised "issues of public interest including the reasons for the breakdown in the relationship between the duchess and her father". Meghan has won a significant victory in this courtroom battle to protect her privacy. She's drawn a line in the sand. Even if her life is of public interest, she's shown that it doesn't make her public property. It was a high-risk strategy, which could have put her in court facing awkward questions, but the appeal court ruling has seen her winning without that. But it's already come with some bruising headlines - such as having to apologise for having forgotten how information was given to authors writing a book about her and Prince Harry. This might have been an "unfortunate lapse of memory", said the appeal court ruling, but it didn't bear on the fundamental issues of whether such a private letter to her father should have been published. Meghan divides public opinion - with vocal supporters and critics both seeing bias and prejudice on the other side - and this court case is unlikely to change that. But she has succeeded in a legal battle that previous generations of royals would probably have avoided.
Russia Ukraine: Lavrov warns of return to military confrontation nightmare. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has warned that Europe could be returning to what he called the "nightmare of military confrontation". At a European security conference in Sweden, Mr Lavrov floated the idea of a new European security pact to try to stop Nato from expanding further east. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken warned of "serious consequences" if Russia sought conflict with Ukraine. The meeting comes as Russia boosts its military near Ukraine's border. Ukraine says Russia has amassed more than 90,000 troops there. Moscow denies it is preparing an attack on Ukraine and accuses Kyiv of its own military build-up. As tensions rise, Russia said on Thursday it had arrested three suspected Ukrainian security service agents. One of the three was accused of planning a terrorist attack, while the other two had been seeking to gather intelligence, Russia's Federal Security Service said. Why Russia is stoking border tensions with UkraineNato warning over Russian build-up near Ukraine Mr Lavrov and Mr Blinken met at a conference of the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE). US officials said the two sides had agreed to further dialogue on Ukraine. Mr Blinken hinted at the possibility of direct talks between US President Joe Biden and his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin in the near future. Russia's foreign ministry hoped a Putin-Biden summit would take place in the coming days but no date had been set, Interfax news agency reported. The build-up of Russian troops near Ukraine's border was among the topics discussed at an in-person summit between the two leaders in Geneva in June. Earlier this week, President Putin said Russia would seek US guarantees that Nato will limit its presence in Ukraine, which is not a member of the security alliance. But on Thursday, Mr Lavrov said in a speech that Nato was refusing to constructively consider proposals to de-escalate tensions and prevent dangerous incidents. "The alliance's military infrastructure is being irresponsibly brought closer to Russia's borders in Romania and Poland, deploying an anti-missile defence system that can be used as a strike complex," he said. "American medium-range missiles are about to appear in Europe, bringing back the nightmare scenario of a military confrontation." He warned Nato against turning countries neighbouring Russia, ie Ukraine, into "bridgeheads of confrontation", and said he hoped Russian proposals for a new security pact would be carefully considered. At a joint news conference with the Russian foreign minister, Mr Blinken said the best way to avoid a crisis was through diplomacy and urged Russia to pull back its forces. "The United States is willing to facilitate that but... if Russia decides to pursue confrontation there will be serious consequences," he added. On Wednesday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called for direct talks with Russia over the more than seven-year conflict with Russian-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine. He also said that Kyiv's goal was to "liberate" Crimea, annexed by Russia in 2014, but made no mention of using force. A large part of the recent Russian military build-up is in Crimea. Troops are also massing near Ukraine's eastern Donbas region, the name for parts of Luhansk and Donetsk regions under the control of separatists.
