Covid: Travel and mask rules tightened over Omicron variant. Face coverings will become mandatory again in shops and on public transport in England from next week as part of  measures to target the new coronavirus variant, Omicron, the PM has said. PCR tests for everyone entering the UK will be introduced and all contacts of new variant cases will have to self-isolate, even if fully jabbed. But Boris Johnson said Christmas would be "considerably better" than in 2020. The measures were "temporary and precautionary", he added. Mr Johnson announced the restrictions at a Downing Street news conference after it was confirmed that two Omicron cases had been detected in Brentwood, Essex, and Nottingham. Officials said the cases were linked and connected to travel in southern Africa. How are England's Covid rules changing because of Omicron?How are masks rules being tightened?The UK's red list is back... which countries are on it? The new variant was first reported from South Africa on Wednesday, with early evidence suggesting it has a higher reinfection risk. Mr Johnson said: "Our scientists are learning more hour by hour, and it does appear that Omicron spreads very rapidly and can be spread between people who are double vaccinated." He added: "We need to slow down the spread of this variant here in the UK, because measures at the border can only ever minimise and delay the arrival of a new variant rather than stop it all together." The prime minister said the new measures would be reviewed in three weeks, by which time they should have better information about the "continuing effectiveness" of vaccines. The prime minister said the "tightening up" of the mask rules will be outlined by Health Secretary Sajid Javid "in the next day or so". He did not indicate when PCR tests would begin and in a press release the Department of Health only said it was among the measures being "introduced from next week". Covid restrictions were tightened across the UK days before Christmas last year amid a surge in cases. Asked by the BBC's Iain Watson if the prime minister could say with any confidence whether or not people could keep their Christmas plans this year, Mr Johnson replied: "We continue to be in a strong position largely thanks to the speed of the vaccine rollout, another booster rollout, and... I'm pretty confident to absolutely confident this Christmas will be considerably better than last Christmas." Countries around the world are introducing travel bans and restrictions on southern African countries in an effort to contain the variant's spread. Under the plans: Everyone entering the UK (other than those coming from the Common Travel Area that covers the Channel Islands and Ireland) will have to take PCR test by the end of the second day after their arrival and self-isolate until they receive a negative resultAll contacts of suspected Omicron cases must self-isolate, regardless of whether or not they are fully jabbedFace coverings will be made compulsory in shops and on public transport - but hospitality settings will be exempt from the changesThe health secretary is to ask advisers to consider rapidly extending boosters, including reducing the gap between the second dose of the vaccine and the booster The UK's chief medical adviser, Prof Chris Whitty, said there was a "reasonable chance" that vaccines could be less effective against the new variant but stressed people who are vaccinated or receive the booster jab will be less likely to become seriously ill. He said the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation would now need to decide whether to extend the booster vaccine down to adults age 18, and whether a second dose should be offered to children aged 12-15. Do we need new vaccines yet?How worrying is the new Covid variant? The reintroduction of masks in shops and public transport brings England back into line with the other UK nations. Paddy Lillis from the shopworkers' union Usdaw accused ministers of "flip-flopping on basic and sensible Covid measures" and said the face covering rules should have been kept in place when restrictions were relaxed in July. "Retail staff working with the public every day are deeply worried about catching Covid-19 and the arrival of the Omicron variant is a further concern," he said. Carol Popplestone, chairwoman of the Royal College of Nursing, said face coverings were "something we have already called for and it should not have been a new variant that forced the prime minister to act". This is a moment the government had wanted to avoid. We've got used to restrictions in England being lifted. But for the first time in months, they're now being re-imposed in response to the new variant. And these restrictions could have a significant impact. For example, anyone who goes on holiday will now need to pay for a PCR test and self-isolate until they get a negative result. If Omicron spreads quickly, there could be a lot of people forced to self-isolate for 10 days as close contacts. But the government hasn't gone for its full plan B. Masks won't be mandatory in hospitality settings in England like they are in Scotland and Wales. People aren't being told to work from home - and there still aren't plans for vaccine passports. But it's a sign of the uncertainty and concern in Whitehall that Boris Johnson felt he had to announce these measures. Both the UK cases of the Omicron variant and their households are self-isolating.  Additional testing is being carried out at locations where those people were likely to have been infectious. "Confirmed cases and contacts are being followed up and requested to isolate and get tested as necessary," the Department of Health said. Ten countries - South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, Eswatini, Angola, Mozambique, Malawi and Zambia - are now on the UK's travel red list meaning, from Sunday at 04:00 GMT, all arrivals will have to quarantine in a hotel for 10 days. Other countries are also introducing travel bans and restrictions on southern African countries in an effort to contain the variant's spread. The average number of daily confirmed Covid cases in the UK began rising again in early November. A further 39,567 confirmed cases were announced on Saturday. IS THERE AN IDEAL POST-COVID DIET? How what you eat can help your recoveryCANADA'S MISSING CHILDREN: Who should be held accountable? Have you been affected by issues covered in this story? Share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Tweet: @BBC_HaveYourSayUpload pictures or videoPlease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission.
Covid: Will there be another lockdown in the UK?. England's Covid rules are being strengthened in response to concern over the Omicron variant, Prime Minister Boris Johnson has announced. New measures include: All contacts of suspected Omicron cases will be required to self-isolate for 10 days. This is regardless of a person's vaccination statusAnyone entering the UK will require a PCR test by the end of the second day after their arrival and will need to self-isolate until they have a negative resultFace coverings will once again be compulsory in shops and on public transportThe Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) - the UK's vaccine advisory body - will consider giving the booster vaccine "to as wide as group as possible". It will also reduce the gap between the second dose and booster The PM said the new rules were temporary and would be reviewed after three weeks. How are masks rules being tightened?Two cases of new variant of Covid detected in UKHow worrying is the new Covid variant? In September, the health secretary announced a list of measures which would come into place if the NHS came under "unsustainable pressure" in England. These include: introducing mandatory Covid passportsmaking face coverings compulsory again advising people to work from homecommunicating clearly and urgently to the public that the level of risk has increased, and the need to behave more cautiously However, these restrictions would only effectively bring England in line with stricter rules still in place in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. The government has repeatedly said it has no plans for another lockdown. No single event or set of figures would necessarily trigger stricter measures, but the government said it would monitor: hospitalisations rapid rates of change in figuresthe overall state of the NHS The government's current strategy is centred on encouraging take-up of Covid vaccines and boosters. Measures include: Covid booster jabs for everyone aged 40 or over, and other vulnerable groupssingle vaccine doses for all 12- to 15-year-olds, and a second doses now offered for those aged 16 and 17encouraging unvaccinated people to get jabbedfree PCR and lateral flow testsoffer of free flu jab take-up 1m-plus social distancing guidance remains in places such as hospitals and passport controlface coverings no longer required by law, but the government "expects and recommends" them in crowded/enclosed spacessome shops and transport operators still require maskspeople who've been working from home should return to the workplace graduallyunder new guidance, people are advised to test for Covid before going to crowded places or spending time with those who are at greater risk from Covid What are the full rules in England? First Minister Mark Drakeford has warned that Covid measures could be brought back in to allow Wales to have a "normal" Christmas. Current measures include: NHS Covid Pass needed for entry to nightclubs, cinemas, theatres and concert halls and many other indoor and outdoor eventsworking from home wherever possibleface coverings compulsory on public transport, and in shops and hospitals What are the full rules in Wales? Ministers in Northern Ireland have strengthened their message on working from home, asking employees to do so "where they can" and businesses to support this "where possible". Health Minister Robin Swann has also warned that some hospitality venues "may be asked to close" over Christmas if Covid-19 continues to spread. The NI executive's autumn/winter Covid contingency plan sets out a range of other possible measures, including: strengthened arrangements for self-isolation for close contactsa return to mandatory social distancing Other current restrictions include: a limit of 30 people from different households mixing indoors in domestic settingsface coverings compulsory in shops, indoor seated venues and visitor attractions, public transport and some other settingsvaccine passports for venues including nightclubs, bars and cinemas to be mandatory from 29 November What are the rules in Northern Ireland? physical distancing rules remain in healthcare settings such as hospitals, GP surgeries and dentists, where the 2m (6ft) rule appliesface coverings still compulsory on public transport and inside places like shopsall school staff and secondary pupils to wear face coverings indoors indoor hospitality venues must collect customer contact detailsworking from home where possibleall over-18s required to prove their vaccine status at nightclubs and other venues What are the rules in Scotland?
What are the rules and guidance for face masks and coverings?. Boris Johnson has said people will have to wear face coverings in shops and on public transport in England. The rules are being tightened up as part of the government's "precautionary measures" against the Omicron variant of coronavirus. Mr Johnson said the changes wouldn't include hospitality settings. He said more details will be announced by the health secretary "in the next day or so" and the rule change will be reviewed in three weeks. In Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland they are still mandatory on public transport and many indoor areas. Since July, masks have not been a legal requirement in England Under the government's Covid "Autumn and Winter Plan", their use has been recommended in crowded and enclosed spaces. But requiring people to wear masks again has been an option under the government's "Plan B" contingency measures. Meanwhile the UK Health Security Agency has asked MPs and peers to wear masks and cancel some activities in Parliament buildings, for the next two weeks. This follows a number of Covid outbreaks at Westminster. Face coverings have already been made mandatory for everyone else working in or visiting the House of Commons Could Covid restrictions return this winter?How many people still wear masks?What are the face mask rules at COP26? In England, the legal requirement to wear a face covering ended on 19 July. Now it is set to return on transport and in shopsIn Scotland, masks must still be worn in shops and on public transport - as well as pubs and restaurants when not seated. They are required in indoor public spaces in universities and remain compulsory for all school staff as well as secondary school pupilsIn Wales, masks are still legally required on public transport and in all public indoor areas apart from pubs and restaurantsIn Northern Ireland face coverings are no longer compulsory in places of worship, or for students in school classrooms, but they must be worn on public transport and in shops and hospitality venues Although face coverings are no longer compulsory in schools in England, head teachers and health officials can ask staff and pupils to wear them in response to local circumstances. A number of schools across different part of England have already reintroduced face coverings. Businesses and travel operators can already set their own rules for customers and passengers. For example, Transport for London requires face covering for travel on the Underground and on buses. However, until the latest government announcement, it's not been a legal requirement. Confusion and upset over masks on public transport Many retailers have continued to ask shoppers to wear face coverings, including Sainsbury's, Tesco and Waterstones. Most people could be refused service, entry or the right to travel if a firm enforces a requirement to wear a face covering even if it's not legally required. Companies decide their own health and safety measures, and insisting on masks could be a reasonable rule, says Adam Wagner, a barrister at Doughty Street Chambers. However, they would not be able to discriminate. So, if you are currently exempt from wearing a mask - for example if you have breathing difficulties - companies would probably have to continue to honour that exemption, says Mr Wagner. The British Medical Association, which represents doctors back the continued use of masks. England's chief medical officer Chris Whitty and chief scientific adviser Sir Patrick Vallance said they will continue to wear them. Evidence suggests transmission mainly happens indoors where people are close together. Face coverings worn over the nose and mouth reduce the spread of coronavirus droplets from coughs, sneezes and while speaking. The main purpose is to protect others although there is some evidence they offer protection to wearers,. Masks can also help reduce virus spread from contagious people with no symptoms. Five ways to avoid catching coronavirus indoors It should: have a nose wirehave at least two/three layers of materialfit snugly over mouth, nose and chin The highest level of protection is provided by FFP3 (or similar) masks worn by healthcare workers in high risk settings. A recent study found FFP3 masks could provid up to 100% protection against Covid. Hospital staff wearing standard surgical masks were much more likely to catch the virus. Members of the public can buy FFP3 masks, but they won't provide the highest protection unless fitted correctly.
New Covid variant: How worried should we be?. We're back in familiar territory - growing concern about a new variant of coronavirus. The latest is the most heavily mutated version discovered so far - and it has such a long list of mutations that it was described by one scientist as "horrific", while another told me it was the worst variant they'd seen. It is early days and the confirmed cases are still mostly concentrated in one province in South Africa, but there are hints it may have spread further. Immediately there are questions around how quickly the new variant spreads, its ability to bypass some of the protection given by vaccines and what should be done about it. There is a lot of speculation, but there are very few clear answers. The variant has been named Omicron by the World Health Organization, following the pattern of Greek code-names like the Alpha and Delta variants. It is also incredibly heavily mutated. Prof Tulio de Oliveira, the director of the Centre for Epidemic Response and Innovation in South Africa, said there was an "unusual constellation of mutations" and that it was "very different" to other variants that have circulated. "This variant did surprise us, it has a big jump on evolution [and] many more mutations that we expected," he said. In a media briefing Prof de Oliveira said there were 50 mutations overall and more than 30 on the spike protein, which is the target of most vaccines and the key the virus uses to unlock the doorway into our body's cells. Zooming in even further to the receptor binding domain (that's the part of the virus that makes first contact with our body's cells), it has 10 mutations compared to just two for the Delta variant that swept the world. This level of mutation has most likely come from a single patient who was unable to beat the virus. A lot of mutation doesn't automatically mean: bad. It is important to know what those mutations are actually doing. But the concern is this virus is now radically different to the original that emerged in Wuhan, China. That means vaccines, which were designed using the original strain, may not be as effective. Some of the mutations have been seen before in other variants, which gives some insight into their likely role in this variant. For example N501Y seems to make it easier for a coronavirus to spread. There are some in there that make it harder for antibodies to recognise the virus and might make vaccines less effective, but there are others that are completely new. Prof Richard Lessells, from the University of KwaZulu-Natal in South Africa, said: "They give us concern this virus might have enhanced transmissibility, enhanced ability to spread from person to person, but might also be able to get around parts of the immune system." Do variants mean we need new vaccines?How many cases are there in the UK?Why has the Delta variant spread so quickly in UK? There have been many examples of variants that have seemed scary on paper, but came to nothing. The Beta variant was at the top of people's concerns at the beginning of the year because it was the best at escaping the immune system. But in the end it was the faster-spreading Delta that took over the world. Prof Ravi Gupta, from the University of Cambridge, said: "Beta was all immune escape and nothing else, Delta had infectivity and modest immune escape, this potentially has both to high degrees." Scientific studies in the laboratory will give a clearer picture, but answers will come more quickly from monitoring the virus in the real world. It is still early to draw clear conclusions, but there are already signs that are causing worry. There have been 77 fully confirmed cases in Gauteng province in South Africa, four cases in Botswana and one in Hong Kong (which is directly linked to travel from South Africa). Israel and Belgium have also reported cases. However, there are clues the variant has spread even more widely. This variant seems to give quirky results (known as an S-gene dropout) in the standard tests and that can be used to track the variant without doing a full genetic analysis. That suggests 90% of cases in Gauteng may already be this variant and it "may already be present in most provinces" in South Africa. But this does not tell us whether it spreads faster than Delta, is any more severe or to what extent it can evade the immune protection that comes from vaccination. It also does not tell us how well the variant will spread in countries with much higher vaccination rates than the 24% of South Africa that is fully vaccinated, although large numbers of people in the country have had Covid. So for now we are left with a variant that raises significant concerns despite huge holes in our knowledge, and is one that needs to be watched closely and asks deep questions about what to do and when. The lesson of the pandemic is you can't always wait until you have all the answers. Follow James on Twitter
Covid: Israel to impose travel ban for foreigners over new variant. Israel is to ban foreigners from entering the country for 14 days and use surveillance to halt the spread of the new Covid strain, local media report. The ban is expected to come into effect at midnight on Sunday, following full cabinet approval. Israel has so far confirmed one case of the potentially more infectious Omicron strain first detected in South Africa. Many countries have since banned travel to South Africa and its neighbours. South Africa has complained that it is being punished - instead of applauded - for discovering Omicron earlier this month. The World Health Organization (WHO) has warned the new variant is "of concern", with early evidence suggesting a higher re-infection risk. However, the WHO has warned against countries hastily imposing travel restrictions, saying they should look to a "risk-based and scientific approach". South Africans fear impact of new variant measuresHow worrying is the new Covid variant?The UK's red list is back... which countries are on it? The Israeli coronavirus cabinet agreed a series of new restrictions at a crisis meeting late on Saturday and are subject to final approval by the larger cabinet. In addition to the entry ban for non-Israelis, a three-day mandatory quarantine would be required for all vaccinated Israeli nationals, and a seven-day quarantine for those who have not been vaccinated. The cabinet also authorised surveillance of confirmed coronavirus patients by the Israel's Shin Bet security agency. Earlier on Saturday, the Israeli authorities had put 50 African nations on the so-called "red" list. All Israeli nationals returning from those countries must quarantine in the government-approved hotels and undergo Covid tests. A ban on foreigners entering Israel from most African countries was imposed on Friday. Israel has confirmed more than 1.3 million Covid infections since the start of the pandemic, with over 8,100 deaths, according to America's Johns Hopkins university. On Friday and Saturday, a number of countries around the world announced new measures to halt the spread of the new variant: Travellers from South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Angola, Mozambique, Malawi, Zambia, Lesotho and Eswatini will not be able to enter the UK unless they are UK or Irish nationals, or UK residents.US officials said foreigners would be blocked from travelling from South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique and Malawi, mirroring earlier moves taken by the EU. They will come into effect on Monday.Australia announced on Saturday that flights from South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, Eswatini, the Seychelles, Malawi, and Mozambique would be suspended for 14 days. Non-Australians who have been in those countries in the past two weeks are now banned from entering AustraliaJapan has announced that from Saturday, travellers from much of southern Africa will need to quarantine for 10 days and take a total of four tests during that timeIndia has ordered more rigorous screening and testing for travellers arriving from South Africa, Botswana and Hong KongCanada is barring all foreign nationals who have travelled through South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, Eswatini or Mozambique in the last 14 days The WHO said the number of cases of this variant, initially named B.1.1.529, appeared to be increasing in almost all of South Africa's provinces. "This variant has a large number of mutations, some of which are concerning," the UN public health body said in a statement on Friday. It said "the first known confirmed B.1.1.529 infection was from a specimen collected on 9 November". The WHO said it would take a few weeks to understand the impact of the new variant, as scientists worked to determine how transmissible it was. The head of the South African Medical Association told the BBC that the cases found so far in South Africa - where only about 24% of the population is fully vaccinated - were not severe, but said investigations into the variant were still at a very early stage.
Covid: South Africa 'punished' for detecting new Omicron variant. South Africa has complained it is being punished - instead of applauded - for discovering Omicron, a concerning new variant of Covid-19. The foreign ministry made the statement as countries around the world restricted travel from southern Africa as details of the spread emerged. Early evidence suggests Omicron has a higher re-infection risk. The World Health Organization (WHO) said on Friday that the new variant was "of concern". Several cases have now been identified in Europe - two in the UK, two in Germany, one in Belgium and another one in Italy, while a suspected case was found in the Czech Republic. Israel, where the new variant has been confirmed, has decided to ban all foreigners from entering the country from midnight Sunday. The measure will last for 14 days, according to the Times of Israel. Omicron cases have also been detected in Botswana, Hong Kong and Israel. Hundreds of passengers arriving in the Netherlands from South Africa are being tested for the new variant. Some 61 people on two KLM flights were positive for Covid-19 and have been quarantined at a hotel near Amsterdam's Schiphol airport while they have further tests, Dutch officials said. The Netherlands is currently struggling with a record-breaking surge in cases. An extended partial lockdown comes into force there on Sunday evening. South Africans fear impact of new variant measuresHow worrying is the new Covid variant?The UK's red list is back... which countries are on it? The new Omicron variant was first reported to the WHO from South Africa on 24 November. A statement by the South African foreign ministry on Saturday strongly criticised the travel bans. "Excellent science should be applauded and not punished," it said. The bans were "akin to punishing South Africa for its advanced genomic sequencing and the ability to detect new variants quicker". The statement added that the reaction had been completely different when new variants were discovered elsewhere in the world. An African Union official told the BBC developed countries were to blame for the emergence of the variant. "What is going on right now is inevitable, it's a result of the world's failure to vaccinate in an equitable, urgent and speedy manner. It is as a result of hoarding [of vaccines] by high-income countries of the world, and quite frankly it is unacceptable," said AU vaccine delivery alliance co-chair Ayoade Alakija. "These travel bans are based in politics, and not in science. It is wrong... Why are we locking away Africa when this virus is already on three continents?" On Friday and Saturday, a number of countries announced new measures: Travellers from South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Angola, Mozambique, Malawi, Zambia, Lesotho and Eswatini will not be able to enter the UK unless they are UK or Irish nationals, or UK residents.US officials said foreigners would be blocked from travelling from South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique and Malawi, mirroring earlier moves taken by the EU. They will come into effect on Monday.Australia announced on Saturday that flights from South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, Eswatini, the Seychelles, Malawi, and Mozambique would be suspended for 14 days. Non-Australians who have been in those countries in the past two weeks are now banned from entering AustraliaJapan has announced that from Saturday, travellers from much of southern Africa will need to quarantine for 10 days and take a total of four tests during that timeIndia has ordered more rigorous screening and testing for travellers arriving from South Africa, Botswana and Hong KongCanada is barring all foreign nationals who have travelled through South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, Eswatini or Mozambique in the last 14 days The WHO said the number of cases of this variant, initially named B.1.1.529, appeared to be increasing in almost all of South Africa's provinces. "This variant has a large number of mutations, some of which are concerning," the UN public health body said in a statement on Friday. It said "the first known confirmed B.1.1.529 infection was from a specimen collected on 9 November". The WHO said it would take a few weeks to understand the impact of the new variant, as scientists worked to determine how transmissible it was. A top UK health official warned that vaccines would "almost certainly" be less effective against the new variant. But Professor James Naismith, a structural biologist from the University of Oxford, added: "It is bad news but it's not doomsday." The head of the South African Medical Association told the BBC that the cases found so far in South Africa - where only about 24% of the population is fully vaccinated - were not severe, but said investigations into the variant were still at a very early stage. "The patients are mostly complaining about a sore body and tiredness, extreme tiredness and we see it in the younger generation, it's not the older people... We're not talking about patients that might go straight to a hospital and be admitted," Dr Angelique Coetzee said. US infectious disease chief Dr Anthony Fauci said that while the reports on the new variant threw up a "red flag", it was possible that vaccines might still work to prevent serious illness. The WHO has warned against countries hastily imposing travel restrictions, saying they should look to a "risk-based and scientific approach".
Biden: Fact-checking claims about US economic progress. President Joe Biden says the US has made "historic progress" on the economy in the last 10 months. In a speech before Thursday's Thanksgiving holiday in the US, he also talked about price rises and supply chain problems. We have been looking into some of Mr Biden's claims. Since shrinking by more than 30% in the first six months of 2020, the US economy has recorded a strong bounceback and returned to above pre-pandemic levels China has also posted strong economic growth, but overall its economy didn't contract last year - meaning it had less damage to recover compared with the US. Under Mr Biden, the US economy has continued to grow this year, but a large part of the recovery happened under former president Donald Trump. Since President Biden came into office, the US GDP has grown by 6% in 2021. This is less than several major economies - including the UK, China and India, according to data collected by the International Monetary Fund. Mr Biden became president on 20 January this year. From that month until October (the latest available data), the US economy added 5,583,000 jobs, according to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics. This is the highest number of jobs created in the first 10 months of any presidency since records began in 1939. But this job growth comes from a low base point, given that in April last year, unemployment hit its highest level since the Great Depression of the 1930s. More than 22 million jobs were lost in the space of two months because of the impact of coronavirus. Workers' wages in the US are up 4.9% this October compared with the same time last year. But the cost of living is also going up, meaning more of the money people earn is spent on everyday goods, in particular food and fuel. The cost of living for Americans has risen by 6.2% over the last year - the highest rise in three decades. When inflation is taken into account, average hourly earnings decreased 1.2% from October 2020 to October 2021, according to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics. "The price of gas in America, on average, is $3.40 (£2.55) a gallon," said Mr Biden, comparing it with France (about $7) and Japan (about $5.50) at the end of October. These figures are broadly correct. But there are countries where fuel prices are lower, such as Russia (about $2.5 a gallon) and some of the other major oil producers like Saudi Arabia, Nigeria, Iraq and the UAE. And is a comparison between the US and France that relevant, given that in Europe there are significantly higher taxes on both petrol and diesel? According to the Washington-based Tax Foundation think tank, the average excise duty imposed on a gallon of petrol in the EU and UK was $2.40 in July this year. That's just one tax - there are also other taxes in European countries. The US federal tax on petrol was $0.18 per gallon and the average of all state taxes was $0.30, so much lower than in Europe. Mr Biden is talking about shipping containers coming into US ports and sitting on docksides because they are not being moved out fast enough. This is because of shortages of truck drivers, and other supply chain issues which have created a backlog. On 22 November, the Port Authority of Los Angeles said there had been a 33% reduction in containers left on the docks after the authority warned it would start imposing fines on businesses who do not move containers out within a given time frame. However, it is worth saying there were a record 84 ships waiting offshore in California on 6 November. Gene Seroka, Los Angeles port executive director, was quoted as saying last week that there were also increasing numbers of empty containers left in the port, up by 18% in only a few weeks. He said they were waiting for ships to come and take these empty boxes back to Asia to pick up manufactured goods. Read more from Reality Check Send us your questions
Burkina Faso: Tear gas fired at protesters decrying Islamist attacks. Police in Burkina Faso have fired tear gas at people protesting against the state's failure to stop a rise in Islamist violence. Some erected barricades and burned tyres as scuffles spread around the streets of the capital, Ouagadougou. Authorities had suspended mobile internet services and deployed hundreds of riot police to stop the gathering. There is growing anger against both the government and the French soldiers who are supporting the Burkinabe army. Hundreds of people joined Saturday's protest, which was organised by a group calling itself the 27 November Coalition and demanded the president's resignation. "We refuse to lose Burkina Faso. We will put in someone who is competent to assure the security of the nation," one protester told the Associated Press news agency. A young child was injured after security forces fired tear gas, the AFP news agency reported. Local media outlets Pomega and Filinfos said two of their journalists were also injured from tear gas. A spokesman for the November 27 Coalition reported "a huge amount of injured", including two in a coma. It was not immediately possible to independently verify the claim. There has been an escalation of violence since the beginning of November, in which scores of security officers have been killed. The worst was on 14 November when 53 paramilitary officers and four civilians were killed during a raid on a camp in Inata in the north. After reports that the officers had run out of food in the run-up to the attack, President Roch Kaboré said he would announce "imminent changes" within the military structure, and ordered the "active and effective" presence of military chiefs on the front line. West Africa faces up to policing its terror triangle Africa's semi-arid Sahel region has been hit by an insurgency since militants captured large parts of northern Mali in 2012 and 2013. In Burkina Faso, the violence has forced more than a million people from their homes over the past two years.
Stephen Sondheim: London's West End to dim lights for theatre icon. The lights in London's West End will be dimmed as theatres pay tribute to legendary US composer and songwriter Stephen Sondheim who has died aged 91. The composer and lyricist, famous for creating the musical Sweeney Todd, was described as one of theatre's "greatest geniuses" after his death on Friday. The lights will be dimmed for two minutes at 19:00 GMT on Monday. Sir Cameron Mackintosh said the world had "lost one of its greatest and most original writers". Musical theatre icon Stephen Sondheim dies at 91Stephen Sondheim: A giant of musical theatre with a knack for adapting unlikely subjects The theatrical producer renamed renamed his Queen's Theatre venue after the composer in 2019. During his illustrious career, he wrote the scores of some of Broadway's best known shows including Company, Follies and A Little Night Music. He also wrote the lyrics for West Side Story. His ballad Send in the Clowns - from the 1973 musical A Little Night Music - has been recorded hundreds of times, including by Frank Sinatra and Judy Collins. Six of Sondheim's musicals won Tony Awards and he also received a Pulitzer Price, an Academy Award, five Olivier Awards and he was also awarded the Presidential Medal of Honour. Julian Bird, chief executive of the Society of London Theatre and UK Theatre, said: "The theatre world is a smaller place tonight after the passing of Stephen Sondheim. "His legacy of extraordinary shows and songs will live on for many generations to come - but now, we pay tribute to his outstanding contribution to our theatres and celebrate his talent."
Hondurans vote to replace controversial leader. In the final hours before polling day in Honduras, a few dozen activists gathered inside the Liberal Party's headquarters in the capital, Tegucigalpa, for some last-minute training on the main plank of their electoral platform. On a flatscreen TV, they watched their white-shirted presidential hopeful, Yani Rosenthal - who lies third in the polls - extol the virtues of the universal basic income, a proposed family stipend of 1,500 lempiras ($60; £45) a month for the country's poorest. "That's $2 a day which is precisely the World Bank's definition of the poverty line," Mr Rosenthal tells me in an empty back office, citing the success of similar programmes in Brazil and Jamaica. The funds for such a plan already exist in cash-strapped Honduras, he insists, saying around $3bn in public funds are siphoned off each year through corruption. "The money is there. If we can reduce corruption to about half its current level, we can reach about three million Hondurans," he says. But such a facile-sounding campaign promise is tough to deliver. It's become almost impossible to eradicate corruption in Honduras, an all-pervasive disease crippling the country's economic development. And, as Yani Rosenthal's critics are quick to point out, he is in no position to lecture anyone about corruption - he spent three years in a US prison for laundering drug money. "Rosenthal doesn't represent change," says economics student, Mario Aguilar, dismissively. As we drive past a group of flag-waving Libre Party supporters, Mario says he is most likely to vote for their candidate, the frontrunner and former First Lady, Xiomara Castro. In her final campaign rally, Ms Castro promised to "pull Honduras out of the abyss" of "a narco-dictatorship and corruption". Strong words about the state of the nation but they clearly ring true for many voters. Married to the former President Mel Zelaya, who was ousted in a coup in 2009, she has stood on a platform of "democratic socialism", which includes plans to decriminalise abortion, create an anti-corruption commission, bring down soaring utility bills and dismantle drug-trafficking networks. More worrying for Washington, she also plans to re-establish diplomatic ties with mainland China at the cost of relations with Taiwan. Despite the TV spots trying link her to that other Castro - the late Cuban leader, Fidel - and his Venezuelan protégé, Hugo Chavez, the scare tactics may not be enough to prevent her from becoming Honduras's first woman president. Student Mario Aguilar sees Xiomara Castro as "the least worst option". But like him, many are ready to punish the ruling National Party and outgoing President Juan Orlando Hernandez for a series of corruption scandals, ruinous economic mismanagement and poor handling of the coronavirus pandemic. Natural disasters, too, have played a part. Thousands still live in perilous conditions after two huge hurricanes, Eta and Iota, battered the country last year, prompting a sharp rise in immigration north. In such a febrile atmosphere, many are wary of a repeat of the events of four years ago, when the vote count was mired in allegations of fraud. At least 30 people were killed in street protests, mainly by the security forces. Yet within weeks, the Trump administration had recognised Mr Hernandez's victory even as international election observers and opposition parties were still challenging the result. Since then, President Hernandez has come to represent the very worst of Latin American leadership in the 21st Century. Authoritarian, disgraced and now deeply unpopular, his brother was sentenced in the US to life imprisonment plus 30 years for "state-sponsored drug trafficking". In the trial, and a subsequent one of another Honduran drug smuggler, President Hernandez was identified as a co-conspirator. The sitting president - one of Washington's key allies in Central America - dubbed a drug lord in open court by the US department of justice. The BBC has repeatedly requested an interview with President Hernandez over the past few months but none have been granted. He has robustly denied any wrongdoing or involvement with drug cartels and says the accusations against him are politically motivated. Yet it appears few voters believe him. "He could be in big trouble when he leaves office," says Mario, with no hint of sympathy. "We've heard that charges against him are being prepared [in New York]," says Fernando Silva, a journalist with the Honduran publication, Contra Corriente. "He runs the real risk of being extradited when he leaves power." President Hernandez desperately needs the National Party and its candidate, the current mayor of Tegucigalpa, Nasry Asfura, to win to provide him some degree of official protection. However, he faces two serious problems there. First, Mr Asfura seems well aware of the toxic stain of association with President Hernandez. He has distanced himself from the incumbent and knows that any move to grant immunity to the tainted leader would be deeply unpopular. Secondly, Mr Asfura is currently trailing Xiomara Castro by double-digits in most polls. Juan Orlando Hernandez's name is not on the ballot but the election is largely about him and his party's 12-year-long iron grip over the country, says journalist Fernando Silva. "He once said the National Party would be in power for 50 years. This feels like a defining moment as to whether that's the case."
Storm Arwen: Third person dies as gale-force winds hit UK. A third person has died after Storm Arwen lashed parts of the UK with high winds, rain and snow. The 35-year-old man died after his pick-up truck was struck by a falling tree in Aberdeenshire on Friday. The same day a head teacher died after a tree fell onto his car in Antrim and another man also died after he was hit by a falling tree in Cumbria. In the Aberdeenshire incident, police returned to their own van to find it had been crushed by another tree. Gusts reached speeds of 98mph in Northumberland, and about 120 lorries became stuck in snow on the M62. In Scotland, more than 100,000 people lost power. A rare red warning for wind was issued by the Met Office on Friday across the east coast of Scotland and north-east England, with the highest speeds of 98mph recorded at Brizlee Wood in Northumberland. Gusts overnight affected "a wide swathe of the United Kingdom", the Met Office said, with buildings damaged and trees blown down. Trains halted, power off as 81mph winds hit WalesThousands of homes without power after Storm ArwenThousands lose power in England as travel hit by Storm ArwenMan dies as high winds strike NI Gusts of 87mph were recorded at Orlock Head, County Down, while Inverbervie on the north-east coast of Scotland saw speeds of 78mph, and Aberporth in Wales had gusts of up to 77mph. The man who died when a falling tree hit his car in Northern Ireland was named as the principal of St Mary's Primary School in Maghera, Francis Lagan. Police in Cumbria said a man from Lancaster was killed after a tree fell on him in Ambleside on Friday evening. The driver in Aberdeenshire was in a Nissan Navara on the B977 Dyce to Hatton of Fintray road when it was struck by a falling tree at about 17.45 GMT on Friday. LNER advised customers not to travel north of York on Saturday or Sunday, saying they were unable to transport passengers between Newcastle and Edinburgh due to significant damage to the rail network. ScotRail also withdrew services between Aberdeen, Perth and Inverness on Friday and there was disruption on other lines. Passengers in Aberdeenshire were stuck on a train for 17 hours as Storm Arwen swept across Scotland. Mark Swinglehurst, 62, told the BBC the train had reached Huntly at about 17:00 GMT on Friday before coming to a halt. Asked about the experience, he said: "I don't think it will get rave reviews on any sort of travel site." He said it had been cold but comfortable and although there was a lack of refreshments initially, staff managed to secure bacon rolls and pies for the stranded passengers during their ordeal. Meanwhile, dozens of people - including an Oasis tribute band - were trapped by heavy snow at Britain's highest pub. On Friday night, about 3ft of snow fell at the Tan Hill Inn in the Yorkshire Dales, which is 1,732ft (528m) above sea level - meaning 60 people were unable to leave. Beds in the pub's lounge area were set up for the 20 guests who had not planned an overnight stay, but the pub said it had plenty of supplies to keep people warm and fed. Sleet fell across parts of Scotland and northern England with some heavy snow on higher ground. Part of the M62 near Rochdale between junctions 21 and 22 was closed, with 120 lorries stuck in the snow after one of them jack-knifed. More than 100,000 homes in Scotland lost power in the storm, with Scottish and Southern Electricity Networks saying electricity had been restored to 55,000 by mid-afternoon on Saturday. A post on Twitter said 60,000 customers currently remained without supply. Northern Powergrid reported outages for customers in north-east England, mainly in Northumberland, County Durham and Tyne and Wear, as well as people in the Midlands, Cheshire, Merseyside, Wales and south-west England. By late afternoon on Saturday, the supplier tweeted it had restored power to 153,000 customers. However, a tweet urged those still without power on Saturday evening to "seek alternative accommodation with family and friends" where possible, adding that it was "likely" the supply would remain off throughout the night and into Sunday. There were also power outages in Northern Ireland. In Wales, reality TV show I'm a Celebrity Get Me Out of Here cancelled all its weekend shows "owing to technical difficulties caused by extreme weather conditions in the area". A compilation show featuring the best bits from previous shows will be broadcast instead. The celebrity participants are understood to be safe inside the castle, with only essential crew on site, after the set was badly damaged by the storm, reports suggest. Friday's live show was also abandoned and pre-recorded footage broadcast in its place as a precautionary measure due to Storm Arwen. In County Durham, the roof of the clubhouse came off at Chester-le-Street Town FC, landing on the pitch of the Northern League division two team. Temperatures are set to fall with the storm and a yellow warning for ice, lasting until 11:00 on Sunday, has been issued for large stretches of northern and eastern Scotland, along with much of northern England. Storm Arwen forces I'm a Celeb to abandon live showGales cause Isle of Man travel disruption In the early hours of Sunday, parts of north-west Scotland might receive more snow, while temperatures in Scotland and northern England could fall as low as -6C. The UK Health Security Agency has issued a cold weather alert, which is in place from 18:00 on Friday until 15:00 on Monday. The government body is advising people to check on older neighbours and relatives, especially those who live alone or have a serious illness. In other developments: A rowing boat crew was rescued after capsizing off the coast of WalesA rugby union game on Friday night between Newcastle Falcons and Worcester Warriors was postponed until Saturday evening due to safety concernsFallen trees caused disruption in Scotland with the A96 blocked between Elgin and Forres A railway line between Keith and Elgin in the north of Scotland was blocked by a landslipFerries were cancelled between Northern Ireland and Scotland, as well as the Isle of Man and Lancashire. Are you in the area affected by Storm Arwen? Share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Tweet: @BBC_HaveYourSayUpload pictures or videoPlease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission. TRAPPED AS THE WATERS ROSE: What happened when Hurricane Ida hit New York City'BEING A SURGEON SHOWS YOU LIFE IS PRECIOUS': The doctors pushing science - and the human body - to its limits
Peng Shuai: WTA concerned over 'censorship or coercion'. The head of the Women's Tennis Association (WTA) says he remains concerned about Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai after she accused a top official of sexual assault. Steve Simon said he would not engage in further email communications because he was not convinced her earlier replies were not "influenced by others". Ms Peng disappeared from public view for three weeks after accusing the former Vice-Premier Zhang Gaoli. The WTA has sought proof she is safe. The UN and US have also demanded information on her whereabouts along with a number of major tennis players including Serena Williams, Naomi Osaka and Novak Djokovic. Ms Peng, 35, who is one of China's top tennis players, had earlier this month written a 1,600-word post on Chinese social media platform Weibo, where she laid out her allegations against the 75-year-old Mr Zhang. This is the most significant case of its kind in China's slow-moving #MeToo movement. Peng Shuai: What we know so far How China censored a tennis star Last Sunday, Peng Shuai said she was safe and well in a video call involving International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach. China has reacted angrily to the attention, particularly after the sceptical reaction to the IOC statement on the call - as well as a series of photographs and videos that appeared to show all was well with the athlete. Some have accused Mr Simon of ignoring Ms Peng's emails. On Saturday, a WTA spokesman told AFP news agency Mr Simon "remains deeply concerned that Peng is not free from censorship or coercion and decided not to re-engage via email until he was satisfied her responses were her own, and not those of her censors. "The WTA remains concerned about her ability to communicate freely, openly, and directly." Mr Simon has threatened to pull the WTA's business out of China, which would have a big effect. There are 10 WTA events scheduled to take place in the country next year including the Wuhan Open and WTA finals in Shenzhen. The Wuhan Open next year will be the first time tennis players have returned to the city since the start of the pandemic.
Covid: Swiss vote on ending restrictions while cases surge. Swiss Health Minister Alain Berset is in a bit of bind. With just under two-thirds of the population fully vaccinated, the Swiss have one of the lowest vaccination rates in Western Europe. Now, Covid-19 infections are rising exponentially, with case numbers rising by 40% to 50% each week. So is the health minister planning new restrictions, like neighbouring Germany, or even making vaccination mandatory, like Austria? Not a bit of it. In fact, on Sunday, Switzerland votes on getting rid of some Covid restrictions altogether. From the start of the pandemic the Swiss government has performed a tricky balancing act, trying to introduce measures to control the spread of Covid, while still staying true to Switzerland's system of direct democracy, in which the government has little formal power and the people have the final say. Switzerland's lockdowns were never as strict as its neighbours. People were allowed outside for exercise whenever they wanted and the schools only closed for a few weeks. But last summer, with cases falling dramatically, Switzerland didn't have a celebratory, UK-style "freedom" day either. Instead, a Covid certificate was introduced with proof of vaccination, negative test, or immunity through having had the virus. In September it became obligatory to enter bars, cafes, restaurants, cinemas, museums, sporting events, and face-to-face university classes. But not everyone agrees. Vaccination has long been a sensitive issue here, especially in German-speaking Switzerland. A belief that natural immunity is best led to a drop in childhood measles vaccinations that sparked a surge in measles cases across Europe. Meanwhile, in the alpine communities, a historic pride in their own independence rooted, some say, in the time when the mountain villages were cut off from the world each winter, means there is resistance to the government issuing orders. And so, when the certificate was introduced and Covid tests stopped being free, life for the unvaccinated became difficult and even going out for a beer was suddenly expensive. The government hoped the measures would encourage people to get vaccinated. Instead, many took to the streets and others gathered enough signatures to challenge the Covid certificate in Sunday's referendum. For weeks there have been demonstrations. Some have turned violent, with police using water cannons and rubber bullets against protesters trying to storm parliament. At a rally in Bern this month, thousands turned out to hear speakers, including renowned anti-vaxxer Robert Kennedy Jr, who hailed Switzerland as Europe's last great hope against what he claimed were sinister powers forcing people to get vaccinated, while at the same time, via the Covid certificate, introducing a draconian mass surveillance system. The crowd, huddled together, all mask-less, roared their approval. Some wore the insignia of the far right, others the far left. Health minister Alain Berset was depicted, complete with red horns, as the devil. How fast is worldwide progress? Among the crowds was part-time student Manuela. She refuses to get vaccinated because, she says, she is "a healthy young woman" for whom getting the virus poses little risk. In fact, the World Health Organization advises that, while young people are less likely to be hospitalised with Covid-19, they are still susceptible to infection, and with it the risk of serious and long term health consequences. And so, for fear of increasing opposition to the Covid certificate, the health minister dare not introduce any new restrictions ahead of Sunday's crucial vote. Mr Berset and his science taskforce are convinced Switzerland needs infection control measures during this increasingly bleak Covid winter. A vote to abolish the certificate, they believe, could be a huge risk, especially as booster vaccinations have scarcely begun. Instead, as cases rise, the government has advised hospitals to increase their intensive care capacity. This has brought a bitter laugh from Switzerland's nurses, who point out that extra beds won't help when there aren't enough staff to look after the patients in them. It's estimated 10% of Swiss nurses and care workers have left the profession since the start of the pandemic. "Everywhere we have too few staff," says Michèle Giroud, a nurse who's also president of the Swiss Federation of Nurse Anaesthetists. "We are constantly working without breaks, doing overtime, extra shifts. A third of us have burn-out symptoms: anxiety or insomnia." But unlike in other European countries going through similar health sector shortages, Swiss nurses have the power to change things. They have gathered the signatures for a nationwide referendum demanding more investment and better working conditions. On Sunday, Swiss voters will decide on that too. Opinion polls suggest the pandemic has focused voters' minds on how important their health workers are - almost 70% say they will vote yes to the nurses' demands. On the Covid certificate, things are a little tighter, but around 60% of voters look set to back keeping the certificate, and with it the restrictions. So, once Sunday's votes are counted, the health minister will return to the grim business of counting the rising Covid cases, and he is likely to start thinking about what new restrictions might be necessary. He may also have to count out around CHF8bn (£6bn) for Switzerland's nurses. But the anger, fear, and social division born of the pandemic cannot be solved by a referendum or two, and the demonstrations are sure to continue, in Switzerland and across Europe.
