Covid: 13 test positive for Omicron after S Africa-Netherlands flights. The new coronavirus variant Omicron has been detected in 13 people who arrived in the Dutch capital Amsterdam on two flights from South Africa. They are among 61 passengers who tested positive for coronavirus. It comes as tighter restrictions come into force in the Netherlands, amid record Covid cases and concerns over the new variant. This includes early closing times for hospitality and cultural venues, and limits on home gatherings. Omicron was first reported to the World Health Organization (WHO) by South Africa on Wednesday, and early evidence suggests it has a higher re-infection risk. It has been categorised by the WHO as a "variant of concern". But after many countries around the world restrict travel from southern African countries over the variant, South African President Cyril Ramaphosa called for the bans to be urgently lifted. In an address to the nation on Sunday he said the moves were unjustified and not based on science. The Dutch National Institute for Public Health announced the 13 Omicron cases on Sunday, but noted that its investigation had "not yet been completed", meaning the new variant could still be found in more test samples. Dutch Health Minister Hugo de Jonge made an "urgent request" for people who have returned from southern Africa to get tested for Covid "as soon as possible". "It is not unthinkable that there are more cases in the Netherlands," he told reporters. Cases of the heavily mutated variant have now been reported in a number of countries around the world, including several in Europe, such as the UK, Germany and Italy. ANALYSIS: How worrying is the new Covid variant?BACKGROUND: Covid variants: Do we need new vaccines?FEATURE: South Africans fear impact of new variant measures The flights by Dutch national carrier KLM from Johannesburg arrived on Friday morning. The 600 passengers on board were held for several hours after arriving while they were tested for the virus. New York Times correspondent Stephanie Nolen, who was on one of the flights, tweeted that the passengers were not even brought water while they remained on the plane. Passengers travelling from South Africa to the UK via Amsterdam told the BBC that they were held on the tarmac at Schiphol airport for four hours, before eventually disembarking. The passengers who were confirmed to have Covid-19 have since been quarantined at a hotel near Schiphol airport. Those that tested negative have been asked to isolate at home for five days and take further tests. Officials said those in transit would be allowed to continue their journeys, though there were reports on Saturday that some passengers had not received written proof of a negative test and were therefore unable to board onward flights. Dutch health authorities were also trying to contact and test thousands of other passengers who had travelled from seven southern African countries - South Africa, Botswana, Eswatini, Lesotho, Mozambique, Namibia or Zimbabwe - since Monday. The Netherlands is one of many countries around the world to have now imposed travel restrictions on countries in southern Africa in response to the new variant. Some have also gone further, with Israel set to bar entry to all foreign nationals and Morocco banning all inbound international flights for two weeks from Monday. Switzerland has ordered that passengers from other countries where the variant has been detected, including the UK and the Netherlands, provide proof of a negative coronavirus test and quarantine for 10 days. Dr Angelique Coetzee, chair of the South African Medical Association, told the BBC countries could be "panicking unnecessarily" and the symptoms she had seen from the new variant were "extremely mild". Meanwhile, the Netherlands is one of several European countries struggling to contain record numbers of coronavirus infections. It has a shortage of intensive care beds, operations are being cancelled and hundreds of people are dying of Covid every week, the BBC's Anna Holligan in The Hague says. An extended partial lockdown came into force on Sunday morning and will remain in place for at least the next three weeks. Bars, restaurants and shops - whose opening hours have already been restricted for several weeks - are required to close earlier than before, and there is a limit on the number of guests allowed in homes. People are also being encouraged to work from home where possible, but nurseries, schools and universities across the country remain open. Thousands of people protested after the measures were announced. The Netherlands has had nearly 20,000 confirmed Covid-related deaths since the pandemic started.
New Covid variant: How worried should we be?. We're back in familiar territory - growing concern about a new variant of coronavirus. The latest is the most heavily mutated version discovered so far - and it has such a long list of mutations that it was described by one scientist as "horrific", while another told me it was the worst variant they'd seen. It is early days and the confirmed cases are still mostly concentrated in one province in South Africa, but there are hints it may have spread further. Immediately there are questions around how quickly the new variant spreads, its ability to bypass some of the protection given by vaccines and what should be done about it. There is a lot of speculation, but there are very few clear answers. The variant has been named Omicron by the World Health Organization, following the pattern of Greek code-names like the Alpha and Delta variants. It is also incredibly heavily mutated. Prof Tulio de Oliveira, the director of the Centre for Epidemic Response and Innovation in South Africa, said there was an "unusual constellation of mutations" and that it was "very different" to other variants that have circulated. "This variant did surprise us, it has a big jump on evolution [and] many more mutations that we expected," he said. In a media briefing Prof de Oliveira said there were 50 mutations overall and more than 30 on the spike protein, which is the target of most vaccines and the key the virus uses to unlock the doorway into our body's cells. Zooming in even further to the receptor binding domain (that's the part of the virus that makes first contact with our body's cells), it has 10 mutations compared to just two for the Delta variant that swept the world. This level of mutation has most likely come from a single patient who was unable to beat the virus. A lot of mutation doesn't automatically mean: bad. It is important to know what those mutations are actually doing. But the concern is this virus is now radically different to the original that emerged in Wuhan, China. That means vaccines, which were designed using the original strain, may not be as effective. Some of the mutations have been seen before in other variants, which gives some insight into their likely role in this variant. For example N501Y seems to make it easier for a coronavirus to spread. There are some in there that make it harder for antibodies to recognise the virus and might make vaccines less effective, but there are others that are completely new. Prof Richard Lessells, from the University of KwaZulu-Natal in South Africa, said: "They give us concern this virus might have enhanced transmissibility, enhanced ability to spread from person to person, but might also be able to get around parts of the immune system." Do variants mean we need new vaccines?How many cases are there in the UK?Why has the Delta variant spread so quickly in UK? There have been many examples of variants that have seemed scary on paper, but came to nothing. The Beta variant was at the top of people's concerns at the beginning of the year because it was the best at escaping the immune system. But in the end it was the faster-spreading Delta that took over the world. Prof Ravi Gupta, from the University of Cambridge, said: "Beta was all immune escape and nothing else, Delta had infectivity and modest immune escape, this potentially has both to high degrees." Scientific studies in the laboratory will give a clearer picture, but answers will come more quickly from monitoring the virus in the real world. It is still early to draw clear conclusions, but there are already signs that are causing worry. There have been 77 fully confirmed cases in Gauteng province in South Africa, four cases in Botswana and one in Hong Kong (which is directly linked to travel from South Africa). Israel and Belgium have also reported cases. However, there are clues the variant has spread even more widely. This variant seems to give quirky results (known as an S-gene dropout) in the standard tests and that can be used to track the variant without doing a full genetic analysis. That suggests 90% of cases in Gauteng may already be this variant and it "may already be present in most provinces" in South Africa. But this does not tell us whether it spreads faster than Delta, is any more severe or to what extent it can evade the immune protection that comes from vaccination. It also does not tell us how well the variant will spread in countries with much higher vaccination rates than the 24% of South Africa that is fully vaccinated, although large numbers of people in the country have had Covid. So for now we are left with a variant that raises significant concerns despite huge holes in our knowledge, and is one that needs to be watched closely and asks deep questions about what to do and when. The lesson of the pandemic is you can't always wait until you have all the answers. Follow James on Twitter
What are the Covid variants and will vaccines still work?. A new heavily mutated version of coronavirus has been found that scientists say is of "great concern". One of most pressing questions is will vaccines still work? There are thousands of different types, or variants, of Covid circulating across the world. That's to be expected because viruses mutate all the time. But this new variant, called B.1.1.529 or Omicron, has experts particularly worried because it is very different to the original Covid, which current vaccines were designed to fight. It has a long list of genetic changes - 50 in all. Of these, 32 are in the spike protein of the virus - the part which is the target of vaccines. However, it is too soon to know how much of a threat it poses. What do we know about this new variant? Current vaccines are not an ideal match so might not work quite as well, say experts. But that doesn't mean they'll offer zero protection. Remember, vaccines are still very effective at protecting lives by cutting the risk of severe illness against other major Covid variants, including Delta, Alpha, Beta and Gamma. Doctors say it is vital people get the recommended number of doses to gain maximum protection against existing and emerging variants. In the UK, booster jabs are being offered to: Over-40sFrontline health and social care workersOlder adults in residential care homesPeople aged 16-49 years old with underlying health conditions which put them at greater risk of severe CovidAdults who share a household with vulnerable people More than 16m booster or third doses have been given so far in the UK. Although Covid infections have been rising again across the UK, the number of hospitalisations and deaths has remained well below the levels seen in earlier waves. Experts say this is because of the success of the vaccine programme. Scientists will be running lots of tests to check if the vaccines will hold up against this latest variant. It is early days, but experts will study potentially important mutations that might make it more infectious and able to sidestep some of the protection given by vaccines. And they will assess if it is causing more serious disease than other variants. How many people have been vaccinated so far? Updated versions of vaccines against Covid variants are already being designed and tested, in case they are needed at some point. Should that time arrive, a new vaccine could be ready within weeks, to run checks on. Manufacturers could scale up production quickly too and regulators have already discussed how to fast track the approval process. No corners would be cut, but the whole process - from design to approval - could be much faster than when Covid vaccines were first launched. Officials have a close watch on a few. The most potentially dangerous ones are called variants of concern and include: Delta (B.1.617.2), first identified in India and now the most common type circulating in the UKAlpha (B.1.1.7), first identified in the UK but which spread to more than 50 countriesBeta (B.1.351), first identified in South Africa but which has been detected in at least 20 other countries, including the UKGamma (P.1), first identified in Brazil but which has spread to more than 10 other countries, including the UK UK officials are also keeping an eye on a recent descendent of the Delta variant, called AY.4.2 or "Delta plus". There is no evidence that any of them cause more serious illness for the vast majority of people. As with original Covid, the risk remains highest for people who are elderly or have significant underlying health conditions. But even so, if a variant is more infectious it will lead to more deaths in an unvaccinated population. Vaccines offer high protection against severe illness with Covid-19, including infections caused by variants of concern. The shots also reduce the risk of infection. But they do not completely eliminate all risk. The advice to avoid infection remains the same for all strains: wash your hands, keep your distance, wear a face covering in crowded places and be vigilant about ventilation. How many cases are there in the UK?Why has the Delta variant spread so quickly in UK? Viruses make carbon copies of themselves to reproduce but they aren't perfect at it. Errors can creep in that change the genetic blueprint, resulting in a new version or variant. If this gives the virus a survival advantage, the new version will thrive. The more chances coronavirus has to make copies of itself in us - the host - the more opportunities there are for mutations to occur. That's why keeping infections down is important. Vaccines help by cutting transmission as well as protecting against serious Covid illness. Experts say it is possible that the new highly altered variant B.1.1.529 may have originated in a patient whose immune system was unable to get rid of a Covid infection quickly, giving the virus more time to morph.
New Covid variant: South Africa's pride and punishment. South Africans have responded sharply to the news that the UK, and a growing list of other countries, have reacted to the emergence of a new Covid variant with red-listings and travel bans. While there is genuine pride here in the country's scientific expertise, and the speed with which South Africa has been able to identify and share information about new variants, there is also a strong sense that the nation is being unfairly punished for its successes. "The world should provide support to South Africa and Africa and not discriminate or isolate it," said Prof Tulio de Oliveira, the Durban-based scientist leading efforts to understand the new variant. In a series of tweets, he pointed out that South Africa has been "very transparent with scientific information. We did this to protect our country and the world in spite of potentially suffering massive discrimination." South Africa has a sophisticated monitoring infrastructure that allows it to do the sequencing work effectively. Prof de Oliveira urged "billionaires and financial institutions" to help the country cope with the economic damage caused by new travel restrictions. South Africa's Foreign Minister Naledi Pandor was also quick to condemn the UK's travel ban, describing it as "rushed" and damaging to tourism and business, and urging the UK government "to reconsider this decision". News of the flight bans has caused inevitable frustration among many South Africans who had hoped to see visiting friends and family over the southern hemisphere summer holidays in December. South Africa was one of the last countries to have previously been removed from the red list last month. "It's absolutely ridiculous that they've imposed it again so quickly without investigating this new variant," said one woman waiting for arrivals from London at Cape Town's international airport this morning. "My sister just got on the flight [from London] but I think she'll be staying here for a long time. We were just getting on our feet again with tourism, and this is going to just kill it." "The new ban is a knee-jerk reaction of the UK government that puts airlines, hotels, travel businesses and travellers in a very difficult situation,'' said Otto de Vries, CEO of South Africa's travel agents' association, Asata. One industry analysis estimated that South Africa lost 26 million rand ($1.6m; £1.2m) for every day it spent on the UK's red list. "The UK being our largest inbound international market, last night's news by the British government has caused widespread disbelief and disappointment amongst our hospitality industry as we enter our peak festive season period," said Rosemary Anderson, national chairperson of the Federated Hospitality Association of South Africa. Overall, tourism employs 2.8 million people and in 2018 it earned the country about $8bn (£6bn). The variant was first sequenced in neighbouring Botswana, and then in South Africa's capital, Pretoria. That was where a group of students, exactly how many is not known, took PCR tests which all contained an anomaly that prompted experts to send their samples to Prof de Oliviera's Durban laboratory for genome sequencing. "His team then found all these mutations. So we've only know about it for a few days, and because it's a new variant we have no idea how it will actually behave," said Prof Salim Karim, former chair of the South African government's Covid advisory committee. "All we can do is extrapolate some of the likely behaviour based on previous similar mutations. But we do know that it spreads fast - we've seen how rapidly it spread in Pretoria. It sky-rocketed." From a relatively low base, the numbers of confirmed cases in South Africa have shot up this week - from less than 700 on Sunday to almost 2,500 on Thursday. It is believed the increase is largely down to the new variant. South Africa's vaccination programme has slowed in recent months - not because of a lack of supplies, but due to public indifference. An estimated 42% of the population has had at least one jab. But roughly two-thirds of those aged over 60 have been vaccinated. Experts are hopeful that the variant may help encourage more people to get jabbed. The government has urged people to come forward, saying: "Let us crush the power of the new variant by vaccinating to limit the number of mutations." "It's going to be a shock to the system. I think it can have a positive effect [on vaccination rates]," said Stavros Nicolaou, senior executive at Aspen Pharmacare Group. "We know this variant is more contagious. My sense is that the current vaccines are likely to reduce morbidity. They might not be as effective in terms of preventing people getting infected. All the more reason, if you've got a more contagious variant, that you should go out and get vaccinated." The bigger concern is the potential impact of the variant if it spreads to other parts of the continent where, on average, roughly 3% of the population has been vaccinated.
Covid: Third case of Omicron variant detected in the UK. A third case of the Omicron coronavirus variant has been detected in the UK, the Health Security Agency has said. The person is no longer in the UK but had visited Westminster in London. It comes after the government set out measures in response to the variant, including mandatory face masks in shops and on public transport in England. And the Department for Education is now advising pupils, staff and visitors in Year 7 and above to wear face coverings in communal areas of schools. The measure applies to education establishments in England including secondary schools, colleges and universities, as well as staff in childcare settings. Early evidence suggests the new Omicron variant - initially reported to the World Health Organization from South Africa on Wednesday - has a higher re-infection risk. On Monday, an urgent meeting of G7 health ministers will be held "to discuss the developments on Omicron", the Department for Health and Social Care said. How worrying is the new Covid variant?Shoppers asked to respect new mandatory mask rulesHow are England's Covid rules changing because of Omicron?Omicron: Will new measures against variant work? Health Secretary Sajid Javid told the BBC ministers had acted "swiftly" and "in a proportionate way" as news of the variant emerged. Other measures will see people arriving in the UK required to take PCR tests and isolate until they get a negative result. Both this requirement and the mask mandate will come into effect at 04:00 GMT on Tuesday. Mr Javid said he expected to receive new advice within the next couple of days from the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) on extending the booster vaccination programme. The deputy chairman of the JCVI told the BBC adults aged 18 and over "will have an offer of a booster earlier than we had previously envisaged". But the government has stopped short of issuing advice to work from home or requiring vaccine passports in England, which are part of its Plan B for winter - a contingency plan if intervention on Covid is needed to protect the NHS. Ten countries in southern Africa are now on the UK's travel red list, meaning that until further notice, any British or Irish residents arriving in the UK after recently visiting any of those countries will have to quarantine in an approved hotel for 10 days. Residents from the countries themselves will not be allowed into the UK until the red list status changes. Prof Neil Ferguson - a key government adviser on the pandemic - said "it's likely we'll detect quite a lot more cases in the coming days" because the UK is among the countries to see the largest number of flights from South Africa, where the variant is circulating. Omicron has been detected in a number of other countries, including Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Australia, Hong Kong and Israel. The UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) said the person in the third UK case had been linked to travel in southern Africa. Testing is being carried out at locations they visited in London's Westminster area. The agency said it was "very likely" more cases would be found in the coming days. Dr Jenny Harries, chief executive of the UKHSA, said: "Our advanced sequencing capabilities enable us to find variants and take rapid action to limit onward spread. "We are continuing our efforts to understand the effect of this variant on transmissibility, severe disease, mortality, antibody response and vaccine efficacy. "It's critical that anyone with Covid-19 symptoms isolates and gets a PCR test immediately. Vaccination is critical to help us bolster our defences against this new variant." The first UK cases were confirmed on Saturday in Brentwood, Essex and Nottingham. Contact tracing is taking place and Essex County Council is asking people who were at a church and a KFC outlet in Brentwood to get a PCR test. South Africa has a young population and it is encouraging that doctors there are reporting that Omicron is causing mild symptoms with no increase in hospital admissions. But we need to see what happens when the variant moves into older age groups who are the most vulnerable to Covid. We also need to see what happens when Omicron comes up against the fully immunised, and those who have had a third booster shot. So far the vaccines have proved highly effective at giving strong protections against severe illness from all variants. If the vaccines prevent people falling seriously ill with Omicron, then some breakthrough infections - while unwelcome - will not be disastrous. As long, of course, as people are already vaccinated. If anything, this is a wake-up call for those yet to be vaccinated to come forward and get the jab. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has called the new measures for England "temporary and precautionary" - and said they would be reviewed in three weeks, just before most schools break up for the Christmas holidays. Labour has called for full implementation of Plan B and for improved sick pay to encourage self-isolation. Under the rules coming in on Tuesday: Everyone entering the UK (other than those coming from the Common Travel Area that covers the Channel Islands and Ireland) will have to take a PCR test by the end of the second day after their arrival and self-isolate until they receive a negative resultAll contacts of suspected Omicron cases must self-isolate, regardless of whether or not they are fully vaccinatedFace coverings will be made compulsory in shops and on public transport - but pubs and restaurants are exemptThe health secretary has asked advisers to consider rapidly extending boosters, including reducing the gap between the second dose of the vaccine and the booster In Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, face coverings are already mandatory on public transport and many indoor areas. Asked about Scotland's approach to the new variant, First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said "we may need to go further in restricting travel in the days to come", adding: "We need to be open-minded to doing anything to keep the population safe." The average number of daily confirmed Covid cases in the UK began rising again in early November. A further 37,681 confirmed cases were announced on Sunday. IS THERE AN IDEAL POST-COVID DIET? How what you eat can help your recoveryCANADA'S MISSING CHILDREN: Who should be held accountable?
Covid: South Africa's president calls for lifting of Omicron travel bans. South Africa's president has condemned travel bans enacted against his country and its neighbours over the new coronavirus variant Omicron. Cyril Ramaphosa said he was "deeply disappointed" by the action, which he described as unjustified, and called for the bans to be urgently lifted. The UK, EU and US are among those who have restricted travel from southern African countries over the new variant. Omicron has been categorised as a "variant of concern". The heavily mutated variant was first reported to the World Health Organization (WHO) by South Africa on Wednesday, and early evidence suggests it has a higher re-infection risk. The variant is responsible for most of the infections found in South Africa's most populated province, Gauteng, over the last two weeks, and is now present in all other provinces in the country. The WHO has warned against countries hastily imposing travel restrictions, saying they should look to a "risk-based and scientific approach". However, numerous bans have been introduced in recent days amid concerns over the variant. How worrying is the new Covid variant?South Africans fear impact of new variant measuresCovid variants: Do we need new vaccines yet? In his speech on Sunday, Mr Ramaphosa said there was no scientific basis for the travel bans and that southern Africa was the victim of unfair discrimination. He also argued that the bans would not be effective in preventing the spread of the variant. "The only thing the prohibition on travel will do is to further damage the economies of the affected countries and undermine their ability to respond to, and recover from, the pandemic," he said. He called on countries with bans in place to "urgently reverse their decisions... before any further damage is done to our economies". Mr Ramaphosa described the emergence of the Omicron variant as a wake-up call for the world regarding vaccine inequality - warning that until everyone was vaccinated, more variants were inevitable. There are no vaccine shortages in South Africa itself, and Mr Ramaphosa urged more people to get jabbed, saying that remained the best way to fight the virus. A previous statement by the South African foreign ministry on Saturday also strongly criticised the travel bans, saying the country was being punished - instead of applauded - for discovering Omicron. Omicron has now been detected in a number of countries around the world, including the UK, Germany, Australia and Israel. The UK has called for an emergency meeting of the G7 group of nations on Monday to discuss the variant.
Biden: Fact-checking claims about US economic progress. President Joe Biden says the US has made "historic progress" on the economy in the last 10 months. In a speech before Thursday's Thanksgiving holiday in the US, he also talked about price rises and supply chain problems. We have been looking into some of Mr Biden's claims. Since shrinking by more than 30% in the first six months of 2020, the US economy has recorded a strong bounceback and returned to above pre-pandemic levels China has also posted strong economic growth, but overall its economy didn't contract last year - meaning it had less damage to recover compared with the US. Under Mr Biden, the US economy has continued to grow this year, but a large part of the recovery happened under former president Donald Trump. Since President Biden came into office, the US GDP has grown by 6% in 2021. This is less than several major economies - including the UK, China and India, according to data collected by the International Monetary Fund. Mr Biden became president on 20 January this year. From that month until October (the latest available data), the US economy added 5,583,000 jobs, according to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics. This is the highest number of jobs created in the first 10 months of any presidency since records began in 1939. But this job growth comes from a low base point, given that in April last year, unemployment hit its highest level since the Great Depression of the 1930s. More than 22 million jobs were lost in the space of two months because of the impact of coronavirus. Workers' wages in the US are up 4.9% this October compared with the same time last year. But the cost of living is also going up, meaning more of the money people earn is spent on everyday goods, in particular food and fuel. The cost of living for Americans has risen by 6.2% over the last year - the highest rise in three decades. When inflation is taken into account, average hourly earnings decreased 1.2% from October 2020 to October 2021, according to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics. "The price of gas in America, on average, is $3.40 (£2.55) a gallon," said Mr Biden, comparing it with France (about $7) and Japan (about $5.50) at the end of October. These figures are broadly correct. But there are countries where fuel prices are lower, such as Russia (about $2.5 a gallon) and some of the other major oil producers like Saudi Arabia, Nigeria, Iraq and the UAE. And is a comparison between the US and France that relevant, given that in Europe there are significantly higher taxes on both petrol and diesel? According to the Washington-based Tax Foundation think tank, the average excise duty imposed on a gallon of petrol in the EU and UK was $2.40 in July this year. That's just one tax - there are also other taxes in European countries. The US federal tax on petrol was $0.18 per gallon and the average of all state taxes was $0.30, so much lower than in Europe. Mr Biden is talking about shipping containers coming into US ports and sitting on docksides because they are not being moved out fast enough. This is because of shortages of truck drivers, and other supply chain issues which have created a backlog. On 22 November, the Port Authority of Los Angeles said there had been a 33% reduction in containers left on the docks after the authority warned it would start imposing fines on businesses who do not move containers out within a given time frame. However, it is worth saying there were a record 84 ships waiting offshore in California on 6 November. Gene Seroka, Los Angeles port executive director, was quoted as saying last week that there were also increasing numbers of empty containers left in the port, up by 18% in only a few weeks. He said they were waiting for ships to come and take these empty boxes back to Asia to pick up manufactured goods. Read more from Reality Check Send us your questions
Channel disaster: A father's anguish over missing family since tragedy. The last time Rizgar Hussein spoke to his daughter Hadia it was late on Tuesday night in Iraq. She called him from northern France to say she was about to board a boat with her mother, sister and brother. Hadia was excited at the prospect of finally making it to the UK. But since then, Rizgar has heard nothing from his family. The following day he saw on television that 27 people had died while attempting to cross to the UK. "I'm waiting now for any news from anyone... I just want to know if they are alive or dead," Rizgar tells the BBC. He is one of many Iraqi Kurds trying to find out the fate of family members who have not been heard from since Tuesday's tragedy in the English Channel. Maryam Nuri Mohamed Amin, a 24-year-old Kurdish woman from northern Iraq, is so far the only person to be confirmed as a victim. Rizgar's wife, Kajal Hussein, 45, and their children Hadia, 22, son Mobin, 16 and younger daughter Hesty, seven, all left from a Kurdish town in northern Iraq. Rizgar says that he didn't want his family to leave for Europe, and he would lose his job as a policeman if he joined them and the plan failed. But his family were adamant they wanted to try to make it to the UK for a better life. He promised to join them if they made it. "They wanted to go, everybody wants to live a good life, to have a peaceful heart and mind. But here, ask anyone from seven to 80 years old - nobody feels good," Rizgar says. "If the situation was good, people would not emigrate. Who wants to leave like that? No-one," he says. Rizgar's family started their pursuit of a better life four months ago. They first travelled to Turkey before being smuggled by land and sea to Italy, where they stayed in a camp for three weeks. They then continued their journey to northern France, where they stayed in another camp. Rizgar would speak to his family numerous times each day. They soon contacted smugglers who promised to get them to the UK but had three unsuccessful attempts. The first time they were caught by French police while setting off, the second time the boat ran out of fuel and had to return to shore, and the third time the boat's motor broke and they were once again taken back to land by police. Then on Tuesday his daughter Hadia called. "She said: 'Dad, in five minutes we will leave, now everyone is getting in the boat'," Rizgar recalls. "I said, okay be careful." That was the last he heard from her. "I called 100 times but no answer," he says. The following day, Rizgar turned on the TV to reports that 27 people had died while attempting to cross the English Channel. What's being done to stop Channel crossings?Why do migrants leave France for the UK?The migrant debate can't escape European politics He has still not heard any official news and is spending his days chasing journalists to see if they have any information on his family. "I can't do anything, I can't eat or sleep... I'm beginning to feel like I'm becoming crazy. Nobody can comfort me," Rizgar says. He is still hoping for good news. "I will not believe anything until I hear their voices or see a recent photo of them, I don't want to believe anything." Rizgar's mother-in-law, Qadrya Amin, said she also didn't want her daughter, Kajal, and grandchildren to make the perilous journey to the UK. "I was going to say: 'Don't go'... I said don't get in that water, you could drown," Qadrya says. But Kajal was adamant she wanted to give her children a better life than they had in Iraq, where food and water is scarce. Kajal's brother also left Iraq and is now in Greece. "She said: 'I'm a mother and my kids have dreams, my heart burns for them. They want to go there and finish their education," Qadrya recalls. Hadia dreamed of becoming a doctor in the UK. Qadrya says her heart broke the moment she heard about the deaths in the English Channel. All she can do now is pray for her daughter and grandchildren. "They just hoped for a better life," she says. "Everybody wants their kids to have a better life."
Virgil Abloh: Designer and Off-White founder dies aged 41. Virgil Abloh, the Louis Vuitton artistic director and founder of the Off-White fashion label, has died from cancer aged 41, it has been announced. Revealing the news, the French fashion house's parent company LVMH described Abloh as a "genius" and a "visionary". The US designer came to prominence as Kanye West's creative director but later made history as the first African-American to lead Louis Vuitton. Abloh is survived by his wife, Shannon, and their two children. A statement on his Instagram page described him as a "fiercely devoted father, husband, son, brother, and friend". Abloh was diagnosed with cardiac angiosarcoma - a rare, aggressive form of cancer - in 2019, but did not make the diagnosis public. "He chose to endure his battle privately since his diagnosis in 2019, undergoing numerous challenging treatments, all while helming several significant institutions that span fashion, art and culture," the statement read. "Through it all, his work ethic, infinite curiosity and optimism never wavered." Abloh was often hailed as one of the most influential designers in the fashion industry but was also a DJ and an artist, and had degrees in civil engineering and architecture. LVMH chief executive Bernard Arnault said: "Virgil was not only a genius designer, a visionary, he was also a man with a beautiful soul and great wisdom. "The LVMH family joins me in this moment of great sorrow, and we are all thinking of his loved ones after the passing of their husband, their father, their brother or their friend." The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter
Covid-positive Czech president appointed new PM from plexiglass box. Czech President Milos Zeman has appointed opposition leader Petr Fiala as the country's new prime minister. Mr Zeman - who tested positive for coronavirus last week - made the appointment from inside a plexiglass box in a state room at his residence. The president was wheeled in by hospital staff in full protective gear. Czech rules require a positive patient to observe two weeks of self-isolation. He caught Covid just after a spell in intensive care for unrelated problems. The 77-year-old is a heavy smoker and former heavy drinker who uses a wheelchair and suffers from diabetes. Under the Czech constitution, the president is a figurehead, but he leads talks on forming a new government. Last month's vote returned a surprise win for the opposition against Prime Minister Andrej Babis. A leader politically incorrect and proud of itCzech leader calls transgender people 'disgusting' Speaking through a microphone inside the sealed box, Mr Zeman said he would spend the next two weeks interviewing nominees for minister, even though the choice of candidates is supposed to be up to the prime minister-designate. This process will continue until 13 December, at which point the new government as a whole can be appointed to take over from Mr Babis. Prime Minister Babis and his populist ANO party had sought re-election after four years in power. But they were beaten in the poll by the centre-right coalition Spolu (meaning Together). The appointment of Mr Fiala comes after weeks of speculation that the president wanted to entrust his ally, the incumbent, with the task of forming a cabinet. A controversial figure, Mr Zeman is known for making divisive remarks and using strong language. In June he was sharply criticised for calling transgender people "disgusting".
Channel migrants: France wants 'serious' talks with UK. France's interior minister has said he wants to work with the UK on migration but that talks need to be serious. Gérald Darmanin made the comments at a meeting of European officials following the deaths of 27 people who drowned in the English Channel this week as they tried to cross from France to the UK The UK's invitation to the meeting was halted in a diplomatic row with France. Home Secretary Priti Patel described her absence at the meeting in Calais as "unfortunate". But she says she is holding separate urgent talks with European ministers this week. The UK's absence came after Emmanuel Macron reacted angrily to Boris Johnson's public call for France to take back migrants who reach the UK. The French president accused the UK prime minister of showing a lack of seriousness by publishing the letter on Twitter. The UK government insisted that the letter was sincere and urged France to reconsider its invitation, with Mr Johnson saying: "This is a problem we have to fix together." Belgium, France, the Netherlands, Germany and the European Commission attended the talks in Calais, which Mr Macron set up to deal with the recent surge in migrant crossings of the Channel. The sinking of an inflatable boat last Wednesday marked the biggest loss of life by drowning in the Channel in many years, with 17 men, seven women - one of whom was pregnant - and three children dying. Many of the victims came from Iraqi Kurdistan. They include Maryam Nuri Mohamed Amin, the first to be named, who was trying to join her fiance in the UK. Speaking at the start of the meeting, Mr Darmanin said he wanted to work with the UK to deal with the crisis. "Britain left Europe, but not the World. We need to work seriously on these questions... without being held hostage by domestic British politics," he said. The interior minister added that there had been too many deaths and "we cannot accept that any more people die". But he also argued that the UK had to assume responsibility by making itself less economically attractive for illegal migrants. In the few studies that exist, family ties have been identified as the main reason migrants wish to travel from France to the UK. Immigration expert Marley Morris told the BBC the UK had introduced policies that make it much harder to work illegally. Why do migrants leave France for the UK?Why Iraqi Kurds risk their lives to reach the WestCalais activists: Migrants call us from boats asking for help Officials at Sunday's meeting agreed that Frontex, the European border agency, would send a plane to help combat migrant trafficking in the Channel from Wednesday. EU Commissioner for Home Affairs Ylva Johansson said the criminal groups organising the trips were acting "more or less on an industrial scale". "That's why it's so important to have an even closer police cooperation with the help and support from Europol," she said.
Covid: Swiss back government on Covid pass as cases surge. Swiss voters have backed the government's measures to tackle Covid, according to preliminary results. More than 60% opposed moves to remove some restrictions, including the Covid vaccination pass. Sunday's referendum came after organisers said the pass was an unnecessary restriction of freedoms. With just under two-thirds of the population fully vaccinated, the Swiss have one of the lowest vaccination rates in Western Europe. Now, Covid-19 infections are rising exponentially, with case numbers up by 40-50% each week. From the start of the pandemic the Swiss government has performed a tricky balancing act, trying to introduce measures to control the spread of Covid while still staying true to Switzerland's system of direct democracy, in which the government has little formal power and the people have the final say. Switzerland's lockdowns were never as strict as its neighbours'. People were allowed outside for exercise whenever they wanted and the schools only closed for a few weeks. But last summer, with cases falling dramatically, Switzerland didn't have a celebratory, UK-style "freedom" day either. Instead, a Covid certificate was introduced with proof of vaccination, negative test, or immunity through having had the virus. In September it became obligatory to enter bars, cafes, restaurants, cinemas, museums, sporting events, and face-to-face university classes. But not everyone agrees. Vaccination has long been a sensitive issue here, especially in German-speaking Switzerland. A belief that natural immunity is best led to a drop in childhood measles vaccinations that sparked a surge in measles cases across Europe. Meanwhile, in the alpine communities, a historic pride in their own independence rooted, some say, in the time when the mountain villages were cut off from the world each winter, means there is resistance to the government issuing orders. And so, when the certificate was introduced and Covid tests stopped being free, life for the unvaccinated became difficult and even going out for a beer was suddenly expensive. The government hoped the measures would encourage people to get vaccinated. Instead, many took to the streets and others gathered enough signatures to challenge the Covid certificate in Sunday's referendum. For weeks there have been demonstrations. Some have turned violent, with police using water cannons and rubber bullets against protesters trying to storm parliament. At a rally in Bern this month, thousands turned out to hear speakers, including renowned anti-vaxxer Robert Kennedy Jr, who hailed Switzerland as Europe's last great hope against what he claimed were sinister powers forcing people to get vaccinated, while at the same time, via the Covid certificate, introducing a draconian mass surveillance system. The crowd, huddled together, all mask-less, roared their approval. Some wore the insignia of the far right, others the far left. Health minister Alain Berset was depicted, complete with red horns, as the devil. How fast is worldwide progress? Among the crowds was part-time student Manuela. She refuses to get vaccinated because, she says, she is "a healthy young woman" for whom getting the virus poses little risk. In fact, the World Health Organization advises that, while young people are less likely to be hospitalised with Covid-19, they are still susceptible to infection, and with it the risk of serious and long term health consequences. And so, for fear of increasing opposition to the Covid certificate, the health minister was loath to introduce any new restrictions ahead of Sunday's crucial vote. Alain Berset and his science taskforce are convinced Switzerland needs infection control measures during this increasingly bleak Covid winter. Abolishing the certificate, they believe, could be a huge risk, especially as booster vaccinations have scarcely begun. Instead, as cases rise, the government has advised hospitals to increase their intensive care capacity. This has brought a bitter laugh from Switzerland's nurses, who point out that extra beds won't help when there aren't enough staff to look after the patients in them. It's estimated 10% of Swiss nurses and care workers have left the profession since the start of the pandemic. "Everywhere we have too few staff," says Michèle Giroud, a nurse who's also president of the Swiss Federation of Nurse Anaesthetists. "We are constantly working without breaks, doing overtime, extra shifts. A third of us have burn-out symptoms: anxiety or insomnia." But unlike in other European countries going through similar health sector shortages, Swiss nurses have the power to change things. They have gathered the signatures for a nationwide referendum demanding more investment and better working conditions. On Sunday, Swiss voters backed them. So now the health minister will return to the grim business of counting the rising Covid cases, and he is likely to start thinking about what new restrictions might be necessary. He may also have to count out around CHF8bn (£6bn) for Switzerland's nurses. But the anger, fear and social division born of the pandemic cannot be solved by a referendum or two, and the demonstrations are sure to continue, in Switzerland and across Europe.
Kevin Strickland: Fundraiser for exonerated Missouri man tops $1.5m. A fundraiser set up to help a Missouri man who served more than 42 years in jail for a triple murder he did not commit has reached $1.5m (£1.1m). Kevin Strickland was freed on Tuesday at the age of 62. He had maintained his innocence since his arrest at 18. It was the longest wrongful incarceration in state history, but under Missouri law he is not entitled to receive any financial compensation. So his lawyers launched a GoFundMe page to help with his living expenses. As of Sunday 16:00 GMT, it had reached $1,511,440. Lawyers for the Midwest Innocence Project, who worked for months to help free Mr Strickland, praised the more than 27,000 strangers who had donated. The state of Missouri only compensates prisoners exonerated through DNA evidence, not because of eyewitness testimony, his lawyers said. "Until the system has changed where the system is failing, the community is stepping in to fix it, to fill the void," said Tricia Rojo Bushnell. Falsely convicted US trio freed after 36 yearsUS man wrongfully imprisoned for 26 years pardoned A judge on Tuesday ordered Mr Strickland's immediate release from state custody, after 15,487 days behind bars. He was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole for 50 years after he was linked to the deadly ransacking of a home in Kansas City on 25 April 1978. On that night, four assailants shot three people inside the home: Sherrie Black, 22, Larry Ingram, 22, and John Walker, 20. A fourth victim - Cynthia Douglas, 20 - escaped with injuries after pretending to be dead. On a hunch from her sister's boyfriend, police arrested the teenage Mr Strickland and then reportedly pressured Ms Douglas to pick him out of a line-up. Mr Strickland told police he had been at home watching television. No physical evidence ever linked him to the crimes. His first trial in 1979 ended with a hung jury, after one black juror on a 12-member panel held out for his acquittal. At his second trial, an all-white jury found Mr Strickland guilty of one count of capital murder and two counts of second-degree murder. Years later, Ms Douglas would recant her lone eyewitness testimony, writing to the Midwest Innocence Project that "things were not clear back then, but now I know more and would like to help this person if I can". How much is 31 years in prison worth in the US?'How I survived 22 years on death row' Ms Douglas died before she could formally recant her testimony against Mr Strickland, but her mother, sister and daughter have all testified in court that she picked "the wrong guy". Prosecutors in Jackson County began reviewing Mr Strickland's conviction last November and - under a new Missouri law - filed a motion calling for his immediate exoneration and release.
Covid: Israel to impose travel ban for foreigners over new variant. Israel is to ban foreigners from entering the country for 14 days and use surveillance to halt the spread of the new Covid variant, local media report. The ban is expected to come into effect at midnight on Sunday, following full cabinet approval. Israel has so far confirmed one case of the potentially more infectious Omicron variant first detected in South Africa. Many countries have since banned travel to South Africa and its neighbours. South Africa has complained that it is being punished - instead of applauded - for discovering Omicron earlier this month. The World Health Organization (WHO) has warned the new variant is "of concern", with early evidence suggesting a higher re-infection risk. However, the WHO has warned against countries hastily imposing travel restrictions, saying they should look to a "risk-based and scientific approach". South Africans fear impact of new variant measuresHow worrying is the new Covid variant? The Israeli coronavirus cabinet agreed a series of new restrictions at a crisis meeting late on Saturday and are subject to final approval by the larger cabinet. In addition to the entry ban for non-Israelis, a three-day mandatory quarantine would be required for all vaccinated Israeli nationals, and a seven-day quarantine for those who have not been vaccinated. The cabinet also authorised surveillance of confirmed coronavirus patients by the Israel's Shin Bet security agency. In a statement, Prime Minister Naftali Bennett said phone-tracking technology would be used. Earlier on Saturday, the Israeli authorities had put 50 African nations on the so-called "red" list. All Israeli nationals returning from those countries must quarantine in the government-approved hotels and undergo Covid tests. A ban on foreigners entering Israel from most African countries was imposed on Friday. Israel has confirmed more than 1.3 million Covid infections since the start of the pandemic, with over 8,100 deaths, according to America's Johns Hopkins university. In other developments on Saturday: The UK announced PCR tests would be mandatory for everyone entering the country, and all contacts of new variant cases would have to self-isolateAustria saw thousands of people protesting against government plans to make vaccinations mandatorySwitzerland toughened its quarantine requirements for travellers from several European and African countries. Early indications from a referendum appear to suggest voters supporting the government plan on a Covid passport certificate that's required to get into most public spaces. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken praised South Africa for promptly sharing information with the world. He said its transparency should serve as a model for the world, and he'd spoken to his South African counterpart about co-operation on vaccinating people in Africa Australia said flights from South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, Eswatini, the Seychelles, Malawi, and Mozambique would be suspended for 14 days. Non-Australians who have been in those countries in the past two weeks are now banned from entering Australia It is a rapidly evolving situation. Omicron's genetic profile has raised concerns, but there's a shortage of real-world data that means nobody has the complete picture of what it can do. It is unclear how big a threat it poses. Yet, it is at this early stage, in an absence of definitive facts and when there is a danger of both under-reacting and overreacting, that governments have to act. It's like you or me deciding whether to marry someone after the first date. Only the stakes are much higher. What we know is Omicron has mutations that theoretically help it to spread more quickly and there is mounting evidence of that happening in South Africa. It also has mutations that theoretically make vaccines less effective. But we don't know how transmissible it is. We don't know whether it is milder or more severe. We don't know what will really happen when it comes up against our significant wall of immunity built up through vaccines. Read James's analysis in full here. After an emergency meeting on Friday, the WHO said the first known confirmed infection from this variant had been collected on 9 November, it had "a large number of mutations, some of which are concerning". The WHO said it would take a few weeks to understand the impact of the new variant, as scientists worked to determine how transmissible it was. The head of the South African Medical Association told the BBC that the cases found so far in South Africa - where only about 24% of the population is fully vaccinated - were not severe, but said investigations into the variant were still at a very early stage. Have you been affected by issues raised in this article? Tell us about it by emailing: haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Tweet: @BBC_HaveYourSayOr fill out the form belowPlease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission.
Covid: Australia woman charged after setting fire in quarantine hotel. A 31-year-old woman in Australia has been charged with arson after a fire destroyed part of a Covid-19 quarantine hotel in Cairns, Queensland. It is alleged she lit a fire under a bed in the room she had been sharing with two children on Sunday morning. More than 160 people were evacuated as fire took hold in the 11-storey Pacific Hotel. No-one was injured. It came as Australia confirmed two cases of the new coronavirus variant which is prompting new restrictions. Omicron was first reported by South Africa, and has been classified as "of concern" by the World Health Organization (WHO) with early evidence suggesting a higher re-infection risk. The government in Canberra has announced a suspension of flights from South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, Eswatini, the Seychelles, Malawi, and Mozambique. Non-Australians who have been in those countries in the past two weeks are now banned from entering Australia. Australians have spent 20 months under some of the world's strictest border rules, in an effort to keep out Covid. It is not clear whether the new variant will mean a roll-back of some relaxations that began early this month. The lives upended by Australia's sealed border The Australians who are trapped in the UK A surge in vaccinations has allowed some Australian states to end their strategy of eliminating all cases. But unvaccinated travellers are obliged to quarantine for 14 days in hotels in the country.
