Supreme Court: Top US judges signal support for abortion limits. The US Supreme Court appears poised to accept a Mississippi law that would bar abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy, even in cases of rape or incest. In Wednesday's hearing into the case, conservative justices hinted that a majority backed upholding the law. A ruling, expected in June, may see millions of women lose abortion access. Anti-abortion activists are urging the court to "protect unborn children", but experts warn of an increase in maternal mortality if abortion is restricted. Both sides of the debate regard this case, known as Dobbs v Jackson Women's Health Organization, as an all-or-nothing fight over abortion rights. Lawyers defending the Mississippi law have asked the court to overturn two previous landmark decisions regarding abortion. The first, 1973's Roe v Wade, gave women in the US an absolute right to an abortion in the first three months of pregnancy, and limited rights in the second trimester. In 1992, in Planned Parenthood v Casey, the court ruled that states could not place an "undue burden" on women seeking abortions before a foetus could survive outside the womb, at about 24 weeks. In the years since, the "foetal viability" standard has acted as a red line in abortion law, preventing any bans on abortion before this time. But anti-abortion campaigners hope the current ideological makeup of the court has created a new opening. The court, reshaped by three appointments under former President Donald Trump, has been called the most conservative-leaning in modern US history. Addressing the court on Wednesday - with its 6-to-3 conservative majority - Mississippi Solicitor General Scott Stewart told justices that past rulings Roe and Casey "haunt our country" and "poison the law". He took direct aim at the existing foetal viability standard, arguing it was not "tethered" to the Constitution. Justice Sonya Sotomayor, a liberal, took issue with this claim, responding: "There's so much that's not in the Constitution". She warned that the court "would not recover" if Americans saw it as a political body, stepping in to reverse Roe and Casey. The court would not "survive the stench that this creates in the public perception." Representing Jackson Women's Health Organization - the only abortion clinic in Mississippi - Julie Rikelman of the Center for Reproductive Rights spoke next, asking the court to strike down the Mississippi law. "Mississippi's ban on abortion, two months before viability, is flatly unconstitutional under decades of precedent," Ms Rickelman said. Mississippi's law would "force women to remain pregnant and give birth against their will". US Solicitor General Elizabeth Prelogar also spoke, arguing against the Mississippi abortion ban on behalf of the Biden administration. "The real world effects of overruling Roe and Casey would be severe and swift," she said, adding that women have come to rely on this "fundamental right". The case that could change abortion laws in the US If the court strikes down Roe v Wade, or rules that the Mississippi law does not place an undue burden on women seeking abortions, at least 21 states are expected to introduce abortion restrictions, including outright bans after 15 weeks. In these states, nearly half of US women of reproductive age (18-49) - some 36 million people - could lose abortion access, according to research from Planned Parenthood, a healthcare organisation that provides abortions. Carol Tobias, president of anti-abortion group National Right to Life, told the BBC she was optimistic the court would step in "to protect unborn children". "We certainly hope that they will let the Mississippi law stand," she said. "We'd love to see them go even further and say that unborn human beings deserve the same protection as born human beings". But for other women in Washington DC, the possibility of restricted abortion brought fear. "I'm not shocked, but I'm scared," said Olivia Dinucci. "Abortion still going to happen, people are going to do it no matter if it's legal or not. However, it will not be safe." She added: "It's 2021, I cannot believe we have to be fighting this." And some experts have predicted dangerous ripple effects if abortion is restricted. "We will see significant increases in maternal mortality, which are already disproportionately experienced by women of colour," said Katherine Franke, director of the centre for gender and sexuality law at Columbia University. "We will see families descend into greater levels of poverty because the inability to take care of kids, rises in domestic violence." There were about 630,000 reported abortions in the US in 2019, according to the US Centers for Disease Control. This was an 18% decrease compared with 2010. Women in their 20s account for the majority of abortions - in 2019 about 57% were in this age group. Black Americans get abortions at the highest rate - 27 per 1,000 women aged 15-44. The pro-choice Guttmacher Institute says a lack of access to healthcare plays a role, as does discrimination. Their 2014 survey found three quarters of people receiving abortions were either on low incomes or below the poverty line in the US. After two hours of oral arguments, the Roe v Wade precedent that has set a baseline of abortion rights through the US for nearly half a century appears to be in serious jeopardy. That shouldn't come as a huge surprise, given that the US Supreme Court is now dominated by conservatives, three of whom were appointed by Donald Trump with the explicit goal of overturning Roe. Still, the tenor of questioning by the justices over the course of the morning suggests that there is, at the very least, a five-justice majority willing to uphold Mississippi's ban on all abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy. Chief Justice John Roberts, who is now at the ideological centre of the court, seemed comfortable with such a result which, in and of itself, would constitute a major blow to Roe's first-trimester abortion protections. That may end up a best-case scenario for abortion-rights supporters at this point, however. Other justices, like Amy Coney Barrett and Brett Kavanaugh, displayed an openness to a wholesale reversal of Roe, returning the question of abortion legality to individual states. That's the outcome anti-abortion activists have been working toward for decades - and today it seems closer than ever to becoming a reality.
Why US abortion laws could be changed by Supreme Court ruling. The US Supreme Court has heard the most important abortion case in a generation. On Wednesday it considered a Mississippi law that asks the court to ban abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy. Its final ruling, due in June next year, could cut off abortion services for tens of millions of women. A woman's right to abortion was established in 1973, following a Supreme Court ruling in a case known as Roe v Wade. The decision gave women in the US an absolute right to an abortion in the first three months of pregnancy, and limited rights in the second three months. Nearly two decades later the court made another key decision. In Planned Parenthood v Casey, the court ruled that states could not place an "undue burden" on women seeking abortions before foetal viability. In the US, this threshold for when foetuses can sustain life outside the womb has been set at about 23 or 24 weeks. A state law was passed in Mississippi in 2018 which would make most abortions illegal after the first 15 weeks of pregnancy - including those caused by rape or incest. It hasn't been enforced due to a legal challenge by Mississippi's only abortion provider, the Jackson Women's Health Organization. The US Supreme Court is now considering the case. Five ways this Supreme Court could change America Mississippi is asking for Roe v Wade to be overturned, and with it the constitutional right to an abortion in the US. If successful, states would be welcome to set their own standards for abortion - including outright bans before foetal viability. Nearly two dozen states are expected to introduce their own bans, some probably more severe than Mississippi's. In a legal brief filed this summer Mississippi Attorney General Lynn Fitch - who will be defending the state's law - said that throwing out Roe would effectively return decision-making about abortion to the American people and their elected officials. "The matter should be returned to the States and the people," she wrote. Ms Fitch did not return a BBC request for comment. There are three possible outcomes next summer: overturn Roe v Wade rule that the Mississippi law does not place "an undue burden" on women seeking an abortion - this would leave Roe standing in principle, while undermining it in practice strike down the Mississippi law, allowing Roe to stand - though this is considered unlikely The first option is a distinct possibility. The court, reshaped by three appointments under former President Donald Trump, has been called the most conservative-leaning in modern US history. "It has been a 50 year campaign to overrule Roe v Wade and there certainly are enough members of the court now to do so," said Katherine Franke, director of the center for gender and sexuality law at Columbia University. But she believes an outright repeal is unlikely. Instead, the court could uphold the Mississippi law while keeping both Roe and Casey in place. Still, lawyers for Jackson Women's Health Organization have said that such a decision is tantamount to gutting the court's past abortion rulings, because it would discard the foetal viability standard. That could happen in 22 states, including Mississippi. Twelve have passed so-called trigger laws, which would automatically ban abortion if Roe was overruled. Others have either passed unconstitutional abortion bans in the years since Roe v Wade (which would be revived), or retained abortion restrictions from before Roe, which are currently unenforceable. In all, nearly half of US women of reproductive age (18-49) - some 36 million - could lose abortion access, according to research from Planned Parenthood, a healthcare organisation which provides abortions. In more than half of US states, abortion access would probably remain the same. In 15 states and the District of Columbia, state law guarantees the right to an abortion even if Roe v Wade is overturned. Hollowing out abortion access would most intensely affect poor women - who are already more likely to seek an abortion in the first place. Black and Latina women are likely to be inordinately affected - 61% of abortion patients are minorities. "The typical abortion patient is in their 20s, doesn't have a lot of money and has one or more children," said Rachel Jones, a principal investigator at the Guttmacher Institute, a pro-choice group. "These are the groups that are going to be the most impacted when restrictions are placed on abortion, or abortion is banned." Although Roe v Wade gave US women a guaranteed right to an abortion, for millions it is a right in name only. In the decades since 1973, anti-abortion rulings have gradually pared back access in more than a dozen states. In 2021 alone, nearly 600 abortion restrictions have been introduced nationwide, with 90 enacted into law. That is more than in any year since Roe. How US women came to be jailed for miscarriages And abortions have long been out of reach for many low-income women. Since 1976, a law known as the Hyde Amendment has blocked the use of federal funding for the procedure. Women are often forced to pay for abortion themselves, which can cost cost hundreds of dollars.
Mike Pence asks Supreme Court to overturn abortion rights. Former US Vice-President Mike Pence has called on the Supreme Court to overturn the landmark 1973 Roe v Wade case that legalised abortion in the US. Mr Pence said the ruling was "a misguided decision" that harmed millions of unborn babies. If Roe v Wade is quashed, millions of women would lose access to abortions. On Wednesday, the Supreme Court will hear arguments over a Mississippi law banning abortion after 15 weeks. A ruling is expected by next summer. The Mississippi ban includes abortions of pregnancies caused by rape or incest. The law, however, has not been enforced because of a legal challenge from the state's only abortion provider. What is Roe v Wade ruling on abortion? Five ways this Supreme Court could change AmericaWhy abortion rights in US could be about to change At a news conference in Washington DC on Tuesday, Mr Pence said he hoped the Supreme Court will "make history" with a full reversal of Roe v Wade. The 1973 ruling gave women in the US an absolute right to an abortion in the first three months of pregnancy, and limited rights in the second three months. "We are asking the Supreme Court of the United States to overturn Roe v Wade and restore the sanctity of human life to the centre of American law," the former vice-president said. Mr Pence also argued that the "fiat of unelected judges" is not reflective of popular opinion in the US. He believes elected, state-level officials are better placed to write abortion laws for their own jurisdictions. A nationwide ban on abortions is not on the horizon, but a ruling in Mississippi's favour would mean that US states would be able to develop their own abortion laws. Experts believe that abortions would soon become illegal in more than 20 other states. Twelve states have passed so-called trigger laws, which would automatically ban abortion if Roe was overruled. Others have either passed unconstitutional abortion bans in the years since Roe v Wade (which would be revived), or retained abortion restrictions from before Roe, which are currently unenforceable. Such a move would be "devastating" for low-income women, Katherine Franke, director of the centre for gender and sexuality law at Columbia University, told the BBC. It would increase maternal mortality and poverty, she added. What Texas women make of six-week abortion ban Mississippi Attorney General Lynn Fitch has repeatedly called on Roe v Wade to be overturned. In a summer brief filed to the court, Ms Fitch said that the precedent the ruling set is "egregiously wrong". While Mr Pence acknowledged he "can't say" how the court will rule, he said he has "absolute confidence that the tide has turned for the pro-life movement". "Americans are ready for an end to the judicial tyranny of Roe v Wade," he added. A Pew Research survey from May 2021 found that about 6 in 10 Americans believe that abortion should be legal in almost all circumstances. The same survey found that 4 in 10 Americans believe it should be illegal in all cases. In a statement earlier this year, Nancy Northrup, the president and CEO of the Center for Reproductive Rights - which has brought the case to the Supreme Court on behalf of the Jackson Women's Health Organization - said that the state's case is "extreme and regressive." "Their goal is for the Supreme Court to take away our right to control our own bodies and our own futures - not just in Mississippi, but everywhere," Ms Northrup said. "Women of childbearing age in the US have never known a world in which they don't have this basic right." There were about 630,000 reported abortions in the US in 2019 according to the US Centers for Disease Control. This was an 18% decrease compared with 2010. Women in their twenties account for the majority of abortions - in 2019 about 57% were in this age group. Black Americans get abortions at the highest rate - 27 per 1,000 women aged 15-44. The pro-choice Guttmacher Institute says a lack of access to healthcare plays a role, as does discrimination. Their 2014 survey found three quarters of people receiving abortions were either on low incomes or below the poverty line in the US. 
Covid Omicron: Time to consider mandatory jabs, EU chief says. European Union countries should consider mandatory vaccination to combat Covid and the Omicron variant, the head of its Commission has said. Ursula von der Leyen said vaccines would be crucial in the fight against the "highly contagious" new variant. Some two dozen countries have reported cases of Omicron, and the EU has tightened travel restrictions since it was first reported earlier this month. European countries have also been facing a wider spike in cases. The World Health Organization (WHO), meanwhile, said early signs were that most cases of the Omicron variant were "mild". On Wednesday, Ms von der Leyen said it was "understandable and appropriate" for EU members to discuss mandatory Covid vaccinations given that a third of the bloc's population was unvaccinated. "How we can encourage and potentially think about mandatory vaccination within the European Union? This needs discussion. This needs a common approach, but it is a discussion that I think has to be led," she told a news conference in Brussels. Only individual EU states can enforce vaccine mandates and some are already taking steps in that direction. Austria has announced compulsory Covid vaccinations from February next year, while Greece is fining all unvaccinated over-60s €100 (£85) a month. Germany's incoming Chancellor, Olaf Scholz, has said he supports compulsory jabs. In an interview with Bild television, Mr Scholz said he wanted compulsory vaccinations from March and also said a faster rollout of booster jabs was needed. The WHO, which declared Omicron "of concern" on Friday following its rapid spread in South Africa, says it will know more about the new variant within days. Omicron is becoming the dominant Covid strain in South Africa, where the daily number of recorded cases doubled on Wednesday. Officials there say the variant could be fuelling the surge. However, the WHO has already said it believes existing vaccines "will still prevent severe disease" among people who contract the new variant. Omicron may need 'stringent response' - scientistsIs Omicron more harmful than other Covid variants?How can I tell I have Omicron? How fast is worldwide progress on vaccines? Asked about the severity of cases, WHO epidemiologist Dr Maria van Kerkhove said: "There is some indication that some of the patients are presenting with mild disease. "There is still suggestion of increased hospitalisations across South Africa but this could be the sheer fact that we have more cases, and if you have more cases you have more hospitalisations." The US on Wednesday became the latest country to report a case of Omicron. Other nations include Nigeria, Norway and South Korea. Several countries have tightened their borders to halt the spread of Omicron. But the WHO warned against "punitive" travel measures imposed on southern African countries. WHO head Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said he was concerned about "blunt, blanket measures", which "will only worsen inequities". Dr Van Kerkhove said travel bans imposed on South Africa had created problems for shipping virus samples. The US, which has already banned foreign travellers from eight African countries, has ordered airlines to tell it the names of passengers who have been there.
Michigan school shooting: Suspect, 15, charged as an adult. The suspect in a Michigan school shooting will face charges of terrorism and first-degree murder following a rampage that left four students dead and seven injured. Prosecutors on Wednesday charged Oxford High School student Ethan Crumbley, 15, as an adult. He has pleaded not guilty. Police are yet to identify a motive in the attack. The victims were named as Tate Myre, 16, Madisyn Baldwin, 17, Hana St Juliana, 14, and Justin Shilling, 17. Fourth death confirmed in Michigan school shooting Announcing the charges on Wednesday, Oakland County prosecutor Karen McDonald said her office had "a mountain of digital evidence" to show the suspect had planned the attack "well before the incident". One such instance is a video of the suspect the night before the shooting, in which he discusses killing students. "This isn't even a close call," she said. "This was not an impulsive act." She added that it was "absolutely premeditated". Ms McDonald said the teen will face one count of terrorism, four counts of first-degree murder, seven counts of assault with intent to murder, and 12 counts of possession of a firearm, with further charges likely as the investigation unfolds. At a later news conference, Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard said charging the suspect as an adult was "the most appropriate" action. "I agree with holding this individual wholly and completely responsible for the deplorable, tragic event that occurred by his choice," he said. The suspect will be transferred from a juvenile detention centre to the local county jail, where he will be held without bond. The teenager has refused to speak with investigators on the instructions of his family. The sheriff stressed that the teenager had never been on the radar of law enforcement or the school. He also added there was no evidence the suspect had been bullied by his peers. "There is nothing that he could have faced that would warrant senseless, absolutely brutal violence on other kids," said Mr Bouchard. He noted that the suspect's parents had been called to the school hours before the shooting "for behaviour in the classroom that was concerning". Investigators have found the suspect loaded his firearm - purchased by his father on Friday - in the bathroom and then walked through the hallway firing more than 30 shots from the weapon. Mr Bouchard said the suspect appeared to fire indiscriminately during the attack at the school of around 1,700 students. Tate Myre reportedly tried to disarm the shooter, and more than 75,000 people have signed a petition calling for the school to rename its football stadium after Tate. The 17-year-old, who played on the football team, died in a police officer's car on the way to hospital. Madisyn and Hana also died on Tuesday, while Justin was confirmed dead on Wednesday. Among those admitted to hospital, a 17-year-old female student remains in critical condition with a gunshot wound to the chest.
When Jesus is used to steal from his flock. To his listeners, William Neil "Doc" Gallagher was known as the "Money Doctor" - a charming financial guru who advertised his services on Christian radio, broadcast all over the American conservative 'Bible Belt' that stretches across North Texas. His adverts often concluded with a familiar slogan: "See you in church Sunday." "Doctor Neil Gallagher is a premier true American, with integrity in all his pursuits," a narrator says in a corporate video posted to YouTube. "His life's passion is to help people retire safe, early and happy." The three-minute video goes on to extol the benefits of the octogenarian's "visionary style", claiming he had guided more than 1,000 people to financial independence through his firm, Gallagher Financial Group, while also publishing a book, "Jesus Christ, Money Master". In reality, Gallagher was anything but. Instead, he was a fraudster who amassed $32m (£24m) in a Ponzi scheme that mostly targeted retired victims between the ages of 62 and 91. In Ponzi schemes, earlier investors generated "returns" by taking money from later investors, who are often promised considerable profits with little risk. These schemes rely on a steady flow of new joiners giving money to those already invested in order to continue. When that doesn't happen, the scam collapses. According to court documents, Gallagher had been defrauding people through a Ponzi scheme since at least 2013. His two companies, Gallagher Financial Group, Inc. and W. Neil Gallagher, Ph.D. Agency, Inc. were ordered shut by the US Securities and Exchange Commission in March 2019. Last month, he was given three life sentences in prison by a judge in Texas' Tarrant County, in addition to a 25-year sentence he had already received in Dallas in March 2020. Gallagher promised his victims returns of between 5% to 8% of their investment annually. Instead, they received nothing, with Gallagher spending most of the funds on personal and company expenses and to make payments to earlier investors. To hide the fraud, he also provided fake account statements showing false balances. The BBC was unable to reach Gallagher's attorney for comment. While Gallagher's scam garnered national media attention, his methods were far from new. Ponzi schemes are named after a notorious swindler from the 1920s, but versions of the scam date back to at least the mid-1800s. The medium Gallagher used to attract victims - Christian radio - has also been popular for decades, and has remained so even in the face of stiff competition from newer forms of media. Instead, Gallagher's nearly 200 victims highlight a different trend: elder fraud, a crime that the FBI believes is growing, costing billions of dollars each year. Among the people Gallagher preyed upon were a woman in her 70s suffering from lymphoma who invested more than half a million dollars; a commercial sandblaster, as well as serving and retired local police officers. Many victims were forced to sell homes, take loans from their children or return to work after retirement. It was the worst case of elder fraud she's seen in her career, Lori Varnell, the chief of the Tarrant County District Attorney's Elder Financial Fraud team, told the BBC. "These are individuals who worked their whole lives to save this money up. It was personal," Ms Varnell said. "They're devastated. It wasn't just the money. It was a betrayal." To reach his victims, Gallagher promoted his company's services in churches and through Christian radio, an umbrella term that encompasses thousands of stations across the country that broadcast Christian-oriented programming, from sermons and talk shows to music and news. Dating back to 1920 - the year commercial radio was first aired - Christian radio remains immensely popular in the US. More than 20 million listeners tune in each week, according to the Radio Advertising Bureau, an industry group. Ms Varnell said she wasn't surprised that Doc Gallagher would use Christian radio to dupe his victims. "Within the Christian community, there's a high level of trust. Especially here in the Bible Belt," she said. "Once you start speaking the Christian language, and using their words, their phrases, that will be a tell-tale sign to other Christians that you're a Christian." Once Gallagher established a sense of trust with his victims, they are less likely to "pay as much attention to the details" of what was happening, said Ms Varnell. This tactic is a prime example of 'affinity fraud', said David Fleck, a former Los Angeles prosecutor. In these schemes, fraudsters target members of an identifiable group, ranging from religious or ethnic communities to certain professions. In many cases, they use members of the group to unwittingly help advertise the scam to others and help convince people of its validity. Mr Fleck recalled one incident in which he prosecuted a man who was a member of six different churches. After gaining their trust, the man stole the identities of 25 different people he met at church, bought houses in their names and then collected cash from renters. In another example, a California man was arrested in 2017 for defrauding more than 200 Armenian immigrants of $19m by promising to invest their money in lucrative technology stocks. "You see it among all cultural groups and expatriates from all sorts of countries," Mr Fleck said. "Affinity fraud permeates all con games. It just makes it so much easier for the con artist." Officials say that the elderly are a particularly vulnerable affinity group. According to the FBI, millions of elderly Americans fall victim to fraud each year, accumulating more than $3bn in losses annually. Jeffrey Cramer, a former federal prosecutor, said that the elderly are often lucrative targets for fraudsters who assume they have ample savings. "For the most part, they have more money because they've been working longer. Their house probably has equity and they've got a 401k [retirement savings]," Mr Cramer explained. "There's no sense trying to scam a 20-year-old. Someone in their 60s or 70s may have multiple investments and a house that's worth five times what they paid for it." Mr Cramer's assessment was echoed by Ms Varnell. In Gallagher's case, he also took advantage of "generational differences" among his victims, in addition to their faith, she said. "These are people who believe that when a man shook your hand and looked you in the eye, that was fine," she said. "They're built to believe people, because you don't lie. That's against the Ten Commandments." Fraud experts believe that only a fraction of all cases are reported. In instances that do go to court, victims are unlikely to see much - if any - of their money returned. The scammer often spends the money as quickly as it comes in, using it to continue making fraudulent payments or attempting to hide it in offshore accounts. In the Gallagher case, a court-appointed receiver was only able to recover approximately 14 cents on the dollar. Gallagher had spent much of the remainder, while the rest was laundered and remains unaccounted for. While the financial costs of frauds can be devastating for victims and their families, the real impact often runs deeper. "It takes an emotional and psychological toll," said Mr Cramer. "There's an embarrassment element when you've worked 20, 30, 40 years and you've got literally nothing to show for it." In court, many of Gallagher's victims spoke of that psychological toll. Among them was Susan Pippi, a 74-year-old who, with her husband, lost hundreds of thousands of dollars to the scheme. "I don't trust anybody anymore," she said in a statement released by Tarrant County prosecutors. "Except for God and my family." But these sorts of frauds are unlikely to go away, said Ms Varnell. A "concerted onslaught" of fraudsters - many of them abroad, are stealing the retirement funds of Americans at a rate of "millions every single day", she said. The elderly and their families must be on the lookout for warning signs. "If you purport to be a Christian, and someone's approaching you in the Christian realm, you should be extra suspicious," she said. "Be no less suspicious if you're Jewish, or Muslim, or whatever. If someone is approaching you on religious grounds, you should be very suspicious." Mr Cramer, for his part, said that affinity frauds are likely to become more common as younger, more tech-savvy generations come of age on social media. A fraudster can reach a much larger audience - but hide behind an account and disappear into the ether. Illustrations by Angelica Casas
First US case of Omicron coronavirus variant reported. Public health officials in California have confirmed the first known case of the Omicron coronavirus variant in the US. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said on Wednesday the infected individual had recently returned from South Africa. The traveller was fully vaccinated, has displayed mild symptoms so far and is currently self-isolating, the CDC said. The US plans to impose fresh travel restrictions over the new variant. How worrying is the new Covid variant?WHO warns of very high global risk from Omicron International passengers are expected to soon be required to provide a negative test result from within 24 hours of their departure, US media reports have said. President Joe Biden is expected to announce the stricter testing requirement and possible additional measures on Thursday. On Monday, the president said he believes the new variant is "not a cause for panic", adding that it was unlikely to result in domestic lockdowns. While the World Health Organization (WHO) and the US have deemed Omicron a "variant of concern", it is still not clear whether it is associated with more transmission or more risk of evading vaccines. The US and other countries have already imposed a ban on travel from eight African countries: South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique and Malawi. Health experts say the travel restrictions will buy them time to study the new variant, but new reports suggest the Omicron variant may have already been spreading through western Europe when scientists in South Africa detected it last week. According to the WHO, at least 23 countries have now reported cases of the heavily mutated variant, including the UK, Canada, and several European Union member countries. At a White House briefing on Wednesday, CDC director Rochelle Walensky said Omicron's emergence "further emphasises the importance of vaccination, boosters and prevention efforts needed to protect against Covid-19".
Canadian MPs vote to ban LGBT 'conversion therapy'. Canada's House of Commons has voted unanimously to ban so-called LGBT conversion therapy. The legislation would make it illegal to have a child undergo the practice or have anyone unwillingly undergo it. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's Liberals proposed the measure, though its passage prompted applause on both sides of the aisle. The bill must now be approved by the upper chamber of parliament, the Senate. Conversion therapy, which purports to change individuals' sexuality or gender identity, has been widely discredited. The House passed an earlier version of the bill in June, but it failed to clear the Senate before Mr Trudeau called an election in September. In emotional scenes on the House floor on Wednesday, Liberal MPs crossed the aisle to shake hands with and even hug their Conservative counterparts, reports CBC News. Conservative Leader Erin O'Toole allowed his caucus to have a free vote on the issue. But unanimous support for the bill caught the other side by surprise, according to Liberal MP Seamus O'Regan. Tourism Minister Randy Boissonnault, who is also a special adviser to Mr Trudeau on LGBT issues, said: "No one can consent to torture. "It's a great day for survivors, to know that no-one else is going to go through what they went through." Several Conservative MPs had expressed concern the wording of the bill could criminalise private conversations about sexuality or gender identity between children and teachers, religious leaders or mental health professionals. But Federal Justice Minister David Lametti said those objections were unfounded.
Rust: Alec Baldwin says he didn't fire gun on film set. Alec Baldwin says he "didn't pull the trigger" of the gun that fatally wounded cinematographer Halyna Hutchins on the set of his film, Rust. The star made the claim in his first sit-down interview since the incident in October. "I would never point a gun at anyone and pull a trigger at them. Never," he told George Stephanopoulos of ABC News. The interview was recorded on Tuesday, and is due to be broadcast in the US on Thursday evening. Mr Stephanopoulos described their 80-minute discussion as "raw" and "intense. The journalist described Mr Baldwin, 63, as "devastated" yet "very candid" and "forthcoming", while previewing the interview on Wednesday's Good Morning America. "I've done thousands of interviews in the last 20 years at ABC," he said. "This was the most intense I've ever experienced." Mr Baldwin is best-known for his performances in films like Glengarry Glen Ross and The Hunt For Red October, as well as his impersonation of Donald Trump on US sketch show Saturday Night Live. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter The interview marks the first time Mr Baldwin has spoken about the incident on camera, except for a brief interview he gave to TMZ in October, in a bid to stop the paparazzi from following him and his family. In that appearance, he described the incident as a "one in a trillion episode" and said accidents of this nature very rarely happened on film sets. Dead cinematographer 'was an incredible artist' Police to search arms supplier over Rust shootingBaldwin speaks about 'one in a trillion' shooting Ms Hutchins was shot and killed as Mr Baldwin rehearsed with what he believed to be a "cold" - or safe - gun on the set of Rust in New Mexico. It is believed to have discharged when he removed it from a holster during rehearsals for a forthcoming scene. Ms Hutchins was flown to hospital by helicopter after the shooting but later died of her injuries. Director Joel Souza, 48, was also injured. According to court records, Mr Baldwin was handed the weapon by the film's assistant director, Dave Halls, who did not know it contained live ammunition and indicated it was unloaded by shouting "cold gun". Mr Halls had been given the gun by Hannah Gutierrez-Reed, the 24-year-old armorer on the film. Asked by Mr Stephanopoulos how a live bullet had made its way on to the set, Mr Baldwin replied, "I have no idea. "Someone put a live bullet into a gun. A bullet that wasn't even supposed to be on the property." Lawyers for Ms Gutierrez-Reed have said she did not know where "the live rounds came from". That question is now at the centre of a police investigation in the US. Earlier this week, the investigators obtained a warrant to search the premises of an arms supplier in the US. An affidavit with the warrant said police were told ammunition for the film had come from several sources, including PDQ Arm & Prop. The affidavit said the ammunition supplier's owner, Seth Kenney, had told investigators the live round might have been from some "reloaded ammunition". He said the ammunition he supplied for the film consisted of dummy rounds and blanks, according to the affidavit. Follow us on Facebook, or on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Ethiopia's Tigray conflict: Lalibela retaken - government. Ethiopian troops have recaptured the historic town of Lalibela from Tigrayan rebels, the government has said. This is the latest victory claimed by the government since Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed went to the front lines last week to lead the fight-back. The Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF) said it had made a "strategic withdrawal" from certain areas. Lalibela, famous for its rock-hewn churches, was captured by the rebels in August. It is a Unesco world heritage site in Ethiopia's Amhara region, and was a popular tourist destination before the civil war broke out in Ethiopia last year. The conflict started in the northern Tigray region, and later engulfed other parts of Ethiopia as the TPLF launched an offensive to reach Addis Ababa in the south and the border with Djibouti in the east, which is crucial for getting supplies to landlocked Ethiopia. Fears of the rebels advancing on Addis Ababa led several countries, including the US and UK, to urge their citizens to leave Ethiopia last month. Why Facebook and Twitter are under fire in EthiopiaWhy the Ethiopia conflict matters to the worldAbiy Ahmed: The Nobel Prize winner who went to war Earlier on Wednesday, government spokesman Legesse Tulu was quoted by state media as saying the military was also confident of retaking the strategic city of Dessie "in a short period of time". The TPLF captured Dessie last month, in what was seen as a major blow to the government as the city leads to both Addis Ababa and the border with Djibouti. Other towns retaken from the rebels included Shewa Robit, about 220km (135 miles) from Addis Ababa, the government said. State-linked TV aired footage of Mr Abiy on Tuesday in military jungle fatigues, scanning the horizon with binoculars. "The enemy is defeated. Our remaining task is to rout the enemy and destroy them," he told soldiers sitting under trees. Last week, TPLF leader Debretsion Gebremichael wrote to the UN, raising concerns about drone strikes against civilians. Ethiopia had received Chinese drones, as well as weapons from Iran, Turkey and the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Mr Debretsion said. There has not been any response to his claims. China's Foreign Minister Wang Yi is currently visiting Ethiopia. He is expected to meet Deputy Prime Minister Demeke Mekonnen, who has taken charge of the day-to-day running of government while Mr Abiy is on the battlefield. China had opposed foreign "meddling" in Ethiopia as Mr Abiy's government came under pressure from the US and some European countries over reports of human rights abuses during the civil war. Meanwhile, the Ethiopia government has accused Twitter of targeting accounts that are critical of the rebels. Twitter has said it remains "neutral to political identity and ideology". Last month, Twitter temporarily removed its trends function in Ethiopia, citing ''the imminent threat of physical harm''. Facebook removed a post from Mr Abiy, saying it violated its policies against inciting violence.
Arizona officer fired after fatally shooting man in wheelchair. A US police officer has been fired after fatally shooting a man in a motorised wheelchair while responding to a reported shoplifting. Tucson police officer Ryan Remington fired nine shots at 61-year-old Richard Lee Richards during the incident. The Arizona city's police chief said on Tuesday that he's "deeply disturbed and troubled" by the officer's actions during the incident. Mr Remington's attorney has defended his client's actions. On Tuesday, police in Tucson released footage of the Monday incident, which began after Mr Richards was accused of stealing a toolbox from a local Walmart. Both a Walmart employee who confronted him and Mr Remington reported that Mr Richards had brandished a knife during the incident, refused to comply with orders to surrender the weapon, and attempted to move away. According to the Walmart employee, Mr Richards said that "if you want me to put down the knife, you're going to have to shoot me". The footage - drawn from CCTV cameras and police bodycams, including one on Mr Remington - shows Mr Remington and another officer following Mr Richards to the entrance of another nearby store, with one officer instructing him to "not go into the store". Mr Remington then fires nine shots from his gun at Mr Richards, who slumps forward and falls from his wheelchair. He was then handcuffed. He was later declared dead. "His [Mr Remington's] deadly use of force in this incident is a clear violation of department policy and directly contradicts multiple aspects of our use of force and training," Tucson police chief Chris Magnus said on Tuesday. "As a result, the department moved earlier today to terminate Officer Remington," he added. Tucson Mayor Regina Romero said in a statement that Mr Remington's actions were "unconscionable and indefensible". The incident is now being reviewed by the Pima County Attorney's Office. Michael Storie, an attorney representing Mr Remington, told the BBC in an interview that the department's overview of the case is "only half the story" and that "many more important details were withheld" from the department's news conference. "Officers always have alternative actions that can be second guessed," Mr Storie said. "However, just because there are multiple actions, doesn't mean the one he chose was inappropriate." An additional statement on behalf of Mr Remington is expected later Wednesday.
Austria: Doctor fined for amputating wrong leg of patient. A surgeon in Austria has been fined after amputating the wrong leg of a patient earlier this year. The elderly patient's right leg was removed instead of his left, with the mistake only discovered two days later. On Wednesday, the court in Linz found the 43-year-old guilty of gross negligence and fined her €2,700 (£2,296). The widow of the patient, who died before the case came to court, was also awarded  €5,000 in damages. The patient attended the clinic in Freistadt last May to have his leg amputated but the surgeon marked the wrong limb for amputation, AFP news agency reports. The mistake was identified during a routine bandage change and the patient was told he would have to have his other leg amputated as well. At the time, the hospital said the incident had occurred as a "result of a sequence of unfortunate circumstances". Its director made a public apology at a news conference. In court, the surgeon said there had been a flaw in the chain of command in the operating theatre. When asked why she had marked the right leg and not the left, she said: "I just don't know". Since the incident, she has moved to another clinic. Half of her fine has been suspended. Cases like these are rare but there have been similar incidents in the past. In 1995, a doctor in the US discovered halfway through surgery that he was amputating the wrong leg of a diabetic patient. He was forced to continue after cutting through muscles, tendons and ligaments.
Argentina ex-President Mauricio Macri charged in sub families spying case. Argentina's former President Mauricio Macri has been charged with ordering the secret services to spy on relatives of 44 sailors who died when the Ara San Juan submarine sank in 2017. Judge Marin Bava says Mr Macri has violated the country's intelligence laws by demanding a dossier on the victims' families. They accuse the Navy of negligence. Mr Macri, who was president in 2015-19 and is now an opposition leader, says the charges are politically motivated. "I did not spy on anyone, I never ordered [anyone] in my government to spy on anyone," he said earlier this month. The victims' relatives say they have been followed, intimidated, and had their phones tapped after accusing the Argentine Navy of negligence in the maintenance of the Ara San Juan submarine. The vessel was returning from a routine missing when it disappeared 430km (270 miles) off the Argentine coast in the South Atlantic on 15 November 2017. The wreckage was found only a year later off the coast of Patagonia. Who were the crew of the Ara San Juan submarine? Experts believe the submarine imploded and sank after a technical fault.
Arsenal star Gabriel fights off baseball bat-wielding robber. Premier League star Gabriel fought off a baseball bat-wielding man attempting to steal his car. The Arsenal defender was followed into his home in Barnet, north London, by three men on 20 August who demanded he hand over his car keys. Footage of the incident shows Gabriel struggling with a baseball bat-wielding man, later identified as Abdi Muse. Muse, 26, was sentenced to five years in jail for robbery at Harrow Crown Court on 17 November. After a struggle, the men fled with Gabriel's keys but left the car behind in the garage. Mr Muse, of no fixed address, was later arrested and admitted robbery and possession of an offensive weapon. Reacting to the incident, Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta said you have to "give credit" to the Brazilian defender. "It's not a nice thing to go through, when you have family involved and they're trying to access your house," he said. "Gabby showed a lot of character, you see the reaction that he had straight away. Credit to the boy. After that he was fine. "He was shocked and obviously he wanted to change a few things in his life to make sure that didn't happen again." Arteta added that Arsenal supported Gabriel in the wake of the robbery. "The club gave him all the support that was needed to try and help him forget about the situation, learn about it and move on", he said. Arsenal bought 23-year-old Gabriel from Lille for £27m last year. At the time of the robbery, he had been sidelined with a knee injury. However, he has since made 10 appearances for the Premier League side. It was not the first time that an Arsenal star has had to face off against robbers. Two armed men attempted to rob expensive watches from defender Sead Kolasinac, 28, and midfielder Mesut Ozil, 33, in Hampstead, north-west London, in 2019. However, Kolasinac fought back and was able to jump into a car driven by Ozil.
