Wisconsin: Police name victims after car ploughs into Waukesha Christmas parade. Wisconsin officials have identified five victims, aged between 52 and 81, who were killed by a speeding vehicle that ploughed into a Christmas parade. Police also named Darrell Edward Brooks Jr, 39, as the driver of the SUV that injured 48 people, including several young children, in Waukesha. Police are seeking to charge him with five counts of intentional homicide. They added that Sunday's incident was not an act of terrorism. Mr Brooks was reportedly fleeing another disturbance. Warning: This article contains upsetting content. The victims named on Monday were: Mr Wilhelm Hospel, 81Ms Virginia Sorenson, 79Ms LeAnna Owen, 71Ms Tamara Durand, 52Ms Jane Kulich, 52 They include members of the Milwaukee Dancing Grannies, who are a regular fixture in the city's parades. "Our group was doing what they loved, performing in front of crowds in a parade putting smiles on faces of all ages," the group wrote in a statement on Facebook. "Those who died were extremely passionate Grannies." Dozens of people remain in hospital. Police said the injured were taken to six area hospitals by first responders as well as other residents who were at the parade. Eighteen children were admitted after the incident, the Children's Wisconsin paediatric hospital told reporters on Monday. Care providers described the incident as one of the state's largest mass casualty events involving children in recent history. Physicians said some children sustained serious head injuries and broken bones. The injured range in age from three to 16 and include three sets of siblings, medical staff said. Ten children required treatment in the intensive care unit. The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Milwaukee said one of its priests, multiple parishioners and students at a local Catholic school were also among the injured. "The lone subject intentionally drove his maroon SUV through barricades and into a crowd of people that was celebrating," Waukesha police chief Dan Thompson told reporters at a news conference on Monday. He added that an officer had fired shots at the vehicle, but had to stop due to the number of people on the street. Police said they were responding to a domestic incident involving Mr Brooks when he fled the scene and mowed through the parade crowd. Earlier media reports suggested he was escaping a knife fight, but police have not yet confirmed those details. The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel newspaper reported Mr Brooks is currently facing at least five other criminal charges - including for domestic abuse and battery - and had been released from jail on bond just two days earlier. BBC News has also reviewed the records belonging to the suspect. In a statement on Monday, Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm said the bail recommendation in Mr Brooks' open court case was "inappropriately low in light of the nature of recent charges and the pending charges" against him. Mr Brooks is from the city of Milwaukee, about 24 km east of Waukesha. The parade in Waukesha - a community of about 72,000 located to the west of Milwaukee - is traditionally held every year on the Sunday before Thanksgiving, and includes fancy dress, floats, dancers and marching bands. This year's theme was "comfort and joy". Families lined the sides of the road to watch the event, which was returning after a year's absence due to the coronavirus pandemic. Local resident Angelito Tenorio told the Journal Sentinel he had just finished marching in the parade when the SUV "put the pedal to the metal and just [started] zooming full speed along the parade route" at about 16:40 (22:40 GMT) on Sunday. "Then we heard a loud bang, and just deafening cries and screams from people who are struck by the vehicle," he said. Corey Montiho, whose daughter's dance team was hit by the SUV, told the paper: "There were pom-poms and shoes and spilled hot chocolate everywhere. I had to go from one crumpled body to the other to find my daughter." Sarah Saldivar, who was at the parade with her two young children, told CBS News she saw "a red blur" and then saw "little girls flying through the air". One video shared on social media shows the car crashing at high speed through street barriers, while another shows the vehicle driving into what looks like a group of musicians. Police officers ran down the street during the incident, telling people to take shelter in shops. Mayor Shawn Reilly described the incident as a "horrible, senseless tragedy". "I am deeply saddened to know that so many in our community went to a parade but ended up dealing with injury and heartache," he said. President Joe Biden said he was praying for the community and "monitoring the situation very closely". Wisconsin Governor Tony Evers has ordered flags to be flown at half-staff across the state in honour of the victims. Waukesha's public schools will be closed on Monday, and counselling services have been made available to those affected. A community fund has been created to help victims of the incident. Were you at the parade? Did you witness what happened? Email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Or Upload your pictures/video hereTweet: @BBC_HaveYourSayPlease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission.
Germany Covid: Health minister's stark warning to get jabbed. Germany's health minister has issued his starkest warning yet on the importance of getting vaccinated. "By the end of this winter everyone in Germany will either be vaccinated, recovered or dead," Jens Spahn told a news conference in Berlin on Monday. Germany is in the grip of a fourth wave of coronavirus. Cases are rising rapidly and many hospitals are full. It has one of the lowest vaccination rates in Western Europe, with 68% of people fully vaccinated. Germany's infection rate is at its highest since the pandemic began, and health experts have warned this wave could be the worst yet. In the past 24 hours, there have been 30,643 new infections - 7,000 more than a week ago. This is among the highest rates in the world. Tighter restrictions are to be brought in which will see the unvaccinated excluded from certain venues, and some of Germany's famed Christmas markets have been cancelled. Mr Spahn said he was against making Covid vaccines compulsory, but that it was a "moral obligation" to get the jab because it impacts on other people. "Freedom means taking responsibility, and there is a duty to society to get vaccinated," he said. The minister said the highly contagious Delta variant is driving the latest wave and that "anyone who is not vaccinated will, over the next few months, become infected and lack protection". In the news conference on Monday, Mr Spahn also promoted the US-made Moderna shot, calling it the Rolls Royce of vaccines, as high demand for the German-produced Pfizer/BioNTech jabs risked depleting stocks. He warned that some 16 million Moderna doses could expire in the next few months if they are not used. WHO very worried about Covid rise in EuropeCovid map: Where are cases the highest? Covid vaccines: How fast is worldwide progress? The country expects the European Union to approve vaccines for children aged five to 11 by the end of the week. Since the start of the pandemic, more than 99,000 people in Germany have died, and more than 5.4 million have been infected with Covid-19.
Afghanistan: Taliban unveil new rules banning women in TV dramas. Women have been banned from appearing in television dramas in Afghanistan under new rules imposed by the Taliban government. Female journalists and presenters have also been ordered to wear headscarves on screen, although the guidelines do not say which type of covering to use. Reporters say some of the rules are vague and subject to interpretation. The Taliban seized power in Afghanistan in mid-August and many fear they are gradually imposing harsh restrictions. The militant Islamist group, which took control following the departure of US and allied forces, almost immediately instructed girls and young women to stay home from school. During their previous rule in the 1990s, women were barred from education and the workplace. How the Taliban takeover changed my lifeA new order begins under the Taliban rule'Women are imprisoned, while the criminals are free' The latest set of Taliban guidelines, which have been issued to Afghan television channels, features eight new rules. They include the banning of films considered against the principles of Sharia - or Islamic - law and Afghan values, while footage of men exposing intimate parts of the body is prohibited. Comedy and entertainment shows that insult religion or may be considered offensive to Afghans are also forbidden. The Taliban have insisted that foreign films promoting foreign cultural values should not be broadcast. Afghan television channels show mostly foreign dramas with lead female characters. A member of an organisation that represents journalists in Afghanistan, Hujjatullah Mujaddedi, said the announcement of new restrictions was unexpected. He told the BBC that some of the rules were not practical and that if implemented, broadcasters may be forced to close. The Taliban's earlier decision to order girls and young women to stay home from school made Afghanistan the only country in the world to bar half its population from getting an education. The mayor of the capital, Kabul, also told female municipal employees to stay home unless their jobs could not be filled by a man. The Taliban claim that their restrictions on women working and girls studying are "temporary" and only in place to ensure all workplaces and learning environments are "safe" for them.
Prince Harry: Private investigator apologises for targeting prince's ex-girlfriend. A private investigator has apologised for targeting the Duke of Sussex's ex-girlfriend Chelsy Davy for surveillance when they were dating. Gavin Burrows told the BBC the press had focused on Prince Harry in the 2000s as "the new Diana". Mr Burrows, a witness in ongoing legal cases against the News of the World and the Sun, said he and the press had been "ruthless". His claims are yet to be tested in court and are strongly disputed. Prince Harry is one of several people pursuing legal action against the publisher of the Sun and the News of the World, News Group Newspapers, as well as the owner of the Daily Mirror, over allegations of phone-hacking and other illegal newsgathering activity. The News of the World was Britain's biggest Sunday newspaper until 2011, when the owners shut it down after a series of damaging reports, including that the paper hacked the phone of murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler. News Group Newspapers accepts a limited amount of unlawful activity occurred at the News of the World. However, it denies there was any wrongdoing at the Sun and says it has not accepted liability in any of the phone-hacking cases brought against it. Prince Harry's legal battle with the mediaHarry sues Sun and Mirror owners in hacking claimPapers' phone-hacking bill 'could reach £1bn' The private investigator's claims feature in a BBC documentary that investigates the relationship between the younger princes and the media. Media editor Amol Rajan speaks to journalists about how they were briefed on stories, including claims about the behaviour of the Duchess of Sussex. Mr Burrows' account sheds new light on the background to an impending conflict over the conduct of the press. Prince Harry, who has sharply criticised the media and advocated for reform, has so far declined to settle his phone-hacking claim, raising the prospect of a trial. Former BBC royal correspondent Peter Hunt said the prince battling newspapers in court over allegations of unlawful activity - seemingly driven by "avenging" what he sees as unfair treatment of his mother - would be a "massive" moment in British public life. Mr Burrows told the programme there was much greater interest in Prince Harry than in Prince William when he began working for the News of the World in 2000. "As explained to me by a couple of editors, Harry had basically become the new Diana," he said. Editors had told him putting Prince Harry on the front page sold more copies of newspapers than Prince William, Mr Burrows said. The private investigator said when Prince Harry began dating Ms Davy in 2004, it opened a lucrative new avenue of business as her communications were targeted. "There was a lot of voicemail hacking going on, there was a lot of surveillance work on her phones, on her comms. Chelsy would brag to her friends when she was going to see him," he said. He said investigators were interested in her medical records, ex-boyfriends and details of her education. Mr Burrows apologised, saying he was "very sorry" and that he acted this way "because I was greedy, I was into my cocaine, and I was living in a fake state of grandeur". But he said there was a "ruthless" culture in parts of the media around that time: "They've got no morals - they absolutely have got no morals." He also said he regretted his treatment of Prince Harry. "I was basically part of a group of people who robbed him of his normal teenage years," Mr Burrows said. Mr Burrows was one of many private investigators employed by UK newspapers during what came to be known as the phone-hacking scandal. The exposure of unethical and sometimes illegal methods of getting information, including accessing voicemails, has prompted a wave of legal cases over the years. Solicitor Callum Galbraith, co-ordinating the current legal actions against News Group Newspapers, said the scale of the use of private investigators by the News of the World and other papers was "absolutely phenomenal", starting in the early 1990s and continuing to 2011, when police began a new investigation. A criminal trial in 2014 heard the News of the World's former royal editor Clive Goodman hacked the messages of Kate Middleton 155 times when she was dating Prince William. He also hacked the phones of both princes, the court heard. The princes felt "really violated" and both were initially "determined" to resolve their issues with the publisher, said Mr Hunt, the former BBC royal correspondent. He said: "It's now just one of them who is pursuing it, which is Harry." The Princes and the Press will be on BBC Two and BBC iPlayer from 21:00 GMT on Monday 22 November. For more on the story, please subscribe to the podcast Harry, Meghan and the Media. THE NEW LABOUR REVOLUTION: Two powerful personalities at the heart of a political phenomenonFROM TOM HANKS TO EMMA THOMPSON: Check out the great films on BBC iPlayer
Jerome Powell nominated to stay as US Federal Reserve chair. Jerome Powell has been nominated for a second term as chair of the US Federal Reserve by President Joe Biden. Mr Powell is set to stay in the role, which includes managing inflation and regulating the financial system, for a further four years. He was initially appointed by former President Donald Trump and started his first term in 2018. The 68-year-old Republican has been praised for his management of the economy during the pandemic. The other front-running candidate, Lael Brainard, was favoured by progressives on the left of President Biden's Democratic Party. They have criticised Mr Powell for not doing enough to tackle climate change and poverty and say he has weakened regulation of financial institutions. Ms Brainard, who has been on the board of governors of the Federal Reserve since 2014, has been nominated as vice chair. Announcing the nominations, President Biden said: "While there's still more to be done, we've made remarkable progress over the last 10 months in getting Americans back to work and getting our economy moving again. "That success is a testament to the economic agenda I've pursued and to the decisive action that the Federal Reserve has taken under Chair Powell and Dr Brainard to help steer us through the worst downturn in modern American history and put us on the path to recovery." The nominations need to be confirmed in the Senate, before Mr Powell and Ms Brainard take up their posts in February 2022. After months of speculation and weeks of apparent hesitation, Joe Biden has decided to stick with Jerome Powell for what is, arguably, the most powerful economic job in the world. He does this despite clear indications that this will anger the left in his party. Some liberals in the closely-divided Senate have already promised to oppose Powell, who was first selected by Donald Trump, when his nomination comes to a vote in the chamber. Biden may think that by also picking the more left-leaning Lael Brainard to be vice-chair he would assuage some of this dissatisfaction, but that seems unlikely for liberals who want the Federal Reserve to be more aggressive in addressing income inequality and banking power. Instead, Biden has opted for stability in the Federal Reserve at a time when rising interest rates and continued Covid-related challenges put the US economy in a precarious position. The president may consider Powell the safe choice, with some Republicans already offering their support. But if Senate Democrats fracture over the nomination, it may make it more difficult for them to stick together to pass Biden's Build Back Better social spending legislation - a development could have grave political consequences for their party. Mr Biden said he was confident that Mr Powell and Ms Brainard would focus on tackling inflation, but also shared his belief that urgent action was needed to tackle climate change and risks to the financial system. President Biden's government is coming under increasing pressure as prices continue to rise for every day goods, eating into ordinary Americans' spending power. US prices rising at fastest rate for three decadesUS Fed to trim pandemic stimulus from this monthLeft-wing Democrats want Fed chief replaced Last month, consumer price inflation reached 6.2%, defying predictions, including from Mr Powell, that it would come quickly back under control once the economy reopened. The Federal Reserve has primary responsibility for managing inflation but the issue is also affecting the president's own poll ratings, according to a poll for CBS published this weekend. US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said having an independent and experienced Federal reserve was "critically important to navigating this turbulent time". US stocks opened higher after the news, which was broadly in line with what investors had expected. The appointment of Mr Powell, a former private equity lawyer and Republican, appointed by a Democratic president, represents a return to the traditional, non-partisan approach to selecting the Fed chair, after a more politicised approach from President Trump. It also ensures continuity of policy at a time of considerable debate over interest rate strategy.
Eddie Redmayne says it was a mistake to play trans role in The Danish Girl. Actor Eddie Redmayne has said playing a transgender character in 2015 film The Danish Girl was "a mistake". The British star was nominated for an Oscar for his role as Lile Elbe, one of the first people in the world to have gender reassignment surgery. The film was praised by some at the time but others felt a trans actor should have been cast in the role. "No, I wouldn't take it on now. I made that film with the best intentions, but I think it was a mistake," he said. "The bigger discussion about the frustrations around casting is because many people don't have a chair at the table," Redmayne told The Sunday Times. "There must be a levelling, otherwise we are going to carry on having these debates." The Danish Girl was released months after Redmayne won the Oscar for best actor for playing Professor Stephen Hawking in The Theory of Everything. At the time, the star admitted there had been "years of cisgender success on the back of trans stories" and said he hoped more trans actors could play trans parts in the future. But he added that any actor "should be able to play any sort of part if one plays it with a sense of integrity and responsibility". Eddie Redmayne discusses his role in The Danish GirlRedmayne: Trans film privilege to makeEddie Redmayne criticises JK Rowling trans tweets The following year, after being criticised for appearing to suggest that The Danish Girl had helped bring trans issues to mainstream attention, he said it was "an honour to be part of this conversation in some small way" and that he was "an ally of the trans community". In response to his latest comments, a spokesperson for trans charity Gendered Intelligence said trans representation on screen had "come on leaps and bounds" since The Danish Girl was released and "a consensus is being reached that trans actors for trans roles should be de rigueur". They said: "Not only does this help abate the possibility of telling our stories in unnecessarily denigrating ways, but the authenticity of trans actors playing trans parts means stories are being told in a more meaningful way for actors and viewers alike. "We're increasingly hopeful that stories about and for trans people can be told by those actors themselves, with more diverse talent both on screen and behind the camera." Redmayne, who starred in Harry Potter spin-off Fantastic Beasts and Where To Find Them, also backed members of the trans community after author JK Rowling posted tweets taking issue with the phrase "people who menstruate". "I disagree with Jo's comments. Trans women are women, trans men are men and non-binary identities are valid," the actor said in a statement. He also later criticised the "vitriol" she faced and acknowledged the abuse aimed towards trans people online was "equally disgusting". Redmayne is currently starring alongside Jessie Buckley in a new production of Cabaret at London's Playhouse Theatre. The actor's casting as The Emcee, a role that has often been played by LGBTQ+ actors since it first premiered on Broadway in 1966, has also attracted criticism. "Of all the characters I've ever read, this one defies pigeonholing. I would ask people to come and see it before casting judgment," Redmayne told The Sunday Times.
Groveland Four: US judge clears men wrongly accused of rape after 72 years. Four black men who were wrongly accused of raping a white teenager in the US have been cleared of the charge more than 70 years later. They were accused of abducting and raping the girl in the central Florida town of Groveland in 1949. Charles Greenlee, Walter Irvin, Samuel Shepherd and Ernest Thomas - known as the Groveland Four - were pardoned by the state of Florida in January 2019. None of the accused men lived to see themselves exonerated. They were aged between 16 and 26 at the time. Thomas was hunted down by a posse of more than 1,000 men shortly after the alleged incident and was shot hundreds of times. The three others were beaten in custody, before being convicted by all-white juries. Samuel Shepherd was later shot and killed by a sheriff while travelling to a retrial. Irvin narrowly escaped execution in 1954 and his sentence was commuted to life with parole. One year after he was paroled, in 1969, he died. Greenlee, also sentenced to life, was paroled in 1962 and died in 2012. A judge in Florida dismissed the indictments of Ernest Thomas and Samuel Shepherd, and set aside the convictions and sentences of Charles Greenlee and Walter Irvin. Their families were emotional upon learning of the news, saying it might spark a re-examination of other similar convictions. "We are blessed. I hope that this is a start because lot of people didn't get this opportunity. A lot of families didn't get this opportunity. Maybe they will," said Aaron Newson, Thomas' nephew, who broke into tears as he spoke. "This country needs to come together." Carol Greenlee, the daughter of Charles Greenlee - who was 16 at the time and the youngest of the suspects - cried and fell into the arms of those next to her when she heard the decision. "If you know something is right, stand up for it," she said later. "Be persistent." The local state attorney, Republican Bill Gladson, initiated the move last month to have the men officially exonerated. "We followed the evidence to see where it led us and it led us to this moment," he said after the hearing, which took place in the same courthouse where the original trials were held. In 2017, Florida's state government issued a "heartfelt apology" to the families of the four men and recommended their posthumous pardons. The men's story was the subject of the book Devil in the Grove, which won a Pulitzer Prize in 2013.
Peng Shuai: WTA says concerns remain for Chinese tennis star after IOC call. The Women's Tennis Association has said that a call between Peng Shuai and the president of the International Olympic Committee does not address its concerns over the Chinese player's wellbeing. An IOC statement after the call said Peng appeared to be safe and well. Peng, 35, disappeared from the public eye for almost three weeks after she made sexual assault allegations against a senior Chinese minister. Her absence triggered widespread international concern. Sports stars and governments called on China to provide proof that she was safe. The outcry over the tennis star's apparent disappearance from the public eye prompted Chinese state media to release a series of photographs and videos that appeared to show all was well. Peng Shuai: What we know so far How China censored a tennis star On Sunday, the IOC released a statement after IOC President Thomas Bach held a video call with three-time Olympian. The IOC account said Peng had "thanked the IOC for its concern about her wellbeing". "She explained that she is safe and well, living at her home in Beijing, but would like to have her privacy respected at this time," it added. "She prefers to spend her time with friends and family right now," it said. "Nevertheless, she will continue to be involved in tennis." The IOC statement also included an image of the video call taking place, with Ms Peng seen smiling to the camera. But the WTA said the recent videos "don't alleviate or address the WTA's concern about her wellbeing and ability to communicate without censorship or coercion". "This video does not change our call for a full, fair and transparent investigation, without censorship, into her allegation of sexual assault, which is the issue that gave rise to our initial concern," it added. The sporting rights organisation, Global Athlete, criticised what it called the IOC's "nonchalant" approach to Peng's disappearance and accused it of displaying "an abhorrent indifference to sexual violence and the well-being of female athletes". "The release pretends that Peng never made sexual assault allegations and has not been missing for more than two weeks. The statements make the IOC complicit in the Chinese authority's malicious propaganda and lack of care for basic human rights and justice," it added. Naomi Osaka voices worry over China tennis starSerena Williams calls for investigation into Peng Shuai Lord Sebastian Coe, President of World Athletics told BBC's Today programme that the question of where Peng is and if she is ok had been "achieved by quiet diplomacy" by the IOC. "Nobody is suggesting that there aren't questions to be asked. Nobody is suggesting that there aren't challenges. Look we have to maintain international relationships across sport," he said, adding that Thomas Bach will be visiting Peng Shuai privately when he arrives in Beijing in January. On Sunday, a rally was staged by a group of Chinese feminists in New York in support of Peng Shuai. Event organiser Crystal Chen told the BBC that while the released videos and photos appear to show Peng "physically unharmed", she was "not truly free". "She can't say whatever she wants to say in a safe condition," alleges Ms Chen, who has chosen not to be identified by her real name. Participants of the rally also called for Peng to speak directly with the WTA and for her sexual assault allegations to be addressed. The former number one-ranked tennis doubles player had in early November posted an allegation about former Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli on Chinese social media site Weibo. She alleged she was forced into sexual relations with him. The post that was taken down minutes later. It is the first time such a claim has been made against one of China's senior political leaders and the most high profile case in China's #MeToo movement.
Brit Awards scrap male and female categories. Dua Lipa and J Hus will go down in history as the last stars to win best female and male at the Brit Awards. That's because, from next year, the two categories will be combined into a single prize for best British artist, organisers have said. Artists like Sam Smith and Will Young had previously called for the change, saying the current system excludes non-binary artists. Smith, who is non-binary, missed out on a nomination at this year's awards. Their album, Love Goes, reached number two in the UK chart, but they felt unable to enter the gender-based categories. Writing on Instagram at the time, the star called for awards shows to be more "reflective of the society we live in". Dua demands pay rise for nurses as she wins BritsThe best outfits from the Brit Awards red carpetFrom 2019: Brit Awards 'will review' male and female prizes "The Brits have been an important part of my career," Smith said in a now-deleted post. "Music for me has always been about unification not division. "I look forward to a time where awards shows can be reflective of the society we live in. Let's celebrate everybody, regardless of gender, race, age, ability, sexuality and class." The Brits have awarded prizes along gender lines since they began in 1977. Organisers promised to review the way the prizes in 2019, but kept the male and female categories intact until now. "If you were starting the awards from scratch today, you'd probably do it on these terms," said Gennaro Castaldo, a spokesperson for music industry body the BPI, which runs the awards. "Why shouldn't the likes of Adele and Ed Sheeran be able to go head to head and be judged as artists... assuming they're nominated?" The shift will also be reflected in the international category, where the best international male and female awards - won by The Weeknd and Billie Eilish this year - will be replaced by a single best international artist prize. Dua Lipa's manager, Ben Mawson, said he approved of the change. "It's good to see the Brits continuing to make progress to a more inclusive awards show that puts talent first," he told the BBC. "It's a step that we welcome." When the change was first suggested in 2019, there were concerns that it could marginalise female acts. But the experiences of other music awards suggest that should not happen. The MTV Video Music Awards replaced its best male and best female prizes with an overall best artist award in 2017 - since when the winners have been Ed Sheeran, Camila Cabello, Ariana Grande, Lady Gaga and Justin Bieber. The Grammys also merged the male and female categories for best pop vocal, country vocal and R&B vocal performances in 2012. In the 10 years since then, the prizes have been split exactly 50/50 between men and women. At the Brits, the gender-neutral prize for best album has been won by female solo artists 10 times, and by male solo artists on nine occasions. Bands have won best album 22 times, but only two of those have contained a female member - Fairground Attraction and Stereo MC's. Dua Lipa would probably have won a combined award if it had been in place this year, and Adele is likely to sweep the board next year. The singer's new album 30, which is on course to have the biggest opening sales week of 2021, will make her a prime contender for both album of the year and the best artist prize. Mr Castaldo said that if the new system does priorities male nominees, it would "shine a spotlight" on problems the industry needs to address. "As an industry, we have to acknowledge those issues and we have to act on them. Keeping the status quo won't change things in the long term. So to achieve real equality for women and artists of all backgrounds, [this] is a very positive thing." Reducing the number of artist awards has also allowed the Brits to reintroduce genre-based prizes for the first time since 2006. Covering pop, rock, dance and rap, the awards will be voted for by fans - a departure for The Brits, which typically distributes prizes based on votes from music industry insiders. When the prizes were last distributed 15 years ago, the winners included Kaiser Chiefs (best rock), Lemar (best urban act) and James Blunt (best pop). The best dance prize has been absent for even longer - with the last recipient being Basement Jaxx in 2004. The revamps come shortly before voting opens for the Brits, on 10 December. The next ceremony will take place on 8 February 2022 at London's O2 arena, hosted for the first time by comedian Mo Gilligan, who will take over from Jack Whitehall. Follow us on Facebook, or on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Cuba congratulates Venezuela on poll before result was out. Venezuela's ruling party has won 20 out of 23 state governorships in Sunday's regional elections, the first in four years in which the main opposition parties took part. Opposition candidates only won three governor's posts. In a move which reflected the predictable outcome, the Cuban president congratulated his Venezuelan counterpart before the electoral authorities had announced the results. Turnout was low at 41.8%. That is one of the lowest rates in the past 20 years. The election was the first in nearly four years which was not boycotted by Venezuela's main opposition parties. In previous elections, these parties had told their voters to refrain from casting their ballots arguing that it was not a fair contest. The election which saw Nicolás Maduro re-elected as president in 2018 was marred by vote-rigging claims and more than 50 countries refused to recognise him as Venezuela's legitimate leader. But with Mr Maduro still in the presidential palace and the European Union sending electoral observers, the main opposition parties decided to change strategy and take part in Sunday's polls. However, many opposition voters questioned this move, arguing that the Socialist party - which has been in power for the past 22 years - has developed such a tight grip over the electoral authorities and other institutions that free elections are not possible. Preliminary results suggest the opposition did not manage to dispel the distrust many Venezuelans had in the voting process. The opposition only won in the states of Zulia, Nueva Esparta and Cojedes, while government-allied candidates swept to power in the remaining 20, according to preliminary results. And while a government victory was widely anticipated in most states, many Venezuelans commented on a tweet by Cuban President Miguel Díaz-Canel, who congratulated his ally, Mr Maduro, on the "convincing victory" even before Venezuela's electoral authorities had announced the first results. Analysts said apathy also contributed to the low turnout with many voters worn down by Venezuela's deep economic crisis. Three out of four Venezuelans are living in extreme poverty, according to a national survey. Government-critical media reported that some voters had been intimidated by members of violent pro-government gangs, but the National Electoral Council said that there had only been "small and isolated problems". The European Union electoral observer mission is due to present its report on the election on Tuesday.
New mothers who died of herpes could have been infected by one surgeon. Two mothers who died of herpes after giving birth could have been infected by a single surgeon, the BBC has found. The doctor performed Caesareans on both the women in 2018. The families, who were told there were no connections between the deaths, are calling for inquests to be opened. The East Kent Hospitals Trust says it could not identify the source of the infection, and the surgeon had no history of the virus. Maternal deaths are rare. In more than 2.1 million births in the UK between 2017 and 2019 there were 191 deaths of mothers within six weeks of giving birth, according to official figures. Deaths caused by HSV-1 - one of two strains of the herpes simplex virus - are almost unheard of in healthy people. It is a common infection that can cause sores around the mouth or genitals. Yet, in May and July 2018, two young mothers died from an infection caused by the virus. The BBC has been investigating how these two deaths happened and why neither family was told there was a link between them. Kimberley Sampson, 29, a barber, lived with her three-year-old daughter at her mother's home in the seaside town of Whitstable in Kent. "She was fun, she was loving, and she had lots of friends," her mother Yvette Sampson tells the BBC. "She was a brilliant mummy and that's what she wanted to be." Kimberley's pregnancy progressed smoothly and on 3 May 2018, she went on to the labour ward of the Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother Hospital in Margate. "She thought everything was going to be fine," says Yvette. But things started to go wrong. Her labour was not progressing quickly, her mother says, and Kimberley kept saying the baby was stuck. Eventually, doctors decided to perform a Caesarean. Her son was delivered, but Kimberley needed a blood transfusion because she sustained injuries during the operation. After two days, she asked to be discharged with her baby. But she was in a lot of pain and despite being barely able to walk, she left the hospital with her mother. But the pain became worse. Even a gentle touch was enough for her to scream in agony, says Yvette. "She deteriorated day after day - she couldn't eat, she couldn't sleep." Her GP suggested they call 999 and Kimberley was taken back to hospital in an ambulance. Doctors thought she was suffering from bacterial sepsis - a potentially very serious condition. She was sent back to the maternity ward and given antibiotics. They didn't work and her condition worsened. A series of operations followed as doctors struggled to identify and treat the infection. Eight days after she had been readmitted to hospital a consultant microbiologist suggested trying the antiviral drug Aciclovir - which is used to treat herpes infections. Kimberley was transferred to Kings College Hospital in London, where she was diagnosed with a catastrophic herpes infection. While she was in intensive care, Yvette says she was told her daughter only had "hours or days". On 22 May, Kimberley died. One death from herpes is rare enough, but just six weeks later, Samantha Mulcahy would die of the same condition. The 32-year-old nursery nurse lived with her husband, Ryan, 20 miles (32km) from Kimberley. The couple had been together since they were teenagers. Ryan had first spotted her when working a part-time job at his local Tesco, but it took him months to get up the nerve to ask her out. Samantha's mother, Nicola Foster, says her daughter was excited about being pregnant with her first child. "I think she was already talking about having more children." But what should have been a joyous time for them turned into a tragedy. Samantha went into labour four weeks before her due date, and in July 2018 went into the William Harvey Hospital in Ashford - which is run by the same Trust as the hospital where Kimberley's baby had been delivered. After 17 hours of contractions and pushing, she was exhausted and in pain. After some worrying blood test results, she was taken for a Caesarean section. Her daughter was born healthy, but  because doctors were concerned about signs of the blood pressure condition pre-eclampsia, they decided to keep Samantha in for observation. After three days her condition began to deteriorate - despite no longer showing signs of pre-eclampsia. Her stomach became swollen, she had a temperature, and her blood pressure was raised. Samantha became so swollen that her mother said it looked like she had "elephant's legs". Like Kimberley, doctors thought Samantha was suffering from bacterial sepsis. She was also given antibiotics, but they didn't work. As her condition worsened rapidly, her organs began to shut down. She was taken to intensive care where she stayed for four days. At one stage, a doctor suggested she be treated with antiviral medication, but they were advised by the microbiology department to continue with antibiotics instead. Doctors called for support from a hospital in London, and surgeons took her into the operating theatre to try to stabilise her. "They told us that unfortunately they couldn't save her," says Nicola. "That she'd gone. Passed away." The post-mortem investigation found Samantha had died from multi-organ failure following a "disseminated herpes simplex type 1 infection". In other words, an overwhelming infection caused by the HSV-1 virus. Neither woman's baby was found to have been infected with the virus. Both women had what is known as a primary infection - meaning that this was the first time they had been infected by herpes. Hospital analysis of the women's medical history indicates they'd not previously had herpes, so they would have had no antibodies - or natural protection - against the virus. This, combined with the fact that women in late stages of pregnancy have reduced protection from their immune system, would have made them more vulnerable to a serious HSV infection. Herpes viruses are generally passed on by skin-to-skin contact with someone with the virus Herpes infections are common with almost 70% of adults having one of the two types of the virus by the time they are 25 Some people will develop cold sores or genital herpes, but about two-thirds will have no, or mild, symptoms Source: Herpes Viruses Association More than a year after the women's deaths, the families each received a letter from the coroner, Katrina Hepburn, saying there would be no inquests in these cases. The letters acknowledged there had been a similar case but said there was "no connection" between the two deaths. They also set out the belief of the pathologist who investigated both deaths, that the women had been infected with herpes "prior to hospital admission". BBC News began investigating the East Kent Hospitals Trust's maternity department in 2019, ahead of the inquest of baby Harry Richford, whose death was determined to be "wholly avoidable" by a coroner. We found further cases of preventable baby deaths at the Trust, and a government-ordered review of maternity services is under way. BBC News became aware of the deaths of Kimberley Sampson and Samantha Mulcahy at the same Trust in the spring of 2021, and has worked closely with the families to try to find out what happened to them. While reviewing documents sent to the families, we noticed that Public Health England (PHE) had looked into the possible source of the herpes viruses. But no detail had been provided. The family of Kimberley Sampson subsequently made a request to PHE for access to that investigation. It reveals documents which cast new light on the two deaths and show, for the first time, the significant link between the two cases. Among them are two email chains between staff at PHE, the East Kent Hospitals Trust, some NHS bodies and a private lab called Micropathology. They show the efforts that went into trying to establish how the women became sick, whether the two viruses were genetically identical, and whether they could have come from a common source. The emails were partly redacted by Public Health England to hide the names of those involved. In one of them, someone from the Trust reveals that the same two clinicians had taken part in the deliveries of both Kimberley's and Samatha's babies - a midwife and the surgeon who carried out their Caesarean sections. This apparent connection - and possible source of infection - caused concern among the people on the email chain. The private lab Micropathology was brought in to try to sequence the genome of the two viruses - to see if they were the same. In an email sent a fortnight after Samantha died, someone working for the lab says both cases "look like surgical contamination" and asks the Trust to provide "a mouth swab/lesion swab from the suspect surgeon in O&G". We know the Trust did not provide these samples, and none of this information was passed to either of the families at the time. The emails also show that the parts of the virus that were tested were identical. In an email sent in October 2018, a Micropathology worker says "it seems the most likely explanation [is] that these strains are probably the same… which also adds weight to the idea that these two women were infected with the same virus." An email from a member of staff from Public Health England just over a year later says the type of virus was "rare" compared with the previous 10 years of herpes virus samples collected at its lab in north London. This shows the investigation was continuing after the families received the letter from the coroner denying them inquests. The BBC asked Peter Greenhouse, who has worked as a consultant in sexual health in the UK for almost 30 years and has a particular interest in the herpes viruses, to review the cases. He describes them as "very unusual - very rare indeed". He says "you can never be 100% certain what happened in these cases", but "from all the evidence that we have it's very unlikely that they acquired [the virus] before they got into hospital" - contradicting the position of the pathologist. "It is more likely that they picked it up in the hospital and less likely that they picked it up in the community, or sexually, because there were no facial or genital lesions - obvious or even hidden signs - whatsoever." After reviewing the documentation uncovered by the BBC, Mr Greenhouse has developed a theory for what might have happened. He believes it is most likely that the infection may have been given to the two women accidentally by the surgeon during the Caesarean section. "The only common source here, in a hospital-based scenario, would be the surgeon who performed the operations," he says. He says it is possible the surgeon may have had a herpetic whitlow - a herpes infection on the finger - which could have "directly seeded the herpes into the abdomen of the women". This, he says, would have allowed it to spread throughout the abdomen quickly and explains why the women had no external lesions, which you would normally expect to see with a herpes infection. According to the NHS website, the symptoms of a whitlow can vary from a small bump to open lesions - meaning they can go undetected. "Many of these will occur without any obvious signs, or they'll be so miniscule that you can't identify them," says Mr Greenhouse. All surgeons wear gloves during surgery, but Mr Greenhouse says it might have been possible that they split during the operations allowing the virus to spread. A small study in 1990 suggested as many as 54% of gloves used in Caesarean sections had holes in them when they were tested with water after the operations. Further experiments following other forms of surgery produced similar results. "It's a very rare but a very biologically plausible method of transmission," Mr Greenhouse explains. Four other experts in sexual health and virology have backed up Mr Greenhouse's theory. In a statement, the East Kent Hospitals Trust says the surgeon underwent a verbal Occupational Health check where he said he had no history of herpes infection and had no hand lesions, although he was not tested for the virus at the time of the operations. Referring to the email stating that the type of virus was "rare", compared with other samples collected at PHE's lab, Mr Greenhouse says this makes the likelihood that the women were infected by a common source in the hospital more likely - and much less likely they were infected in the community. The East Kent Hospitals Trust points out that PHE's report says although there was a "high probability they are epidemiologically linked" for HSV "this finding does not mean that the viral isolates have an immediate common source or are part of a transmission chain". The families of the two women have been calling on the coroner to open inquests into the deaths. Yvette Sampson says it's important for the children who've been left without their mother - "when they're a bit older they're going to need to know why their mummy died". In a statement Dr Rebecca Martin, Chief Medical Officer for East Kent Hospitals, said: "Our deepest sympathies are with the families and friends of Kimberley and Samantha. "East Kent Hospitals sought specialist support from Public Health England (PHE) following the tragic deaths of Kimberley and Samantha in 2018. The investigations led by the Trust and the Healthcare Safety Investigation Branch took advice from a number of experts and concluded that it was not possible to identify the source of either infection. "The surgeon who performed both Caesarean sections did not have any hand lesions that could have caused infection, or any history of the virus. "Kimberley and Samantha's treatment was based on the different symptoms showed during their illness. Our thoughts are with their families, and we will do all we can to answer their concerns." Peter Greenhouse is now carrying out further research into the deaths - in the hope that it might mean new mothers with unexplained sepsis-like symptoms will be tested for herpes as a matter of course. "I hope that the research will eventually change the guidelines, so more people will benefit from earlier diagnosis. It is the only constructive outcome that one could hope for, after such a tragic scenario."
Ghislaine Maxwell: Brother Ian says she will not get fair hearing at trial. Ghislaine Maxwell's brother, Ian, has said he doubts his sister will get a fair hearing at her trial on sex trafficking and other charges which is due to start next week. Ms Maxwell, the daughter of the late media mogul Robert Maxwell, has been accused of trafficking minors for her former lover Jeffrey Epstein. She has been in a New York jail since her arrest in July 2020. The former socialite has pleaded not guilty to all charges. LISTEN: Ian Maxwell's interview in fullWho is Ghislaine Maxwell, Epstein's ex-girlfriend?Who was Jeffrey Epstein? "I think my sister's probably relieved finally that it is starting because she's been in prison now for over 500 days in isolation, so this has to come to an end," Ian Maxwell told BBC Radio 4's World at One programme. "The trial is starting, so I think there is relief on her part, and, I think, the family's part." Mr Maxwell said he fears the media interest in his sister's case will jeopardise her shot at a fair trial. "I think that there are several reasons for that; the enormous amount of negative media coverage of Ghislaine for at least the last 18 months - it's only been going in one direction and that level of negative reporting which is not coming in any other direction than against her, I think it has a potential to poison the jury pool at some level if they are only hearing one side of the story and not the other. "I am not here to go against the accusers or to talk about innocence and guilt, the reason I think this is a difficult process is because the way in which the authorities have chosen to proceed against my sister and to lock her up in isolation is wrong. It is an abuse of human rights and an abuse of the due process that has taken place," he said. One of Ms Maxwell's accusers, Virginia Giuffre, alleges she was recruited by her while working at former President Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago estate some 20 years ago "for the purpose of being trafficked". She alleges she had sexual encounters on Epstein's private island in the Caribbean and in his homes in Palm Beach and New York. "Ghislaine Maxwell [is] the one who abused me on a regular basis. She's the one that procured me, told me what to do, trained me as a sex slave, abused me physically, abused me mentally. She's the one who I believe, in my heart of hearts, deserves to come forward and have justice happen to her more than anybody," she said in a deposition released last year. Ms Maxwell has branded Ms Giuffre "an absolute liar". When asked why no friends of Ghislaine's had come forward to defend her, Mr Maxwell said: "Ghislaine continues to have many friends. I know this because we receive mail, emails, letters and so forth from her friends, but we live in a world where people are cancelled for friendships of this type. "Friends of hers have lost their jobs. A man helping us behind the scenes [in] the news-handling has lost two board positions because it's become known that he is somehow assisting the family." Mr Maxwell was asked if he believes his sister should take the stand in court: "One thing you can say is there's been an awful lot of talking by everybody for the last few years and the voice of Ghislaine has never been heard. "The family is not going to leave it there. We are taking steps to lodge a complaint with the United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention, because America needs to be held to account for the way it is choosing to discriminate against my sister. The treatment meted out to Ghislaine has been appalling." Panorama: The Prince and the Epstein Scandal US financier and convicted paedophile Jeffrey Epstein killed himself in a New York prison cell on 10 August 2019, as he awaited his trial on sex trafficking charges. Ms Maxwell was in a relationship with Epstein in the 1990s. She allegedly introduced him to wealthy and powerful figures including former President Bill Clinton and Prince Andrew of the British Royal Family. She faces charges including sex trafficking of a minor, sex-trafficking conspiracy and allegations of perjury. US prosecutors say she would build a rapport with the girls she helped to groom - including by taking them shopping or to the movies - and would later coax them into giving Epstein massages during which they were sexually abused. "Maxwell played a critical role in helping Epstein to identify, befriend and groom minor victims for abuse," said Audrey Strauss, acting US attorney for the southern district of New York last year. Ms Maxwell's trial is due to begin on 29 November, and is expected to last for six weeks.
