Michigan school shooting: Parents of gunman charged with manslaughter. Prosecutors have charged the parents of a suspect in a deadly Michigan school shooting with involuntary manslaughter. Authorities have issued a fugitive warrant for James and Jennifer Crumbley, who are accused of ignoring warning signs before the gun rampage. Ethan Crumbley, 15, is accused of using his father's gun to shoot classmates in Oxford, about 35 miles (60 km) north of Detroit, this week. He has pleaded not guilty on multiple charges including terrorism. James and Jennifer Crumbley are facing four counts each. Authorities in Oakland County have told US media they are currently searching for the pair after the Crumbleys' lawyers were unable to reach them by phone. "If they think they're going to get away, they're not," Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard told CNN. He said that a number of his detectives, the FBI and US Marshals Service were looking for the couple. But in a joint statement via text message to the BBC lawyers Shannon Smith and Mariell Lehman said the Crumbleys "are not fleeing from law enforcement" and had left town on the night of the shooting "for their own safety". They added the pair would return for their arraignment, which was expected to take place later on Friday. Four people were killed and seven injured in the shooting on Tuesday. The victims were Tate Myre, 16, Madisyn Baldwin, 17, Hana St Juliana, 14, and Justin Shilling, 17. On Friday, Oakland County lead prosecutor Karen McDonald acknowledged that charging parents in a child's alleged crime was highly unusual. According to her office's investigation, the boy was with his father last Friday when Mr Crumbley bought the firearm believed to have been used in the shooting. A post on the boy's social media later that day showed off his dad's new weapon as "my new beauty", adding a heart emoji. America's gun culture in chartsHow a medieval English law affects guns in New York Just one day before the shooting, a teacher said she saw the boy searching online for ammunition, which prompted a meeting with school officials, Ms McDonald said. After being informed of the incident, Mrs Crumbley texted her son: "LOL I'm not mad at you. You have to learn not to get caught." And on Tuesday morning - hours before the rampage - Mr and Mrs Crumbley were called into the school for an urgent meeting after teachers found a note by their son, including several drawings of guns and bloodied people alongside captions like "the thoughts won't stop. Help me", and "blood everywhere". The boy had also written "My life is useless" and "The world is dead", according to the prosecutor. School officials told the pair they would have to seek counselling for their son. But the boy's parents did not want him to be removed from school that day, Ms McDonald said, and did not ask him whether he had the gun with him, or search the backpack he brought with him to school. At 13:22 later that day, Mrs Crumbley texted her son to say: "Ethan, don't do it." Minutes later her husband called police to report his gun was missing, said the prosecutor. But authorities say the boy had already emerged from the school bathroom and opened fire on fellow students. Ms McDonald said the charges were meant to hold the Crumbleys accountable as well as to send a message about responsible gun ownership. "The notion that a parent could read those words and also know that their son had access to a deadly weapon that they gave him is unconscionable, and it's criminal," she said. The prosecutor had previously noted that, although the gun had been purchased legally, it "seems to have just been freely available" for the child's use. According to her, the suspect took the gun from an unlocked drawer in his parents' bedroom and brought it to school. Neither federal nor state law requires gun owners to keep their weapons locked away from their children. In a video message posted to YouTube on Thursday, the school's superintendent Tim Throne said that - while the boy and his parents had been called to the office - "no discipline was warranted" at the time. He added that the school looked like a "war zone" and would not be ready to operate again for weeks. Ms McDonald alleged on Friday that, when James Crumbley heard about the shooting, he "drove straight to his home to look for his gun" before calling authorities to say he suspected his son was the perpetrator. "I'm angry as a mother. I'm angry as a prosecutor. I'm angry as a person that lives in this county," she said. "There were a lot of things that could have been so simple to prevent." On Wednesday, prosecutors charged the boy as an adult. He now face charges of terrorism and first-degree murder. Announcing the charges, Ms McDonald said her office had "a mountain of digital evidence" to show the suspect had planned the attack "well before the incident".
Covid: Don't panic about Omicron variant, WHO says. The world should not panic about the new Omicron variant of Covid-19 but it should prepare, the World Health Organization (WHO) has said. Speaking at a conference on Friday, top WHO scientist Soumya Swaminathan said the situation now was very different to a year ago. Reports suggest Omicron has been found in close to 40 countries. It is still unclear if the highly mutated variant is more transmissible or better able to evade vaccines. Early data reported by scientists in South Africa - where the variant was first detected - suggests Omicron may evade some immunity to Covid-19, although experts caution the analysis is not definitive. How worrying is the new Covid variant?First data points to Omicron re-infection riskSouth Africa battles Omicron fear and vaccine myths Dr Swaminathan told the Reuters NEXT conference that the variant was "highly transmissible", citing data from South Africa, and said it could possibly become the dominant strain worldwide - although this is hard to predict. Delta currently accounts for 99% of cases globally, she added. "How worried should we be? We need to be prepared and cautious, not panic, because we're in a different situation to a year ago," she said. WHO emergencies director Mike Ryan meanwhile said the world currently had "highly effective vaccines" against Covid-19, and the focus should be on distributing them more widely. He said there was no evidence to back changing these jabs to tailor them to the new Omicron variant. Countries around the world have announced travel bans against southern African countries in the wake of Omicron's first detection. US officials have made it compulsory for all international travellers to the US to take a Covid test no more than one day before travel. It comes after authorities tightened US travel rules in light of the variant. Omicron has now been detected in at least six US states including Hawaii, where officials said the case had no recent travel history. India has also reported its first two cases of the Omicron variant. Officials said one of them - a 66-year-old South African national - had travelled from the country and had already left India, while the second - a 46-year-old doctor in the southern Indian city of Bengaluru - had no travel history. A second wave of Covid infections brought the country's healthcare system to its knees in April and May this year, with hospitals running out of beds, oxygen and medicines. The emergence of the new variant comes as European countries are already grappling with a surge in infections. On Thursday Germany announced major restrictions on the unvaccinated, declaring that only those inoculated or who had recently recovered from the virus will be allowed in restaurants, cinemas and many shops. Chancellor Angela Merkel also said vaccinations could be mandatory by February. Neighbouring Austria announced compulsory jabs for residents from 1 February, while countries including Belgium and the Netherlands have brought back or tightened measures aimed at tackling the spread of cases. Health officials in the UK are working on accelerating the rollout of booster jabs. The government has bought 114 million more doses of the Pfizer and Moderna jabs and has announced that all adults will be offered a booster by the end of January.
Covid: First data points to Omicron re-infection risk. The first real world data showing the coronavirus variant Omicron may evade some of our immunity has been reported by scientists in South Africa. Scientists have detected a surge in the number of people catching Covid multiple times. It is a rapid analysis and not definitive, but fits with concern about the mutations the variant possesses. It is also not clear what this means for the protection given by vaccines. New Covid variant: How worried should we be?New Covid variant: Will new measures against Omicron work?Omicron: How do you detect it? A week after the variant was named Omicron, the world is still scrambling to understand the true threat posed by the variant. But now the first pieces of a large and complex puzzle are starting to be assembled. We already know the variant is heavily mutated and officials in South Africa have warned it is leading to a surge in cases there. The latest piece of the jigsaw is understanding how likely somebody who has already had Covid is likely to catch Omicron. It has also been detected in more than 30 countries. Scientists have analysed nearly 36,000 suspected re-infections in South Africa to look for any changes to re-infection rates (catching it twice or more) throughout the pandemic. They showed there was no surge in the risk of re-infection during either the Beta or Delta waves. This is despite laboratory studies suggesting those variants had the potential to evade some immunity. However, they are now detecting a spike in re-infections. They have not tested each patient to prove it is Omicron, but they say the timing suggests the variant is the driving force. The study, which has not been formally reviewed by other scientists, estimates Omicron could be twice as likely to cause a re-infection than earlier variants. Prof Juliet Pulliam, from Stellenbosch University and one of the researchers, said: "These findings suggest that Omicron's selection advantage is at least partially driven by an increased ability to infect previously infected individuals." However, it is still only one piece of the puzzle. There are questions about how much waning immunity is a factor and the extent to which any variant would be able to take off now. In addition, this was a rapid analysis and more data will come with time. The high burden of HIV, which suppresses the immune system, in the country also makes it harder to interpret the findings for the rest of the world. Laboratory studies that show how well antibodies can attack the virus are expected to give results in the next week. In South Africa, only 24% of people are fully vaccinated. The researchers said their findings could have "important implications" for similar countries where there are high levels of natural immunity from infection. But Prof Pulliam stressed they "cannot make any assessment of whether Omicron also evades vaccine-derived immunity" because they did not have that data. That makes it harder to understand what would happen in countries like the UK which have not only vaccinated far more people, but have rapidly rolled out booster doses to enhance immunity even further. Boosting the immune system should compensate for some of the variant's immune-evading tricks. Prof Paul Hunter, from the University of East Anglia, said: "The implications of this paper are that Omicron will be able to overcome natural and probably vaccine-induced immunity to a significant degree. "But, the degree is still unclear - though it is doubtful that this will represent complete escape." The gut instinct of most scientists is that even if vaccines are less effective at stopping you catching Covid their main job of preventing severe disease and death will hold up better. However, Omicron could still cause a problem even if that is the case. If the variant is capable of causing a sudden large wave of new infections that could again put pressure on hospitals. It is still too soon to know for sure as it takes a couple of weeks from catching the virus to needing hospital care. South Africa is also a relatively young country, which means Covid will appear milder than it would if it spread in a more elderly population. Prof Francois Balloux, from University College London, said: "The higher estimated re-infection ability of the Omicron variant to cause re-infection is not overly surprising and could be largely anticipated based on the large number of mutations in the spike protein carried by the omicron variant, which increase the Omicron variant's ability to bypass host immunity." Follow James on Twitter
Oregon police seek clues in poisoning of eight wolves. Police in the US state of Oregon are investigating the poisoning of eight grey wolves found dead by officials earlier this year. Five wolves were discovered near Mount Harris in February, followed by another three later. Tests later confirmed that a "poisonous substance" had killed the wolves. Authorities are asking for help from public and conservation groups are offering a $26,000 (£19,600) award for information leading to conviction. In a statement, Oregon State Police said that the initial batch of five wolves - all of whom were collared members of the same pack - were found dead along with a nearby magpie on 9 February. Just over a month later, on 11 March, officials responding to a 'mortality signal' from a wolf collar discovered another dead wolf, a skunk, and a magpie. Two more wolves were found dead in April and July. Toxicology reports confirmed that all the wolves had been poisoned. The police statement said that investigators have "exhausted leads" in the case and are seeking information from the public. An Oregon State Police spokesperson told the BBC that there are several possible charges that the culprits could face. A conviction for taking or possessing a wolf - a felony - could result in a prison sentence of up to five years and fines of up to $125,000. A lesser misdemeanour charge for placing a toxic substance where wildlife can access it can be punishable by up to one year in jail and fines of over $6,000. Additionally, there could be civil damage costs of $7,500 for each wolf. The exact charges and penalties will be determined by a court and will depend on the circumstances of the case, the spokesperson added, Brooks Fahy, the executive director of Oregon-based wildlife advocacy organisation Predator Defense, said that the poisonings were a "cowardly and despicable act". Grey wolves were once nearly wiped out across the contiguous US. The Endangered Species Act of 1974 created federal protections that saved the species from extinction and led to sustained population recovery efforts. But the animals were delisted by the Trump administration last year and management of the species has since fallen to the states. The Biden administration is reportedly considering relisting grey wolves on the Endangered Species List.
Actor Kal Penn to play Toronto Raptors 'superfan' in biopic. The Toronto Raptors so-called superfan Nav Bhatia already has an NBA championship ring, and now he's getting the Hollywood treatment. US actor Kal Penn, star of the Harold & Kumar film franchise, has signed on to star and produce a biopic about the Toronto-based car salesman. Mr Bhatia has become a beloved staple of Toronto Raptors fandom. He has sat courtside for almost every home game since the basketball team was established in 1995. Writing on Twitter, Mr Bhatia thanked Mr Penn "from the bottom of my heart for accepting this role". "I'm pinching myself," he said. Mr Penn , 44, applauded Mr Bhatia's story of "perseverance and unity" and said he was excited to bring the story to film. South Asians react to Kal Penn coming out as gay Mr Bhatia's story is also covered in a new documentary by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. Superfan: The Nav Bhatia story follows him through his journey from India to Canada in 1984, the racism he experienced after immigrating, and how he first got his courtside Raptors seats. Mr Bhatia, a mechanical engineer, struggled to get a job after moving to Canada, he told The Toronto Star newspaper. After finally finding work at a Hyundai dealership outside of Toronto, customers "didn't want me to serve them",  he said, recalling how they sometimes used racial slurs. He called that period the lowest of his life, but also the "most motivational". Mr Bhatia has attended nearly every home game since the inception of Canada's sole National Basketball Association (NBA) team in 1995. He was honoured by the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in 2020 - the first fan inducted into the museum. Mr Bhatia told the Toronto Star that his "obsession" has occasionally taken a toll on his relationships. "I have missed birthdays, I have missed wedding anniversaries... everything is around the schedule of basketball," he said. The basketball champions' rings with 640 diamonds The Toronto Raptors won their first NBA championship in 2019. Mr Bhatia became the first fan in NBA history to be given a championship ring, a 640-plus diamond and gold rock.
Ex-nurse gets 10 years in prison for raping incapacitated patient. An Arizona man has been sentenced to 10 years in prison for sexually assaulting an incapacitated woman who gave birth at a clinic where she was under his care. Ex-nurse Nathan Sutherland was accused of raping the victim, who has severe disabilities, at the Hacienda HealthCare facility in Phoenix. He was arrested in 2018 after his DNA matched a sample from the newborn. Sutherland pleaded guilty to abuse of a vulnerable adult in September. The victim, who was 29 years old at the time of the baby's birth, had reportedly been in the care of the clinic since she was a toddler. Nurse held after patient gives birthDNA sought over vegetative woman's babyCEO quits after vegetative patient has baby In addition to his prison sentence, Sutherland will be placed on probation for the rest of his life and will be required to register as a sex offender after his release. In a statement quoted by US media, Maricopa County Attorney Allister Adel said that the sentence was the maximum allowable under Sutherland's plea agreement. She added that the sentence "took into consideration numerous aggravating and mitigating factors, including the vulnerability of the victim and the position of trust by the defendant". The BBC has reached out to both the Maricopa County Attorney's office and to Sutherland's attorney for comment. Recordings of 911 calls released to the media show that, at the time the victim gave birth, the Hacienda HealthCare facility was unaware that she was pregnant. "One of the patients just had a baby, and we had no idea she was pregnant," a nurse can be heard saying on the call. "We were not prepared for this." In May 2019, the victim's family filed a lawsuit against Hacienda HealthCare. The lawsuit noted that a medical examination revealed that the woman had been "violated repeatedly" and may have been pregnant before the incident that led to Sutherland's arrest. In June, an Arizona judge approved a $15m (£11.3m) settlement agreed between the victim's family and the estate of a doctor - who died last December - who cared for her at the facility. The state of Arizona previously settled with the family for $7.5m.
Alec Baldwin admits career could be over after fatal shooting. Alec Baldwin has admitted his acting career may be over after the fatal shooting of cinematographer Halyna Hutchins on the set of the film Rust. "It could be," the 63-year-old actor said in an interview to George Stephanopoulos of ABC News, adding that he did not care. Mr Baldwin also said he "didn't pull the trigger" of the gun during the incident on 21 October in New Mexico. "Someone put a live bullet in a gun" he said. "I know it's not me". Mr Baldwin is best-known for his performance in the US sitcom 30 Rock, as well as his impersonation of Donald Trump on sketch show Saturday Night Live. Dead cinematographer 'was an incredible artist' Police to search arms supplier over Rust shootingBaldwin speaks about 'one in a trillion' shooting The ABC interview was broadcast in the US on Thursday evening. "I don't know what happened on that set. I don't know how that bullet arrived in that gun. I don't know," Mr Baldwin said. "But I'm all for doing anything that will take us to a place where this is less likely to happen again." The actor said that during the rehearsal on 21 October Hutchins was directing his every move. "She's guiding me through how she wants me to hold the gun for this angle. "I'm holding the gun where she told me to hold it, which ended up being aimed right below her armpit." To get the shot, the actor said he needed to cock the gun - but not fire it. "The trigger wasn't pulled. I didn't pull the trigger. "I cock the gun. I go, 'Can you see that? Can you see that? Can you see that?' "And then I let go of the hammer of the gun, and the gun goes off," he said. Mr Baldwin told ABC News that, while he didn't feel guilty, the incident had left him emotionally scarred. "I have dreams about this constantly now," he said. "I go through my day, and I make it through the day. Then I collapse at the end of the day. Emotionally, I collapse." Mr Baldwin said he met with Hutchins' widower, Matthew, and her 9-year-old son after the shooting. "I didn't know what to say," he recalled.. "[Matthew] hugged [me] and he goes 'I suppose you and I are going to go through this together'... and I thought, 'Well, not as much as you are.'" The interview marks the first time Mr Baldwin has spoken about the incident on camera, except for a brief interview he gave to TMZ in October, in a bid to stop the paparazzi from following him and his family. Ms Hutchins, 42, was flown to hospital by helicopter after the shooting - but later died of her injuries. Director Joel Souza, 48, was also injured. According to court records, Mr Baldwin was handed the weapon by the film's assistant director, Dave Halls, who did not know it contained live ammunition and indicated it was unloaded by shouting "cold gun". Mr Halls had been given the gun by Hannah Gutierrez-Reed, the 24-year-old armourer on the film. Lawyers for Ms Gutierrez-Reed have said she did not know where "the live rounds came from". That question is now at the centre of a police investigation in the US. Investigators have already obtained a warrant to search the premises of an arms supplier in the US. An affidavit with the warrant says police have been told ammunition for the film came from several sources, including PDQ Arm & Prop. The affidavit says the ammunition supplier's owner, Seth Kenney, has told the investigators the live round might have been from some "reloaded ammunition". He says the ammunition he supplied for the film consisted of dummy rounds and blanks, according to the affidavit. Follow us on Facebook, or on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Ghislaine Maxwell: Employee told 'not to look Jeffrey Epstein in the eye'. British socialite Ghislaine Maxwell tightly oversaw every detail in Jeffrey Epstein's Florida mansion, a former employee has alleged. At Ms Maxwell's trial, Juan Alessi said as "lady of the house", she ordered a "tremendous" number of rules, telling him not to look Epstein in the eye. He also accused her of having two underage girls driven to the home. She has pleaded not guilty to eight charges of sex trafficking and other crimes from 1994-2004. Ms Maxwell has been in a US jail since her arrest last year, and faces up to 80 years in prison if convicted. The defence says she is being used as a scapegoat for Epstein's crimes, following his death in prison in 2019. During the Manhattan court hearing, prosecutors produced an instruction manual allegedly given to staff at the late financier and convicted paedophile Jeffrey Epstein's Palm Beach mansion. "Remember that you see nothing, hear nothing, say nothing, except to answer a question directed at you," the 58-page booklet read. It ordered staff to "NEVER disclose Mr Epstein or Ms Maxwell's activities or whereabouts to anyone." A lengthy checklist to review prior to Epstein arriving at the mansion also required that a gun be placed in the drawer of a side table in his bedroom. The manual was dated after Mr Alessi's departure in 2002, but he said he remembered a previous version of it with similar content. Ghislaine Maxwell 'won't get fair trial' - brotherPanorama: The Prince and the Epstein ScandalWho was Jeffrey Epstein? He also recalled seeing two girls who appeared to be aged 14 or 15, including one who testified this week under the pseudonym "Jane". Mr Alessi said he first met "Jane" in 1994 when she visited the mansion with her mother, and that he once picked her up from school. He also recalled seeing her board a plane from Palm Beach with Epstein and Ms Maxwell. Earlier this week, "Jane" told jurors that she was subjected to years of sexual abuse by Epstein, from the age of 14. She alleged that Ms Maxwell was often present during the abuse and sometimes participated in the sex acts. Ms Maxwell's defence team will cross examine Mr Alessi on Friday. Born outside Paris on Christmas Day 1961, Ms Maxwell grew up in a country mansion, went to Oxford University and speaks several languages. She is the youngest child of late media mogul Robert Maxwell. She is said to have had a very close relationship with her late father, and he named his luxury yacht - the Lady Ghislaine - after her. Soon after her father's death in 1991, Ms Maxwell left the UK to settle in America, where she worked in real estate, and not long after met Jeffrey Epstein. She sold her Manhattan townhouse in 2016, and kept a low profile until she was arrested last July at her secluded mansion in the state of New Hampshire. Who is Ghislaine Maxwell, Epstein's ex-girlfriend?
Italian man tries to dodge Covid jab using fake arm. An Italian man who wanted a Covid vaccination certificate without getting the jab turned up for his vaccine with a fake arm, officials say. The man, in his 50s, arrived for his shot with a silicone mould covering his real arm, hoping it would go unnoticed. But a nurse was not fooled and the man has now been reported to the police. The nurse told local media that when she had rolled up his sleeve, she found the skin "rubbery and cold" and the pigment "too light". After being discovered, the man tried to persuade the nurse to turn a blind eye, la Repubblica reported. But instead she reported him to the police for fraud. Local police are now investigating the incident in Biella, north-west Italy, and local officials have criticised the man's actions. "The case borders on the ridiculous, if it were not for the fact we are talking about a gesture of enormous gravity," the head of the Piedmont regional government, Albert Cirio, said in a statement on Facebook. He said the ploy was "unacceptable faced with the sacrifice that our entire community has paid during the pandemic, in terms of human lives, the social and economic cost". The man was reportedly a health worker who had been suspended from his job because he had not been vaccinated. The jab is mandatory for all health workers in Italy. La Repubblica suggests the incident may not have been a one-off, pointing to a message on social media that may have been written by the man. The Twitter post quoted by the paper featured a silicone male chest half-body suit, complete with fake arms and neck, that was on sale on Amazon for €488 (£416). "If I go with this, will they notice? Maybe beneath the silicone I'll even put on some extra clothes to avoid the needle reaching my real arm," the Twitter user reportedly wrote. The incident comes ahead of a tightening of the rules in Italy for those who have not been vaccinated. Since August, Italians have needed a Covid "green pass" - showing proof of vaccination, a negative test or recovery from the virus - to access train stations, cinemas, restaurants, gyms and swimming pools. But from Monday, these activities will be restricted to those with a "super green pass", which is only available to those who have been vaccinated or recently recovered from Covid. Covid vaccines: How fast is worldwide progress?Covid map: Where are cases the highest? The vaccine pass rules have prompted protests in several Italian cities in recent weeks. Just over 73% of Italians are fully vaccinated against Covid - higher than in France or the UK, but lower than in Spain and Portugal.
Ethiopia closes schools to boost civil war effort. Ethiopian authorities have closed all secondary schools so pupils can harvest crops for those on the frontline of the civil war, state-affiliated media says. The closure will last for one week, according to the education minister. More than 2 million pupils were already out of school due to the war which started in the northern region of Tigray last year, the government says. As the fighting intensifies, government troops say they are taking towns from the Tigray rebels. On Wednesday state forces announced they had recaptured the historic town of Lalibela, which contains churches that are Unesco world heritage sites. In an interview with the BBC, an Ethiopian army commander said the country's defence forces would not relent in their advances after recent gains. "I cannot say we will pause once we reach Mekelle [Tigray's capital] or other places, rather we will recapture areas at the hands of Woyane [the Tigray People's Liberation Front]. We will follow and get rid of them," Lt-Gen Bacha Debele said. The war has caused a humanitarian crisis with more than 300 schools that teach grade one to 12 destroyed as of October, according to a statement on the Ministry of Education's Facebook account. The government will work to restore the destroyed schools, the statement continued. The war intensified after Tigray fighters said they were advancing towards the capital Addis Ababa in November. They also launched an offensive to reach the Djibouti border in the east - which is crucial for getting supplies to landlocked Ethiopia. This led to Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed saying he would join the war effort on the frontline, where he has since been pictured by state TV. The TPLF has said it made a "strategic withdrawal" from some the areas which the army says it has recaptured. Africa Live: For more on this and stories around the continentEXPLAINER: Why the Ethiopia conflict matters to the worldVOICES: Civilians hunt rebels in EthiopiaPROFILE: The Nobel Peace Prize winner who went to war
US jobs growth falls far short of expectations. US employers hired only 210,000 more workers in November, missing economists' predictions for stronger growth. Forecasters had been expecting US non-farm payrolls to increase by 550,000. However, the unemployment rate dropped sharply to 4.2% and more Americans returned to the work force. The mixed jobs data does not reflect the emergence of the Omicron variant at the end of November which could affect the economic recovery. President Joe Biden described the jobs recovery as "very strong," despite the disappointing headline figure. "Today's historic drop in unemployment rate includes dramatic improvements for workers," he said. The rate dropped from 4.6% in October. Wages also rose month on month and many employers have been offering additional improvements to working conditions to attract scarce labour. "The trend is in the right direction," said Diane Swonk chief economist at Grant Thornton. "The overall labour market is healing much more rapidly than we expected despite the miss in payrolls." She said the apparent contradiction between sharply falling unemployment and slower than anticipated jobs growth lay in the way each was measured, through two different surveys with one covering households and the other based on employers' data. The outlook for the US economy is set to be complicated by the arrival of the Omicron strain of the coronavirus. "The new coronavirus Omicron variant, which has yet to fully establish itself in the US, is still the real unknown variable in relation to the pace of the jobs recovery," said Charles Hepworth, investment director at GAM Investments. Combined with the weaker-than-expected jobs data, Omicron was likely to delay the point at which the Federal Reserves would raise interest rates, he added. "This weak reading today shifts the narrative of the first hike coming earlier next year to perhaps a bit later now," he said. Retail, leisure and hospitality in particular did not see an increase in hiring on the scale that was expected. The US Bureau of Labour Statistics said there had been a decline in employment in the retail sector, after seasonal adjustment, of 20,000, especially in general merchandise and clothing stores. Employment in leisure and hospitality rose only 23,000 and remains nearly 8% lower than before Covid hit. But on the upside, it said there had been a rise in hiring across areas such as professional and business services as well as transport and warehousing. The bureau also said construction and manufacturing had added new jobs. Joe Kinahan, chief market strategist at TD Ameritrade, said the low rate of hiring overall and the sharp fall in unemployment didn't "add up" and he expected the figures to be revised upwards. He said the sectors "that don't truly make sense" are leisure and hospitality rising by such a small amount, and retail being down, "which is very odd for this time of year", he said. Biden says US economy 'in strong shape'Inflation uncertainty has risen, Fed chair warnsFact-checking Biden's claims about the US economy In September, children returned to schooling in-person and pandemic-related unemployment benefits stopped, leading many analysts to expect strong jobs growth throughout the autumn. Figures for October were revised up to show 546,000 jobs were added that month. However, millions of Americans have still not returned to work, leaving the total workforce significantly smaller than it was before the pandemic. Commonly cited reasons are difficulties with childcare and concerns around Covid infection. Despite an increase in the numbers of people in work or looking for work, known as the participation rate, there are still 3.9 million fewer people in the workforce compared to February 2020. As a result many employers have struggled to recruit the staff they need, and have raised wages or offered other perks to attract and retain workers.
Fourteen arrested over spate of Los Angeles smash-and-grab raids. Fourteen people have been arrested over a series of smash-and-grab robberies at retail outlets in Los Angeles in recent weeks, police say. Nearly $340,000 (£256,000) worth of goods were stolen between 18 and 28 November. All of the suspects were released from custody pending trial. Police and city officials called for an end to a bail relaxation policy for some defendants, introduced to prevent jail overcrowding during Covid-19. Police chief Michel Moore said four robberies, six burglaries and one grand theft had been carried out, leading to $338,000 worth of goods being stolen and $40,000 of property damaged. He said one of the suspects was a juvenile and the others had either been bailed or met no-bail criteria. It usually took three to four months for suspects to be arraigned, and criminal elements were capitalising on this situation, the police chief added. Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti said that with Covid infection levels easing it was time for more room to be found in jails and for more judges to put more people in them. "There are people who need to be behind bars," he told reporters on Thursday. "How many times does someone have to steal a car - three, four, five times - before we realise?" The November incidents are part of a recent spate of large-scale thefts in California and across the US involving shoplifting by flash mobs or smash-and-grab raids on display cases. Retailers fear the perpetrators face little accountability for their crimes, prompting officials to promise a crackdown on these groups.
Austria ruling party picks Nehammer for chancellor. After 24 hours of political turmoil, Austria's ruling People's Party has chosen Interior Minister Karl Nehammer to take over as leader of both party and country. Mr Nehammer will be the party's third choice of chancellor in weeks, after Sebastian Kurz stood down in October. Mr Kurz is under investigation after he was implicated in a corruption scandal. On Thursday he stepped down as party leader, prompting his replacement as chancellor to say he would resign too. Alexander Schallenberg said he was convinced the country should be run by the same person as the ruling party leader. The People's Party (ÖVP) is in coalition with the Greens, who withdrew their support for Mr Kurz when prosecutors said they were investigating him. Mr Nehammer told reporters it was a great honour and privilege: "Today I was unanimously appointed by the ÖVP leadership as party head and at the same time as candidate for federal chancellor." The Greens will not stand in his way, so he will become chancellor as soon as his swearing-in ceremony is agreed with President Alexander Van der Bellen. He said the government needed to "state clearly what is necessary when it concerns the question of asylum and migration, when it comes to security for the Austrian people". In all there were three party resignations on Thursday, as Finance Minister Gernot Blümel also stood down, so Mr Nehammer had the immediate task of reshuffling the cabinet too. The change at the top marks an end to the whirlwind career of Sebastian Kurz, who was just 31 when he became Austrian chancellor in 2017. His first coalition collapsed in May 2019  when the far-right Freedom Party became embroiled in a political scandal dubbed Ibiza-gate which involved a secret video. His position became untenable in October 2021 when anti-corruption prosecutors began investigating allegations that his entourage had previously used public funds for "partially manipulated opinion polls".  He denied wrongdoing but the Greens said he was no longer fit for office and demanded he step down. Mr Schallenberg will become foreign minister again as part of the shake-up.
