Biden claims to have served as a 'liaison' during Six-Day War despite still being in law school at the time: Biden did meet with Meir six years after the war in 1973. President may have meant to refer to his 1973 trip to Israel President Biden said he met with former Israeli Prime Minister Golda Meir and served as a liaison between Israel and Egypt during the Six-Day War despite still being in law school at the time. The president, who spoke during a menorah lighting in celebration of Hanukkah Wednesday at the White House, appeared to be referring to a meeting he had with her just prior to the October 1973 Yom Kippur War. It's not clear what he meant by his role as a "liaison." "I have known every — every prime minister well since Golda Meir, including Golda Meir," Biden said. "And during the Six-Day War, I had an opportunity to — she invited me to come over because I was going to be the liaison between she and the Egyptians about the Suez."And I sat in front of her desk," he continued. "And she had a guy — her staff member — to my right. His name was Rabin. And she kept flipping those maps up and down. She had that bevy of maps — sort of kept it — and it was — it was so depressing what she was — about what happened. She gave me every detail." President Biden. BIDEN DITCHES TRUMP'S PRO-ISRAEL STANCE ON PALESTINIAN 'RIGHT TO RETURN' The Six-Day War, a short conflict pitting Israel against a coalition of Jordan, Syria and Egypt that completely reshaped the region, broke out in June 1967, one year before Biden graduated from Syracuse University College of Law. Meir was not elected to serve as prime minister until almost two years after the war, serving in the role from 1969-1974. Though Biden Wednesday appeared to be touting his relationship with Meir and support for Israel, a classified Israeli memo unearthed last year summarizing the meeting offered details Biden left out. The memo claims that Biden told Meir that the territories Israel had captured during the Six-Day War, which included West Bank and the Gaza Strip, amounted to "creeping annexation." October 31, 1973 file photo of Israeli Premier Golda Meir. Notes taken by an unnamed Israeli official in the meeting say that Biden told Meir that during talks in Cairo before he arrived in Israel, Egyptian officials had assured him that they accepted "Israel’s military superiority," according to a Times of Israel report last year. Biden used this contention to suggest that Israel was in a position to offer the Arabs unilateral concessions to promote peace. He tried to convince the prime minister to withdraw from areas of lesser strategic importance, a suggestion Meir rejected before lecturing the young senator about the problems Israel was facing in the region. Less than six weeks later, Meir's fears were confirmed when Egypt and Syria attacked Israel. The memo also claims that Biden was highly critical of the Nixon administration during the meeting, accusing it of being "dragged by Israel" while debate about the Middle East was bogged down in the Senate because lawmakers were fearful of offending Jewish voters. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP President Joe Biden. The official included his own notes recording his impressions of Biden at the bottom of the memo, saying he was full of respect toward Meir and assured the prime minister he was there to learn, "and yet while speaking displayed a fervor and made comments that signaled his lack of diplomatic experience." The White House did not immediately respond to a Fox News request for comment.
New York Times 'journalist' curses gun rights association in alleged voicemail: 'You f---ing a--holes': Erin Marquis: 'Aren’t you just a bit worried that there might be a hell?'. On today’s episode of ‘The Story’, Martha MacCallum speaks to students who survived the Michigan school shooting. Meanwhile, Senator Lindsey Graham weighs in on the Roe v. Wade abortion case. Newly released audio allegedly shows New York Times journalist Erin Marquis cursing the Great Lakes Gun Rights, a Michigan state affiliate of the National Association for Gun Rights, in a voice message. On Thursday, Marquis tweeted out her displeasure after receiving an email from the Great Lakes Gun Rights association. "Just got a press release from the Great Lakes Gun Rights organization about protecting gun rights from democrats in Michigan and I am literally shaking with rage. I hope there is a God and they met that God someday," she tweeted. She also posted the number and email address of Great Lakes Gun Rights for people to "make your displeasure known." FILE - In this Feb. 19, 2021, file photo, firearms are displayed at a gun shop in Salem, Ore. The first legal test of whether a wave of U.S. counties can legally declare themselves "Second Amendment Sanctuaries," and refuse to enforce certain gun laws is playing out in a rural Oregon logging county. The measure Columbia County voters narrowly approved last year bans local officials from enforcing most federal and state gun laws, which includes things like universal background checks or any prohibition on carrying guns. OXFORD HIGH SCHOOL SHOOTING SURVIVOR REMEMBERS SLAIN CLASSMATES: ‘I WANT THE WORLD TO KNOW HOW GOOD THEY WERE’ The Great Lakes Gun Rights group released a press release on Thursday that called out Michigan Democrats, including Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, for trying to pass new gun control laws in the wake of the Oxford High School shooting. "Great Lakes Gun Rights urges the Legislature to reject the politically-motivated calls for more gun control and to instead focus on life-saving policies that allow law-abiding citizens to be their own self-defense," Executive Director Brenden Boudreau said. TINLEY PARK, ILLINOIS - APRIL 08: A customer purchases a gun at Freddie Bear Sports on April 08, 2021 in Tinley Park, Illinois. President Joe Biden today announced gun control measures which included stricter controls on the purchase of homemade firearms, commonly referred to as Ghost Guns and he made a push for national Red Flag legislation and other measures. The National Association for Gun Rights later posted a video that allegedly featured a voicemail left by Marquis to Great Lakes Gun Rights. "Hi, I'm a journalist with the New York Times. I’m just calling to wonder. I have two questions. How do you sleep at night? And aren’t you just a bit worried that there might be a hell? And when you meet God, He will send you there? That’s just my only question. The third question, the only people politicizing this seems to be you because you’re the only people I got a f---ing press release from," Marquis said. She also added "Again, I am from the New York Times, and I’m letting everyone in the New York Times know what kind of f---ing a—holes you are. Congrats on being a laughing stock. You f---ing ghouls. I hope that there is a God in heaven, so He judges you when you die." The New York Times ignored 18 deaths, countless injuries and nearly $2 billion dollars in property damage nationwide as it slammed Republican bills designed to stop what the paper considered mostly "peaceful" protests. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Marquis self-described herself a journalist for the New York Times but in her Twitter biography she lists her job as lead editor for Wirecutter. Wirecutter is affiliated with the New York Times, which the Times describes as its "product recommendation service" offering consumers trusted advice on the latest merchandise being sold. Neither the New York Times or Marquis responded to Fox News when reached for a comment.
Jacqueline Avant murder suspect served time for robbery, inflicting bodily injury before Beverly Hills slaying: Beverly Hills Police Chief Mark Stainbrook said Maynor was on parole at the time of the slaying and has an 'extensive criminal history'. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. The man accused of killing Jacqueline Avant, wife of Grammy Award-winning music executive Clarence Avant, was paroled from a California prison in September after serving time for a robbery conviction and has been incarcerated for other offenses. Aariel Maynor, 29, of Los Angeles, is suspected in the shooting death of Avant, 81, at her Beverly Hills estate early Wednesday during an alleged burglary. He was arrested by Los Angeles police officers during a second burglary in which he accidentally shot himself in the foot, authorities said Thursday. At a news conference Thursday, Beverly Hills Police Chief Mark Stainbrook said Maynor was on parole at the time of the slaying and has an "extensive criminal history" before declining to elaborate. LA THIEVES GO AFTER BABY-STROLLING MOTHER Aariel Mayor, 29, was released on parole in September on convictions for robbery and grand theft. He is accused of killing Jacqueline Avant, wife of Grammy Award-winning music executive Clarence Avant, in the couple's Beverly Hills home this week. Maynor was paroled from prison Sept. 1 after receiving a four-year prison sentence for second-degree robbery in November 2018, the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation told Fox News. The sentence came with enhanced penalties because he had a prior felony conviction. "He was released to parole supervision on Sept. 1, 2021 after serving his full sentence as defined by law," a CDCR spokesman said. In 2013, he was sentenced to a five-year term for a separate second-degree robbery and inflicting great bodily injury. He received an extra 16 months for a grand theft conviction as well. He was released to parole supervision on March 16, 2018, but then "absconded" in July of that year. By August 2018, he was back on parole supervision, officials said. While on parole, he was registered as a transient, the CDCR said. In 2011, he was arrested in Santa Monica for an alleged misdemeanor offense of public intoxication. Other arrests include a robbery and burglary 2010, none of which prosecuted, according to Los Angeles County court records. Jacqueline Avant, left, and Clarence Avant appear at the 11th Annual AAFCA Awards in Los Angeles on Jan. 22, 2020. She was fatally shot early Wednesday in Beverly Hills, Calif. Investigators have not speculated on why Maynor allegedly shot Avant. They were contacted by the Los Angeles Police Department after the second burglary resembled the one that took place in Beverly Hills, officials said Thursday. "Somewhere in the night we had an astute watch commander at Hollywood  that started to put two-and-two together and reached out to Beverly Hills … and we started communicating, and there were some similarities," LAPD Deputy Chief Blake Chow said. Authorities recovered evidence related to the shooting of Avant, including an AR-15 rifle, police said. Clarence Avant and a private security guard were on the property at the time of the shooting but were not hurt. Beverly Hills Police Chief Mark G. Stainbrook, left, addresses the media during a news conference, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021, in Beverly Hills, Calif. Jacqueline Avant, the wife of music legend Clarence Avant, was fatally shot in Beverly Hills early Wednesday. Second from left is Beverly Hills Mayor Robert Wunderlich. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Maynor was taken to a hospital after shooting himself in the foot and will be booked into the Los Angeles County jail once he is medically cleared by doctors. Jacqueline Avant was a philanthropist and 55-year resident of Beverly Hills, and her 90-year-old husband was the subject of the 2019 Netflix documentary "The Black Godfather." In October, Clarence Avant was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. The couple was married 54 years.
Semitrailer drags sedan down Illinois highway in captured video footage: No injuries were reported, police said.. In the video, a person can be seen waving from inside the sedan. A tractor-trailer was captured on video dragging a sedan on an Illinois freeway earlier this week. A driver in a neighboring lane recorded the harrowing scene, which happened Tuesday on Interstate 294 northbound just outside Chicago around 11:40 a.m. The crash happened after the Honda Accord switched lanes, police said. Illinois State Police said the driver of a black 2005 Honda Accord was changing lanes when the car somehow got stuck underneath the passenger side of a red 2014 Freightliner trailer. A person can be seen waving from the passenger side of the Honda. The semitrailer dragged the Honda Accord before eventually coming to a stop. FLORIDA POLICE SEEK HELP TO ID VICTIM FROM TATTOO AFTER BODY PARTS FOUND FLOATING IN BAY The truck eventually came to a stop. The video footage shows the semitrailer appearing to keep up with the speed of other drivers without getting bogged down by the sedan underneath. Toward the end of the clip, someone can be seen waving from the driver’s seat of the sedan. Police identified the semitrailer driver as Mohamed Yousif, 52, of East Moline, Illinois, and the Honda Accord driver as Laylisha A. Gardner, 19, of Evanston, Illinois. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP No injuries were reported. State police did not provide any further information regarding possible charges.
HBO execs ‘were concerned’ about ‘Sopranos’ star James Gandolfini ‘staying alive,' book claims: James Gandolfini, who famously played Tony Soprano, passed away in 2013. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. HBO executives feared for "Sopranos" star James Gandolfini’s health on set. The claim was made in a new book titled "Tinderbox: HBO’s Ruthless Pursuit of New Frontiers" written by journalist James Andrew Miller. For the book, former Time Warner chairman and HBO CEO Jeff Bewkes spoke with Miller about execs who were allegedly worried about the actor "staying alive" during the mob drama’s six-season run. "We were concerned about Gandolfini staying alive," said Bewkes, as quoted by the New York Post on Thursday. "Occasionally he would go on a bender or a coke binge. We had to stop production." JAMES GANDOLFINI HAD A 'TANTRUM' OVER RAUNCHY 'SOPRANOS' SCENE Actor James Gandolfini in a scene from the HBO TV drama series "The Sopranos." Bewkes shared that the production delays were costly and "was hard on the other actors’ schedules." However, he "didn’t pressure" former HBO chairman Chris Albrecht about Gandolfini missing work because he "thought Jimmy was embarrassed." Albrecht, who was also interviewed for the book, claimed the network hosted an intervention at Gandolfini's New York City apartment. "The intervention wasn’t my idea," he said, as quoted by the outlet. "I think [it was] his family’s idea because his sister was there. It was definitely a crisis situation." Albrecht explained he was more concerned about how Gandolfini’s health would continue to impact production. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Actor James Gandolfini allegedly didn't take the news of an intervention too well. "I don’t remember us being worried he was going to die, but it became a real problem with shooting the show," he said. "It became a lack of respect for the other actors as well, so there were sort of problems that bubbled up." Albrecht said the intervention was "disastrous." When Gandolfini saw his loved ones waiting for him, he began to scream, "Oh, f--- this. F--- all of you." Gandolfini left the building after he dared Albrecht to fire him. In 2002, allegations of drug use by Gandolfini spilled into tabloid reports during his divorce case with his first wife, Marcy Wudarski. Gandolfini’s then publicist Dan Klores was quoted as acknowledging the actor’s prior drug and alcohol abuse, but claimed it was "a problem that existed in the past." Gandolfini starred as Tony Soprano in the hit series, which aired from 1999 until 2007. It was just one facet of his rich legacy as an actor in movies and plays. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP An autopsy on James Gandolfini found that the "Sopranos" star died of a heart attack, with no evidence of substance abuse or foul play. He suffered a fatal heart attack in 2013 while on a trip to Italy. He was 51. An autopsy found that there was no evidence of substance abuse. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Fauci blasted by PETA for using monkeys in 'horrendous HIV experiments': PETA urged Fauci to end 'horrendous HIV experiments' on monkeys. Dr. Anthony Fauci on Wednesday advised viewers of a CNN town hall to wear a mask indoors even if they've been fully vaccinated against the coronavirus and received the vaccine booster. The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals blasted Dr. Anthony Fauci in a letter Thursday for allowing the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases to continue using monkeys in HIV and AIDS vaccination experiments. The letter states that NIAID has been using macaques, a type of monkey, for experiments into a potential vaccine for HIV and AIDS for almost 40 years. "The macaque model for developing a vaccine for human immunodeficiency virus  has failed. After nearly 40 years of painful, deadly, expensive experiments — a vaccine is still not on the market," the letter states. Additionally, the letter states that HIV is human-specific, and macaques' have qualities that prevent HIV replication in their tissues and they cannot develop AIDS. PETA CALLS FOR DR. FAUCI TO RESIGN: 'OUR POSITION IS CLEAR' Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, listens during a Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee hearing in Washington, D.C. Nov. 4, 2021. The letter was released in response to Fauci’s World AIDS Day statement, which says that "finding a safe, effective and durable HIV vaccine remains an NIH priority." Lisa Jones-Engel, a senior science advisor for PETA, maintains that the experiments on macaques have proven to be an "unqualified failure." PETA cited one instance where Fauci said that a preclinical study on a cure for HIV involving monkeys "might have been a fluke" after it did not help humans infected with the virus. Jones-Engel also alleged that Fauci ignored the "presence of unintended infections" that occur in monkeys used in these experiments, citing an investigation by the Arizona Republic that shows that the presence of Valley fever in monkeys has the potential to damage the reliability of HIV research. REP. NANCY MACE DEMANDS FAUCI ANSWER FOR 'CRUEL, TAXPAYER-FUNDED EXPERIMENTS ON PUPPIES' Rhesus macaques monkey resident of a temple dedicated to the Hindu monkey god Hanuman in February 2018 in Jaipur, Rajasthan, India. "This has cost taxpayers tens of billions of dollars and condemned hundreds of thousands of monkeys to miserable lives and deaths," the PETA letter states. "And the public is still waiting for a vaccine to prevent HIV. Please stop funding and conducting HIV/SHIV/AIDS experiments on monkeys." One National Institutes of Health grant for a project in 2020 lists Fauci as the project leader and states that monkeys were used to test their hypothesis. At least $1,001,661 was given to this project by the NIH. Fauci has also been the coauthor of several studies seeking to find a cure for HIV and the simian immunodeficiency virus, which used monkeys for testing purposes. A long-tailed macaque is seen at the Pra Prang Sam Yot temple before the annual Monkey Buffet Festival in Lopburi, north of Bangkok in November 2015. Instead, PETA is pushing for Fauci to shift to "modern, human-relevant research," that reduces animal research. FAUCI UNDER FIRE OVER REPORT ALLEGING NIAID SPENT $400K ON RESEARCH INFECTING DOGS WITH PARASITES "Anthony Fauci’s agency at the National Institutes of Health has funded 36 years of horrendous HIV experiments on monkeys — and there is still no vaccine," PETA Senior Vice President Kathy Guillermo said. "Fauci has publicly stated why the monkey HIV experiments aren’t working — yet he fails, decade after decade, to stop them. He even co-led many of these experiments himself. Monkeys don’t get HIV, and Fauci needs to end experiments on them and instead fund modern, human-relevant research," . Fox News reached out to the National Institutes of Health for comment.
'Collaborating with the mullahs': Iranian dissidents warn US not to return to the nuclear deal: Ali Khamenei, wants an Iranian nuclear bomb "to guarantee his power.. Activists urge President Biden to side with Iranian protests against the regime; Fox News senior correspondent Eric Shawn has the exclusive. While Iran announced that it is escalating its nuclear program, despite the Vienna talks aimed at preventing just that, Iranian activists are speaking out to Fox News. "My message to President Biden, it is that the regime of Iran does not represent the people of Iran," said Ali, an Iranian activist who, like the others, warns of the consequences of the U.S. dropping sanctions against Iran if it re-enters the Iranian nuclear agreement. "If the U.S. goes back to the nuclear deal, that's the same thing would happen as happened back in 2015. Iran, the regime of Iran, is going to gain almost $160 billion and 1.7 billion Euros, and yet it is not going to stop its nuclear actions, and actually they even develop their ballistics and drone military drone programs." BIDEN, EUROPEANS TAKE UP IRAN NUCLEAR PROGRAM IN ROME TALKS "You asked what will happen if the United States returns to JCPOA? I say frankly that this will be a tragedy," says Sima, another activist who says the administration should not even entertain Tehran's demands about the deal, known officially as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, or JCPOA. "The message of the U.S.’s return to JCPOA to us, Iranians, is that the U.S. is collaborating with the Mullahs in suppressing and killing the Iranian people and the Mullahs’ crimes against us, that serves the dictatorship and religious fascism. How can ransom be paid to a regime that brutally kills its own people?" "After the JCPOA deal in 2015, the regime took the cash and spent it on terrorism. Our women in Iran resort to prostitution for a piece of bread," she says. "Lifting sanctions or giving cash to the regime will only prolong its life, the life of the dictatorship." TOPSHOT - This picture taken on July 4, 2017, and released by North Korea's official Korean Central News Agency  on July 5, 2017, shows the successful test-fire of the intercontinental ballistic missile Hwasong-14 at an undisclosed location. South Korea and the United States fired off missiles on July 5 simulating a precision strike against North Korea's leadership, in response to a landmark ICBM test described by Kim Jong-Un as a gift to "American bastards". For months, massive protests have spread throughout the country from people calling for the overthrow of the regime, unhappy with government policies that have led to a troubled economy, rationing, and shortages of goods. Reports say thousands of demonstrators have been arrested or killed by regime forces. Fox News is not identifying the activists whom we spoke to for their own safety. But they are united in their opposition to the regime and steadfast in their message to President Biden and the American people. "I want President Biden to be by the side of the people of Iran, the people who have been participating in different uprisings against the regime of Iran. Actually, now we are approaching the second anniversary of the November of 2019, where there was one of the biggest uprisings in the recent history of the regime. Where they could only maintain the people by killing more than 1,400 people on the streets and capturing and imprisoning more than twenty thousand people," Ali told us. "I want President Biden to know that the experience of the past 42 years has showed that the politics of appeasement does not work anymore. For instance, we saw that the nuclear deal of 2015 did not to limit Iran's actions towards achieving a nuclear weapon. Therefore, there is no time for the politics of appeasement." Iran's new President-elect Ebrahim Raisi speaks during a press conference in Tehran, Iran, on Monday. The administration has said that it will only return to the deal and lift billions of dollars in U.S. sanctions, if Tehran lives up to the agreement. But the Iranian negotiators in Vienna have demanded that the U.S. sanctions be dropped first, potentially freeing up billions of dollars in new revenue for the regime, even before the talks can consider the nuclear program. Supporters of the nuclear deal have said that it has prevented Iran from obtaining a nuclear bomb, and ensures transparency of the Iranian nuclear program for international monitors from the United Nation's IAEA, the International Atomic Energy Agency. But the activists say the agreement will pave the way for Tehran to be free to obtain nuclear weapons when the agreement ends, which is now set for October 2025. IRAN DIGS IN AT NUCLEAR DEAL TALKS, CONTRADICTING EU DIPLOMAT Some of the protestors, including the ones we talked to, are members of the largest Iranian opposition group, The National Council of Resistance of Iran. The group's leader, Maryam Rajavi, has been warning about Iran's nuclear intentions. "The IAEA believes that the regime is close to making a bomb, an outcome of the policy of complacency," Rajavi recently told the French National Assembly. "Because of the lack of a firm policy, the regime has always taken advantage of negotiations to strengthen itself and prepare itself for further aggressions." TEHRAN, IRAN - NOVEMBER 03: She says that Iran's Supreme Leader, Ali Khamenei, wants an Iranian nuclear bomb "to guarantee his power. He wants to hold world peace and security hostage to gain concessions. The only factor that can stop him is the Iranian people’s organized resistance and uprising." The group says that the regime's hold is fragile, and that the reported killing of more than 1,500 protestors during street protests two years ago is proof that the government will resort to deadly brutality to try and maintain its grip on power. "The Iranian people want the overthrow of the regime and a free and democratic society," Rajavi says. Ali, one of the activists we talked to, echoes those sentiments. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "The truth is, no one is going to hand us freedom on a silver platter. As Thomas Jefferson said, the Tree of Liberty, most from time to time be refreshed by the blood of the Patriots. We are ready and willing to pay the full price and give our lives for the future of Iran to be free."
New York confirms 5 cases of the omicron coronavirus variant: New York is the fourth state to confirm the virus. Dr. Richard Besser says there are already probably many cases of the omicron variant in the US on 'Your World.' The omicron variant of the coronavirus has been documented in the New York City area. Five cases of the variant have been confirmed in New York City, Mayor Bill de Blasio and Gov. Kathy Hochul said on Thursday evening. US President Joe Biden speaks about the administrations response to Covid-19 and the Omicron variant at the National Institutes of Health THIRD OMICRON CASE IN THE UNITED STATES DETECTED IN COLORADO Hochul said that one case was documented in Brooklyn, two in Queens, and one in Suffolk County, Long Island. "New York State has confirmed five cases of the omicron variant," Hochul tweeted. "Let me be clear: This is not cause for alarm. We knew this variant was coming and we have the tools to stop the spread. Get your vaccine. Get your booster. Wear your mask." The news came the same day it was learned that the omicron variant was present in Minnesota and Colorado. The Minnesota man who tested positive for omicron traveled to New York City for an anime convention in November. Dr. Anthony Fauci speaks about the Omicron coronavirus variant case, which was detected in California, during a press briefing at the White House in Washington, U.S., December 1, 2021. REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque FAUCI DODGES QUESTION ON ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS FOLLOWING SAME TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS AS AMERICANS: 'DIFFERENT ISSUE' Earlier this week, the first omicron case was confirmed in California. Omicron is classified by the World Health Organization as a "variant of concern" as scientists work to determine how it may compare with the predominant delta variant in terms of transmissibility and severity. Scientists also are studying the degree to which existing vaccines and therapies protect against omicron. Scientists in South Africa first reported it, but the samples came from several countries in southern Africa. And health officials in the Netherlands now say it was found there prior to the South Africa detection. A hospital worker ensures people practice social distancing as they wait in line to get vaccinated against COVID-19 at the Lenasia South Hospital, near Johannesburg, South Africa, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021. Despite the global worry, doctors in South Africa are reporting patients with the omicron variant are suffering mostly mild symptoms so far. But they warn that it is early. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Those infected by the new variant have suffered "very mild symptoms" so far, according to a South African doctor who first reported the variant. Associated Press contributed to this report
Feminists 'in full-blown panic mode' about state of Roe v. Wade: Hegseth: The 'Fox News Primetime' host said they're 'terrified that...we the people' will have a say in 'radically alter[ing]' Roe v. Wade. Pete Hegseth says that infants are 'unformed bodies knit together by God' in his opening monologue on 'Fox News Primetime.' Fox News host Pete Hegseth celebrated the potential overturning of Roe v. Wade in his opening monologue Thursday on "Fox News Primetime." SUPREME COURT HEARS MISSISSIPPI ABORTION CASE THAT COULD OVERTURN ROE V. WADE: LIVE UPDATES PETE HEGSETH: This week, we're seeing the culmination of decades of hard work, important work and principled work after hours of oral arguments. The Supreme Court appears set to uphold a Mississippi law that bans abortions after 15 weeks, setting the stage to at least radically alter Roe's precedent and at best, yes, to overturn Roe v. Wade, the landmark decision that has led to the abortion of at least 62 million innocent American babies since 1973. A generational genocide of America's unborn. Now worshiped by the left as a savior for women, for far too long, Roe v. Wade seemed untouchable. Just 10 years ago, with Obama in the White House and a Supreme Court stacked with pro-choice justices, this day, it felt very far off. Until now, because of the endless efforts of pro-life groups, activists, educators, mothers. Because of major technological advancements that prove that even at the earliest stages of life, as King David wrote in Psalm [139], "For you created my inmost being; you knit me together in my mother's womb. I praise you because I am fearfully and wonderfully made; your works are wonderful, I know that full well. Your eyes saw my unformed body." Unformed bodies knit together by God. Not the decision of Planned Parenthood. … [D]espite what the captured corporate media tells you, most Americans are actually against what Roe v. Wade protects, even if they don't necessarily realize it. 65% of Americans, according to a Gallup poll in 2018, say abortion in the second trimester should be illegal, even though Roe v. Wade allows it. It's actually just a small, loud, angry minority of radical feminists who really support unfettered abortion. And now, today, this week, they're in full-blown panic mode. They're terrified that the states - that we the people, not nine people in black robes - will soon get a say in determining the all-important question of life, which really should be only answered by God. WATCH HIS FULL COMMENTS BELOW:
The 2024 elections will be a 'bloodbath' for Democrats and 'I'm here for it': Jesse Watters: Jesse Watters said that Democrats are reading 'the writing on the wall: Kamala is not [their] heir apparent'. 'The Five' panel discuss Jen Psaki's response to staff leaving as 'natural' and a 'very positive thing' "The Five" commented on the recent slated departures of top officials in Vice President Kamala Harris' office as well as White House press secretary Jen Psaki's attempts to minimize what is being referred to as a staff "exodus." Symone Sanders, a senior adviser to Vice President Harris and her chief spokesperson, will depart at the end of the year. She is the second top Harris aide to announce her departure in less than a month. Just two weeks ago, Harris Communications Director Ashley Etienne resigned. Psaki on Thursday tried to downplay the departures, characterizing them as a "positive … thing" that is "natural" for any administration. Left: White House press secretary Jen Psaki speaks during a press briefing at the White House, Monday, March 22, 2021, in Washington. However, the hosts on "The Five" said Thursday the departures are a sign of turmoil in the Biden-Harris administration. "Top aides can't get out of Kamala Harris' sinking ship fast enough," Katie Pavlich said. "The VP's office hit with yet another major departure after three other high-level staffers already said they are leaving. This time it's Symone Sanders, one of Harris's most trusted advisers and top spokesperson. Sanders reportedly steered Kamala's plan for handling the border crisis, but now she's hitting the road as it looks like Harris's presidential ambitions are sinking. The White House and Kamala defend that shake-up as perfectly normal." Vice President Kamala Harris speaks to members of the press as her press secretary Symone Sanders looks on at Greenville-Spartanburg International Airport before she boards Air Force Two to return to Washington, D.C., June 14, 2021 in Greer, South Carolina. Jesse Watters said that people are reading "the writing on the wall." "Kamala is not the heir apparent, right? So they're trying to get out before the Kamala stench sinks in too deeply," he said. "These people, a lot of them are about resume-building. You know … these people –  in D.C. it's about … where you went to college, who you work for in the campaign, what your title is and the VP's office. [But] the minute it looks like [Harris is] not going to be the one, they're out."SYMONE SANDERS, A TOP KAMALA HARRIS ADVISER, RESIGNING AMID SIGNS OF VP OFFICE DISARRAY "What you're now seeing is the bench is so thin with … Pete [Buttigieg] and Kamala. It's going to be like a bloodbath in a couple of years," Watters continued. "Because you have – I would say – a what, a gay White male intellectual versus a woman of color. And neither of them can win the white working-class vote, [and] neither of them can win the Black vote. So … this is going to be the most delicious, divisive drama you could ever imagine. As Dana says, 'I'm here for it.'' In recent weeks, CNN reported "entrenched dysfunction and lack of focus" in Harris' wing of the White House. The relationships between the Biden-Harris offices are reportedly strained, despite the cordial relationship between the vice president and President Biden. Following the reports of infighting, White House officials sent out tweets praising Harris. "For anyone who needs to hear it [Harris] is not only a vital partner to [Biden] but a bold leader who has taken on key, important challenges facing the country – from voting rights to addressing root causes of migration to expanding broadband," Psaki tweeted. Harris had nothing but kind words for Symone Sanders when asked about her departure. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP"I love Symone," Harris said. "I can't wait to see what she will do next … And I mean that sincerely." The panel laughed at Harris' proclaimed sincerity. Vice President Kamala Harris arrives at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland before traveling to Columbus, Ohio, on Nov.19, 2021. "When anybody says that, that means I don't mean that sincerely," Watters said. "That's like when they say, ‘With all due respect,'" Dana Perino said. "Or ‘bless your heart,’" Jessica Tarlov added.
Charles Payne on the true joy of Christmas: 'Always something you can do' for others: This Christmas season, Fox Business Network host Charles Payne shares memorable stories of selfless giving — and how this changed his family's life. ‘Fox & Friends Weekend’ co-host and her husband preview the holiday stories highlighted in the new book on ‘The Five.’ The beautiful new book, All American Christmas by Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy, shares an array of holiday traditions, emotional stories and cherished moments connected to the Christmas season, all from Fox personalities. There are plenty of surprises within this book's pages, too. BEST CHRISTMAS GIFT EVER: AMAZING REVEALS FROM FOX NEWS HOSTS Charles Payne, host of "Making Money with Charles Payne" on Fox Business Network and a contributor to Fox News Channel as well, says his Christmas memories are "wrapped up in thoughts of my beloved mother." She was, as he says in the book, "the greatest gift I ever received in my life." Sadly, Payne’s mother, Ruth, passed away four years ago. But she raised Charles and his two brothers, Clarence and Cecil, with dignity and courage, including during some very tough times in Harlem in the 1970s after his parents separated and divorced. From left, Clarence, mom Ruth holding Cecil, and Charles Payne. This photo and many others from an array of Fox News personalities appear with stories and memories in the book ‘All American Christmas.’ Today, Charles Payne explains that his happy Christmases are "due to the kind of care and devotion" that his mom and his family showered on him and his siblings, no matter how trying their circumstances. In this excerpt from All American Christmas, Payne writes about the importance of "another kind of giving and receiving" — the kind that makes this Christmas season "so important and wonderful." Charles Payne in All American Christmas: I’ve been fortunate in my career and in my personal life. I’m blessed with great kids and grandchildren, but my wife received one of the greatest gifts possible. She has had a very serious heart condition since she was a teenager. Doctors had tried numerous treatments, she’d undergone multiple procedures, and she was finally at a point when nothing was working as they hoped. It seemed as if her death was imminent. I was filling in for Stuart Varney on Fox, and during a commercial break, I noticed that I had received an email from a close friend. He was living in California then, and his daughter had died. I was stunned and saddened. He was reaching out because he wanted my wife to receive his daughter’s heart. I wasn’t sure how to respond to his kindness. I forwarded his message to my wife and finished the show. There were a lot of obstacles to overcome. "She'd been approved for the heart transplant," Charles Payne writes about his wife, describing a dramatic period in his family's life and much more. Normally hearts can’t be transported more than four hours; that and other things made the possibility of a transplant seem like a real, real long shot if not a hopeless case. A day later, my wife called, excited and crying. She’d been approved for the heart transplant; if we could get out to Los Angeles, she’d receive it. I went to the daughter’s funeral while there. It was devastating. She was only twenty-one years old, but she had the forethought at that age to sign up as an organ donor. She was thinking of others and not just herself. That young woman gave us back my wife, my kids’ mom, their kids’ grandmother. I don’t know how to describe how grateful we are. That word feels inadequate, and it seemed like there was no way to say anything or do anything to thank my friend’s family. But, of course, there was. There is always something you can do, and in this case, it took the form of paying it forward. What better way to honor their daughter than to give in a new way? THE BEST GIFTS MEANT TO BE PASSED DOWN THROUGH THE GENERATIONS For the past nine years since my wife’s recovery, we’ve gone to various stores at different times in the LA and New York/New Jersey areas, found the layaway department, and asked people if we could help them out by paying off what they owed on purchases they were in the process of making. We supplement that with other items they need. We give them some additional cash to help them. The first time we did that, when we were in Los Angeles, I was so overcome with emotion when I saw their response to us, how grateful they were. I kept thinking, "You have no idea what we’ve been given, all the blessings we’ve received." "We've had a soft spot in our hearts for anyone in need," writes Payne in ‘All American Christmas' as he shares a story of reaching out to others in "tough circumstances." I was also responding to my childhood memories. I remember my mom putting items on layaway. I knew it was stressful for her. It was a good service the stores were offering, but the closer you got to Christmas, the more you had to watch your pennies! It was a countdown to Christmas, and you wanted to be sure you could pay for the item so that you could present it as a gift and put it under the tree. I'd say 99 percent of the recipients are single moms. We’ve had a soft spot in our hearts for anyone in need, but given my mom’s situation, there’s a special section of our hearts reserved for women like her who find themselves in tough circumstances. "All American Christmas" by Rachel Campos-Duffy, along with her husband, Fox News contributor Sean Duffy, is available now. Even before this, my family and I had tried to do what we could to lift up people in need. Convent Baptist Church in Harlem played a crucial role in my life after my mom and my brothers moved to that section of the city. I could have gone a different way in life without the influence of the ministering that was done there. One year, my wife and I donated fifty backpacks  and loaded them with books and supplies. One child who received one of those told people at the church that that gift changed his life. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP He’d been led to believe that he didn’t matter to anyone outside his own family. Such a simple gesture like that changed a life. We all have a role we play in helping one another to get the most out of the time we have. Excerpted from the new book All American Christmas by Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy. To purchase your copy, click here.
Rep. Norman demands FDA release COVID vaccine data in 100 days: FDA requested 55 years to hand over data relating to coronavirus vaccine. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. South Carolina Republican Rep. Ralph Norman on Thursday introduced legislation that could force the Food and Drug Administration to release all documents relating to the coronavirus vaccine within the next 100 days. The legislation is a direct response to a request made last month by the federal agency to prolong releasing data on COVID vaccines for up to 55 years. "How does a vaccine that receives approval in 108 days now require 55 years just to release information?" Norman said to Fox News. "It sounds like the beginning of a very bad joke." Rep. Ralph Norman, R-S.C. BIDEN SAYS THE US MUST 'VACCINATE THE REST OF THE WORLD' TO BEAT COVID-19 PANDEMIC In September, a group of 30 scientists and medical professionals from the Public Health and Medical Professionals for Transparency . The FOIA request was first submitted to the federal agency after the FDA approved the Pfizer vaccine for children age 16 and up in August. The group of scientists argued that releasing data relating to the vaccine would help satisfy vaccine skeptics of its safety and encourage further vaccinations. "Reviewing this information will settle the ongoing public debate regarding the adequacy of the FDA’s review process," the group said in court filings. "Releasing this data should also confirm the FDA’s conclusion that the Pfizer vaccine is safe and effective and, thus, increase confidence in the Pfizer vaccine." FDA PLANS TO AUTHORIZE PFIZER BOOSTERS FOR ALL ADULTS BEFORE WEEK'S END: REPORTS But Justice Department lawyers representing the FDA argued the plaintiff’s request includes more than 329,000 pages of documents — all of which need to be scrubbed to ensure "trade secret[s]" are not publicly released. "The FDA does not have the personnel or resources in its FOIA office to process plaintiff’s FOIA request at a rate of more than 80,000 pages per month," the defense argued. In court documents filed last month, the DOJ said the branch responsible for reviewing and releasing the pages to the PHMPT has just 10 employees who are currently juggling 400 pending FOIA requests.  The FDA has proposed that just 500 pages a month be released instead, which means if the federal judge agrees to the agency's terms, the PHMPT can expect to receive the entirety of the information it seeks by 2076. CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP "The FDA’s only priority should be the health and safety of consumers," Norman said Thursday. "If the Biden administration is hell-bent on forcing these vaccine mandates on us then the public has every right to know how and why this vaccine got approved in such a short amount of time."
California city spending federal COVID funds on license plate readers to deter smash-and-grab mobs: Organized robberies against retail shops and malls have been sweeping California. Los Angeles Police Department's Deon Joseph and former Los Angeles County District Attorney Steve Cooley point the finger at politicians and district attorneys for creating an environment that promotes crime. San Jose has approved funding for license plate readers in an effort to address organized robberies in the city and throughout California in recent weeks. The San Jose City Council voted unanimously Tuesday to allocate $250,000 toward license plate readers. Though the details are still being worked out, the money will come from federal COVID-19 relief funds. A license plate reader scanning passing cars. Organized robberies against retail shops and malls have been sweeping California, particularly the Bay Area, with suspects often escaping with thousands of dollars in stolen merchandise from high-end stores. San Jose was hit with back-to-back robberies on Nov. 21. In the first, two male suspects stole merchandise from the Valley Fair Mall. That same day, four to six people robbed a Lululemon directly across the street, stealing $40,000 in merchandise. SAN FRANCISCO POLICE LT. BLAMES CITY'S LIBERAL POLICIES FOR TYING HER HANDS AMID SMASH AND GRAB ROBBERIES Two days later, two men – Dwayne Huntley and Raheem Lewis – who matched the description of the suspects in the first Nov. 21 robbery were arrested while attempting to rob a Macy’s. Dwayne Huntley, left, and Raheem Lewis. San Jose Mayor Sam Liccardo wrote in a memo that LPR’s will help police better deter and make arrests in armed "smash-mob" burglaries, robberies, auto thefts and drive-by shootings. San Jose mayor speaking at a press conference. "Smash-and-grab mobs are an affront to the hard work and safety of shoppers, retail workers and shopkeepers throughout the region," Liccardo said in a statement. "The expanded investment in license plate reader cameras add to the larger tool set law enforcement uses to apprehend organized burglary rings." Sgt. Christian Camarillo told Fox News that San Jose officers use similar LPR technology on their vehicles to help track down stolen cars. He clarified that the LPRs will only be used in criminal investigations. "This is not for big brother, information sharing, monitoring – you know, anything like that," Camarillo said. "This is merely to help combat and solve crimes. Whether it’s these organized robberies or any other crime." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Despite the aid of technology, Camarillo insisted that the public’s help was crucial in helping law enforcement track down criminals. "If people see something, if they notice something, please report it to the authorities," he said. Fox News’ Emma Colton contributed to this report.
Reporter confronts Psaki after saying Biden would grant more local TV hits: 'He's only done one': 'When are you going to take our questions, sir?' CBS reporter asked Biden last week. A reporter asked the White House press secretary about the president’s lack of local television interviews after Psaki told the press Biden would do more Q&A following the passing of the infrastructure bill. White House press secretary Jen Psaki was challenged Thursday over claims President Biden would regularly grant local TV interviews following passage of his infrastructure bill. As one reporter pointed out at Thursday's press briefing, Biden has only granted one local TV hit since the Nov. 6 vote. Cincinnati's Local 12 nabbed the president for an interview on Nov. 8, his first local TV interview more than 10 months into his administration. "You said one of the things the president is doing is local TV interviews – I think he's only done one so far," the reporter said to Psaki on Thursday. "Yes," Psaki said. White House press secretary Jen Psaki speaks about the Biden administration's plan to fight COVID-19 in Washington on Dec. 2, 2021. The journalist wondered if Americans would start to see his face more on local TV in the next couple of weeks. Psaki couldn't say, arguing the president's packed schedule was to blame. CBS REPORTER PLEADS WITH BIDEN: ‘WHEN WILL YOU ANSWER OUR QUESTIONS?’ "I would very much like that to happen," Psaki said. "We are always competing with time on the schedule. I'm going to be honest, his schedule has been quite packed. But he would like to do it. We would like to get it on the schedule. So, I don't have anything to predict or preview for you at this point and time, but hopefully, we will be able to add some local interviews in the next couple of weeks." White House press secretary Jen Psaki speaks during the daily press briefing at the White House on Nov. 12, 2021. Biden has frequently exited the podium after speeches and remarks without taking any questions, including when he's addressed Afghanistan, poor jobs reports, or the Democrats' reconciliation bill and what it would mean for the U.S. economy. But some White House press have begun to start sharing their frustration with the administration, as evidenced by Thursday's exchange and last week when CBS News Radio correspondent Steven Portnoy shouted at Biden following his speech on the economy ahead of Thanksigivng. Portnoy was hoping to get information on Biden's recent meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping. OUTRAGE AS BIDEN AGAIN TAKES NO QUESTIONS ON AFGHANISTAN: ‘WALKAWAY JOE’ "When are you going to answer our questions, sir?" Portnoy asked as Biden left the room. President Joe Biden announces the release of 50 million barrels of oil from the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve on Nov. 23, 2021. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Andrew Cuomo under federal investigation over sexual harassment claims: The DOJ probe into Cuomo began as an investigation into how he handled the COVID-19 pandemic. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Federal investigators are looking into the sexual misconduct allegations against Andrew Cuomo that led to the former New York governor's resignation, according to a contract released Thursday by the state Comptroller’s Office. The contract for legal services was signed in October and released in response to a Freedom of Information Act  request from the New York Post, according to the outlet. The U.S. Department of Justice seal on a podium in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Thursday, Aug. 5, 2021. The DOJ's probe into Cuomo began as an investigation into how he handled the COVID-19 pandemic, including his cover-up of nursing home deaths and the millions he was set to rake in for a pandemic-related memoir. The department is now looking into whether Cuomo's sexual harassment allegations also involved violations of civil statutes. Former New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo speaks during the daily media briefing at the Office of the Governor of the State of New York on June 12, 2020 in New York City. Cuomo spokesperson Rich Azzopardi dismissed the probe as politically motivated and instigated by New York Attorney General Letitia James. CHRIS CUOMO ADDRESSES CNN SUSPENSION: ‘IT HURTS TO EVEN SAY IT, IT’S EMBARRASSING, BUT I UNDERSTAND' "Our understanding is that the Civil Division opened an inquiry in August based upon the AG's politically motivated sham report, and we have heard nothing since," Azzopardi told the Post. James filed the report last summer that accused Cuomo of sexually harassing 11 women from 2013 to 2020 in violation of state and federal law. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo arrives to depart in his helicopter after announcing his resignation in Manhattan, New York City, U.S., August 10, 2021. REUTERS/Caitlin Ochs Cuomo slammed the report as biased and evidence of a "lack of fairness in the justice system," but he still resigned. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The DOJ did not immediately respond to Fox News' request for comment.
Washington Post mocks DCCC's tweet on gas prices: 'might be the worst defense of the Biden administration yet': 'This might be the worst defense of the Biden administration yet,' WaPo correspondent writes. PRICE Futures Group senior analyst Phil Flynn, Geltrude & Company founder Dan Geltrude and IRC Wealth CEO David Ragland discuss gas and oil prices, supply chain issues and energy stocks. Washington Post national correspondent Philip Bump wrote Thursday that the state of the country has "rarely been worse" than it is under President Biden's leadership, and scolded the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee  for what he called a "shoddy" attempt at defending the administration. "No one would argue that things are going perfectly for President Biden," Bump wrote in a column Thursday. "Many, in fact, would point out that, at least politically, things have rarely been worse…so it’s safe to say that having his allies gin up defenses as shoddy as this won’t really help much." BIDEN CLAIMS TO HAVE SERVED AS A ‘LIASON’ DURING SIX-DAY WAR DESPITE STILL BEING IN LAW SCHOOL AT THE TIME Bump referred to a wildly misleading chart posted on Twitter by the DCCC that praised Biden for lowering gas prices in an effort to quell the widespread frustration over skyrocketing prices at the pump under his presidency. "Thanks, @JoeBiden," the DCCC’s official account posted along with a graph that had no start date showing gas prices going down by two cents from November 22 to November 29. Biden speaks at the COP26 climate summit. Critics immediately pounced on the graphic, with several Twitter users speculating whether it was satire. Bump called it possibly "the worst defense of the Biden administration yet," pointing out that "Since Biden took office, the price of gas has risen more than a dollar on this same measure." "You’re not helping, DCCC," he said. "The DCCC wants to not only give Biden credit for a decline in the price of gas, they want to give him credit for a tiny decline in the price of gas. A decline that isn’t even the largest decline we’ve seen this year; over a similar period in August, the price of gas dropped more than 1 percent, more than three cents," he wrote. Bump acknowledged that it is possible the country will see a peak in the price of a gallon of gas. FILE PHOTO: Gas prices grow along with inflation as this sign at a gas station shows in San Diego, California, U.S. November, 9, 2021.  REUTERS/Mike Blake/File Photo/File Photo CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP He continued, "If so, that would certainly be good news and might even help turn Biden’s approval ratings around. But the DCCC might be advised to wait until that turnaround is a little more substantial than it currently is before boasting about how effective the president has been. Or, at least," he cautioned, "they might not want to try to prove their dubious point with a graph that makes obvious how modest the decrease has been."
NJ GOP lawmakers defy new statehouse COVID vaccine mandate, refuse to leave floor: Lawmakers forced to show either proof of vaccination or a negative COVID-19 test to enter the chamber. Senior national correspondent Rich Edson reports the latest on the White House response to the omicron variant as more people test positive with the virus. Several New Jersey Republican state Assembly members refused to comply with a new statehouse COVID-19 policy, walking past state police officers enforcing the rules and refusing to leave the Assembly floor. "We're standing up for people who haven't gotten or can't get the vaccine and those who have natural immunity," Republican Assemblyman Jay Webber, one of the lawmakers who refused to comply with the new rules, told Fox News Thursday. At issue was a new rule issued by Senate President Steve Sweeney and Assembly Speaker Craig Coughlin, both Democrats, Thursday that mandated lawmakers show either proof of vaccination or a negative COVID-19 test from up to 72 hours prior to entering the Senate or Assembly chambers. The New Jersey's State House capitol in Trenton. "The presiding officers have the authority to protect the safety of members, officers and employees of the legislature in performance of their official duties as well as that of the general public in connection with the conduct of the legislature’s official business," a document signed by Sweeney and Coughlin said. GERMANY BACKS LOCKDOWN RESTRICTIONS FOR THE UNVACCINATED But Webber called the new rule "discriminatory," arguing it created two different classes of people and treats unvaccinated people worse than vaccinated individuals. "We decided not to comply because we didn't think the commission had the authority to issue the rules," Webber said. State Police troopers were sent to the doors of the chambers to enforce the rules, sparking a dramatic standoff with GOP lawmakers that lasted over 15 minutes. But once the Republicans realized they would not be physically restrained if they entered the chamber, many breezed by officers and took their seats without showing proof of vaccination or a negative test. Webber said the drama didn't end there, noting the speaker asked police to do a security sweep about 90 minutes into the day's session. Police K-9 units perform such sweeps to check for threats before every session, Webber explained, but the call for an additional security sweep over an hour into the session was seen by Republicans as politically motivated. "Transparently political move by the speaker to request a security sweep that was unnecessary in an attempt to get us off the floor and encourage the state troopers to be less accommodating the second time we tried to take the floor," Webber said. The GOP lawmakers again refused to comply, staying in their seats instead of vacating the chamber and allowing police to perform the sweep. "There was no security concern, just a ploy to get us of the floor," Webber said. The Moderna COVID-19 vaccine. Webber said it was important for the Republicans to hold their ground, citing breakthrough infections to argue that the testing rules should apply to everyone and not discriminate against people who have chosen to forgo vaccination. "If the public health of those who are in attendance is the concern of the speaker, then everyone needs to get tested — vaccinated or unvaccinated — because vaccinated people can get infected and can transmit the virus," Webber said. Webber said Republicans would not have raised the issue if everyone was required to get tested, though he noted he believed such a policy would be "overly cautious." Instead, Webber argued Democrats were attempting to "punish" those who have not gotten a vaccine. The voting session was eventually allowed to proceed, though not before Coughlin excoriated his Republican colleagues for not complying with the new rules. "The only thing that was asked of legislators here today to do is care about the people in the chamber," Coughlin said, adding that Republicans "could not be bothered to exhibit common decency and humanity all because they would rather have a couple of minutes on TV news." Coronavirus test in doctor hands. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP A state court on Thursday stayed the new rule until a hearing could be held on the matter Dec. 13, meaning the rule has no legal force. "We plan to go about our business as usual," Webber said.
Oxford High School shooting survivor remembers slain classmates: 'I want the world to know how good they were': Authorities identified 16-year-old Tate Myre, and 17-year-old Justin Shilling as two of the students who died in the shooting. Oxford High School student Javon Pittman and family speak out on the ‘heartache’ following the tragedy on ‘The Story.’ A classmate and close friend of two of the Michigan students who were killed in the Oxford High School shooting memorialized his friends in a gut-wrenching appearance on "The Story" Thursday. Authorities identified 16-year-old Tate Myre, and 17-year-old Justin Shilling as two of the students who died when Ethan Crumbley, 15, opened fire Tuesday in the hallways of Oxford High School, killing four and wounding several others. JaVon Pittman, who was in the building at the time of the attack, told Fox News host Martha MacCallum that while many of his classmates are still in a state of "shock," he felt compelled to honor the memory of his friends publicly. "I wanted the world to know how good of friends Tate and Justin were and how they were just good kids," Pittman said. "[They] did what they had to do. Went in there, worked hard." MICHIGAN SCHOOL SHOOTING SUSPECT ETHAN CRUMBLEY CHARGED WITH TERRORISM, MURDER: ‘NOT JUST AN IMPULSIVE ACT’ Tate Myre, a junior and captain of the football team, has been described as a hero by his peers for rushing toward the shooter in an attempt to disarm him. A petition has since circulated that calls on the school to rename its Wildcat Stadium after him for sacrificing his life to save his classmates. "Tate always worked hard at practice," Pittman said. "He would always give encouraging advice. He was our captain, one of our captains for our football team … and a leader he was." Justin Shilling, a member of the school’s bowling and golf teams, was transported to the hospital but died from his injuries on Wednesday morning.  Pittman said Shilling had a "great attitude" and approach to life. "He was a good friend. He had a great smile. Always was there to make you laugh. He was such a smart kid," he said. Sheriff Mike Bouchard revealed Wednesday that Crumbley’s parents were called to the school Tuesday "for behavior in the classroom that was concerning." Their son remained in school, and the shooting occurred just hours later. Pittman said he had not seen concerning behavior from Crumbley prior to the shooting, telling MacCallum that his initial thought was, "I don’t know why he would do this. I didn’t know anything." Vontysha Pittman, who joined her son in the interview, questioned why Crumbley's parents didn't take him home from school after they were alerted about his behavior. An Oakland County Sheriff's deputy hugs family members of a student in the parking lot of Oxford High School in Oxford, Mich., Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021. A 15-year-old sophomore opened fire at the school, killing several students and wounding multiple other people, including a teacher. "I couldn’t believe –  as a parent, as a mom, you know your kid. You know their behavior even before the dad because you carry these kids," she said. "So I just think that at that moment, being called in the previous day and that morning, I would have had to have a serious talk with my kid and say, ‘What is going on with you?’" she said. "We don’t put it on the school administration to send him home, but as parents, it’s our responsibility to know what is best for our kids and to know our kids." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "My heart goes out to his parents, too, because I couldn’t imagine what they’re going through," Mrs. Pittman continued. "That’s an awful [thing] to get a call, that your child caused this heartache and mayhem. I wish they would have taken him home that day."
Waukesha parade suspect has a disturbing history of abusing women: Darrell Brooks was accused of strangling an ex-girlfriend in a jealous rage in 2010, a decade before he allegedly ran over the mother of one of his children with an SUV. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. WAUKESHA, Wisc. — Waukesha rampage suspect Darrell Brooks allegedly strangled his girlfriend in 2010 and kicked in her door after she received phone calls from other men, according to court records exclusively obtained by Fox News. During the argument, Brooks allegedly shoved her to the ground, leaving a cut on her right eye and a bruise on her left, according to a criminal complaint.  "The defendant got on top of her when she was on the floor, grabbed her throat and squeezed," the complaint says. "This action made it extremely difficult for her to breath." WAUKESHA PARADE SUSPECT DARRELL BROOKS SAYS HE FEELS 'DEHUMANIZED,' 'DEMONIZED' IN FIRST JAILHOUSE INTERVIEW The court documents are the latest to shed light on Brooks’ lengthy criminal history that includes numerous incidents of brutal domestic violence, foreshadowing the horrific attack on holiday revelers at an annual Christmas parade Nov. 21 in Waukesha. Brooks allegedly plowed his red Ford Escape into the crowd, killing six people and injuring more than 60. The attorney representing Darrell Brooks Jr. in several other felony cases in Milwaukee County has moved to withdraw from the case, citing new conflicts of interest that arose after his client allegedly mowed down a Christmas parade in nearby Waukesha. The woman told police that the quarrel began Feb. 19, 2010, at her apartment in Nekoosa, Wisconsin, after Brooks flew into a rage over calls she’d gotten from other men, the complaint says. Brooks had been staying with her the prior week in the small Midwestern town about two and half hours north of Milwaukee, according to court papers. WAUKESHA SUSPECT DARRELL BROOKS GRIPED ABOUT UNFAIR TREATMENT FROM JAIL After he choked the woman, who was in her 20s, he fled. He returned the next morning at 9 a.m. and broke down her door to retrieve a large, black duffel bag he had left behind, prompting the ex-girlfriend to call the cops. He was arrested for strangulation and suffocation, misdemeanor battery, and criminal damage to property and held on a $5,000 cash bond, court records show. Six victims killed in the Waukesha parade attack. Two months later, Brooks pleaded no contest to the top charge in Wood County Circuit Court as part of a plea deal in exchange for 90 days in jail, three years probation, and $252 in restitution. WAUKESHA SUSPECT ALLEGEDLY RAN OVER HIS EX-GIRLFRIEND WITH SUV AFTER CATCHING HER WITH ANOTHER MAN After his release, he violated probation and was hauled back into court, where he was sentenced to another 11 months in jail. The lawyer who represented him in the case did not immediately return a request for comment. Brooks, who is a registered sex offender for impregnating a teen in 2005 in Nevada, has a lengthy rap sheet stretching back to 1999 and spanning three states.  In May, Brooks allegedly pummeled another ex-girlfriend with whom he shares a child at a motel in Georgia. He was arrested after a bystander intervened. Five months later, he targeted the same woman at the American Inn Motel in Milwaukee after he allegedly caught her with another man. WAUKESHA PARADE SUSPECT DARRELL BROOKS' EX-GIRLFRIEND SAYS SHE IS 'DEVASTATED' BY HIS 'MONSTROUS ACT' After allegedly socking her in the face, he ran over the 30-year-old woman with his red Ford Escape on Nov. 2, leaving her with tire marks on her left leg, a swollen lip and a bruise, according to police. In a widely criticized move, a junior prosecutor requested Brooks' release on $1,000 cash bail despite another pending felony case for shooting at his nephew and his girlfriend in 2020. Brooks' mother, Dawn Woods, posted the sum, and he was freed one week before the deadly rampage in Waukesha. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Milwaukee Country District Attorney John Chisholm called the bail "inappropriately low" and launched an investigation into the decision in the wake of the carnage. Moments before Brooks allegedly turned his car on the crowd, he clashed with an ex-girlfriend, who was seen by a neighbor "running away with no shoes and a black eye," according to The Sun. It wasn't clear from the report if it was the same ex he allegedly ran over with his car.
House Jan. 6 committee subpoenaing phone records of private individuals, Rep. Banks says: The panel ordered telecom companies to preserve records earlier this year. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. The House Jan. 6 Committee sent subpoenas to phone companies for the records of private individuals, Rep. Jim Banks told Fox News Thursday, as the controversial panel plows ahead with its investigation into the attack on the Capitol earlier this year. The subpoenas follow preservation orders the committee issued to telecom companies in August for a swath of data pertaining to many individuals. It isn't clear exactly whose records are being subpoenaed by the committee now, but a GOP aide also knowledgeable about the subpoenas said the committee hasn't issued any for phone records of members of Congress yet. "The committee has moved forward with issuing subpoenas to telephone companies," the GOP aide said Wednesday. "Our understanding at this point is they have not subpoenaed member information, but they are subpoenaing telephone records of private American citizens." Supporters of President Donald Trump climb the west wall of the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021, in Washington. "The fact they’re doing this in secret… is what makes this an unprecedented event in congressional history — that a rogue committee would go out and subpoena private citizens' phone records," Banks, R-Ind., told Fox News. "They sent press releases out about all of their other subpoenas. Why would they not provide full transparency about their activities on the subpoenas that they sent out… for what we know are private citizens?" Banks added. The GOP aide said the subpoenas were sent weeks ago. JUDGES DUBIUS OF TRUMP LAWYERS' CLAIMS IN MAJOR CASE ON JAN. 6 COMMITTEE DOCUMENTS: ‘ONE PRESIDENT AT A TIME’ The Washington Examiner first reported the story about the subpoenas for private citizens' phone records. The Jan. 6 Committee announced in August that it had sent preservation orders to 35 private companies, including telecom giants Verizon, T-Mobile and AT&T. For each of those companies, it demanded that they preserve "cellular location information," "cellular call data records," "stored content," and "reference documents." FILE - In this Jan. 6, 2021, file photo with the White House in the background, former  President Donald Trump speaks at a rally in Washington. The committee sent the orders primarily to social media companies like 8kun, Snap Inc., YouTube and Facebook. But major phone companies including AT&T, Verizon and T-Mobile also received preservation orders. "As Chairman Thompson previewed last week, the Select Committee today sent letters to 35 private-sector entities, including telecommunications, email, and social media companies, instructing them to preserve records which may be relevant to the Select Committee’s investigation," the committee said at the time. "I'm not gonna get too far ahead of what we're releasing. But we're gonna get – we'll be thorough, we'll get to the bottom," Jan. 6 Committee member Rep. Adam Kinzinger, R-Ill., told Fox News when asked about subpoenas for private citizens' phone records Wednesday. "I won't say anything on that yet," he added when pressed again. Ranking Member Rep. Liz Cheney, R-Wyo., simply said "no comment" when asked about subpoenas. FORMER TRUMP CHIEF OF STAFF MARK MEADOWS PROVIDING RECORDS TO JAN. 6 COMMITTEE, TO SIT FOR DEPOSITION Cheney's office did not respond when asked about subpoenas for private citizens' phone records. Neither did a spokesperson for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif. The Jan. 6 Committee declined to comment. Rep. Liz Cheney, R-Wyo., speaks to reporters on Capitol Hill in Washington, Tuesday, April 20, 2021. Cheney is one of two Republicans on the Jan. 6 committee. AT&T, T-Mobile and Verizon all did not respond to requests for comment from Fox News. After the committee issued its preservation orders to telecom companies in August, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., warned those companies not to comply with subpoenas from the committee. "Adam Schiff, Benny Thompson, and Nancy Pelosi’s attempts to strong-arm private companies to turn over individuals’ private data would put every American with a phone or computer in the crosshairs of a surveillance state run by Democrat politicians," McCarthy said at the time. "If they pursue this path, a Republican majority will not forget and will be ready to hold them fully accountable under the law." Republicans harshly criticize the Jan. 6 Committee for alleged overreach, and for the fact it only has two GOP members – Cheney and Kinzinger. Both of them were selected by Pelosi after she blocked McCarthy's picks for the committee, including Banks. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "This is an entirely partisan witch hunt. It's not at all interested in the facts surrounding what happened with the breakdown of security at the Capitol to prevent something like that from ever happening again," Banks said Thursday. Democrats, meanwhile, say the committee is running a critical investigation to hold accountable the people responsible for the mob of Trump supporters that attacked the Capitol on Jan. 6. "Let’s remember what the Select Committee has set out to do," committee Chairman Rep. Bennie Thompson, D-Miss., said Wednesday. "Provide answers to the American people about the worst attack on the legislative branch since the war of 1812, a violent attempt to halt our Constitutionally required responsibility of certifying the presidential election—and to learn everything about what led up to the day of violence." Fox News' Andrew Mark Miller contributed to this report.
'Long' COVID causes bad smells and tastes, depression for some survivors: 'Hot water smells like rotting meat': Some people can lose their sense of smell indefinitely. Paul Gigot interviews Dr. Marty Makary Katrina Haydon can’t eat, shower or brush her teeth the same way she used to six months ago because of parosmia, a smell disorder sometimes associated with COVID-19 "long-haulers," or people whose COVID symptoms last long after they test positive for the virus. Parosmia is a term used for any kind of distortion of one’s sense of smell — unlike anosmia, a term for one’s loss of their sense of smell. For Haydon, 24, it started with anosmia. She believes she contracted COVID-19 in June of 2021, though she tested negative for the virus. She had mild cold-like symptoms and lost her sense of taste and smell, as many COVID patients do. The anosmia lasted for several weeks before about 70% to 80% of her taste and smell senses returned. A healthcare worker inserts a Covid-19 rapid test into a machine at the CareNow Denver University urgent care center in Denver, Colorado, U.S., on Tuesday, Nov. 16, 2021. Photographer: Daniel Brenner/Bloomberg Then, in September, the parosmia symptoms kicked in. "Savory foods smell like rotting sewage. Hot water smells like rotting meat. Chemical cleaner and perfume smell like really sharp, overwhelming sulfur — like the smell of hair burning but concentrated and stronger. Sweets and dairy taste like perfume would taste if you sprayed it in your mouth," she told Fox News. COVID ‘LONG-HAULERS’ EXPERIENCING FISHY, SULFUR SMELLS Haydon’s aversion to the smell of heat — such as the smell of a hot shower or radiator — is perhaps the strangest aspect of her condition. "I used to take a shower more than twice a day regularly, but at least twice a day, and it has been really, really hard for me to make myself shower once a day. It's so difficult," she said. "And same thing with brushing my teeth. It’s really, really hard because even non-mint toothpastes cause a physical reaction because they just taste and smell so bad." Workers assemble a heater in an outdoor dining area at a restaurant in San Francisco, California, U.S., on Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg The experience has been isolating and even depressing. If her neighbors cook, it smells bad. Public transportation smells bad . CVS and Whole Foods smell bad. Restaurants smell terrible. It has driven her away from seeing friends in social settings. "I think everybody believes me, but I don't think they realize — I think a lot of people don't realize — the severity of it," Haydon said. "It seems like, oh, everything smells and tastes bad, that stinks, but I don’t think the extent to which it does change your day-to-day life is immediately evident to most people. I think it takes a little time to understand what that really does look like." Dr. Andrew Lane, Director of the Sinus Center at Johns Hopkins and professor of otolaryngology — head and neck surgery — at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, told Fox News that parosmia not only appears in some COVID-19 survivors, but it can also occur after people catch other viral infections or suffer brain injuries, brain tumors and Multiple Sclerosis. OMICRON: WHAT ARE THE VARIANT'S SYMPTOMS? Lane, who is studying the phenomenon in COVID-19 survivors, says it all starts in membranes located in the upper part of a person’s nose. "Your whole nose is lined with mucous membranes ... and in the upper part of the nose, there's this very specialized mucous membrane, and that's where you sense smells. And this is really a unique kind of tissue in the body," he said. "First of all, it's the only place in the body where a neuron that's coming from the brain directly contacts the outside world … and the part that sticks out in the environment can is what actually can detect an [odor molecule]. … And then and then it sends a signal like straight to the brain." Dr. Andrew Lane That unique tissue is called the olfactory epithelium. The membranes in that part of the nose remember what certain objects are supposed to smell like. But with anosmia and parosmia, those neurons, which are supposed to send signals to the brain after encountering an odor molecule and inform the brain of what it is, get lost along the way. "COVID has this ability to infect the olfactory tissue and the olfactory epithelium … and you lose a lot of neurons, sort of all at once. And if you lose a lot of it, you know, maybe all of it, then you're going to be anosmic," Lane explained, adding that it’s "not exactly clear how this happens." THIRD OMICRON CASE DETECTED IN COLORADO His recent study shows that COVID-19 cells, which latch onto and infect olfactory cells, are 700 times more prevalent in the upper part of the nose that send odor signals to the brain than they are in "the lining cells of the rest of the nose and windpipe that leads to the lungs." Usually, a person’s sense of smell returns quickly after contracting COVID-19, but sometimes it can take months; in rare cases, people can lose their smell indefinitely. Three days after testing positive for Covid-19, "everything tasted like cardboard," recalls 38-year-old Elizabeth Medina, who lost her sense of taste and smell at the start of the pandemic. When a person experiences anosmia, sometimes they can gain their sense of smell back by smelling potent foods, like grapefruit, because the brain can remember how those foods are supposed to smell. But with parosmia, neurons send the "wrong" signals to the brain, which is why Haydon and others can’t eat or walk into restaurants — because everything smells too awful. Lane says as devastating as this is for most people who experience it, it’s actually a good sign. "That means that it's coming," the professor said, "it" meaning an accurate sense of smell. "It's starting to work again, and that there may be some sorting out to do, but at least the elements are finding their way back together, getting to your brain, getting some signal when your nose is getting a smell, which is better than nothing. … The brain sorts it out, and over time, you get your sense of smell back." Haydon has turned to online forums, TikTok, YouTube and Twitter to find answers because doctors haven’t given her much to work with. WHITE HOUSE SAYS DOMESTIC TRAVEL VACCINE REQUIREMENTS ON THE TABLE DUE TO OMICRON VARIANT There are a mix of people experiencing the issue: young people, older people, men, women, vaccinated, unvaccinated. Many say they experienced mild COVID-19 symptoms before suddenly experiencing parosmia weeks or months after contracting the virus. She’s read about parents who can’t cook for their families anymore or sit with them at the dinner table. Yet for such a debilitating issue for potentially thousands of people, if not millions, globally, there is no confirmed solution. Leah Holzel, 60, a food editor who had lost her sense of smell from 2016 to 2019, now coaches people who have lost their sense of smell due to Covid-19. Haydon has read about solutions ranging from alpha-lipoic, an antioxidant found naturally in human cells, to IV drips, zinc and even chiropractic methods. "It's pretty varied," she said. "Mostly, it's people saying, ‘Have you tried this? Have you tried this?’ But most of the people I see that say, ‘Oh, I did this, and it worked,’ is the alpha-lipoic." Lane said he’s heard of using alpha-lipoic acid as a solution, but "there’s not very good evidence that [it] works." "I mean, there's a whole industry of different things that people give to people with olfactory loss, and mostly it's snake oil kind of stuff, and there’s very kind of skimpy data about it," he said. "But there is no medication that we have that restores a sense of smell." Ultimately, COVID-19 is too new. It’s only been around for about two years, so "long" COVID symptoms and long-term effects of the virus are still largely unknown. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Most of the patients Lane sees who can’t taste food or experience a bad reaction to the smell of food have to force themselves to eat because they know they’re hungry even though the act of eating seems unappealing. "It's a frustrating problem that we don't have a treatment for," he explained. "And I think we're going to see more and more patients with this problem. The answer, ultimately, is going to be research. … We've been interested in this kind of general problem of how the sense of smell works and what can go wrong. But I think that ultimately the way out of this is to understand better and how the system works and develop treatments."
CNN faces calls to enlist outside firm to probe Cuomo scandal, network mum on who will conduct review: 'It goes beyond the pale to think that an internal probe here would be appropriate,' CNN insider told Fox News Digital. In media news today, Chris Cuomo's suspension has been 'challenging' and 'divisive' for the network according to an insider, an NBC producer appears to admit ordering freelancer to tail the Rittenhouse jury bus, and the ACLU comes under fire for a tweet celebrating abortion. CNN is under pressure to enlist an outside, white-shoe law firm to investigate the scandal surrounding suspended anchor Chris Cuomo, but it is unclear if the liberal network will. Bombshell documents released late last month by New York investigators showing Cuomo's intense efforts to protect now-ousted Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo amid sexual misconduct allegations have resulted in CNN suspending the "Cuomo Prime Time" namesake. The scandal-plagued, liberal network has said Cuomo is suspended "indefinitely, pending further evaluation," but has not shed any light on who exactly will be investigating. "It goes beyond the pale to think that an internal probe here would be appropriate and satisfy an ethical response. Who would trust that? The New York State Attorney General’s Investigation speaks for itself. Chris Cuomo’s actions can’t be papered-over by a CNN probe," a CNN insider told Fox News Digital. CHRIS CUOMO’S SUSPENSION ‘CHALLENGING, DIVISIVE AND TROUBLING’ INSIDE CNN, INSIDERS SAY CNN suspended Chris Cuomo "indefinitely, pending further evaluation" after newly released documents shed new light on his role in former Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s sexual misconduct scandal. CNN did not respond when asked if an outside firm would be hired. Parent company WarnerMedia/AT&T didn’t respond to multiple requests for comment, either. Fox News Digital also emailed everyone on AT&T’s board of directors with the same question but didn’t receive any responses. "CNN needs to commission an outside investigation like they did with their Tailwind debacle if there is to be any credibility," a longtime media executive told Fox News Digital, referring to the infamous 1998 retraction of a CNN story that falsely claimed the U.S. military used nerve gas in a mission to kill American defectors in Laos during the Vietnam War. CNN enlisted an independent investigation to look into the report, and a staggering retraction was issued once the outside probe concluded CNN’s report could not be supported. But CNN has changed significantly since 1998, and then-president Tom Johnson is no longer with the company. WarnerMedia News and Sports chairman Jeff Zucker now oversees the network. "Jeff Zucker is hopelessly compromised in how he’s covered up for Cuomo’s buffoonery, lies and ethical lapses over the last two years. And this outside investigation should be focusing on Jeff just as much as it does Chris," the media executive, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said. Despite calls for an outside probe from media industry professionals, UltraViolet, prominent women’s group, doesn’t think the "Cuomo Prime Time" namesake deserves the attention. "CNN doesn’t need an outside counsel to know that Chris Cuomo should never be put on the air again. He used his position of power to help orchestrate an attack on victims of sexual abuse. CNN should fire Chris Cuomo today," UltraViolet campaign director Elisa Batista told Fox News Digital. Plenty of industry experts simply don’t think an internal probe is adequate, but Poynter Institute senior media writer Tom Jones feels an internal investigation can be effective in this case because of the overwhelming amount of public evidence. "Thanks to the New York Attorney General’s documents, it looks as if CNN has the information it needs to determine whether Chris Cuomo crossed the line," Jones told Fox News Digital. A collection of previously confidential documents revealed CNN's Chris Cuomo was more involved with his big brother’s sexual misconduct scandal than previously known. DePauw University professor and media critic Jeffrey McCall disagrees and said CNN should "absolutely" bring in an independent team to assess the Cuomo situation. "It was the CNN brass itself that took the Cuomo situation too lightly in the first place. That lack of action and transparency is largely responsible for the credibility crisis now faced by CNN," McCall told Fox News Digital. "Thus, the CNN hierarchy can hardly be counted on to do the fair and comprehensive investigation now needed. CNN needs an independent look at this as a first step to restoring credibility with all external publics." CHRIS CUOMO ADDRESSES CNN SUSPENSION: ‘IT HURTS TO EVEN SAY IT, IT’S EMBARRASSING, BUT I UNDERSTAND’ McCall feels an internal probe would "be viewed with suspicion by viewers" regardless of the findings and would only further damage the network’s dwindling credibility. "CNN has struggled with how to manage Chris Cuomo for many months now, even going back to when Chris and Governor Cuomo were doing their regular PR and comedy routines during the early days of COVID," he said. "CNN and its viewers need closure on this in a way that can stand public and professional scrutiny." Other news organizations dealing with internal issues have brought in outside investigators to make sure the appropriate people are held accountable. Transcripts of Cuomo’s interview with state investigators indicated the CNN star would reach out to media sources to find out about his brother’s accusers before they came forward publicly. Cuomo’s actions also appeared to include opposition research on his brother’s accusers during an era when the "Believe Women" mantra was at the forefront of the #MeToo movement. CNN’s Chris Cuomo used his media-industry connections to snoop around the media industry to find out the progress of Ronan Farrow’s reporting about his brother. Text messages also indicated Cuomo snooped on fellow journalists who were thought to be working on stories that would make his brother look bad, and relayed the information to governor’s aides. Another CNN insider feels Cuomo’s future is tied to whether or not he lied to Zucker about his involvement behind the scenes. Other industry insiders feel Cuomo’s fate is ultimately in the hands of high-powered Discovery executives John Malone and David Zaslav, as Discovery is set to merge with WarnerMedia in 2022. CNN'S BRIAN STELTER INDICATES CHRIS CUOMO MIGHT ONLY BE SUSPENDED FOR A FEW WEEKS Zaslav, who is expected to run the proposed, combined company, and Malone did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Discovery did not immediately respond when asked if an outside investigator should be hired by CNN prior to the merger’s completion. Meanwhile, many critics feel Cuomo’s April 2020 staged exit from COVID quarantine is an even more serious breach of journalism ethics than his role in his brother's scandal. The "Cuomo Prime Time" host famously emerged from his basement, telling viewers he had been waiting for this moment "literally for weeks" as he battled coronavirus. However, days before then, he was spotted outside his home and even got into an altercation with a bicyclist who claimed the CNN anchor was violating quarantine guidelines being enforced by his brother. Staging news used to have consequences – ABC News even reprimanded Cokie Roberts in 1994 for simply wearing a coat to pretend she was outside for a live shot conducted indoors – but Cuomo has gotten a pass for the quarantine debacle. NBC News famously suspended Brian Williams before demoting him to MSNBC for lying on late-night talk shows with no editorial oversight, whereas Cuomo misled viewers about his quarantine on CNN platforms. MSNBC AVOIDS BREAKING NEWS OF CHRIS CUOMO'S SUSPENSION, REFRAINS FROM CRITICIZING RIVAL CNN ANCHOR Cornell Law School professor William A. Jacobson thinks WarnerMedia has no choice in the matter if it wants to maintain credibility. "CNN already has shown itself to be conflicted and compromised when addressing Chris Cuomo's actions towards his brother, the former Governor. Since this is a CNN management problem in addition to a Chris Cuomo problem, only an outside, independent investigation and review can unravel the management failures," Jacobson told Fox News Digital. Whether or not Chris Cuomo lied to CNN boss Jeff Zucker will play a key role in determining his fate, according to a CNN insider. However, it’s unclear who will investigate the situation. While most reputable news organizations have enlisted outside law firms to investigate scandals, some media executives have refused. NBC News came under fire at the height of the #MeToo movement for not allowing outside counsel to investigate who knew about Matt Lauer’s sexual wrongdoings. Instead, NBC News allowed General Counsel Kim Harris to conduct the review, and she eventually declared that NBC management was completely oblivious to Lauer’s lewd behavior. The results of the NBC review were mocked by media watchdogs and NBC employees alike, while former NBC News star Ann Curry declared she did not participate despite expressing publicly to the Washington Post that she had complained to senior NBC News executives about Lauer’s behavior. The decision not to enlist an outside firm is widely considered a black mark on then-NBC News chairman Andy Lack’s legacy. He left the company in 2020. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP CNN’s initial statement declared: "The New York Attorney General’s office released transcripts and exhibits Monday that shed new light on Chris Cuomo’s involvement in his brother’s defense. The documents, which we were not privy to before their public release, raise serious questions. When Chris admitted to us that he had offered advice to his brother’s staff, he broke our rules and we acknowledged that publicly. But we also appreciated the unique position he was in and understood his need to put family first and job second. However, these documents point to a greater level of involvement in his brother’s efforts than we previously knew. As a result, we have suspended Chris indefinitely, pending further evaluation." Fox News’ Joseph A. Wulfsohn contributed to this report.
Data suggests 1 in 44 US children are affected by autism: U.S. autism numbers have been on the rise for several years. The Iowa teen has been charged with a ‘willful injury’ felony. New autism numbers released Thursday suggest more U.S. children are being diagnosed with the developmental condition and at younger ages. In an analysis of 2018 data from nearly a dozen states, researchers at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found that among 8-year-olds, 1 in 44 had been diagnosed with autism. That rate compares with 1 in 54 identified with autism in 2016. BABIES AND EAR PIERCINGS: IS IT EVER OK? U.S. autism numbers have been on the rise for several years, but experts believe that reflects more awareness and wider availability of services to treat the condition rather than a true increase in the number of affected children. Interns with ASD learn how to become digital media producers through programs like Photoshop and Adobe Premiere. A separate CDC report released Thursday said that children were 50% more likely to be diagnosed with autism by age 4 in 2018 than in 2014. "There is some progress being made, and the earlier kids get identified, the earlier they can access services that they might need to improve their developmental outcome,’’ said CDC researcher and co-author Kelly Shaw. DIGITAL MULTITASKING CAN BE DETRIMENTAL TO A CHILD'S MENTAL HEALTH, STUDY WARNS Geraldine Dawson, director of Duke University’s Center for Autism and Brain Development, said the new estimate is similar to one found in research based on screening a large population of children rather than on those already diagnosed. As such, she said it may be closer to reflecting the true state of autism in U.S. children than earlier estimates. The CDC reports are based on data from counties and other communities in 11 states — some with more urban neighborhoods, where autism rates tend to be higher. The rates are estimates and don't necessarily reflect the entire U.S. situation, the authors said. Facilitator Allison Thomlinson is using an iPad to prompt Milo if the student answered a question correctly or not. Williamston, SC. Autism rates varied widely — from 1 in 26 in California, where services are plentiful, to 1 in 60 in Missouri. Overall, autism prevalence was similar across racial and ethnic lines, but rates were higher among Black children in two sites, Maryland and Minnesota. Until recently, U.S. data showed prevalence among white children was higher. Scientists found that autism risk was higher in children whose moms had one of the three main types of diabetes that lead to complications in pregnancy. At a third site, Utah, rates were higher among children from lower-income families than those from wealthier families, reversing a longstanding trend, said report co-author Amanda Bakian, a University of Utah researcher who oversees the CDC’s autism surveillance in that state. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Bakian said that likely reflects more coverage for autism services by Medicaid and private health insurers.
Bucs' Antonio Brown suspended for 3 games following fake COVID-19 vaccine card scandal: Mike Edwards and John Franklin III were also suspended. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Tampa Bay Buccaneers wide receiver Antonio Brown has been suspended for the next three games for violating the league’s COVID-19 protocols. Bucs safety Mike Edwards and free agent receiver John Franklin III were also suspended by the NFL on Thursday, and both players are ineligible to play the next three weeks. All three players have accepted the discipline, and they will not appeal. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Tampa Bay Buccaneers wide receiver Antonio Brown  heads for the end zone for a 62-yard touchdown reception against the Miami Dolphins Sunday, Oct. 10, 2021, in Tampa, Fla. The NFL and NFLPA put out a joint statement on Thursday. "The health and safety of players and personnel is our top priority," the statement said. "The protocols were jointly developed working with our respective experts to ensure that we are practicing and playing football as safely as possible during the ongoing pandemic. The NFL-NFLPA jointly reinforce their commitment and further emphasize the importance of strict adherence to the protocols to protect the well-being of everyone associated with the NFL." The Buccaneers also put out a statement regarding the situation. "We appreciate the league’s timely handling of this matter and recognize the importance of the health and safety protocols that have been established. We will continue to implement all league COVID-19 protocols," the Buccaneers statement said. Tampa Bay Buccaneers wide receiver Antonio Brown  against the Miami Dolphins Sunday, Oct. 10, 2021, in Tampa, Fla. JON GRUDEN'S EMAIL SCANDAL WAS 'A PROFESSIONAL HIT JOB,' BRENT MUSBURGER SAYS In mid-November, the Tampa Bay Times reported that Brown was accused by his former live-in chef of acquiring a fake COVID-19 vaccination card so that he could avoid NFL protocols. Brown and Los Angeles chef Steven Ruiz had a falling out after the superstar wide receiver failed to pay a debt. Ruiz, who is the owner of "Taste ThatLA," claimed Brown owed him $10,000. In July, Ruiz said he wasn’t able to get a fake card for Brown. A few weeks later, Ruiz said, Brown showed up with fake vaccination cards that he bought for himself and his girlfriend, model Cydney Moreau. According to the chef, the cards were on Brown’s dining room table just days before the team’s training camp was set to begin. Tampa Bay Buccaneers wide receiver Antonio Brown  Sunday, Oct. 3, 2021, in Foxborough, Mass. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP That night, Alex Guerrero, a personal trainer and co-founder of the TB12 method with quarterback Tom Brady, went over to Brown’s house to help him recover from knee surgery. Ruiz said Guerrero took a picture of Brown’s vaccination card so he could help the organization document the list of vaccinated players. Ruiz, however, said that he thinks Guerrero was unaware that the card was fake. Brown suffered a foot injury during a Thursday Night Football game against the Philadelphia Eagles on Oct. 14 and hasn’t played since.
Bryson DeChambeau says he once wanted to quit playing golf: DeChambeau, who is ranked seventh in the world, has eight PGA Tour wins and a US Open title. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Bryson DeChambeau, one of the world's top golfers, recently caught up with the New York Post and said that he once considered quitting the sport. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM In this Aug. 29, 2021, file photo, Bryson DeChambeau reacts after sinking his putt on the 16th green during the final round of the BMW Championship golf tournament at Caves Valley Golf Club in Owings Mills, Md. "There was a point in time — I'm not kidding — where I just felt like I wanted to leave the game," DeChambeau said. "I just felt like, ‘I don't need any of this. Why? Why put myself through all this torture?’" Over the last year, DeChambeau had formed an interesting rivalry with Brooks Koepka. The 28-year-old DeChambeau also criticized his Cobra equipment following the first round of the British Open. DeChambeau also bashed a rules official at the 2020 Memorial, and he fieled criticism after he failed to get vaccinated and ended up missing the Olympics due to a positive COVID-19 test. Bryson DeChambeau holds the Rocket Mortgage Classic golf tournament trophy at Detroit Golf Club in Detroit in this July 2020 file photo. RORY MCILROY FIRES BACK AT QUESTIONS OVER DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP MELTDOWN: 'THIS F---ING RIPPED SHIRT' "I got hit pretty hard," DeChambeau said. "That's why I kind of walked away, because people were damaging [my] character. It was all the stuff that was going on in social media. I was like, ‘I really don't need this. I can walk away and be totally fine the rest of my life, be happy and go and hit the long ball and call it a day.’" DeChambeau, who is ranked seventh in the world, has eight PGA Tour wins and a U.S. Open Championship and he’s earned almost $26 million over his career. And even though he considered quitting golf at one point, DeChambeau appears to be motivated. Bryson DeChambeau reacts after missing a putt on the ninth green during the final round of the BMW Championship golf tournament, Sunday, Aug. 29, 2021, at Caves Valley Golf Club in Owings Mills, Md. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "I want to win Augusta, all the majors, have the career Grand Slam and continue to win events," DeChambeau said. "I've won Arnold Palmer and Jack Nicklaus' event, and that's pretty cool. I want to eventually win [Tiger Woods' Genesis Invitational], and have all three of those. That'd be cool."
'Real Housewives' star Braunwyn Windham-Burke packs on PDA with new girlfriend during beach day in Miami: The 'RHOC' star came out as gay last year. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Braunwyn Windham-Burke isn't hiding her new romance. The "Real Housewives of Orange County" star, 44, was spotted on a beach in Miami on Wednesday with her new girlfriend, Victoria Brito. For the sunny outing, the reality star donned a green one-piece swimsuit and straw fedora, while her girlfriend wore red patterned swim shorts, a black bikini top and a matching baseball cap. The two were seen swapping smooches and getting flirty in the sand. 'REAL HOUSEWIVES' ALUM BRAUNWYN WINDHAM-BURKE REVEALS 'TRIAL SEPARATION' FROM HUSBAND SEAN ‘Real Housewives of Orange County’ star Braunwyn Windham-Burke was spotted with her new girlfriend Victoria Brito in Miami. The happy couple is in town to attend this year's Art Basel events. On Wednesday, Windham-Burke shared a montage of photos and videos from her trip on her Instagram Story, featuring several shots of herself and Brito cozying up while dressed to the nines for the events. BRAUNWYN WINDHAM-BURKE AND HUSBAND SEAN SUED FOR $45,000 IN ALLEGED BACK RENT Similarly, the reality star appeared in Brito's Instagram Story a number of times. It's unclear how long the two have been together, but according to Brito's Instagram bio, she works as a dancer, model and designer. The star was seen soaking in some sun on a beach in Miami with her designer girlfriend. Windham-Burke told Page Six that she and Brito are "having fun" exploring their relationship. "I only came out a year ago and I’m enjoying being single. I really like spending time with her. A bonus is that she gets along with [my estranged husband] Sean [Burke]," the reality star added. 'REAL HOUSEWIVES' STAR BRAUNWYN WINDHAM-BURKE TALKS STATUS OF HER OPEN MARRIAGE TO HUSBAND SEAN When Windham-Burke announced that she was gay, she and Sean had no plans to divorce but have since separated. The two got flirty in the sand during their beach day. "[Sean and Brito] went to an NFT event together in New York City and share common interests … I like her," said the star. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Brito is based in New York, per the outlet, where Windham-Burke owns property, splitting her time between the Big Apple and California. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER "I really do love dating in the city," she previously told Page Six. "O.C. is very small, so it’s nice to have the separation, so when I’m at home, I’m just with the family and when I’m here, I love the fact that I get to meet amazing people."
Fox Nation's 'Christmas at the Cathedral' honors history of St. Patrick's Cathedral: Join Jonathan Morris for a behind-the-scenes look at the cathedral. Fox News contributor Jonathan Morris joined 'Fox & Friends' to discuss the Christmas special honoring the 'history and tradition' of the cathedral. Fox Nation's Christmas Special, "Christmas at the Cathedral," celebrates the history and tradition of St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York City, hosted by Fox News contributor Jonathan Morris in his first Fox Nation special. CHRISTMAS AT FOX: THIRD-ANNUAL ‘ALL-AMERICAN’ CHRISTMAS TREE LIGHTING RETURNS TO FOX SQUARE Morris appeared on "Fox & Friends" Thursday to discuss the 30-minute documentary, which is now available exclusively on Fox Nation to spur the Christmas spirit. "So two million visitors come through at Christmastime in the heart of Midtown Manhattan, but this cathedral was… finished in 1879. When they began to build this cathedral this was basically wilderness," Morris explained. "The old cathedral, in 1809, Old St Pat's was way downtown, and the Bishop at the time said, no, I think New York City's going to grow," he continued. "We're going to build a cathedral way up north. People had to take buggies, carriages, horses to get to it… It was a visionary thought, and now we're reaping the benefits." CLICK HERE TO GET FOX NATION TODAY During the special, Morris dives into the history of the church, its construction, and its breathtaking Christmastime displays for the holiday season. He also speaks with Cardinal Timothy Dolan to discuss the cathedral's special place in New York and the true meaning of Christmas. "One of the things I discovered was that St. Patrick's Cathedral not only was built by Irish immigrants, but very poor Irish immigrants," Morris said. "They built this thing stone by stone with a lot of work and hard sweat." "Christmas at the Cathedral" is available now on Fox Nation. Good things come in virtual packages. From now until January 3, everyone can get 35% off any of Fox Nation's yearly plans when they use the promo code CELEBRATE at checkout.Fox Nation programs are viewable on-demand and from your mobile device app, but only for Fox Nation subscribers. Go to Fox Nation to start a free trial and watch the extensive library from your favorite Fox News personalities.
