House Republican Rep. Devin Nunes to resign: Fox News has confirmed that Nunes plans to retire. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif., will resign from Congress at the end of the year. Fox News has confirmed that Nunes plans to leave, with a source saying the lawmaker "got a job offer that he can’t refuse" as CEO of a newly established Trump media organization. "Trump Media & Technology Group today announced that Congressman Devin G. Nunes has been selected to join the Company as Chief Executive Officer," the organization said in a statement. "Mr. Nunes will be leaving the U.S. House of Representatives and will begin his new role as Chief Executive Officer of TMTG in January 2022."Donald Trump, Chairman of TMTG, commented in the statement: "Congressman Devin Nunes is a fighter and a leader. He will make an excellent CEO of TMTG. Devin understands that we must stop the liberal media and Big Tech from destroying the freedoms that make America great." NUNES CALLS FOR NEW CRIMINAL REFERRAL OVER PETER STRZOK TEXTS WASHINGTON, DC - JUNE 29: U.S. Rep. Devin Nunes. Nunes became one of the most outspoken defenders of former President Donald Trump, being awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Trump just two weeks before the inauguration of President Biden. Trump praised Nunes' "courageous actions" in being a vocal critic of special Counsel Robert Mueller's investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election, crediting him with helping "thwart a plot to take down a sitting United States president." "Devin’s efforts led to the firing, demotion, or resignation of over a dozen FBI and DOJ employees," the White House said in a statement at the time. "He also forced the disclosure of documents that proved that a corrupt senior FBI official pursued a vindictive persecution of General Michael Flynn — even after rank and file FBI agents found no evidence of wrongdoing." AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster) The veteran lawmaker in 2018 released the "Nunes Memo," which alleged federal surveillance abuses by the Obama administration's Department of Justice. "He had the fortitude to take on the media, the FBI, the Intelligence Community, the Democrat Party, foreign spies, and the full power of the Deep State," the White House statement said. Nunes will next be at the head of Trump's yet-to-released social media platform, TRUTH Social. Trump announced the launch of the social media platform in October, which is slated for full release in 2022. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "I created TRUTH Social and TMTG to stand up to the tyranny of Big Tech. We live in a world where the Taliban has a huge presence on Twitter, yet your favorite American President has been silenced. This is unacceptable," Trump said in a press release at the time. "I am excited to send out my first TRUTH on TRUTH Social very soon. TMTG was founded with a mission to give a voice to all. I'm excited to soon begin sharing my thoughts on TRUTH Social and to fight back against Big Tech. Everyone asks me why doesn’t someone stand up to Big Tech? Well, we will be soon!" he added. Nunes was first elected to represent California's 22nd congressional district in 2003. He served as Chair of the House Intelligence Committee from 2015 to 2019 and remains the top Republican on the committee. The California lawmaker would have been next in line to chair the powerful House Ways and Means Committee after the retirement of Rep. Kevin Brady, R-Texas., if the GOP were to regain control of the House after the midterm elections. Fox News' Chad Pergram contributed to this report.
South Carolina high schooler arrested for allegedly threatening to shoot up schools: The arrest comes less than a week after a school shooting in Oxford, Michigan. A 17-year-old student from Oxford High School has becomes the fourth victim of the deadly school shooting after succumbing to his injuries in the hospital. South Carolina sheriff’s deputies arrested a 14-year-old male high school student Monday on charges that he threatened to shoot up schools in his county, authorities said. The Lexington County Sheriff’s Office said the Gilbert High School student made a "threatening statement" while on the bus last Thursday, and another student overheard them. Gilbert HS The student told school administrators that he heard the other student allegedly talking about wearing a trench coat the next day and shooting up an elementary school and a middle school, according to an incident report cited by the sheriff’s office. The student's alleged comments about a shooting were overhead by another student on the bus, police said. "The student who came forward should be commended for doing the right thing," Lexington County Sheriff Jay Koon said. "They heard something and reported all the details to someone who could immediately step and take action to make sure everyone stayed safe. COLORADO SHERIFF'S SANTA PHOTO STOKES OUTRAGE ON SOCIAL MEDIA, OFFICE APOLOGIZES "While there was never any imminent danger to students, teachers or anyone else on a campus, this is another example of how we and Lexington School District share in the responsibility to protect those who learn and work at school." Ethan Crumbley, 15, allegedly shot and killed four students and injured seven others at Oxford High School. The student, whose identity has not been publicly released, was released from custody after he was charged, the sheriff’s office said. He is due to appear in a Lexington Family Court at a later date. The Lexington School District sent out a message to families. The district said a GHS administrator had notified law enforcement, which investigated and determined there was no immediate danger to students or staff. The district said it has suspended the student, and he faces expulsion. "We are proud of the student who came forward to report the threat," the district said. "This situation is another example of how we must work together to keep each other safe. We take threats seriously and take swift and stern action against those making threats against our schools." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The student’s arrest came less than a week after a 15-year-old allegedly opened fire at his high school in Oxford, Michigan, killing four fellow students and wounding six others, including a teacher. He has been charged as an adult with murder, terrorism, and other crimes in the attack.
Texas AG fires back at Biden admin's 'absurd lawsuit' over redistricting: The Biden administration alleges Texas violated Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act.. On 'America's Newsroom,' Texas attorney general says Texans would love to see a wall built and discusses the questions surrounding the legitimacy of the migrants in the caravan. Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton blasted the Biden administration's recently announced voting rights lawsuit, alleging that the suit was a "preposterous attempt to sway democracy." "The Department of Justice's absurd lawsuit against our state is the Biden Administration's latest ploy to control Texas voters," tweeted the Texas attorney general's office on Monday. "I am confident that our legislature's redistricting decisions will be proven lawful, and this preposterous attempt to sway democracy will fail." BIDEN JUSTICE DEPARTMENT SUES TEXAS OVER REDISTRICTING MAPS The lawsuit alleges the districts drawn by Texas lawmakers violate the federal Voting Rights Act by diluting the voting strength of minority voters. "The department’s career voting law experts have assessed Texas's new redistricting plans and determined that they include districts that violate the Voting Rights Act," Attorney General Merrick Garland said at a press conference announcing the lawsuit. U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland announced a voting rights lawsuit against Texas on Monday. Garland pictured here  on July 23 in Chicago, Illinois. "This is not the first time that Texas has acted to minimize the voting rights of its minority citizens," Associate Attorney General Vanita Gupta added during the conference. "Decade after decade, courts have found that Texas has enacted redistricting plans that deliberately dilute the voting strength of Latino and Black voters and that violate the Voting Rights Act." Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton speaks outside the U.S. Supreme Court on November 01, 2021 in Washington, DC. Paxton on Monday fired back at the Biden administration's redistricting lawsuit. Monday's lawsuit is just the latest the Biden administration has brought against the state of Texas. It recently challenged another voting bill and sued over the state's controversial abortion ban. The DOJ pointed to Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act, which prohibits practices of procedures that discriminate on the basis of race. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act requires that state voting laws – including laws that draw electoral maps – provide eligible voters with an equal opportunity to participate in the democratic process and elect representatives of their choosing," Garland said in a statement. "The complaint we filed today alleges that Texas has violated Section 2 by creating redistricting plans that deny or abridge the rights of Latino and Black voters to vote on account of their race, color or membership in a language minority group." Fox News' Jessica Chasmar contributed to this report.
Colorado sheriff's Santa photo stokes outrage on social media, office apologizes: Twitter users pointed out the ill-timing of the post. Dr. Jeff Gardere, a board certified clinical psychologist and associate professor at the Touro College of Osteopathic Medicine, weighs in on the case of 15-year-old Ethan Crumbley, the Michigan teen suspect accused of killing four students. A Colorado sheriff’s department caused a stir over the weekend for what many deemed an inappropriate photo: Santa applying for a concealed carry permit. The El Paso County Sheriff’s Office posted the photo on its Twitter page. A white-haired bearded man decked out in Christmas attire can be seen sitting at a desk. Santa applying for a concealed carry permit. "Guess who came in to receive his Concealed Handgun Permit today?" the office tweeted along with a "Santa" emoji. The sheriff’s office said it had issued nearly 50,000 concealed handgun permits, with another 2,560 waiting to be issued. The post caused an immediate backlash, with many pointing out the ill-timing given a school shooting in Oxford, Michigan, just three days prior. OXFORD SCHOOL OFFICIALS COULD BE CHARGED IN DEADLY MICHIGAN SHOOTING: PROSECUTOR The suspected shooter, 15-year-old Ethan Crumbley, allegedly opened fire, killing four fellow students and wounding six others, along with a teacher. He has been charged as an adult with murder, terrorism and other crimes in the attack. Ethan Robert Crumbley, 15, charged with first-degree murder in a high school shooting, poses in a jail booking photograph taken at the Oakland County Jail in Pontiac, Michigan. Oakland County Prosecutor Karen McDonald has also filed involuntary manslaughter charges against Crumbley’s parents, Jennifer and James Crumbley, for their supposed failure to intervene on the day of the shooting despite becoming aware of a drawing a teacher found on their son's desk that included a bullet and the words "blood everywhere." MICHIGAN SUPERINTENDENT ANNOUNCES INDEPENDENT INVESTIGATION OF ACTIONS LEADING UP TO OXFORD HIGH SHOOTING Amid backlash of its "Santa-concealed carry permit" photo, the sheriff’s office said in another tweet that the initial post was not meant to be insensitive, merely to highlight its staff in the Concealed Handgun Permit Office. El Paso County Sheriff's Office Post "Santa correlates to the month of December and we thought he would help to recognize our hard working staff," the sheriff’s office wrote. But the follow-up post failed to extinguish the anger that the initial post had caused. One Twitter user accused the El Paso County Sheriff’s Office of having "completely missed the mark." CRUMBLEY SEARCH: MICHIGAN DETECTIVES TO INTERVIEW MAN SAID TO BE NAMED ‘PERSON OF INTEREST’ "[E]specially since the alleged shooter in Michigan was given a handgun as a Christmas present," the user wrote. "Also, little kids are now wondering why Santa needs to carry a concealed weapon." "I’m sitting here in downtown Oxford, MI, waiting for the candlelight vigil to start to pay tribute to 4 students who were murdered by a handgun smuggled into the school," another user wrote. "But by all means, tell kids Santa carries a concealed weapon." The sheriff's office told Fox News it received "a number of requests" after the post on how to obtain a concealed handgun permit. The sheriff's office said it would not be deleting the post because any comments posted are protected by First Amendment rights. "EPSO does not want to risk chilling the open communication between citizens and their elected officials by deleting the post, and thereby closing commentary," the sheriff's office said. "However, we have temporarily suspended comments due to inappropriate commentary between citizens which violate our social media commentary policies." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The sheriff's office also said that, contrary to some assumptions, the Santa was not purchased for a photo-op. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Psaki dodges question about Hunter Biden's sale of Chinese assets: Psaki pointed the reporter toward attorneys for the president’s son.. Former White House press secretary compares how the media treated her during Trump administration to the media's questions to Psaki on 'Sunday Night in America White House press secretary Jen Psaki dodged a question about Hunter Biden’s sale of Chinese assets during Monday's press briefing. Psaki was asked by a reporter during the daily press briefing if the White House would commit to basic transparency regarding the younger Biden's sale of the foreign assets. Psaki immediately dodged the question, pointing the reporter toward attorneys for the president's son. HUNTER BIDEN, FOREIGN AGENT PLOTTED INVESTMENT MEETING WITH SERBIAN PRESIDENT AND OLIGARCHS, EMAILS SHOW "Well, on the first [question], the president’s son is not an employee of the federal government, so I’d point you to his representatives," Psaki answered. Psaki was also asked if she could confirm the laptop reported on in the new book "The Laptop from Hell" by Miranda Devine was real and not Russian disinformation. "As it relates to the book, I have neither had the time nor interest in exploring or reading the book," Psaki said. The younger Biden recently divested from his assets with Bohai Harvest RST Equity Investment Fund Management Co. through Skaneateles LLC. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP His attorney announced the divestiture around the time of President Biden’s virtual talk with Chinese President Xi.
Biden administration will not send any official representation to 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing, Psaki says: White House press secretary Jen Psaki said the U.S. 'will not be contributing to the fanfare of the games'. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. The Biden administration will not send any "diplomatic or official representation" to Beijing for the 2022 Winter Olympics, White House press secretary Jen Psaki confirmed Monday, amid the People’s Republic of China’s "ongoing genocide and crimes against humanity" in Xinjiang. Beijing is set to host the 2022 Winter Olympic Games in February. Human rights activists and congressional Republicans have called for a boycott of the event amid international criticism of China’s treatment of Uyghur Muslims in the northwest region of Xinjiang, its crackdown on protesters in Hong Kong, and its policies toward Tibet and Taiwan. CHINA THREATENS ‘FIRM COUNTERMEASURES’ IF US PROCEEDS WITH DIPLOMATIC BOYCOTT OF BEIJING OLYMPICS During a White House press briefing, Psaki said the athletes on Team USA "have our full support," but an official delegation will not travel to the games. "The Biden administration will not send any diplomatic or official representation to the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics and Paralympic Games, given the PRC’s ongoing genocide and crimes against humanity in Xinjiang and other human rights abuses," Psaki said. CHINA CONCERNED ABOUT OMICRON EFFECT ON BEIJING WINTER GAMES "The athletes on Team USA have our fully support, we will be behind them 100% as we cheer them on from home," Psaki said. Psaki added that the United States "will not be contributing to the fanfare of the games." "U.S. diplomatic or official representation would treat these games as business as usual in the face of the PRC’s egregious human rights abuses and atrocities in Xinjiang, and we simply can’t do that," Psaki said. She added: "As the president has told President Xi, standing up for human rights is in the DNA of Americans." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Psaki noted that the Biden administration has a "fundamental commitment to promoting human rights," and feels "strongly in our position." "We will continue to take actions to advance human rights in China and beyond," Psaki said. The Biden administration in March sanctioned Chinese government officials over the "serious human rights abuse" against ethnic minorities in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, and warned, at the time, that China would continue to face consequences should the "atorocities" continue. Congressional Republicans, for months, had urged the Biden administration to discuss moving the Olympic Games out of Beijing. State Department spokesman Ned Price on Monday also doubled down on the White House's announcement, saying that the move "does not modulate at all our support for team USA." "We will be behind them 100% We will be cheering them on. But of course, we will not have any official or diplomatic representation that would send a signal that these games represent anything akin to business as usual, in the face of these ongoing atrocities, crimes against humanity in the ongoing genocide," Price said. The State Department said that its "top priority" is the "safety and security of the American people," and said it intends to provide "consular and diplomatic security services to ensure our athletes, coaches, trainers, staff associated with the U.S. Olympic team, that they are secure, that they have access to American citizen services, that we provide as a routine matter to all Americans overseas," but maintained that is a "separate matter from official diplomatic representation." CHINA THREATENS 'FIRM COUNTERMEASURES' IF US PROCEEDS WITH DIPLOMATIC BOYCOTT OF BEIJING OLYMPICS As for other nations following suit, Price said the decision is a "sovereign decision that each country needs to make." "We fully expect that other countries will announce their decision in the coming days and weeks," Price said. "What we know today is that there are many countries around the world, including many of our closest allies, who share these concerns." Prior to the Biden administration's formal announcement, China threatened to take "firm countermeasures" should the United States proceed with its diplomatic boycott of the Olympic games. Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian accused U.S. politicians of grandstanding over the issue of not sending dignitaries to attend the events that China hopes will showcase its economic development and technological prowess. Speaking to reporters at a daily briefing, Zhao said such a move would be an "outright political provocation," but gave no details on how China would retaliate. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
New travel restrictions take effect, requiring COVID testing for vaccinated travelers entering U.S.: All air travelers, even Americans and even vaccinated people, must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter the U.S.. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. President Biden's latest COVID-19 rule goes into effect Monday, requiring all international travelers, including Americans, to test negative for COVID-19 the day before their departure to the United States – whether or not they are vaccinated. The White House announced Thursday that the U.S. will "tighten pre-departure testing protocols by requiring all inbound international travelers to test within one day of departure globally, regardless of nationality or vaccination status." A senior administration official confirmed to Fox News Friday that the restriction will go into effect Monday. President Biden delivers remarks on the debt ceiling during an event in the State Dining Room of the White House, Monday, Oct. 4, 2021, in Washington. NYC BUSINESS OWNER SLAMS ‘RIDICULOUS’ VACCINE REQUIREMENT FOR PATRONS: 'DOING MORE HARM THAN GOOD' "This tighter testing timeline provides an added degree of public health protection as scientists continue to assess the Omicron variant.," the White House added. Biden announced this requirement among a swath of other actions, including the extension of mandatory masking on public transportation and in airports until March 18, creating "Winter COVID emergency response team[s]," buying a stockpile of coronavirus therapeutics, and working to provide more at-home virus tests. "We’re going to fight this variant with science and speed, not chaos and confusion, just like we beat back COVID-19 in the spring and more powerful variant — delta variant in the summer and fall," Biden said Thursday as he unveiled his "COVID-19 Winter Plan." Travelers queue at a check-in counter at OR Tambo International Airport in Johannesburg, South America, on Nov. 27, 2021, after several countries banned flights from South Africa following the discovery of a new COVID-19 variant omicron. Biden also said Friday that he does not believe the White House will have to go beyond these measures to institute a vaccine requirement for domestic travel – at least "at this point." "The measures that I announced yesterday are — we believe are sufficient to deal with the proper medical precautions to deal with the spread of this new variant," he said. "But we do require for travel — we’re going to continue to require people to have masks on — masks on — and in public places, and — and federal buildings." Biden added: "I continue to rely on the scientists and asking them whether or not we have to move beyond what we did yesterday. Right now, they’re saying no." Surgeon General Vivek Murthy delivers remarks during a news conference with White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki at the White House in Washington, July 15, 2021. Republicans argue that the vaccine requirements and masking rules the Biden administration is pushing are doing little but infringing on the freedom of Americans and hurting the economy. But Democrats and administration health advisers continue to say these steps are necessary to curb virus spread. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "What we've been seeing actually since the summertime is that if you are vaccinated or unvaccinated and gathered with people outside your household in indoor spaces, that wearing a mask is the recommended step to take to help reduce the potential for spread," Surgeon General Vivek Murthy told "Fox News Sunday." "These are strong measures we put in place and, you know, I think we've continually shown a desire to use every lever we have to make sure that people are protected, they're vaccinated, and we get to the end of this pandemic as quickly as we can," he added. Fox News' Edward Lawrence contributed to this report.
Chris Cuomo announces he's leaving SiriusXM radio show in wake of CNN firing: Cuomo touts 'thick skin' but says he must step back and focus on future. In media news today, a women's group says 'good riddance' to Chris Cuomo after CNN firing, Brooke Baldwin calls on the liberal network to replace Cuomo with a woman, and an MSNBC anchor appears to downplay Bob Dole's accomplishments because of his support for Trump. Chris Cuomo announced Monday he would leave his SiriusXM radio show in the aftermath of his termination from CNN. "The way my time ended at CNN is hard," he said in a statement. "While I have a thick skin, I also have a family, for whom the past week has been extraordinarily difficult. So, right now, I have to take a step back and focus on what comes next. That means I will no longer be doing my SiriusXM radio show. I am extremely grateful for the support I have received from SiriusXM throughout my time there. I also want to express my sincere appreciation for my loyal listeners. I will miss our conversations a great deal – but I look forward to being back in touch with you all in the future." SiriusXM confirmed Cuomo's exit in a statement to Fox News Digital. "Following Chris Cuomo’s statement that he is leaving his SiriusXM show, Let’s Get After It will no longer air. We thank Chris for his work at SiriusXM," a SiriusXM spokesperson said. CUOMO BROTHERS CANCELED – HERE'S HOW THEY TURNED MOURNERS' GRIEF INTO RAGE Cuomo was absent from Monday's Sirius show, with Law and Crime correspondent Brian Ross filling in. He began hosting "Let's Get After It" on SiriusXM in 2018, the same year CNN moved him from co-hosting its morning show "New Day" to his primetime slot, aptly named "Cuomo Prime Time." Former CNN host Chris Cuomo. The pugnacious, liberal host was fired by CNN on Saturday, just days after the scandal-plagued network indefinitely suspended him over the depth of his involvement in the political machinations of his brother, former New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, D. The younger Cuomo aided his older brother behind the scenes in combating sexual harassment allegations, texting and strategizing with top aides, investigating accusers, and snooping on other journalists writing about the claims. CNN also reportedly learned of a new accusation of sexual misconduct against Chris Cuomo, unrelated to his brother, by a former colleague at another network. He'd already apologized earlier this year after a former ABC News colleague, Shelley Ross, said he grabbed her backside without permission at a bar in 2005. JEFF ZUCKER PROTECTED CHRIS CUOMO, ‘HIS MAN,’ UNTIL THE NEW DETAILS PROVED TOO DAMAGING: HOWARD KURTZ CNN did not reprimand Cuomo earlier this year when his involvement with his brother's political aides first came to light, but new documents released late last month by New York state investigators showed he had misled the network and his audience about how much he aided his brother. Since his firing, CNN and Cuomo have traded barbs. CNN fired Chris Cuomo on Saturday, leaving its primetime lineup with a huge hole. Cuomo was CNN's highest-rated anchor this year, although he finished behind dozens of rival cable offerings despite his 9 P.M. ET show. He was routinely beaten by direct time slot competitors Sean Hannity of Fox News Channel and Rachel Maddow at MSNBC. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP His firing has rocked the media industry and leaves CNN with a hole in the middle of its struggling primetime lineup. As of last month, CNN is the only one of three major cable news outlets to have an all-male lineup in the most-watched hours of the day.
Don Lemon accuser says CNN is ‘predator protecting machine,’ happy to see ‘some accountability’ with Cuomo: Dustin Hice told Fox News Digital, 'They’re a network rife with predators and perverts'. 'MediaBuzz' host Howard Kurtz reports on fired CNN anchor facing sexual misconduct allegations. The man who accused CNN host Don Lemon of a sexually charged assault said the liberal network is "a predator protecting machine" but he’s happy to see accountability with the dismissal of Chris Cuomo. It’s been over two years since Dustin Hice filed a lawsuit against Lemon – who is openly gay – accusing the CNN host of sexually charged assault and battery at a bar on New York's Long Island during the summer of 2018. The case is expected to end up in court early next year after a prolonged legal process. Meanwhile, CNN terminated Cuomo – a good friend of Lemon's – on Saturday amid a series of sexual misconduct-related scandals of his own. DON LEMON’S ASSAULT ACCUSER SAYS HE’S TURNED DOWN THREE SETTLEMENT OFFERS "They’re a network rife with predators and perverts," Hice told Fox News Digital. "Lemon will have to testify under oath in the near future, but it’s good to see that there’s finally some accountability happening." Dustin Hice says CNN host Don Lemon assaulted him during the summer of 2018. Hice maintains he is looking for closure and peace of mind after what he says is a horrific encounter that included Lemon allegedly putting his hand down the front of his shorts, "vigorously" rubbing his genitalia, and shoving the same hand into Hice’s mustache area while asking a vulgar question. CNN has stood by Lemon, much like the liberal network stood by Cuomo until damning revelations from the New York attorney general's office about his involvement in protecting his brother, former New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, finally forced CNN to take action. CNN also reportedly learned about a new sexual harassment allegation against Chris Cuomo, unrelated to his brother, before making the decision to terminate the "Cuomo Prime Time" namesake after months of keeping him on air amid multiple scandals. "This is who they are. They’re a predator-protecting machine, they slander and smear victims with impunity," Hice added. Hice – who says he turned down multiple settlement offers – feels CNN and Lemon are doing whatever it takes to protect one of the network's most prominent anchors. "They’ve tried to grind me down, they’ve attempted to intimidate witnesses in my case, they’ve released confidential information about me in attempt to doxx me. They are complicit. This is who they are," Hice said. CNN'S BRIAN STELTER ON CHRIS CUOMO FIRING: HE CAUSED ‘SO MANY HEADACHES’ FOR CNN, STAFFERS WERE ‘VERY UNHAPPY’ CNN did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Don Lemon and Chris Cuomo are known to be extremely close and regularly expressed admiration for each other during their nightly, on-air handoff between their two programs. "In response to Mr. Hice’s baseless allegations, I encourage people to review the public filings, which show that Mr. Hice’s claims have been steadily eroding when they have been exposed to the civil litigation process. Mr. Hice’s fanciful and salacious allegations against Mr. Lemon have collapsed of their own weight. Unlike Mr. Hice, Mr. Lemon has litigated, and will continue to litigate this case in the courtroom, not the press. We look forward to the approaching trial so he can finally put this case behind him," Lemon’s attorney, Caroline J. Polisi, told Fox News Digital. Hice’s lawsuit filed Aug. 11, 2019, in Suffolk County Court alleged Lemon "intensely pushed his fingers against Plaintiff’s face under Plaintiff’s nose, forcing Plaintiff’s head thrust backward as Defendant repeatedly asked Plaintiff, ‘Do you like p---y or d--k?’" The suit also said Lemon "continued to shove his fingers into Plaintiff’s face with aggression and hostility" throughout the confrontation. In an answer to the complaint, Lemon denied all wrongdoing and called the suit "frivolous." Lemon and Cuomo are known to be close and regularly expressed admiration for each other during their nightly, on-air handoff between their two programs. The playful banter between the two CNN hosts was among the network’s most popular segments on nightly basis. "The blessing is that we're actually friends. A lot of stuff in the media is phony. A lot of couples that you see on news shows, they are friendly for the purpose of the show, and that's neither good nor bad. It is not the case with us," Cuomo said about Lemon earlier this year. Cuomo and Lemon also co-hosted a podcast together before the former was terminated by CNN. JANICE DEAN REACTS TO CHRIS CUOMO FIRING, DEMANDS APOLOGY FROM CNN CNN issued a statement Saturday evening announcing it had terminated Cuomo "effective immediately," coming just days after he was suspended pending a review of the damning revelations from the New York attorney general's office about his involvement in protecting his brother. "While in the process of that review, additional information has come to light. Despite the termination, we will investigate as appropriate," CNN stated. In a memo to staffers, CNN president Jeff Zucker wrote, "Today I let Chris know that we are ending his employment at CNN," adding, "It goes without saying that these decisions are not easy, and there are a lot of complex factors involved. But, as always, it was important to me to be upfront with each of you." Cuomo released his own statement reacting to his firing. "This is not how I want my time at CNN to end, but I have already told you why and how I helped my brother," Cuomo wrote. "So let me now say as disappointing as this is, I could not be more proud of the team at Cuomo Prime Time and the work we did as CNN's #1 show in the most competitive time slot. I owe them all and will miss that group of special people who did really important work." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Hice also previously told Fox News Digital the alleged "vile, disgusting, lewd and inhumane" attack by Lemon would be treated much differently if Hice were a woman. The alleged incident occurred at Murf’s Backstreet Tavern, in the prestigious Sag Harbor town of the Hamptons area east of New York City in July 2018. Fox News’ Joseph A. Wulfsohn contributed to this report. This article was updated with comment from Lemon's attorney.
Kamala Harris staffer gets ribbed after insisting he loves his job: 'Blink twice if you need help': Some jokingly suggested Harris was holding the staffer hostage. In media news today, a women's group says 'good riddance' to Chris Cuomo after CNN firing, Brooke Baldwin calls on the liberal network to replace Cuomo with a woman, and an MSNBC anchor appears to downplay Bob Dole's accomplishments because of his support for Trump. A tweet sent by one of Vice President Kamala Harris' staff members claiming he loved his job became the focus of intense mockery Monday as critics joked that he was tweeting while "under duress." "Hi. My name is David Gins. I work for Vice President Harris on behalf of the American people as Deputy Director for Operations and absolutely love my job. Just thought some of you should know," wrote Gins, who has worked as Harris' Deputy Director of Operations since April according to his LinkedIn profile. THIESSEN ON KAMALA HARRIS STAFFERS QUITTING: ‘SHE’S NOT SUCCEEDING IN HER JOB' Gins' tweet came in the aftermath of reports of disarray inside Harris' office. It was announced last week that Symone Sanders, a top advisor to Harris, would be stepping down from her role at the end of the year amid the reports, and just weeks after Harris' communications director left her post. According to Politico, more Harris staffers could also be "eyeing the exits." Vice President Kamala Harris speaks to members of the press as her press secretary Symone Sanders looks on at Greenville-Spartanburg International Airport before she boards Air Force Two to return to Washington, D.C., June 14, 2021 in Greer, South Carolina. Critics relentlessly mocked Gins' tweet, with many jokingly imploring the staffer to "blink twice" if he needed to be rescued, and others suggesting he only sent the tweet after being threatened by Harris. Some critics jokingly suggested Gins was being held hostage by Harris, while others revisited previous comparisons of the Vice President to fictional incompetent Vice President Selina Meyer from the hit HBO series, "Veep." Vice President Kamala Harris and fictional Vice President Selena Meyer MORE KAMALA HARRIS AIDES REPORTEDLY ‘EYEING THE EXITS’ AS RESIGNATIONS STACK UP Another critic referred to the tweet as "the saddest PR move" he had ever seen, while another suggested it was "weird" for a subordinate to have a picture of their boss on their office wall. Kamala Harris speaks to children in a widely mocked video produced by NASA. KAMALA HARRIS' STAFFERS LEAVING WHITE HOUSE IN PART BECAUSE THEY FEAR BEING LABELED 'HARRIS PERSON': REPORT CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Senate set to vote on bill barring Biden vaccine mandate, likely to pass with Manchin support: Legislative efforts to block Biden vaccine rules face uphill battle in Democrat-controlled Congress. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. The Senate is set to vote this week on a resolution to nullify President Biden's vaccine mandate for private companies, as Republicans and at least one Democrat push back on the administration's rule requiring vaccines or inconvenient testing rules for workers at large businesses. All 50 Senate Republicans, led by Sen. Mike Braun, R-Ind., backed a challenge to the vaccine mandate last month under the Congressional Review Act . That law allows Congress to officially disapprove of an executive branch regulation via a resolution passed through each chamber. Sen. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va., said last week he also supports the Braun resolution. "I do not support any government vaccine mandate on private businesses," Manchin said Thursday after voting against an amendment to a government funding bill that would roll back public and private vaccine mandates. Sen. Mike Lee, R-Utah, and a handful of other Republicans forced that vote in exchange for expediting passage of the funding bill, but they got no Democrat support. Sen. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va., speaks to reporters outside of his office on Capitol Hill on Oct. 6, 2021 in Washington. SENATE PASSES FUNDING BILL DESPITE VACCINE MANDATE FLAP, AVERTING SHUTDOWN Republicans also think Sen. Kyrsten Sinema, D-Ariz., may vote for the Braun resolution. She declined to say whether she will vote for it in an interview with CNN last week. Sen. Steve Daines, R-Mont., is also pushing his Democrat counterpart from Montana, Sen. Jon Tester, to "join[] me in my efforts to block all of Biden's mandates." The Braun resolution only needs a simple majority to pass the Senate, which means the bill will likely succeed. Rep. Fred Keller, R-Pa., is leading companion legislation in the House of Representatives, which his office said Friday has 206 cosponsors. But House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., said Friday it is unlikely the bill could come for a vote in the House with Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., in charge. "The challenge is how you bring it up on the floor," he told reporters. "We're not in the majority. We don't control it." Even if Republicans and potentially a handful of Democrats manage to force a House vote on the CRA resolution, such resolutions are subject to a presidential veto. And it's highly unlikely Biden would sign a bill canceling a rule he ordered his administration to make. Sen. Mike Lee. R-Utah, said Thursday Republicans will continue pushing back against President Biden's vaccine mandates. "It'll come up likely again next week with the Congressional Review Act resolution of disapproval," Lee said Thursday. "That's insufficient, of course. One of the defects with the CRA is that Congressional Review Act resolutions of disapproval are subject to presidential veto. So, the same president who abuses his executive power as this President has with these mandates, is certain to veto." White House press secretary Jen Psaki said last week that the White House believes Biden's vaccine mandate for private companies is on solid ground "based on a 50-year-old law that Congress put into place 50 years ago …. We're going to continue to press forward with these requirements." Psaki also said the administration's mandate should be called "vax or test" as employees who do not get vaccinated can instead wear masks to work every day and submit to regular COVID-19 testing. Lee said Republicans will continue to force the issue as Biden's vaccine mandates also face numerous challenges in federal courts. He said Republicans plan to bring up amendments defunding vaccine mandates in any future vote-a-rama, which Democrats will face this month if they move their reconciliation spending bill on schedule. "It'll come back up in any future vote-a-rama," Lee said. "It's gonna come up again … and it should." President Joe Biden delivers remarks during an event in the State Dining Room of the White House, Monday, Oct. 4, 2021, in Washington. Biden can veto any Congressional Review Act resolution, which means it's almost certain Congress can't roll back the federal vaccine mandate for private businesses. Lee added that some Republicans may again threaten to block a government funding bill and cause a shutdown in February when the current continuing resolution runs out, "in the unfortunate event that the president persists in keeping this in effect, in threatening the American people this way." But R Street Institute resident senior fellow for governance James Wallner said any votes on future legislative efforts against vaccine mandates are unlikely to have any actual effect. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Whatever does happen either now or in the new year is going to be choreographed. It's going to be something that's set up in the Senate, almost always with unanimous consent between the two leaders," Wallner said. "I would imagine that you will see, for instance, votes in the Senate that create the illusion that something like a vaccine mandate ban could pass before you'll see an actual policy like that pass." He added: "They'll set like 60-vote thresholds on them, they'll structure the process. If they can't block the vote entirely, then they'll create a process whereby… the price of getting your vote is that you lose." Fox News' Brooke Singman and Jason Donner contributed to this report.
Hawaii governor urges Navy to suspend operations at World War II-era fuel tank amid water contamination: Navy service members recently reported smelling fuel in their drinking water. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Hawaii Governor David Ige and congressional leaders from the state urged the U.S. Navy to suspend operations at a World War II-era underground fuel tank facility after petroleum was detected in drinking water in the Pearl Harbor area. "Test results confirming contamination of drinking water at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam show that the Navy is not effectively operating the World War II-era facility and protecting the health and safety of the people of Hawaii," Gov. Ige said in a statement Sunday evening, along with U.S. Senators Mazie Hirono and Brian Schatz, and U.S. Reps. Ed Cases and Kaiali’i Kahele. "We are calling for the Navy to immediately suspend operations at Red Hill while they confront and remedy this crisis." This photo shows a tunnel inside the Red Hill Underground Fuel Storage Facility in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii on Jan. 26, 2018. The state of Hawaii says a laboratory has detected petroleum product in a water sample from an elementary school near Pearl Harbor. The Red Hill fuel storage facility consists of 20 underground steel-lined tanks that can hold up to 250 million gallons of fuel. Construction on the facility started in 1940 after the Roosevelt administration expressed concerns about the vulnerability of above-ground tanks. HIKER DISCOVERS ALCOHOLIC STREAM IN HAWAII The Navy ran tests on its water distribution system last week after nearly 1,000 military households complained that their water smelled like fuel and was making them sick. One test showed "petroleum hydrocarbons roughly four to ten times below the Hawaii Department of Health Environmental Action Level" and another test "confirmed vapors." "Based on the findings, the Navy will work with DOH to revise the public health guidance and develop the way ahead so our families and other impacted people can return to a normal life with a safe, reliable water source," the Navy said in a statement on Dec. 3. Navy ships are anchored in the waters of Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam on July 14, 2011, at the entrance to the Pacific Ocean. In this Dec. 27, 2016, file photo, USS Arizona Memorial, part of the World War II Valor in the Pacific National Monument, at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, Hawaii. The Honolulu Board of Water Supply shut down its largest water source on Oahu, Halawa Shaft, after the Navy reported that petroleum was detected. "We are deeply concerned that we were not notified immediately by the Navy regarding the shut down of their Red Hill water source," Chief Engineer Ernest Lau said in a statement on Dec. 3. "We have data that shows when they stop pumping at Red Hill, water starts moving in the direction of our Halawa Shaft due to our pumping." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The U.S. Navy is providing temporary lodging to service members and civilians affected by the water crisis at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam.
Chris Cuomo spox claims there were ‘no secrets’ between fired star helping brother, CNN boss Jeff Zucker: ‘This reinforces why he was terminated for violating our standards and practices, as well as his lack of candor,’ CNN shot back. Network failed to act before suspension CNN and former anchor Chris Cuomo have turned on each other, issuing scathing statements in the wake of the liberal network firing the now-former "Cuomo Prime Time" host. CNN announced Saturday evening it had terminated Cuomo effective immediately, just days after he was suspended pending a review of revelations about his involvement in protecting his scandal-plagued big brother, former New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, D., from sexual misconduct claims. A spokesperson for Chris Cuomo said the former anchor and CNN boss Jeff Zucker had "no secrets" regarding his involvement in protecting his scandal-plagued big brother, former New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo. Transcripts from Cuomo’s interview with investigators show the now-former CNN star admitting he would reach out to media sources to find out about new accusers who have yet to come forward publicly. Prominent attorney Debra S. Katz also informed CNN she is representing a woman who accused Chris Cuomo of sexual misconduct, unrelated to the allegations against his brother. The younger Cuomo has also admitted to an incident in 2005 when he squeezed the buttock of an ABC News colleague without her permission. CNN TERMINATES CHRIS CUOMO ‘EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY’ Last week, when Cuomo was suspended for his action but not yet fired, a longtime high-level CNN insider told Fox News that the star anchor’s fate would ultimately be tied to whether or not he lied about or downplayed his role to CNN boss Jeff Zucker. Zucker had largely stood by Cuomo before suspending him last week when the documents revealed Cuomo’s involvement was much larger than previously known. The day after Zucker decided to fire Cuomo following an external review, the two sides bickered via statements to the press. The beginning of the end for Chris Cuomo at CNN began last week when the New York Attorney General's office released documents from its sexual harassment investigation into ousted Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo. A spokesperson for Cuomo sent a text message to Wall Street Journal reporters declaring there were "no secrets" between Zucker and the former "Cuomo Prime Time" host. "Mr. Cuomo has the highest level of admiration and respect for Mr. Zucker. They were widely known to be extremely close and in regular contact, including about the details of Mr. Cuomo’s support for his brother. There were no secrets about this, as other individuals besides Mr. Cuomo can attest," Cuomo’s spokesperson said, according to the Wall Street Journal. CNN'S BRIAN STELTER ON CHRIS CUOMO FIRING: HE CAUSED 'SO MANY HEADACHES' FOR CNN, STAFFERS WERE 'VERY UNHAPPY' CNN told Fox News Digital that Cuomo has "made a number of accusations that are patently false" and are disappointed with his characterization of events. CNN fired Chris Cuomo on Saturday. "This reinforces why he was terminated for violating our standards and practices, as well as his lack of candor," CNN said. Cuomo announced on Monday that he would also quit his SiriusXM radio gig. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "The way my time ended at CNN is hard," he said in a statement. "While I have a thick skin, I also have a family, for whom the past week has been extraordinarily difficult. So, right now, I have to take a step back and focus on what comes next. That means I will no longer be doing my SiriusXM radio show. I am extremely grateful for the support I have received from SiriusXM throughout my time there. I also want to express my sincere appreciation for my loyal listeners. I will miss our conversations a great deal – but I look forward to being back in touch with you all in the future." Fox News’ Joseph A. Wulfsohn contributed to this report.
White House warns art world rife with money laundering as Hunter Biden sells paintings for $500,000: The Biden administration released a national strategy to counter corruption. The Fox News contributor says that President Biden is ‘basically compromised’ when it comes to China and Russia. The White House is warning that the art world is fertile ground for money laundering and other financial crimes as the president's son, Hunter Biden, is raising eyebrows by selling paintings for up to half a million dollars — despite lacking any formal art experience. The Biden administration released on Monday a national strategy to counter corruption, which it noted is the first of its kind. The White House document touches on the corruption-rife art world, noting that the "markets for art and antiquities — and the market participants who facilitate transactions — are especially vulnerable to a range of financial crimes." PSAKI DODGES QUESTION ABOUT HUNTER BIDEN'S SALE OF CHINESE ASSETS Hunter Biden, the son of President Biden, attends his father's inauguration as 46th president on Jan. 20, 2021, at the U.S Capitol in Washington, D.C. "Built-in opacity, lack of stable and predictable pricing, and inherent cross-border transportability of goods sold, make the market optimal for illicit value transfer, sanctions evasion, and corruption," the strategy reads. The White House's acknowledgement of money laundering in art world comes as the administration has taken criticism from ethics experts over the art sales involving the younger Biden's work. Carrying price tags between $75,000 and $500,000, scrutiny has plagued Biden's first foray into the art world particularly due to his lack of formal art experience. The White House has long stated that it has an ethics plan in place for the president’s son to ensure that he is kept in the dark on who is buying his art. Then-Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden and his son Hunter celebrate onstage at his election night rally. Hunter has faced scrutiny for selling high-priced art despite no formal art experience. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP That plan appears to largely have been in name only, as Biden has appeared at his art shows where potential buyers lurked. The White House did not immediately return Fox News’ request for comment.
Putin sets world on edge amassing Russian troops along Ukraine border: US credibility at stake in Biden's handling of Putin during Tuesday call, experts say. Gen. Jack Keane, Ret., offers analysis on 'The Story' Russian President Vladimir Putin has the whole world anticipating his next move as he builds up a massive military presence along his country’s border with Ukraine, with U.S. officials anticipating an imminent invasion early next year. The White House said over the weekend that President Biden and Putin will sit down for a video conference this week, where Biden will raise concerns about Russia’s military activity and "reaffirm the United States’ support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine." SATELLITE IMAGERY INDICATES RUSSIAN MILITARY ACTIVITY ON UKRAINE BORDER President Joe Biden and Russian President Vladimir Putin meet in Geneva, Switzerland, on June 16, 2021. Satellite imagery obtained by Fox News on Sunday highlights several locations within western Russia, as well as one location in Crimea, where Russian tactical battle groups containing troops and equipment have been deployed. "The plans involve extensive movement of 100 battalion tactical groups with an estimated 175,000 personnel, along with armor, artillery and equipment," a Biden administration official told Fox News. Biden said he plans to have a "long discussion" with Putin on Tuesday and outline a "meaningful set of initiatives" that will make it "very, very difficult," for Russia to invade Ukraine. State Department spokesperson Ned Price said Monday the administration is prepared to impose "high impact economic measures that we've refrained from using in the past" if Russia fails to deescalate or moves forward with any plans to invade Ukraine. President Joe Biden hosts the Kennedy Center honorees reception at the White House in Washington on Dec. 5, 2021. James Anderson, president of the Institute of World Politics and former deputy undersecretary of defense for policy, told Fox News that the administration’s "tough talk is fine," but that a "robust package" of measures is needed in order to deter Russia from escalation, including providing Ukraine with the lethal weaponry it needs to defend itself. "They’re saying a lot of the right things, but they need to back that up with, I think, a credible package that is going to enhance deterrence," Anderson said. "The United States should really consider a robust package of defensive weapons. "The weapons should be delivered as promptly as possible," he continued. "And the good news here is we have the capacity to deliver equipment in short order, and we should do exactly that. It should be largely visible so that Putin sees that we are assisting in a defensive manner, and it should be meaningful. It should be substantive assistance in a defensive way." Anderson said the U.S. could also provide non-lethal weapons and "some measure of intelligence" to Ukraine to aid in its defense. Meanwhile, Putin is expected to demand that the U.S. and its allies in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization  rule out any expansion into Ukraine, which is not a NATO country. Biden quickly dismissed Putin’s demands when asked about them Friday. "I don’t accept anyone’s red line," the president said. Anderson told Fox News that Biden should "unequivocally reject" any suggestion that Ukraine should be prevented from becoming a member of NATO. "Russia should never be allowed to have a veto over NATO membership," he said. "So that should be a clear non-starter." The last known call between Biden and Putin was in July, when Biden pressed Putin to rein in Russia-based criminal hacking gangs launching ransomware attacks against the United States. Biden said the U.S. would take any necessary steps to protect critical infrastructure from attacks. Russian President Vladimir Putin holds a video conference in Moscow, Russia, on Dec. 4, 2021. Anderson told Fox News that the implications of Tuesday’s call between the two leaders are much broader than just the situation in Ukraine. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "If [Putin] senses weakness on behalf of Biden, I think that will, unfortunately, increase the chances of miscalculation or aggression," he said. "This is in the context of questions about U.S. credibility following the disastrous withdrawal from Afghanistan a few months ago," he said. "We can be confident that despots in both the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region, for example, will be watching this very closely. And that is to say if the administration shows weakness and a lack of resolve, that is going to impact our credibility elsewhere around the world." Fox News’ Jon Brown and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Putin views Biden as weak world leader amid potential Russian invasion into Ukraine: Gen. Jack Keane: Moscow may lean on Belarus to help strategically and 'undermine NATO', the general said.. Gen. Jack Keane, Ret., offers analysis on 'The Story' New satellite imagery showing Russian President Vladimir Putin amassing troops and resources on the Russia-Ukraine border is sparking fears of an invasion of the former Soviet state, with the possibility of war being a likely byproduct of President Biden's perceived weakness on the world stage, according to retired Army Gen. Jack Keane, Keane, a former undersecretary of the Army under Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush, told Fox News host Martha MacCallum that Russia is "absolutely poised" to attempt a military invasion of Ukraine – after forcibly annexing its Crimea region during the Obama years. "We’ve been tracking this at the Institute for the Study of War now for a couple of months. They have finally moved in the artillery units, logistical infrastructure, major command headquarters that they would need to sustain an invasion. So he’s poised to do that," Keane said on Monday's installment of "The Story." PSAKI DODGES QUESTION ABOUT HUNTER BIDEN'S SALE OF CHINESE ASSETS With neighboring Belarus being controlled by authoritarian President Alexander Grigoryevich Lukashenko, Keane suggested Moscow might call on the country to accommodate additional troops, giving the ex-KGB agent even more breadth along the Ukrainian border. Russia's President Vladimir Putin addresses the media during a press conference after the U.S.-Russia summit with U.S. President Joe Biden at Villa La Grange in Geneva, Switzerland, Wednesday, June 16, 2021. Belarus, Keane noted, also shares a border with NATO-member Poland, which would complicate matters, he claimed. "The other option certainly is just take control of the country, go in to the unoccupied spaces, so to speak where there’s no conflict taking place and go for Kiev. That I think is unlikely," he said. Putin might not go that extreme route because it could bog the Russians down in an extended conflict "for decades", he said. President Biden is scheduled to talk with Putin Tuesday to discuss the unfolding situation. "This meeting [between Putin and] President Biden is very important, because I’m convinced that the reason why we have acceleration from China, from Iran and from Russia [is] there’s a perception that this presidency and this administration is more about accommodation and appeasement than about confronting and countering the strategic objectives of these three adversary countries," Keane added. PUTIN SETS WORLD ON EDGE AMASSING RUSSIAN TROOPS ALONG UKRAINE BORDER "People may disagree with the rhetoric associated with [Trump], but the policies were firm. Our adversaries understood that. I believe the reason for this is they see weakness here," he said. "I don’t like saying that, but that is the conclusion one must draw in terms of what is happening here." Keane added that the amassing of troops on the Ukrainian border is only one aspect of Putin's increasingly confrontational behavior – pointing ot how he is "enabling" Lukashenko to escalate its own behavior toward Poland in the form of "weaponizing migration" – as well as building leverage over Europe's energy supply. Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko speaks during a meeting with Commonwealth of Independent States officials in Minsk on May 28, 2021. CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Keane offered his advice on what the Biden administration should have done throughout the year. "What [the U.S.] should have done early in the year when Putin began to get more aggressive with Belarus and began to get more aggressive with moving troops in to the vicinity of the Ukraine, we should have moved NATO forces in to Poland and make certain that Putin is getting the message that we’re not going to permit any undermining of NATO," he said. "We should have put a large package of lethal weapon capability in to Ukraine. We gave them some things, but nowhere near what they’re asking for in terms of lethality that makes a difference if Putin comes in. That’s something that his leaders would pay attention to."
Jim Banks: Biden projecting weakness, Putin sees opportunity in Ukraine: Critics tell Biden Ukraine could be worse than Afghanistan. Rep. Jim Banks, R-Ind., on critics having fears that Ukraine situation could be worse than Afghanistan. Rep. Jim Banks, R-Ind., told "America Reports" on Monday that President Biden is projecting weakness and Russia sees it as an opportunity to invade Ukraine. SATELLITE IMAGERY INDICATES RUSSIAN MILITARY ACTIVITY ON UKRAINE BORDER JIM BANKS: Sadly, so many ways we have been here before though. Remember, history is repeating itself. When Russia invaded Crimea under Barack Obama, there were no repercussions. ... We have already seen these empty threats and phone calls between Putin and Joe Biden. Remember when the Russian hackers struck the colonial pipeline, it wreaked havoc in America. Joe Biden didn’t do anything about it. And Putin is seeing this as an opportunity for them to strike again and to accomplish many of their goals. They know that Joe Biden is projecting weakness on the world stage. Maybe worse than we have ever seen it before, an opportunity for them to strike and no repercussions. WATCH FULL VIDEO BELOW:
Sen. Scott requests meeting with Adam Silver on NBA's 'unsettling' China issues: Enes Kanter Freedom has been the most vocal NBA player when it comes to China. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Sen. Rick Scott, R-Fla., requested to meet with NBA Commissioner Adam Silver in a letter on Monday to talk about a litany of the senator’s concerns regarding the league’s relationship with China. In his letter, Scott mentioned his criticism of the NBA regarding how it handled Daryl Morey’s pro-Hong Kong tweet, the reported abuses at an NBA academy in China, and the failure of the league to insert itself into the geopolitical conversation when it comes to human rights abuses regarding Uyghur Muslims. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM NBA Commissioner Adam Silver speaks during a press conference on Feb. 15, 2020, in Chicago, Illinois. "Mr. Commissioner, I want to be very clear – the issues I have outlined are neither speculative nor subject to debate. These are facts. The NBA has done nothing to stand up to Communist China, and in some ways has taken actions that seem to have no purpose other than to please General Secretary Xi's murderous and tyrannical Communist Chinese government," Scott wrote. "What I find most unsettling about the NBA's inaction and silence on issues involving Communist China is that the league has a history of strong support for activism when it comes to social challenges. Both now and in the past, the NBA has stood by and unquestionably supported players who advocate for equality and justice, yet you have utterly failed to carry this practice forward when it comes to the gross injustice we are seeing in Communist China. How can the NBA, in good conscience, claim to support equality and justice when you’re picking and choosing to do so based on political convenience?" REP. GALLAGHER SLAMS NBA, OLYMPIC OFFICIALS FOR NOT STANDING UP TO CHINA: ‘SHAME ON ALL THESE COWARDS’ Sen. Rick Scott speaks during a television interview at the Russell Senate Office building in Washington on Nov. 11, 2020. Scott wrote that organizations like the NBA have a responsibility to speak out on human rights abuses and called on the league to be a "powerful voice of human rights." The Republican wrote that he spoke with Boston Celtics center Enes Kanter Freedom and acknowledged his admiration for him as the player speaks out against China. "Players like Enes, who recently became an American citizen, should be celebrated by the NBA and held up as an example of courageous advocacy for the common good. It's been incredibly disappointing to see the NBA fail to provide the same level of support to Enes and the causes for which he stands and fights. I hope this will soon change," Scott wrote. Scott said the NBA can "be an immensely powerful force for good." Boston Celtics center Enes Kanter reacts to an official's call against the Toronto Raptors on Nov. 28, 2021, in Toronto, Ontario. The NBA did not immediately respond to Fox News’ request for comment. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Freedom has been the most vocal NBA player when it comes to criticizing China. He’s called out other athletes, including LeBron James, for staying silent. He’s also blasted Muslim leaders for staying silent when it comes to the abuses of Uyghur Muslims. Fox News’ Chad Pergram contributed to this report.
British woman speaks out against Ghislaine Maxwell during trial: The woman said she has a huge amount of humiliation and shame. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A British woman testified Monday that Ghislaine Maxwell pressured her into giving Jeffrey Epstein sexual massages when she was still a teenager, assuring her she would have "fun" with him. The woman — testifying at Maxwell’s sex-abuse trial in New York City using the pseudonym "Kate" to protect her privacy — described one episode during the mid-1990s at Epstein’s Palm Beach, Florida estate where Maxwell left out a schoolgirl’s outfit with a pleated skirt for her to wear for the financier. "I thought it would be fun for you to take Jeffrey his tea in this outfit," the witness recalled Maxwell telling her. VIRGINIA GIUFFRE ACCUSES PRINCE ANDREW OF ‘BASELESS, DEFAMATORY ATTACKS’ IN CIVIL LAWSUIT In this sketch, Ghislaine Maxwell, seated left speaks to her defense attorney Christian Everdell prior to the testimony of "Kate,"during the trial of Ghislaine Maxwell, Monday, Dec. 6, 2021, in New York. After a sexual encounter that followed, the British socialite "asked me if I had fun" and told her, "You are such a good girl," she said. The witness was the second woman to take the witness stand against Maxwell in federal court in Manhattan. But unlike the first, she was at the age of consent in Great Britain and the United States during her sexual contact with Epstein, so the judge barred her from detailing specific sex acts. Maxwell, 59, has denied charges she groomed girls as young as 14 for Epstein, who killed himself in jail in 2019. Her lawyers say the government is making her a scapegoat for Epstein’s alleged sex crimes. The woman who testified on Monday said she met Maxwell at age 17 through a friend of hers she had dated on and off, and was eager to be friends with the British socialite. Maxwell told her Epstein, then her boyfriend, was a philanthropist who could help her with her singing career, she said. In this sketch, a witness testifies under the pseudonym "Kate," as Judge Alison Nathan seated far left, listens. A photo of Ghislaine Maxwell is shown on the screen, far right, during testimony in the sex-abuse trial of Maxwell, Monday, Dec. 6, 2021, in New York. GHISLAINE MAXWELL TRIAL: JEFFREY EPSTEIN HAD NUDE PHOTOS, PAINTINGS OF YOUNG WOMEN INSIDE PALM BEACH HOME Maxwell also told her that Epstein was "demanding" when it came to sexual massages, saying it was "very difficult to keep up" with his needs, the witness said. After agreeing to give him massages in London, she was later flown on commercial flights to Florida, where she said the interactions continued when she was 18. Maxwell’s demeanor was "almost like a schoolgirl," she said. "Everything was fun. Everything seemed to be like a fun, silly joke." She said she resisted "disengaging" from Maxwell and Epstein "because I had witnessed how connected they both were and I was fearful," she said. Asked about wanting to testify anonymously, she said, "I have a huge amount of humiliation and shame around the events that took place" and wanted to protect her child. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP On cross-examination, a lawyer for Maxwell got the witness to acknowledge instances where she had spoken out publicly about Epstein and Maxwell using her real name. She also asked whether her history of drug and alcohol abuse affected her memory. "It has not had an impact on the memories I have always had," she said.
New York Times op-ed widely mocked for fearing her free little library is contributing to gentrification: The author said she felt resentment after a White couple browsed her library.. In media news today, a women's group says 'good riddance' to Chris Cuomo after CNN firing, Brooke Baldwin calls on the liberal network to replace Cuomo with a woman, and an MSNBC anchor appears to downplay Bob Dole's accomplishments because of his support for Trump. A New York Times opinion piece was widely mocked on Twitter Monday for after the author said she was upset after a White couple browsed her little library and said the incident was contributing to gentrification. On Saturday, journalist Erin Aubry Kaplan published an opinion piece titled "Is My Little Library Contributing to the Gentrification of My Black Neighborhood?" In the article, she recounted her decision to build a freestanding library box in front of her lawn, so any neighbors or visitors to take or leave a book on their own discretion. However, one White couple that browsed her library caused Kaplan to rethink her library box and whether it was contributing to gentrification. YOUNG BLACK CONSERVATIVES PUSH BACK ON NARRATIVE OF ALL BLACK AMERICANS BEING PROGRESSIVE A Little Free Library has been turned into a small pantry with household items like toilet paper and canned foods near Franklin High School during the coronavirus disease  outbreak in Seattle, Washington, U.S. March 30, 2020. REUTERS/Lindsey Wasson "Then one morning, glancing out my front window, I saw a young white couple stopped at the library. Instantly, I was flooded with emotions — astonishment, and then resentment, and then astonishment at my resentment. It all converged into a silent scream in my head of, Get off my lawn!" Kaplan wrote. She compared the experience to gentrification and also suggested that the White couple damaged "the integrity of a Black space" by looking at her public library box. "What I resented was not this specific couple. It was their whiteness, and my feelings of helplessness at not knowing how to maintain the integrity of a Black space that I had created. I was seeing up close how fragile that space can be, how its meaning can be changed in my mind, even by people who have no conscious intention to change it. That library was on my lawn, but for that moment it became theirs. I built it and drove it into the ground because I love books and always have. But I suddenly felt that I could not own even this, something that was clearly and intimately mine," Kaplan wrote. The New York Times selectively edited misinformation spread by Civil rights attorney Ben Crump from a report about the fatal police shooting of 16-year-old Ma’Khia Bryant. Reporters and commentators responded to Kaplan's piece by calling it a "regressive" and almost satirical take on little free libraries. "This is one of the most hilarious op-eds I've ever read. If you wanted to satirize this mentality, you could not do better," independent journalist Glenn Greenwald tweeted. Fox News contributor Katie Pavlich wrote, "This woman is very upset white people stopped by her little library." "Sometimes a good thing is just a good thing. What have we done to ourselves??," Pluribus editor Jeryl Bier said. "The ongoing struggle to convince the left to stop filtering all existence through the framework of race and instead compel them to filter all existence through the framework of class," Commentary editor Noah Rothman tweeted. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The New York Times recently faced similar backlash after it published a guest essay that criticized Justice Amy Coney Barrett for highlighting adoption during a Supreme Court case on abortion. The essay claimed abortion is "often just as traumatic as the right thinks abortion is."
Handcuffing police response creating a local mental health crisis: Since HB 1310 went into effect July 25, backlog of cases has more than doubled in King County. President of the Seattle Police Officer Guild Mike Solan discusses the reform which includes limited use of force, no tear gas, no car chases, among other ‘accountability’ regulations Mental health officials in Washington state are worried about a mental health crisis that has grown steadily during the COVID-19 pandemic and is now getting even worse because of a new state law aimed at reducing use of force by law enforcement. Since HB 1310 went into effect July 25, the backlog of cases has more than doubled in King County as many agencies no longer send officers on mental health calls unless a crime has been committed. Snohomish County Sheriff Adam Fortney says the police reform law makes it too risky for his deputies even when a judge has signed an order for a person’s involuntary commitment. "There comes a point in time when a deputy sheriff has to make a split-second decision," Fortney says, "We can no longer use force unless there is probable cause for someone’s arrest. Nobody is under arrest with a person in a mental health crisis." Lacey Police Officer Ken Westphal, center, an instructor at the Washington state Criminal Justice Training Commission, works with cadets during an exercise July 14, 2021, in Burien, Washington. Frank Crouch, the involuntary commitment coordinator for King County, says designated crisis responders typically have about 60 cases pending. But now the backlog is hitting nearly 140 cases. That means fewer people are being evaluated by behavioral specialists when family members call with concerns. It also has led to a drop in involuntary commitments, reserved for those experiencing severe mental crisis who might pose a danger to themselves or others. WA SERGEANT ON WHY NEW POLICE REFORM LAW CAUSED DEPUTIES TO CALL OFF K9 SEARCH FOR MURDER SUSPECT HB 1310 was part of sweeping police reform laws passed by the Washington state legislature in 2021 in response to Black Lives Matter protests. The Democratic-controlled government did not define force, but did indicate officers should consider leaving the scene "if there is no threat of imminent harm and no crime has been committed, is being committed, or is about to be committed." Democratic State Rep Roger Goodman is one of the key architects of the police reform laws. "Nothing the legislature did prevents police from responding to any calls, mental health crises or any other type of call," Goodman says, "And the public expects the police to respond to calls." But Goodman does admit there is confusion surrounding use of force when it comes to people needing mental health treatment. He vows the legislature will take up clarifying bills in the next session, which starts in January. "There might be a couple marginal adjustments to policy to make sure police can do their jobs, but that we don’t have needless injuries and deaths and use of force," Goodman said. "I think we can thread that needle." Seattle police officers confer after taking part in a public roll call at Hing Hay Park in the city's Chinatown-International District on March 18, 2021. WASHINGTON’S POLICE-REFORM LAW BANS MILITARY-STYLE EQUIPMENT, MISTAKENLY INCLUDING LESS-LETHAL FORCE Meanwhile, there have been avoidable tragedies and near tragedies. One police department changed its policy on suicidal subjects so officers will no longer be dispatched if the person is "in their residence and doesn’t present a threat to anyone else." Nine hours after a 911 suicide threat was called in by a girlfriend, a man took his own life in his apartment. Police did not send an officer to the initial call for help. In Snohomish County, deputies did respond to a parent’s call about his son hearing voices and being agitated. When they arrived at the home, the teenager walked away. Sheriff Fortney defends the deputy’s decision to let him walk. "We have to weigh the risk versus reward," said Fortney, "The way they wrote this legislation, the risk now far outweighs the reward for a law enforcement officer to even be involved with a person in a mental health crisis." Police look over the scene of a shooting at Third Avenue and Pine Street on Jan. 22, 2020, in Seattle, Washington. That teenager walked through the woods to another house, which he entered through an unlocked front door. Eric Bellabiod was home with his children and stunned to see the now naked teen in his living room. He grabbed a kitchen knife and ordered the young man to get on his knees. Luckily, the teenager complied and no one was hurt. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Bellabiod says the use of force law needs to be changed. "What’s the point in calling the police if they can’t act?" asks Bellabiod. Some police reform activists don’t blame the law, but rather the police. Davitta Briscoe, whose brother was shot and killed by Seattle police, says cops are weaponizing a law they don’t like. "This does not help, to protest or to say we’re not going to show up at all," said Briscoe, "It doesn’t help repair the relationship with those communities, it doesn’t help build trust."
Geraldo Rivera on Christmas: 'It can't get any more American than' this: Correspondent at large for Fox News shares the classic toy he wanted most as a child in the new book, 'All American Christmas'. Correspondent-at-large Geraldo Rivera discusses his Catholic and Jewish upbringing as part of Rachel Campos-Duffy's new book 'All American Christmas' Roaming correspondent at large for Fox News Channel Geraldo Rivera says his childhood Christmas and Hanukkah memories are focused around one classic American toy. It's a selection that many other Americans will appreciate and relate to, not just at holiday time but all year long. "Every year for a number of years, I had one of those steel-and-iron Lionel toy trains on the top of my list," Rivera shares in the new book All American Christmas by Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy. "All American Christmas" by Rachel Campos-Duffy, along with her husband, Fox News contributor Sean Duffy, is available now. "Nothing made me happier," says Rivera, "than talking about the Lionel train I finally got." Not that every holiday season for him as a kid evoked perfectly "smiling faces and expressions of pleasure." In a moving essay, Rivera reveals the struggles he had as a child in finding "just the right balance" between his strong Catholic heritage from his father's side of the family — and his equally strong Jewish heritage from his mother's side. HOW PEOPLE CELEBRATE HANUKKAH AROUND THE WORLD Rivera's dad, Cruz Rivera, was one of seventeen children. The elder Rivera came to the United States in 1940 from Puerto Rico, "literally on the United Fruit Company banana boat that stopped once a week in San Juan and then came to New York Harbor." His hardworking bilingual dad was the first person in his "huge family to graduate high school," writes Geraldo Rivera. "My dad was also religious and a lay deacon in the Catholic Church, which meant he could perform some ministerial functions." Meanwhile, his mother, Lily Friedman, was one of eight children from Newark, N.J. "She was from a conservative religious Jewish family who practiced their faith with real devotion," he says. "So my mom and dad came from two wildly different worlds." CHRISTMAS AND WHAT IT REALLY MEANS: TIPS FOR KEEPING US ROOTED IN FAITH Eventually, it all got sorted out, as his parents "were both determined to provide us with a good life … Our Christmases may not bring up visions of a typical Christmas-card scene, but they do reflect who we are and our family's history. Those days are filled with a lot of expressions of love, and that's really what the spirit of the season is all about." In that spirit, Geraldo Rivera describes with joy the one toy he wished for as a child — and why. Geraldo Rivera in All American Christmas: It can't get any more American than having a toy train circling the tree. I remember that for years, the other kids would come back to school after the Christmas break telling us what they got. I didn't get to do that for quite a while, but when I did, nothing made me happier than talking about the Lionel train I finally got. CHARLES PAYNE ON THE TRUE JOY OF CHRISTMAS: 'ALWAYS SOMETHING YOU CAN DO' FOR OTHERS I loved the design of trains, and every year for a number of years, I had one of those steel-and-iron Lionel toy trains on the top of my list. [See the video above about Lionel toy trains from "Fox & Friends" a few years ago.] My dad never earned much. [An Army veteran who served in World War II, Cruz Rivera worked several jobs to support his family, including in restaurants and as a cab driver.] I think he likely never made more than ten thousand dollars a year, so it took a long time before he and my mom were able to make my wish of a Lionel train come true. What little kid doesn't expect big things at Christmas time, as a young Geraldo Rivera did? His story is one of many that grace the pages of ‘All American Christmas.’ I ran the hell out of that train, setting up tracks that took it on tours of the living room, around the tree, under the couch. For a few years after getting that first set, I'd always get a couple more cars. GET THE FOX NEWS APP HERE I think I was as excited as anyone when I was able to buy a set for my oldest grandson, Jace. What a joy that was. —Geraldo Rivera, roaming correspondent at large for Fox News Channel Excerpted from the new book All American Christmas by Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy. To purchase your copy, click here.
Tunnels to Towers Foundation honors FOX News Media CEO Suzanne Scott for work with veterans, first responders: 'At Fox News, we are always most proud to tell the stories of true American heroes like the first responders,' Scott said when accepting the honor. Tunnel to Towers CEO Frank Siller discusses the nonprofit's annual gala, where Fox News Media CEO Suzanne Scott was honored for her contributions to Gold Star families. The Tunnels to Towers Foundation honored FOX News Media CEO Suzanne Scott with the Let Us Do Good Award "for her extraordinary dedication and positive impact in the lives of our veterans and first responders" on Friday at their fourth annual Footsteps to the Future Gala. Tunnel to Towers CEO Frank Siller’s foundation was started in honor of all the lives lost and the heroic sacrifices that were made on September 11, 2001. Promising to "do good and never forget," the foundation’s In the Line of Duty and Never Forget Programs honor our military, first responders and their families. FOX NEWS CHANNEL THUMPS CNN, MSNBC DURING JAM-PACKED NOVEMBER "At Fox News, we are always most proud to tell the stories of true American heroes like the first responders," Scott said when accepting the prestigious award. The Tunnels to Towers Foundation honored FOX News Media CEO Suzanne Scott with the Let Us Do Good Award "for her extraordinary dedication and positive impact in the lives of our veterans and first responders" on Friday at their fourth annual Footsteps to the Future Gala. "Frank, I know this was said earlier, but it's worth repeating. You embody the words of Saint Francis of Assisi, ‘While we have time, let us do good.’ We celebrate Frank 20 years of doing that," Scott said. "Frank's brother, Stephen Siller, was one of those heroes. And as we've learned, he strapped 60 pounds of gear on his back and ran through the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel to the Twin Towers to save people." DONATE TO TUNNEL TO TOWERS HERE Fox News has worked closely with the Tunnels to Towers Foundation, which builds specially adapted smart homes for catastrophically injured veterans and first responders, while providing mortgage-free homes to fallen first responders and Gold Star families with young children. Fox News Media CEO Suzanne Scott and Tunnel to Towers CEO Frank Siller. "Tonight, all of us at Fox News are humbled by being honored, but we know the true honorees are the heroes of 9/11. When it comes to honoring those heroes and their sacrifice, Frank doesn't just talk the talk. You literally walk the walk. A 500-mile journey, The Never Forget Walk to honor his father and all first responders is another kind of heroism. We are proud at FOX News to show Frank on this journey on the walk that helps others heal," Scott added. Each September, the Tunnel to Towers 5K Run & Walk in New York symbolizes Stephen Siller’s final footsteps from the foot of the former Brooklyn Battery Tunnel to the Twin Towers and pays homage to the 343 FDNY firefighters, law enforcement officers, and thousands of civilians who lost their lives on September 11, 2001. Proceed from the Tunnel to Towers 5K Run & Walk support the Foundation’s programs, including those benefiting first responders, and catastrophically injured service members. The nonprofit also organizes a variety of other events to benefit veterans and first responders, including fundraisers and mentorship initiatives. FOX News Media CEO Suzanne Scott, Frank Siller, Fox News Morning Programming VP  Gavin Hadden and "Fox and Friends" co-host Steve Doocy. Fox News contributor and former USMC bomb technician Johnny Joey Jones served as the event’s emcee. Fox News stars Pete Hegseth, Steve Doocy, Dana Perino, Jeanine Pirro, Maria Bartiromo, Janice Dean and her husband FDNY Battalion Chief Sean Newman, Lawrence Jones, Dr. Nicole Saphier, and Dr. Marc Siegel were also in attendance, along with several network executives. Tunnel to Towers CEO Frank Siller, FOX News Media CEO Suzanne Scott and "Fox and Friends Weekend" co-host Pete Hegseth. "We celebrate Tunnel to Towers and their incredible contribution to gold star families and first responders by providing mortgage free homes as well as building smart homes for injured veterans and first responders. Frank is a wonderful partner and friend to us at Fox News Media. We will continue to use all of our platforms to share his story and the stories of all first responders," Scott said. "We are so grateful for our audience for their enthusiastic and unwavering support of this cause and the passionate loyalty and enthusiasm for our brand and business. As Frank often says, ‘Your loyal audience makes all this possible.'" CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Scott concluded her touching comments: "Now, as we celebrate this holiday season, this time of giving with our families and loved ones, let us all follow Frank's example in the words of Saint Francis, ‘While we have time, let us do good.’" Fox News Media’s COO and CFO Joe Dorrego, EVP of Human Resources Kevin Lord, FOX News Digital EVP & Editor in Chief Porter Berry, FOX Corp President of Ad Sales Marianne Gambelli, FOX News Media Ad Sales EVP Jeff Collins and SVP Dom Rossi, Tech Ops & Engineering EVP Warren Vandeveer and Morning Programming VP Gavin Hadden were among Scott’s colleagues to attend the gala.
Texas plumber who found cash in Lakewood wall 'upset' with Joel Osteen: 'Should have heard something': 'I feel like, at this point, I should have heard something,' the plumber who found cash in the Lakewood Church's walls said. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. The Texas plumber who found cash in a wall in preacher Joel Osteen’s Lakewood Church said he’s "upset" that no one from the church has contacted him. "I wanted to hear [Joel Osteen] say, ‘You know, Justin, what you did was right. We understand what you did and what you could have done,’" the man said after attending a service held by Osteen on Sunday, according to Click 2 Houston. The man has only been identified as Justin. JOEL OSTEEN’S HOUSTON CHURCH HAD $600K INSIDE WALL FROM 2014 ROBBERY, PLUMBER CLAIMS "I feel like, at this point, I should have heard something," he said. "I’m just a little upset." The plumber found the cash in a wall of the church in about 500 envelopes. Houston police said the money is in connection to a 2014 robbery at the church, where $200,000 in cash and $400,000 in checks were stolen from a church safe. Pastor and best-selling author Joel Osteen gives the invocation before Annise Parker is publicly sworn in as mayor of the United States' fourth largest city in Houston January 4, 2010. Houston on December 12, 2009 became the first major U.S. city to elect an openly gay mayor, Parker, after a hotly contested run-off election that gave gay and lesbian supporters a symbolic victory following defeats over legalizing same-sex marriages in California and Maine.  REUTERS/Richard Carson "There was a loose toilet in the wall, and we removed the tile," the plumber said on 100.3 FM’s morning show. "We went to go remove the toilet, and I moved some insulation away and about 500 envelopes fell out of the wall." The church also released a statement saying police were contacted after the discovery was made. JOEL OSTEEN ENLISTS KANYE WEST, MARIAH CAREY AND TYLER PERRY FOR EASTER SUNDAY AMID CORONAVIRUS PANDEMIC "Recently, while repair work was being done at Lakewood Church, an undisclosed amount of cash and checks were found," the church said. "Lakewood immediately notified the Houston Police Department and is assisting them with their investigation. Lakewood has no further comment at this time." Service at Lakewood Church in Houston, where Pastor Joel Osteen preaches to some 25,000 people each week. There are currently 842 mega churches that host an excess of three million people on any given Sunday. Mega churches are loosely defined as non-Catholic churches with at least 2,000 weekly attendants. The discovery, however, has left some parishioners with more questions following the 2014 robbery. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "I was discouraged the first time," longtime parishioner Benito Rodriguez told Click 2 Houston, referring to the 2014 theft. "I was discouraged and now I am more discouraged because they found it. It doesn’t make any sense."
Ron Rivera delivers passionate speech after Washington's fourth straight victory: The end of the season will feature five divisional games. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Ron Rivera is hoping to keep the momentum going after the Washington Football Team won their fourth straight over the Las Vegas Raiders on Sunday. Feeling amped up, head coach Ron Rivera entered the locker room and delivered a fiery speech with a simple message. RAIDERS’ KENYAN DRAKE CALLS OUT NFL AFTER SEASON-ENDING INJURY: ‘LET’S GET THE PRIORITIES TOGETHER' "I told you guys, everything we need is in this room," Rivera yelled in a video posted to the team’s Twitter. "Understand this more than anything else: We can do what we want. We can be what we want. It's up to us!" The players reacted with loud cheers, rightfully so after newbie Brian Johnson kicked the go-ahead 48-yard field goal with 37 seconds remaining to win the game. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM "They are resilient and they bounce back and as I said the one thing that they seem to feel and believe is that if you give us a chance, we’ll see what happens and that’s the biggest thing we saw today," Rivera told reporters of his team after the game. Head coach Ron Rivera of the Washington Football Team and his players prepare to take the field before the game against the Las Vegas Raiders at Allegiant Stadium on Dec. 5, 2021 in Las Vegas, Nevada. Washington dropped four straight before turning things around after their bye week. The end of the season will feature five divisional games with the first-place Dallas Cowboys up first. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Quarterback Taylor Heinicke #4 of the Washington Football Team gets ready to run a play against the Las Vegas Raiders during their game at Allegiant Stadium on Dec. 5, 2021 in Las Vegas, Nevada. The Washington Football Team defeated the Raiders 17-15. "We gotta take it one at a time," Rivera continued. "We need everybody, all hands on deck. Let’s roll."
Kentucky Derby winner Medina Spirit dies suddenly at Santa Anita Park: Medina Spirit is latest horse to die at Santa Anita Park, which saw spate of deaths over last 2 years. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Medina Spirit, the controversial winner of the 2021 Kentucky Derby, died suddenly Monday after a workout at Santa Anita Park in California. Amr Zedan, the owner of the thoroughbred, told Thoroughbred Daily News the horse suffered an apparent heart attack after workout. California Horse Racing Board equine medical director Jeff Blea told the website he saw a video of the workout and it appeared the colt had trouble breathing. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM John Velazquez atop Medina Spirit, center left, leads the pack out of the gates during the 146th Preakness Stakes horse race at Pimlico Race Course, Saturday, May 15, 2021, in Baltimore. Blea said by the time a veterinarian reached Medina Spirit, the horse had already died. Santa Anita spokesman Mike Willman also confirmed the horse’s death. The horse's trainer Bob Baffert added: "It is with great sadness that I am reporting Medina Spirit passed away today from a heart attack at Santa Anita following a workout. My entire barn is devastated by this news. Medina Spirit was a great champion, a member of our family who was loved by all, and we are deeply mourning his loss. I will always cherish the proud and personal memories of Medina Spirit and his tremendous spirit. Our most sincere condolences go out to Mr. Amr Zedan and the entire Zedan Racing Stables family. They are in our thoughts and prayers as we go through this difficult time." Medina Spirit had won the Kentucky Derby in May but a failed drug test put the Derby win in question and led to the suspension of Baffert. The horse was found to have tested positive for 21 picograms of betamethasone, which is permitted unless it is found in the horse’s blood on race day. Baffert explained on May 11 that 21 picograms of betamethasone in the post-race Derby sample may have come from a fungal ointment meant to treat dermatitis. KNICKS GO WINS BREEDERS' CUP CLASSIC; DUBAI, JAPAN WIN BIG Kentucky Derby winner Medina Spirit is walked to be groomed after a morning exercise at Pimlico Race Course ahead of the Preakness Stakes horse race, Tuesday, May 11, 2021, in Baltimore. Last week, Baffert’s lawyer Craig Robertson said a testing of a split urine sample was completed and showed that betamethasone in the horse’s system came from a topical ointment and not an injection. "In other words, it has now been scientifically proven that what Bob Baffert said from the beginning was true – Medina Spirit was never injected with betamethasone and the findings following the Kentucky Derby were solely the result of the horse being treated for a skin condition by way of a topical ointment – all at the direction of Medina Spirit's veterinarian," Robertson said, via the Courier-Journal. The California Horse Racing Board will implement a full necropsy. John Velazquez riding Medina Spirit crosses the finish line to win the 147th running of the Kentucky Derby at Churchill Downs in Louisville, Kentucky, on May 1, 2021. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Santa Anita Park came under fire in 2019 after dozens of horse deaths at the track. The park suspended racing for more than three weeks in March 2019. In 2020, about 15 horses died at the park. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Raiders' Kenyan Drake calls out NFL after season-ending injury: 'Let’s get the priorities together': Drake took a shot at the league’s focus on taunting penalties this season. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Las Vegas Raiders running back Kenyan Drake called out the NFL on Sunday for poor officiating after sustaining a season-ending injury in the 17-15 loss against the Washington Football Team. Drake was carted off the field in the second quarter after being brought down from behind by defensive tackle Daniel Wise, who appeared to roll over his right ankle causing him to be ruled out for the remainder of the game. Drake broke his ankle and the injury is considered season-ending, the NFL Network reported. WASHINGTON RALLIES FOR 4TH STRAIGHT WIN, 17-15 OVER RAIDERS Running back Kenyan Drake of the Raiders is taken off the field on a cart after he was injured on a play against the Washington Football Team during on Dec. 5, 2021, in Las Vegas, Nevada. The former Alabama standout later took to Twitter to call for a rule change to protect players from these types of injuries. "The NFL needs to look at this specific style of tackling," he wrote, sharing the graphic video of his injury. "They are throwing flags for taunting and protecting qbs from getting touched but this is my 2nd straight season being injured by a guy pulling me back and using his body weight to roll up my legs." CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Drake took a shot at the league’s focus on taunting penalties this season, arguing there are more important things officials should be watching for to protect the players. Las Vegas Raiders' Kenyan Drake broke his ankle and the injury is considered season-ending. "If the emphasis is to protect the players this should be an illegal form of tackling like a horse collar," he said in a separate tweet. "We lose players weekly to high ankle sprains and broken bones but the league would rather flag players for erroneous taunting penalties. Let’s get the priorities together." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Defensive back Keisean Nixon of the Raiders tries to tackle wide receiver DeAndre Carter of the Washington Football Team on Dec. 5, 2021, in Las Vegas, Nevada. The Raiders are seriously depleted at running back with the absence of Josh Jacobs, Peyton Barber, and Jalen Richard. Interim coach Rich Bisaccia told reporters after the game that Drake’s injury is now "a little bit of an issue."
Pearl Harbor survivor recounts harrowing attack, 80 years later: 'Something I'll never forget': Jack Holder recalled seeing wave of Japanese bombers over Hawaii on December 7, 1941. . Fox News correspondent William La Jeunesse reports on veteran Jack Holder's push for awareness PEARL HARBOR, Hawaii – Eighty years ago, most Americans had never heard of Pearl Harbor, let alone were able to find it on a map. Yet the attack on an island 2,500 miles from the mainland came to define the ‘Greatest Generation’ and America itself, which avenged the attack just four months later, bombing Tokyo, and, shortly after, winning a decisive naval victory at Midway. One man who witnessed both was 19-year-old Texas farm boy Jack Holder. On the morning of December 7th, 1941, Holder had just finished morning roll call inside a hangar on Ford Island when his squadron heard planes approaching, assuming they were American, until the first explosion. "We ran outside and seen all the aircraft in with Rising Sun insignia and that explained it all," said Holder. "I remember it like it was yesterday. It’s something I’ll never forget." Sailors standing among wrecked airplanes at Ford Island Naval Air Station as they watch the explosion of the USS Shaw in the background, during the Japanese surprise attack on Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, on December 7, 1941. Holder recalls seeing a wave of Japanese planes descend on battleship row, raining down bombs and bullets. Exposed on the tarmac, his squadron sought cover in a sewer ditch. "One of their pilots had seen us and staffed the ditch with machine-gun fire missing us by 3 feet," he said. Holder will be among 150 World War II vets, including 20 Pearl Harbor survivors, expected to attend Tuesday’s 80th commemoration ceremony in Hawaii. For many it will be a bittersweet reunion, arriving with suitcases full of memories of youth and friends lost. HOLDER ASKS FOR CARDS FOR HIS 100TH BIRTHDAY Holder received many awards for his service. "I'd seen seamen jumping in the water covered with oil that was on fire," and most of them died in the water, he said. To honor those who died and remember their sacrifice, Holder shares his story several times each year with high school students. Last month we joined him on a visit to Highland High in Gilbert, Ariz. "We learn so much in history, but it's a completely different feeling having someone actually talk to you about it and tell you their own personal stories," said student Audra Lockheed, following Holder’s 90-minute presentation. CLICK HERE FOR COMPLETE FOX NEWS PROUD AMERICAN COVERAGE "It definitely made me feel kind of like a pride for our country," added student Casey Moss. A small boat rescues a USS West Virginia crew member from the water after the Japanese bombing of Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, in December 1941. For many attending Tuesday ceremonies on Oahu, the trip brings them full circle. Anyone who enlisted after the attack, would be at least 98 years old. Holder turns 100 next week. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP In his presentation, Holder makes note of how the attack transformed the U.S. from a largely isolationist country protected by two oceans, to a global superpower. By the end of the war, 12% of the U.S. population had served in the armed forces. That shared common purpose is something he wants today’s generation to appreciate. His advice: "They need to stay in school. And remember two things: treasure the flag and remember that they live in the greatest country in the world."
Dave Chappelle and Netflix working together again after outrage over comedy special: Comedian caught backlash for comments he made in 'The Closer' about the transgender community. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Check out what clicked this week in entertainment. Netflix confirmed it's working with Dave Chappelle again after receiving intense backlash for the comedian's latest stand-up special "The Closer." The streaming platform announced on Monday a new 11-day stand-up comedy festival titled "Netflix Is A Joke: The Festival," in Los Angeles featuring over 130 artists, including the Emmy-winning Chappelle. The event will take place on April 28-May 8, 2022, and feature comedians such Ali Wong, Amy Poehler, Amy Schumer, Aziz Ansari, Bill Burr, Chelsea Handler, Chris Rock, Conan O’Brien, David Letterman, Ellen DeGeneres, Hasan Minhaj, Iliza Shlesinger, Jane Fonda and Lily Tomlin, Jerry Seinfeld, John Mulaney, Jonathan Van Ness, Ken Jeong, Kevin Hart, Larry David, Margaret Cho, Maya Rudolph, Nicole Byer, Patton Oswalt, Pete Davidson, Ray Romano, Sandra Bernhard, Seth Rogen, Tig Notaro, Tina Fey, Wanda Sykes and many more. The event was delayed from 2020 due to the pandemic. DAVE CHAPPELLE DEFENDS J.K. ROWLING, DABABY IN NETFLIX SPECIAL 'THE CLOSER': 'GENDER IS A FACT' Dave Chappelle performing during his special "The Closer" on Netflix. "It's absolutely thrilling for Netflix to be hosting a comedy festival of this magnitude in Los Angeles,'' Robbie Praw, director, stand-up and comedy formats, Netflix, said in a press release. "We were so disappointed to postpone the event last spring and our lineup of comedians can't wait to bring much needed laughs to audiences in LA and around the world on Netflix. ‘Netflix Is A Joke Festival’ is going to give comedy fans the opportunity to see the greats and discover new voices in one of the greatest cities in the world." NETFLIX CO-CEO SAYS HE ‘SCREWED UP’ WHEN DEFENDING DAVE CHAPPELLE SPECIAL Chappelle is set to headline The Hollywood Bowl. He landed in hot water when "The Closer" first aired on Oct. 1. People protest outside the Netflix building in the Hollywood section of Los Angeles on Oct. 20, 2021. Chappelle’s disparaging remarks about the transgender community raised protests within Netflix and from activists. About 30 Netflix workers staged an Oct. 20 walkout and joined a rally at Netflix offices in Los Angeles. Netflix ran into a buzz-saw of criticism not only with the special but in how internal memos responded to employees’ concerns, including co-CEO Ted Sarandos’ assertion that "content on screen doesn’t directly translate to real-world harm." NETFLIX RELEASES STATEMENT ABOUT TRANS EMPLOYEE WALKOUT At the time, Sarandos also wrote that Netflix doesn’t allow titles that are "designed to incite hate or violence, and we don’t believe ‘The Closer’ crosses that line." Netflix Co-CEO Ted Sarandos apologized for failing to recognize that "a group of our employees was really hurting" after the special premiered. The exec later apologized for his comments and said he failed to recognize that "a group of our employees was really hurting," he told The Wall Street Journal, and that his comment about the effect of TV on viewers was an oversimplification. A spokesperson for Netflix told FOX Business before the employee walkout, "We value our trans colleagues and allies, and understand the deep hurt that’s been caused. We respect the decision of any employee who chooses to walk out, and recognize we have much more work to do both within Netflix and in our content." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Chappelle later stated in a video, per Variety, that he is open to speaking with transgender employees at Netflix or other members of the trans community but will not bend "to anybody’s demands." The Associated Press contributed to this report
Jared Goff’s girlfriend reacts to Lions first win while on bikini shoot: Goff fired the game-winning touchdown pass Sunday. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Two months ago, Detroit Lions quarterback Jared Goff’s swimsuit model girlfriend Christen Harper was saying all the right things about being stuck in Detroit as a very dark winter was descending on yet another season of Lions football. The team was 0-6, Dan Campbell had called out her boyfriend  for his lack of production, and the misery was kicking in. Two months later, Harper was on a sunny beach Sunday, a long way from miserable Detroit, and shooting bikini photos for Sports Illustrated when the improbable happened. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Detroit Lions quarterback Jared Goff throws during the second half of an NFL football game against the Minnesota Vikings, Sunday, Dec. 5, 2021, in Detroit. Goff and the Lions pulled off a comeback and beat the Minnesota Vikings 29-27 to go 1-10-1. "Guys, this is their first win," a dazed and confused Harper told the Sports Illustrated bikini shoot crew. "I’m going to cry," Harper added as a crew member showed her the ending as Goff found Amon-Ra St. Brown in the end zone as time expired. Jared Goff and Christen Harper at the 2019 ESPY Awards in Los Angeles. Harper, who made her rookie debut over the summer in the SI swimsuit issue, has spent some of her time in the Motor City picking crops for a Detroit mobile food rescue organization. "I’ve honestly been loving the change of pace" in Detroit, she told her Instagram followers back in October. She added that moving to Detroit has been an "opportunity to slow down and focus on things I haven’t been able to in a long time because of the fast-paced lifestyle in LA." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Goff and Harper are both big winners this week. He won a game and she jumped on a plane to get some sunshine. Congrats to both.
What's the story with eggnog? Where it came from, how it's served: Eggnog has been a popular Christmas drink so long, even George Washington had a recipe for it. Christmas without a glass of creamy eggnog? There’s no denying that the month of December is peak eggnog time. The sweet and spicy beverage has been a holiday staple for hundreds of years, but not everyone knows what it’s made out, where it comes from or why we drink it near each year’s end. That’s not the case with "eggspert" Jim Chakeres, an executive vice president at the Ohio Poultry Association, who knows the history behind the seasonal drink. 9 DOWNRIGHT DELICIOUS EGGNOG DESSERT RECIPES TO BRIGHTEN UP YOUR HOLIDAY "Eggnog, which is actually a drinkable form of custard, originated in medieval Britain where locals created a hot, creamy ale-like drink," Chakeres told Fox News. "The name, ‘Eggnog,’ is a combination of ‘noggin,’ a wooden cup, and ‘grog,’ a strong beer." There’s no denying that the month of December is peak eggnog time. He continued, "Early colonists traveling to America helped the drink become popular during the holidays as locally farmed eggs and milk, in addition to locally made rum and whisky was readily available." Americans went on to create eggnog recipes of their own, including George and Martha Washington, who famously enjoyed eggnog with rye whiskey, Jamaican rum and sherry, according to historical records. EGGNOG CHAI COOKIES WITH EGGNOG BUTTERCREAM FROSTING Variations of eggnog exist throughout the rest of the world under different names and ingredient lists, but the creamy texture and sweet flavor remain the same. For commercial eggnog manufacturers, the drink’s egg yolk content must be at least 1%, according to records from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Some eggnog fans like to make their own recipes during the holidays. The egg yolk content in homemade eggnog concoctions is subject to the beverage mixer, but the FDA recommends it be made from a cooked egg base, so holiday celebrators can avoid foodborne illnesses like salmonella. EGGNOG LATTE The United Egg Producer Farmer-Members reports that the FDA is in favor of eggnog recipes that require milk and egg mixtures to be gently heated up to an internal temperature of 160° Fahrenheit. "The cooking will destroy any bacteria that might be present. At this temperature, the mixture will firmly coat a metal spoon.  But please don’t lick the spoon if the custard is not fully cooked," the egg federation wrote on its website, Egg Safety Center. "After cooking, chill the mixture before adding the rest of the milk and other ingredients." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP If homemade eggnog isn’t something that sounds appealing to you, there are countless dairy and egg manufacturers who have packaged their tried and true recipes. All you have to do is stop by your favorite grocery store and serve when you get home.
Pumpkin peanut butter soup for a chilly evening: This tasty soup is dairy-free and completely vegan. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. This season, keep warm on chilly evenings with this simple pumpkin soup. "Pumpkin is most frequently found in sweet dishes, but I love to play with its savory side," Abra Pappa, MS, CNS, of Abra’s Kitchen on behalf of the National Peanut Board, tells Fox News. "Peanut butter, a pantry staple, plays a central role in this dish playing with pumpkins natural nuttiness and creating a creamy, comforting, crave-able soup," Pappa continues, noting that this soup contains five wholesome ingredients and is dairy-free and totally vegan, to boot. SMOKED ‘OVER THE TOP’ SLOPPY JOES ARE CALLING YOUR NAME FOR YOUR GAME NIGHT DINNER Makes 10 bowls Prep time: 15 minutes Cook time: 60 minutes Vegan Pumpkin Peanut Butter Soup by Abra Pappa of Abra’s Kitchen | National Peanut Board Ingredients 2 large leeks, sliced 1 tbsp coconut oil 8 cups fresh or canned pumpkin purée 1/2 cup creamy peanut butter 4 cups vegetable broth 14 ounces coconut milk 2 tsp salt 2 tsp Chinese five-spice powder 1/4 tsp cayenne pepper CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR LIFESTYLE NEWSLETTER Toppings Sriracha sauce Vegan coconut yogurt Instructions For the roasted pumpkin: 1. For fresh pumpkin purée, purchase a "pie pumpkin," also called a "sweet pumpkin" they are typically around 2-4 lbs. On average, each "pound" will yield about 1 cup of pumpkin purée. Two 4lb. pie pumpkins will yield approximately 8 cups of pumpkin purée. 2. Using a sharp knife, carefully cut the pumpkin in half lengthwise. Use a sharp spoon or ice cream scoop to scoop out all seeds and strings. 3. Drizzle the pumpkin with olive oil, salt, and pepper. Line a cookie sheet with parchment paper and place the pumpkin halves skin side down. 4. Using the tip of a sharp knife, carefully place a few slits in the skin of the pumpkin. 5. Roast in a 375 °F oven for 40 minutes to 60 minutes. It will depend on the size of your pumpkin. 6. Remove from oven and allow it to cool. When cool enough to handle, scoop out the flesh and set aside. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP For the pumpkin soup: 1. In a large pot over medium-high heat, melt coconut oil. Add sliced leeks and 1/4 tsp salt. Sauté for 5-8 minutes, or until leeks are soft and creamy. 2. Add vegetable stock, pumpkin purée , and allow the mixture to simmer for 15 minutes. 3. Working in batches add soup to a high-speed blender and blend until smooth, return to pot and taste for seasoning adding more salt if needed. 4. Serve with a drizzle of sriracha and a spoonful of vegan  coconut yogurt.
Devils on Horseback recipe brings the jalapeno heat: Try it for game day: Mike Haley, founder and owner of Belle’s Nashville Kitchen, shared his recipe for Devils on Horseback with Fox News. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. If pimento cheese-stuffed jalapeños get your taste buds excited, how about wrapping that delicious medley in bacon? "This appetizer is a classic example of Southern-style comfort food, but with a twist. Usually served with a dried fruit dish, at Belle’s Nashville Kitchen, pimento cheese-stuffed jalapeños are wrapped in bacon and grilled to crispy perfection," says Mike Haley, founder and owner of Belle’s Nashville Kitchen. "Dipped in ranch, this appetizer combines mild spice, savory bacon and creamy melted cheese to bring you the perfect finger food dish for game day." LOADED POTATO BACON BOATS: TRY THE RECIPE Serves 6 Prep time: 20 minutes Cook time: 20 minutes Mike Haley, founder and owner of Belle’s Nashville Kitchen, shared this recipe for Devils on Horseback with Fox News. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR LIFESTYLE NEWSLETTER 1. Preheat the oven to 400° F. 2. Fill sliced jalapeños with pimento cheese. 3. Wrap each cheese-filled jalapeño with ½ slice of thin bacon. 4. Bake wrapped jalapeños for 12 to 15 minutes in the preheated oven. 5. Finish the dish by heating your bacon-wrapped jalapeños on medium in a saucepan. Cook until bacon is cooked to a golden crisp. 6. Serve with ranch dressing and enjoy.
Justice Department closes its investigation into 1955 killing of Emmett Till: DOJ officials met with Till's family members on Monday. The Emmett Till Interpretive Center is stepping up security around the Till memorial after years of vandalism. The Justice Department is closing its investigation into the 1955 killing of Emmett Till, a Black teenager from Chicago who was abducted and killed while visiting family in Mississippi after witnesses accused him of making sexual advances at a White woman. A 2017 book by Duke University professor Timothy Tyson, "The Blood of Emmett Till," spurred investigators to reopen the case. In the book, Tyson wrote that he handed 20-year-old Carolyn Bryant Donham a transcript of her testimony – in which she said that Till grabbed her, whistled, and made sexual advances – and Donham told him, "[t]hat part’s not true." The Justice Department reopened the investigation in 2018, but Donham denied that she ever actually recanted her story. This undated photo shows Emmett Louis Till, a 14-year-old black Chicago boy, who was kidnapped, tortured and murdered in 1955 after he allegedly whistled at a white woman in Mississippi. "The woman however, when asked about the alleged recantation, denied to the FBI that she ever recanted her testimony and provided no information beyond what was uncovered during the previous federal investigation," the Department of Justice said Monday. "Although lying to the FBI is a federal offense, there is insufficient evidence to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that she lied to the FBI when she denied having recanted to the professor." Tyson could not immediately be reached for comment on Monday. EMMETT TILL KILLING REOPENED BY GOVERNMENT OVER ‘NEW INFORMATION’ Till was abducted and killed, and his body was recovered days later from the Tallahatchie River, where it had been weighed down by a cotton gin. His mother, Mamie Till Mobley, insisted on leaving the casket open at the 14-year-old's funeral, inspiring civil rights campaigns during the Jim Crowe era. In this Sept. 23, 1955, file photo, J.W. Milam, left, his wife, second left, Roy Bryant, far right, and his wife, Carolyn Bryant, sit together in a courtroom in Sumner, Miss. Bryant Donham's husband, Roy Bryant, and his half-brother, J.W. Milam, were arrested and tried for murder in Till's death, but an all-White jury acquitted them. The two men confessed to the murder months later in a paid magazine interview. Representatives from the Department of Justice met with Till's family members in Chicago on Monday to inform them that they were closing the investigation. The mud-caked grave marker for 14-year-old Emmett Till, whose murder in Mississippi in 1955 is considered one of the events that accelerated the Civil Rights Movement, on May 5, 2009, in Burr Oak Cemetery in Alsip, Ill. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP While the Justice Department is closing the investigation, officials did cast doubt on Donham's testimony. "There remains considerable doubt as to the credibility of her version of events, which is contradicted by others who were with Till at the time, including the account of a living witness," the DOJ wrote Monday. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
