School shooting suspect Ethan Crumbley's parents returning after manhunt underway, lawyers say: A statewide 'Be on the Lookout' (BOLO) alert was issued for James and Jennifer Crumbley Friday. Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard tells 'The Story' that the media found out about parents' charges before his office did Attorneys for the parents of Oxford High School shooting suspect Ethan Crumbley say the two are returning to the Oakland County, Michigan, area to be arraigned after authorities asked the public to be on the lookout Friday afternoon. "The Crumbleys left town on the night of the tragic shooting for their own safety. They are returning to the area to be arraigned. They are not fleeing from law enforcement despite recent comments in media reports," attorneys Shannon Smith and Mariell Lehman told Fox News. A statewide "Be on the Lookout"  alert was issued for James and Jennifer Crumbley Friday, two police departments first confirmed to FOX 2 Detroit. After Smith and Lehman told Fox News that James and Jennifer Crumbley are returning to Oakland County to be arraigned, the U.S. Marshals Service tweeted that they are working on the search for the couple in conjunction with the Oakland County Sheriff’s Office. James and Jennifer Crumbley After the Oakland County Sheriff's Office was notified by prosecutor Karen McDonald that she was going to issue charges against the parents on Friday, deputies moved "to arrest the parents," but their attorney told authorities that they "are now unresponsive," Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard told Fox News' "The Story" on Friday. MICHIGAN SCHOOL SHOOTING SUSPECT: ETHAN CRUMBLEY'S PARENTS FACING INVOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER CHARGES The BOLO alert was issued shortly after 1 p.m. CT, according to Rudy Harper, second deputy chief of media relations for the Detroit Police Department. On Thursday, an attorney for the Crumbleys told authorities that "they were going to turn themselves in." "The attorney said she would make that happen this morning," Bouchard said. Ethan Crumbley, 15, allegedly shot and killed four students and injured seven others at Oxford High School. Smith and Lehman said they "contacted the Oakland County prosecutor to discuss this matter and to advise her that James and Jennifer Crumbley would be turning themselves in to be arraigned" on Thursday evening. "Instead of communicating with us, the prosecutor held a press conference to announce charges," they said. SUPERINTENDENT SAYS ETHAN CRUMBLEY CALLED TO OFFICE BUT ‘NO DISCIPLINE WAS WARRANTED’ The two parents are each facing four counts of involuntary manslaughter after their 15-year-old son was accused of killing four students after opening fire inside Oakland High School earlier this week., according to Oakland County prosecutor Karen McDonald. "Our detectives and fugitive apprehension team and the U.S. Marshal Service and the FBI — all of us are in concert looking for them," Bouchard said. "I’m confident we’ll find these two." Ethan Crumbley's first court appearance on Wednesday. He added that the turn of events has not "played out" the way officers "would have liked it to." "We would have liked to have been given a bit of advance notice that a warrant was coming and had set up on them or done something electronically," he said. "It is what it is, and we’re going to find them." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Ethan Crumbley, allegedly fired at least 30 rounds in the hallways of Oxford High School on Tuesday, killing four classmates and injuring seven others. McDonald said the weapon recovered following the shooting – a 9mm Sig Sauer pistol -- was purchased by James Crumbley in the presence of his son at a local firearms store on Black Friday, per an employee that worked there. Fox News' Greg Norman, Adam Sabes and Louis Casiano contributed to this report.
Michigan school shooting: Ethan Crumbley’s parents facing involuntary manslaughter charges: Teen suspect accused of killing four students at Oxford High School on Tuesday. Prosecutor details allegations surrounding Ethan Crumbley's parents The parents of the teen suspect accused of killing four students after opening fire inside a Michigan high school earlier this week are now facing involuntary manslaughter charges as prosecutors on Friday revealed text messages allegedly sent to their son before and after the attack. James and Jennifer Crumbley are each facing four counts of involuntary manslaughter, according to Oakland County prosecutor Karen McDonald. Their son, 15-year-old Ethan Crumbley, allegedly fired at least 30 rounds in the hallways of Oxford High School on Tuesday, killing four classmates and injuring seven others, including a teacher. "While the shooter was the one who entered the high school and pulled the trigger, there are other individuals who contributed to the events on November 30 and it is my intention to hold them accountable as well," McDonald told reporters during a press conference. "It’s imperative we prevent this from happening again. No other parent or community should have to live through this nightmare." Ethan Crumbley, 15, allegedly shot and killed four students and injured seven others at Oxford High School. SUPERINTENDENT SAYS ETHAN CRUMBLEY CALLED TO OFFICE BUT ‘NO DISCIPLINE WAS WARRANTED’ McDonald said the weapon recovered following the shooting – a 9mm Sig Sauer pistol -- was purchased by James Crumbley in the presence of his son at a local firearms store on Black Friday, per an employee that worked there. The teen then took to social media around that date to post images of a semi-automatic handgun with the caption "just got my new beauty today [heart emoji] sig sauer 9mm any questions I will answer," according to McDonald. The next day, McDonald said Jennifer Crumbley posted on social media "mom and son day testing out his new Christmas present." In the week before the shooting, on Nov. 21, McDonald said a teacher at Oxford High School had noticed Ethan Crumbley searching for ammunition on his cell phone during class and reported the incident to administrators. His mother then was contacted by phone and email, but the school never heard back from her, McDonald says. Instead, she added, Jennifer exchanged text messages with her son about the incident, one of which said "Lol I’m not mad at you, you have to learn not to get caught." Then on the morning of the shooting, Ethan's teacher noticed an alarming note on his desk that contained drawings of a semi-automatic handgun, a bullet and a person being shot twice with the phrases "the thoughts won't stop, help me," "blood everywhere," "my life is useless" and "the world is dead" written throughout, according to McDonald. A well-wisher kneels to pray at a memorial on the sign of Oxford High School in Oxford, Mich., on Wednesday. The prosecutor said Ethan and his parents were immediately summoned to a meeting, during which they were told they were required to get their son into counseling within 48 hours. At that meeting, the parents were shown Ethan’s drawing but portions of it were scratched out by Ethan beforehand, such as the drawing of the gun and bloody figure, McDonald said. MICHIGAN STUDENT, 17, BROUGHT GUN TO SCHOOL NOT FAR FROM DEADLY MASS SHOOTING DAY EARLIER, POLICE SAY She noted that the parents resisted the idea of their son leaving school at that time and departed the building without him. He then returned to the classroom and hours later drew the weapon from his backpack and started firing, prosecutors allege. Then when news of the shooting became public, Jennifer Crumbley texted her son at 1:22 p.m., "Ethan, don’t do it," McDonald said. Fifteen minutes later, James Crumbley called 911 to report a gun missing from his house and that he believed his son might be the shooter, she added. "Further investigation revealed that the Sig Sauer 9mm handgun purchased by James Crumbley was stored unlocked in a drawer in James and Jennifer's bedroom," McDonald said. Oakland County prosecutor Karen McDonald addresses the media in her office, on Friday in Pontiac, Mich. The gun found at the scene of the shooting was the same one that James Crumbley purchased on Nov. 26, McDonald alleged. "Gun ownership is a right and with that right comes great responsibility," McDonald also told reporters during the press conference. Meanwhile, Ethan Crumbley is facing one count of terrorism causing death, four counts of first-degree murder, seven counts of assault with intent to murder, and 12 counts of possession of a firearm in the commission of a felony. The teen recorded videos the night before the shooting in which he "talked about shooting and killing students the next day at Oxford High School," Oakland County Sheriff's Office Lt. Tim Willis said Wednesday. Crumbley met with school officials on Monday as well, to address behavioral issues in the classroom, Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard said. Crumbley still had 18 live rounds when police apprehended him in the hallway just five minutes after the first 911 call, Bouchard added. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The four students who died in the shooting are 16-year-old Tate Myre, 14-year-old Hana St. Juliana, 17-year-old Madisyn Baldwin and 15-year-old Justin Shilling. At least three of the injured victims have been released from the hospital, including the 47-year-old teacher who was shot in the shoulder. Fox News’ Paul Best contributed to this report.
Kyle Rittenhouse focusing on 'moving on with my life,' attending ASU: Rittenhouse says his 'goal is to go into a Walmart and not be recognized'. Kyle describes to Tucker Carlson the message he believes is being spread by the media Kyle Rittenhouse told a virtual audience Friday that his biggest priority right now is attending college and moving forward with his life.Rittenhouse appeared Friday alongside his spokesperson, Dave Hancock, to field questions from Twitter users about his trial and subsequent legal actions being planned by his camp. During the talk on Twitter Spaces, one user asked if Rittenhouse planned any lawsuits. Hancock said lawsuits weren't being planned at the moment, while Rittenhouse said he was eager to move forward in life and was focusing on school. "Right now, no one is sitting around discussing that," Hancock replied. Hancock added that a financial dispute over donations sent to Lin Wood's Fight Back Foundation "is being worked on with Kyle's attorneys." "I'm focusing on moving on with my life and attending Arizona State University," Rittenhouse replied, adding, "My goal is to go into a Walmart and not be recognized." ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY STUDENTS PROTEST 'KILLER KYLE RITTENHOUSE AS POSSIBLE STUDENT Rittenhouse's relationship with the Arizona college has been rocky. He has previously said that he was enrolled at the university and planned to take nursing classes. However, a statement from ASU disputed this in the days after the trial. Kyle Rittenhouse says his goal "is to go into a Walmart and not be recognized." Rittenhouse pictured here at his trial. "Kyle Rittenhouse has not gone through the admissions process with Arizona State University and is not enrolled in the Edson College of Nursing and Health Innovation," the university initially said in a statement. ASU can confirm that Mr. Rittenhouse enrolled as a non-degree-seeking ASU online student for the session that started Oct. 13, 2021, which allows students access to begin taking classes as they prepare to seek admission into a degree program at the university," Rittenhouse claims he was granted compassionate withdrawal by ASU staff after the campus erupted in protest against his planned attendance. Protestors referred to Rittenhouse as a "racist murderer" Kyle Rittenhouse reacts after he is found not guilty on all counts at the Kenosha County Courthouse in Kenosha, Wis., on Friday, Nov. 19, 2021. KYLE RITTENHOUSE TELLS TUCKER CARLSON CASE HAD ‘NOTHING TO DO WITH RACE’ IN FIRST INTERVIEW AFTER ACQUITTAL According to ASU, a compassionate withdrawal request can be made during "extraordinary cases" when a "significant personal situation  prevents a student from continuing his or her classes, and incompletes or other arrangements with the instructors are not possible." "Kyle has every intention of attending school at Arizona State University," Hancock added. "The only way he will not be attending Arizona State University in the spring is if the college administrators prohibit him from attending." Kyle later touched on ASU once again, saying, "I always wanted to go to ASU," adding, "It's been my dream college ever since I was little." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP A Twitter account representing the ASU College Republicans United briefly entered the Q&A, expressing support for Rittenhouse and stating that the group was excited for him to attend classes at the school. "We'd love to have him attend ASU," the ASU College Republican account user said. "There are a lot of people who like and respect him."
Gov. DeSantis 'Florida State Guard' proposal prompts alarm from critics: DeSantis’ proposal outlines $3.5 million in funding from the state’s armed forces budget to reestablish a Florida State Guard. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Left-leaning politicians and pundits expressed alarm Friday after Republican Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis proposed the creation of a "State Guard," a civilian-military force that he would control to assist with what his office described as "state-specific emergencies." DeSantis’ proposal outlines $3.5 million in funding from the state’s armed forces budget toward the creation of a Florida State Guard. The governor’s office said the funds would "enable civilians to be trained in the best emergency response techniques" to assist in the "event of a hurricane, natural disasters and other state emergencies." The initiative drew immediate pushback from DeSantis’ critics, some of whom alleged the Florida governor was attempting to establish his own paramilitary force. DeSantis, who has frequently clashed with the Biden administration in recent months, noted a state guard was "not encumbered by the federal government." FILE - Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis speaks at the opening of a monoclonal antibody site Wednesday, Aug. 18, 2021, in Pembroke Pines, Fla. "No Governor should have his own handpicked secret police," said Rep. Charlie Christ, D-Fla., a 2022 Florida gubernatorial candidate. "Can't believe I have to say this, but Florida doesn't need a paramilitary force that only answers to @RonDeSantisFL," said Florida Agriculture Commissioner Nikki Fried, another Democratic gubernatorial candidate. "Millions of Floridians know what it's like to live under regimes like this — and came to our state to escape them. This must be stopped." "Florida governor Ron DeSantis is either openly preparing for a break from the federal government or he wants his followers to *believe* he is. Either way, it's extremely dangerous for the future of the United States," said Brandon Friedman, a former Obama administration official. The original Florida State Guard was established during World War II to replace members of the National Guard serving overseas. The entity was disbanded in 1947. LAKELAND, FLORIDA, UNITED STATES - 2021/09/07: Florida Attorney General Ashley Moody Florida will be the 23rd state with an active state guard, according to DeSantis’ office. While the guard’s primary function will be to assist with disaster relief, DeSantis spokesperson Christina Pushaw tweeted that state law allows the governor to maintain a military force to "assist the civil authorities in maintaining law and order." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "We want to be able to have a quick response capability," DeSantis said at a press conference unveiling the proposal. "Re-establishing the Florida State Guard will allow civilians from all over the state to be trained in the best emergency response techniques and have the ability to mobilize very, very quickly."
Celebrities rally around Alec Baldwin while the public criticizes him following tell-all 'Rust' interview: Baldwin sat down for an interview for the first time to discuss what happened the day of the fatal shooting on 'Rust'. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Celebrities showed their support for actor Alec Baldwin after he did his first sit-down interview about what happened during the fatal shooting that left cinematographer Halyna Hutchins dead and director Joel Souza injured. Baldwin described to viewers what happened the day he fatally shot Hutchins on the set of "Rust," from the moment he says he "let go of the hammer" and the gun went off to his interview with police at the station afterward. Following the interview, Baldwin shared a post on social media saying his life with his family is all he cares about. "No matter what happens to me. No matter what I suffer. If I win or lose, anything. Anything. No one can take away from me the joy and love you have given me, @hilariabaldwin," Baldwin began his post. "These are tough times. The world is choked with fumes of hate. But you have given me a reason to live. Our life with our family is all I care about. Nothing else. I owe that to you." ALEC BALDWIN SLAMMED FOR ‘RUST’ TELL-ALL INTERVIEW: ‘A CLOUT CHASING PERFORMANCE’ Celebrities showed their support for Alec Baldwin on social media following his first sit-down interview about the fatal shooting on the set of 'Rust.' In addition to Baldwin's wife Hilaria saying she loves the actor, the comment section of the post was flooded with support from fellow celebrities. "So beautifully said!" Marilu Henner wrote. "Omg! I love you guys so much!!!" Leslie Jordan added, "Stay strong, Alec. We love you and your beautiful family." Dina Lohan also commented, writing, "Love you and your wife and family you told me once home is where your heart is kiddo … sending love and light." "My friend, no matter what happens in our lives that we can't control. I am with you," Anne Heche wrote. "Mostly because I know the kindess of your soul." "The pain will pass," Anne Welsh added. "It's been a tough year." Amanda Kloots, Manuela Gonzalez Daza, Danielle Monaro and others added heart emojis. Baldwin described what happened, from his point of view, on the day of the shooting that left cinematographer Halyna Hutchins dead and director Joel Souza injured. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER However, some viewers of the interview clearly weren't impressed with what the former "30 Rock" star had to say. "How did Alec Baldwin’s lawyers allow him to do this interview?" one asked on Twitter. "This is nothing but a clout chasing performance. We should be centering the victim, not him." "Im side eyeing Alec..I'm not buying what he is selling," another wrote. A third critic sarcastically added, "I'm not the victim but let's talk about me for an hour." After the interview aired, Baldwin praised his wife on social media. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Other viewers chimed in and accused Baldwin of "performing" during the tell-all interview. "If Alec wasn’t such a good actor, I’d believe every word," another added. "Baldwin is one hell of an actor… ACTION!!!" said a viewer. "He’s performing baby." Fox News' Nate Day contributed to this report.
GoFundMe removes page supporting Army sergeant who shot and killed armed Black Lives Matter protester: Perry stands accused of murder after shooting an armed Black Lives Matter protester last year. On today's episode, Steve Hilton is 'Outnumbered' as we await a press conference on the Michigan school shooting. Meanwhile, President Biden says the economy is getting back on track despite November job reports. A United States Army sergeant facing a murder charge after shooting a Black Lives Matter protester who approached his vehicle with an AK-47 had his GoFundMe page removed from the site by the company. Perry’s attorneys confirmed to Fox News Digital that the GoFundMe page for their client, Army. Sgt. Daniel Perry, has been removed. '60 MINUTES' PREVIEW ON AUSTIN'S 'REIMAGINED' POLICE FORCE SHRUGS OFF RECORD HOMICIDES, POLICE EXODUS  "It’s an expensive trial to undertake with the need for expert witnesses and stuff and we had a GoFundMe site that’s been taken down and it’s been weighing on him," Perry Attorney Clint Broden told Fox News Digital, adding that Perry’s father had to pay a "significant bond" for his release and that the ordeal has taken a "significant toll" on the family. On the night of July 25, 2020, at about 9:50 p.m., authorities say Sgt. Daniel Perry was driving for Uber when he encountered a Black Lives Matter protest in downtown Austin, Texas. Perry, an active duty soldier, was stationed at Ft. Hood at the time. The protesters did not have a permit and were reportedly clogging a busy intersection. After making a right turn onto Austin’s Congress Avenue, Perry’s attorneys say he was swarmed by a group of Black Lives Matter protesters and a masked man, later identified as Garrett Foster, approached his vehicle armed with an AK-47 in the "ready position" as protesters began banging on Perry’s car and throwing bricks. A protester carries a Black Lives Matter flag shortly before the start of a dawn to dusk curfew following the killing of Andrew Brown Jr. by sheriffs last week, in Elizabeth City, North Carolina, U.S. April 27, 2021.  REUTERS/Jonathan Drake FROM SOROS TO UNIONS, THE LEFT POURED MAJOR MONEY INTO EFFORT TO DEFEAT AUSTIN'S POLICE STAFFING PROP Believing that Foster was beginning to raise the rifle and that his life was in danger, Perry fired the handgun he kept in his car console multiple times at which point another protester opened fire on him. The man with the AK-47, Garrett Foster, was fatally wounded. Roughly a year later, Perry was indicted on murder and aggravated assault charges by Travis County District Attorney Jose Garza who claimed that over 150 pieces of evidence and testimony from 22 witnesses during a three-week court hearing led to the decision to press charges. Perry’s attorneys say the shooting was a clear case of self-defense and have expressed serious concerns with how the case has been handled by Garza’s office. "Garrett Foster either intentionally or accidentally pointed his rifle at Daniel Perry’s head and Daniel Perry fired in self-defense," Perry attorney Doug O’Connell told Fox News Digital. "And as a practical matter he had no ability to retreat nor was he required to." "You have the right to defend yourself in a crowd and you feel like you’re in imminent danger of being shot," Broden added. "That’s what it’s all about. I ask people to put themselves in Sgt. Perry’s position and you have this masked man with an assault rifle ready starting to raise it. I think anybody that had access to a firearm would react the same way." Texas castle law extends to one's vehicle in some circumstances. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Austin Texas downtown cityscape skyline aerial view Veteran Detective David Fugitt of the Austin Police Department, the lead investigator on the case who has been on the Austin police force for 27 years, concluded that the shooting was justifiable homicide, but charges were filed anyway, and the veteran detective has suggested that Garza’s office committed witness tampering by preventing the grand jury from seeing exculpatory evidence. Perry’s attorneys say that those who wish to financially support Perry can still do so via the GoGetFunding crowdfunding platform. "I can confirm that this fundraiser was reviewed and found to be in violation of GoFundMe Terms of Service, and subsequently removed. GoFundMe prohibits raising money for the legal defense of a violent crime," a GoFundMe spokesperson said in a statement to Fox News Digital. The platform has previously stated multiple times that it removes pages supporting those who are accused of a "violent crime" but has declined to completely remove pages of others accused of violent crimes in the past. A trial date has not been set for the case but Perry's lawyers have a call scheduled with a judge on December 15th to review concerns with the grand jury process.
Loudoun County schools charge mom $36,000 to respond to open records request on ‘sexual assault,’ ‘rape’: 'The fact that there are potentially 100,000 documents responsive to this request is extremely concerning'. Loudoun County parent: 'The Loudoun School board is the real threat to our children, not us'. A parent filed a Freedom of Information Act  request with the Loudon County Public School District when administrators charged $36,000 to retrieve records related to possible sexual assaults. Michelle Mege, a mother in the district, wanted to search for any communications – including press releases, statements or emails – that used the words "sexual assault" or "rape" between May 1 and Oct. 18 this year. The extravagant fee derived from the hourly rate needed to review documents, which is around $72.15, according to a school official. People gather to protest different issues including the board’s handling of a sexual assault that happened in a school bathroom in May, vaccine mandates and critical race theory during a Loudoun County School Board meeting in Ashburn, Virginia, U.S., October 26, 2021. Picture taken October 26, 2021. REUTERS/Leah Millis "Retrieving these documents would take a half hour’s work by the supervisor of information technology at a cost of $36.08," Loudoun County Public Schools public information officer Wayde Byard said in an email reviewed by the Daily Caller. "Review of these documents – at the rate of 200 per hour – is estimated to take 500 hours." ANDREW CUOMO UNDER FEDERAL INVESTIGATION OVER SEXUAL HARASSMENT CLAIMS "This work would be performed by the public information officer at the rate of $72.15 per hour," he explained. "Loudoun County Public Schools estimates it would cost $36,111.68 to fulfill this request." ASHBURN, VA - AUGUST 10: Members of the Loudoun County school board listen as virtual speakers address the board on transgender rights, covid masks and a host of other issues during a school board meeting on August 10, 2021 in Ashburn, Va. Byard claimed a little over 100,000 documents could possibly relate to the request. TEXAS NANNY SENTENCED TO 30 YEARS FOR CHILD MOLESTATION Loudoun County has found itself at the center of scandal after the revelation that a male student who sexually assaulted a girl in a girls’ restroom went on to assault another student in another school after the school transferred him to that school. Heather Fruzzetti makes a public statement as people protest different issues including the board’s handling of a sexual assault that happened in a school bathroom in May, vaccine mandates and critical race theory during a Loudoun County School Board meeting in Ashburn, Virginia, U.S., October 26, 2021. Picture taken October 26, 2021. Parents have grappled with the fact that such actions could go underreported in their schools, driving them to find any information possible to understand the scope of the issue in the school district. But the cost would prove prohibitive for most parents and serve as a roadblock to any attempt a parent makes to uncover the full extent of possible sexual assault in the district, according to Ian Prior of the group Fight for Schools. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "The fact that there are potentially 100,000 documents responsive to this request is extremely concerning," Prior said. "But it is equally concerning that Loudoun County Public Schools would put up a $36,000 roadblock in front of parents trying to find out the extent of sexual assaults occurring in our schools, especially since LCPS has not been reporting those sexual assaults to the state as is required by law."
Ryan Rogers murder: Suspected killer's apparent YouTube page reveals troubled past: Semmie Williams Jr. is accused of stabbing Ryan Rogers after the teen left for a bike ride in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A disturbing and bizarre YouTube Channel attributed to Semmie Williams, the 39-year-old "homeless drifter" accused in the seemingly random stabbing death of 14-year-old Ryan Rogers of Palm Beach Gardens, appears to showcase the suspect’s severe paranoia and mental health issues. Police sources tell Fox News Digital that a YouTube Channel bearing Williams' name and image belongs to the accused killer. In hundreds of short cellphone videos, he complains that he is stalked, abused and harassed by members of the public and police – often accusing passersby of being secret police, racists and cult members. Multiple agencies are involved in the investigation, which is being led by the Palm Beach Gardens Police Department. Officials there declined to answer questions about the videos' authenticity. Semmie Williams Jr., the 39-year-old "homeless drifter" accused in the unprovoked stabbing death of 14-year-old Ryan Rogers of Palm Beach Gardens, has a 16-page rap sheet in Florida as well as charges in other states and a history of violence. RYAN ROGERS MURDER SUSPECT SEMMIE WILLIAMS HAD LENGTHY FLORIDA RAP SHEET, CONVICTIONS IN GEORGIA They are captioned and narrated ways describing scenarios that the videos do not appear to support. Many are simply titled "gang stalking," while others allege racism, "child endangerment" and "possible criminal activity." One video, posted on the night of the murder and depicting a dark street after sundown, is titled "First Blood 1982." In it, the narrator claims unknown women are following him and that police and security guards are "being violent" with him. "You know, prostitutes that set guys up to get killed," he says. "Like I don’t know these women." In another alarming clip posted on Nov. 16 – the day after Williams allegedly stabbed Ryan to death under an I-95 overpass – a video declared "my next movie is gonna be ‘Blade 3:16.’" Posts from around that time appear to show him filming landmarks in Palm Beach Gardens – about 80 miles from where authorities later picked him up in Miami. RYAN ROGERS MURDER: FLORIDA POLICE IDENTIFY ‘DANGEROUS MONSTER’ ARRESTED IN UNPROVOKED STABBING In others, he claims that police and civilians repeatedly kidnapped him and that the perpetrators were "mutilating" his face and "implanting evidence" on him. The videos often show nothing related to the claims he makes – instead capturing scenes of passing cars, grass and sidewalks. In one, he approaches a stranger and asks if the man is stalking him. The man says no. Police announced charges against Williams Thursday morning after they say their counterparts in Miami took him into custody in connection with Ryan’s death. FLORIDA KILLING: SUSPECT ARRESTED IN HOMICIDE OF 14-YEAR-OLD BOY THAT POLICE DUBBED ‘DELIBERATE ACT’ Palm Beach Gardens Police Chief Clinton Shannon accused Williams of stabbing the teen in "a random act" with no discernable motive. Ryan left his home on his bicycle at around 6:39 p.m. on Nov. 15, according to authorities. When he failed to return by 10:30, his parents reported him missing.    According to a criminal complaint, Ryan and Williams crossed paths at 7:31 p.m. Minutes earlier, surveillance video captured a man believed to be Williams approaching the I-95 overpass on Central Boulevard where Ryan's body was later found. The teen had been stabbed "numerous times in the head and face," according to the complaint. Police found headphones at the scenes that they said contained Williams' DNA. When they arrested him in Miami, he was allegedly in possession of a blood soaked bandana that tested positive for Ryan's DNA. In an interview with police, Williams denied any role in the crime. However police said they had evidence placing him in Palm Beach Gardens at the time of the attack. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Williams is being held without bail on a charge of first-degree murder. YouTube did not return calls or emails seeking comment on the video channel, which remains accessible.
Sarah Silverman slams Joy Reid as media panics about DeSantis' proposed civilian military force in Florida: The MSNBC host called DeSantis' proposal 'fascisty bananas' despite NY, CA having similar forces.  Actress Sarah Silverman took aim at MSNBC host Joy Reid for sounding the alarm on Republican Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis for a proposal for a civilian-military force in his state. DeSantis introduced a plan to re-establish what's called the Florida State Guard that can quickly aid the response to hurricanes and other emergencies. Several other states across the country including New York and California have similar civilian forces. DEBRA MESSING BLASTS MEDIA FOR DOWNPLAYING WAUKESHA PARADE ATTACK AS AN ‘ACCIDENT’ "We want to make sure that we have the flexibility and the ability needed to respond to events in our state in the most effective way possible. That will require us to have access and be able to use support in ways that are not encumbered by the federal government or don't require federal government," DeSantis said Thursday. "So I'm going to be recommending in the budget $3.5 million to re-establish the Florida State Guard. The Florida State Guard will act as a civilian volunteer force that will have the ability to assist the National Guard and state-specific emergencies." However, despite how common it is for states to create their own civilian military force, news outlets suggested DeSantis is tapping into authoritarian impulses. FILE - Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis speaks at the opening of a monoclonal antibody site Wednesday, Aug. 18, 2021, in Pembroke Pines, Fla. CNN's homepage, for example, was dominated Friday morning with the headline, "DeSantis proposes new civilian military force," something the liberal outlet stressed, "he would control." "Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis wants to reestablish a World War II-era civilian military force that he, not the Pentagon, would control," the CNN article began. "But in a nod to the growing tension between Republican states and the Biden administration over the National Guard, DeSantis also said this unit, called the Florida State Guard, would be ‘not encumbered by the federal government.’ He said this force would give him ‘the flexibility and the ability needed to respond to events in our state in the most effective way possible.’" It wasn't until the fourth paragraph that CNN acknowledged that Florida would be the 23rd state to establish such a force. SARAH SILVERMAN SLAMS DEM ‘SQUAD’ FOR OPPOSING ISRAEL'S IRON DOME: ‘NONE OF THEM TALK ABOUT HAMAS!’ But that didn't stop CNN's story from going viral and was shared by several liberal media personalities including the "ReidOut" host. "So… y’all know this is fascisty bananas, right…?" Reid tweeted. Silverman, an outspoken liberal, pushed back at the MSNBC star's hyperbolic remark. "Please read the article before you post this stuff you’re a news outlet. The truth has to matter," Silverman told Reid. Reid was far from the only one expressing sheer panic over DeSantis' proposal. "WOW: GOP Governor of Florida Ron DeSantis wants to form a personal militia like the ‘political’ leaders in Iraq have. It would be a militia that only answers to him. This is the beginning of a ‘Red Army’ as the GOP prepares for war. Literally," liberal SiriusXM radio host Dean Obeidallah reacted to the CNN report. "'And that, children, was the genesis of Florida's nuclear weapons program,'" Lincoln Project co-founder Rick Wilson wrote. "So...fascism," Daily Beast columnist Wajahat Ali tweeted. "What wannabe totalitarian, fascist, authoritarian dictators do," MSNBC analyst Fernand Amandi similarly wrote. CNN HEAVILY PROMOTED REBEKAH JONES' FAKE CONSPIRACY ACCUSING DESANTIS ADMIN OF ALTERING COVID DATA "i can never figure out how much of this is serious and how much is desantis just trying to get a headline to use to trigger the libs," New York Times opinion columnist Jamelle Bouie tweeted. Other outlets ran stories similar to CNN like Axios' "DeSantis proposes Florida civilian military force that he'd control," The Hill's "DeSantis proposes civilian Florida State Guard military force he would control" and The Guardian's "Ron DeSantis plans Florida paramilitary force outside federal control." MSNBC's "The ReidOut Blog" went even further attacking the GOP governor with a piece titled, "DeSantis wants Florida to establish its own military force. He can't be trusted."  A spokesperson for Gov. DeSantis blasted the liberal media's coverage of his proposal. "Today, ‘DeSantis’ was trending on Twitter alongside 'Gestapo.' This is a result of sensationalist false narratives pushed by irresponsible journalists," DeSantis Press Secretary Christina Pushaw told Fox News. "The fact is that 22 other states already have a State Guard, like proposed for Florida. Calling them ‘Gestapo’ is disrespectful, not only to the service members who assist states in emergencies, but also to victims of the actual Gestapo." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Corporate media’s super-spreaders of disinformation are desperate to score cheap political points against Governor DeSantis, but they aren’t fooling Floridians. Florida is the freest state in the country, because we have a governor who fights to defend our constitutional rights – even in the face of an unprecedented onslaught from the Biden Administration. Protecting citizens’ freedom to live their lives and make their own choices, as Governor DeSantis does, is the opposite of dictatorship," Pushaw added.
Alec Baldwin didn't do himself any favors with sit-down, experts say: ‘Textbook example of what not to do’: Baldwin pleaded through tears that he did not 'pull the trigger' of the gun that killed 'Rust' cinematographer Halyna Hutchins. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Alec Baldwin did himself no favors with his recent tell-all interview about the "Rust" shooting tragedy, according to crisis mitigation experts. On Thursday, the "30 Rock" actor vehemently denied ever "pulling the trigger" of the revolver that fired a live projectile into cinematographer Halyna Hutchins, killing her, while also striking director Joel Souza and wounding the filmmaker in the process. "I let go of the hammer of the gun," Baldwin recounted to ABC's George Stephanopoulos. "And the gun goes off." Baldwin and Hutchins had been setting up for a shot where the actor was supposed to draw the gun and point it at the camera. While standing next to the camera, the cinematographer was "guiding" Baldwin on where to point the gun, he said. "The gun wasn't meant to be fired in that angle," he confirmed. ALEC BALDWIN’S INTERVIEW FOLLOWING ‘RUST’ SHOOTING ‘WAS A MISTAKE,’ LEGAL EXPERTS SAY: IT 'MAY BACKFIRE' Alec Baldwin speaks out in first TV interview since the tragic shooting on the set of ‘Rust’ in which a revolver he was holding discharged, killing the film's cinematographer, Halyna Hutchins and wounding director, Joel Souza. "I didn't pull the trigger," Baldwin reiterated. "I would never point a gun at anyone and pull the trigger at them. Never." Baldwin was skewered by many at-home viewers who felt the actor attempted to dodge culpability, while crisis mitigation experts also agreed, suggesting that the performer tried to gaslight the public. ALEC BALDWIN 'RUST' SHOOTING INTERVIEW: FIVE MOST SHOCKING REVELATIONS "Baldwin's buffoonish brand strategy appeared to be to convince the American public that the gun did it all by itself like it had superpowers," Eric Schiffer, an author and leading expert in media relations and branding, told Fox News Digital. Schiffer believes Baldwin’s showing on Thursday "was a bad day for shamelessly hypocritical prima donnas in Hollywood." "Baldwin's brand was already melting down, and this heats the meltdown at a greater velocity because of self-imposed damage that is not only horrifyingly dumb, but defies gun physics itself," Schiffer pressed. "Baldwin cocked the hammer, then pointed it at someone and released the hammer with the gun going boom, yet he says he didn't do it. What planet does he think the public lives on that they would believe his communication plan? Had Baldwin taken one gun training session, he'd know how wacky his messaging strategy was." ALEC BALDWIN HITS BACK AT GEORGE CLOONEY'S RESPONSE TO 'RUST' SHOOTING: 'GOOD FOR YOU' Evan Nierman, CEO of Red Banyan Crisis PR, echoed earlier sentiments from viewers that Baldwin failed to accept accountability for the tragedy, regardless of how he recalls it went down. "His name will now be synonymous with shooting someone to death and then refusing to take responsibility," Nierman said of Baldwin, adding that despite the stain to Baldwin’s legacy, he doesn’t believe the "Saturday Night Live" actor’s career to be over. Alec Baldwin pleaded through tears that he did not 'pull the trigger' of the gun that killed 'Rust' cinematographer Halyna Hutchins "This was a textbook example of what not to do in the wake of a tragedy," the crisis fixer maintained of the primetime special. "Baldwin made this story far worse for himself by blaming the gun, totally refusing to take responsibility, and denying he pulled the trigger. His posture and comments make it virtually impossible for the public to move past this story, and all but guarantee the public will be paying even more attention as lawsuits involving him proceed." Baldwin, who became emotional discussing Hutchins, said he feels incredible sadness and regret over the Oct. 21 shooting on the New Mexico film set, but not guilt. 'RUST' SHOOTING VICTIM HALYNA HUTCHINS' HUSBAND WILL MAKE LEGAL DECISIONS 'WHEN HE IS READY,' FILM GAFFER SAYS However, even with the public tears and decree to take care of Hutchins’ family moving forward, in Nierman’s estimation, Baldwin should "stop doing interviews where you say outrageous things and quit making yourself out to be the victim." "In the meantime, have your wife put her social media shares on hold," Nierman added of Hilaria Baldwin’s continued Instagram posts. Still, in Schiffer’s eyes, Baldwin "tried for an Oscar" and came across as "fake" in his interview. "Baldwin designed his appearance to build public sympathy, but it backfired with his asininely arrogant belief that it’s OK to use the hammer instead of the trigger," Schiffer fumed. "Baldwin doesn't understand that self-deluded, whining elites crowing their innocence early in the process hurts him severely against a history of film sets where pistols don't fire themselves on a regular occurrence." CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER The expert also recognized the interview as an opportunity for "many on the right to look at Baldwin as a primetime example of one more deluded celebrity who never takes responsibility." "Some never saw Baldwin as an A-list actor and his performance became Exhibit A for them," said Schiffer. "He seemed to blame everyone but MAGA, but that may be next." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Baldwin went forth with his painfully deluded story, which suggests he is living in a bubble of Hollywood fairy tales and that he feels the American public are suckers who will believe him," the expert pressed. "Alec should not have counted on that."
Alec Baldwin's wife Hilaria pledges to 'take care of' actor, jabs critics: 'I don't want to lose you': The actor opened up about the 'Rust' shooting in a tell-all interview. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Alec Baldwin has a strong supporter in his wife Hilaria. Since the Oct. 21 shooting on the set of the actor's film "Rust," Hilaria has been an outspoken supporter of her husband despite intense media attention and scrutiny. On Thursday night, Baldwin, 63, addressed the shooting — which resulted in the death of cinematographer Halyna Hutchins — in a tell-all interview with George Stephanopoulos in which the actor said he may have taken his own life if he felt he were responsible for the ordeal. On Friday, Hilaria took to Instagram to share a photo of herself and her husband embracing and kissing, gushing over the "30 Rock" actor in the caption. CELEBRITIES RALLY AROUND ALEC BALDWIN WHILE THE PUBLIC CRITICIZES HIM FOLLOWING TELL-ALL 'RUST' INTERVIEW "'I am here, I love you, and I will take care of you.' These were the only words that came to me when we learned Halyna had died," she recalled. "I remember saying that phrase over and over again. The horrific loss, the torture to her family, and you, my husband, somehow put in this unthinkable nightmare." Hilaria Baldwin promised to ‘take care of’ her husband, Alec Baldwin, after he opened up about the fatal shooting on the set of his movie "Rust." Hilaria said that she remembers the moment well, as photographers surrounded Baldwin to capture widely spread images of the star speaking on the phone while he cried. "I couldn’t be near you to hug you, our connection over the phone, a visual for the world to see," she continued. "Our public life is one that brings great joy in connecting with amazing people and tremendous trauma when it gets dark. The opinions + monetization of us get loud and overwhelming." JOHN SCHNEIDER SAYS HE’S 'DISGUSTED’ BY ALEC BALDWIN’S ‘REFUSAL TO SHOW ANY GUILT’ FOLLOWING INTERVIEW Hilaria said she was "afraid" for Baldwin to "open up" publicly about the shooting because "I’ve seen your spirit crushed, your mental health shattered, your soul in unimaginable pain." She noted: "Sometimes I wonder how much one body, one mind can take. I don’t want to lose you." In the interview, Alec Baldwin claimed that he didn't pull the trigger of the gun that was discharged and that he may have taken his own life if he believed he was responsible for the incident. "You know yourself and wanted to speak. I am proud of you," she gushed before adding: "We become scared and crumble as some speak about us, for us, gossip, conspiracies, ALL OF THE DAMN OPINIONS. Everything gets twisted and turned, torn apart, picked at, even invented." The star said that as "media, social and ‘news’" has developed, she "lost [her] voice" and "stopped speaking because of fear," but praised Baldwin for encouraging her to "speak, use my voice, stay true." ALEC BALDWIN HITS BACK AT GEORGE CLOONEY'S RESPONSE TO 'RUST' SHOOTING: 'GOOD FOR YOU' "You were right and continue to inspire me," she stated. "You and I don’t always get it right, but we have big hearts and we love deeply. We are completely different in almost every [single] possible way, but we are united through deep caring. Alec, we are messy, unfiltered, and wear our hearts, naked, on our sleeves—this makes us targets and we are so sensitive that to hurt us is easy. As much as I want the pain to go, I can’t imagine being any other way. It just is who we are—and who we are together." The shooting resulted in the death of cinematographer Halyna Hutchins. The yoga guru circled back around to her opening phrase and said that she and her husband "honor Halyna and her family" and hope to "figure out how this happened and whatever we can do to make sure it never happens again." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "My Alec, I am here to heal any of your pain that I can," she concluded. "I am not going anywhere. Onward to being Alec and Hilaria, messy, emotions strong, but lots and lots of love—until the very end." CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Once Baldwin caught wind of the post, he shared his response in the comments. "I’m lucky. Sometimes it doesn’t seem that way to me," he wrote. "But having you and our family…I’m the luckiest guy on Earth."
New 'dark money' financial disclosures expose the political outlook and power of teacher unions: The two teachers unions have so far provided $1.3 million to Democrats and $2.,500 to Republicans. 'Irreversible Damage' author Abigail Shrier shares details on how students are being lured into joining school clubs that explore sexuality New financial disclosures further expose the political power of the nation's two largest teachers unions. Between 2020 and 2021, the National Education Association provided more than $8 million dollars to liberal, dark money groups such as the State Innovation Exchange, Strategic Victory Fund, and State Engagement Fund. The latter received over $6.5 million and exists under the umbrella of the Democracy Alliance, which was described by Politico in 2014 as, "The Left's Secret Club." AMERICA'S LARGEST TEACHERS' UNION TO VOTE ON MANDATORY COVID-19 VACCINATIONS, MASKS AND TESTING FOR STUDENTS In 2020, while parents were plagued by school closures and Congress carved out its Coronavirus Relief Package, the NEA and the American Federation of Teachers increased their contributions to Democrats and liberal groups totaling more than $65 million. President Joe Biden speaks with National Education Association President Becky Pringle at the NEA's annual meeting at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center in Washington, Friday, July 2, 2021. The partisan influence is not limited to issues that affect the classroom. In October, AFT President, Randi Weingarten issued a statement on President Biden's infrastructure and spending bills, "Congress must move forward and pass the Build Back Better Act and the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, and lead our country forward in this critical moment." U.S. President Joe Biden speaks during the National Education Association's annual meeting and representative assembly event in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Friday, July 2, 2021. Photographer: Samuel Corum/Bloomberg via Getty Images Amidst a rapidly mobilizing movement of frustrated parents in Virginia, Weingarten unsuccessfully campaigned for former Democratic Governor Terry McAuliffe. Democratic gubernatorial candidate, former Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe speaks to supporters during a rally in Richmond, Va., Sunday, Oct. 31, 2021. Both unions disclosed a combined contribution of $600,000 toward McAuliffe's campaign. CRITICAL RACE THEORY OPPONENTS TO BE TARGETED, REASEARCHED' BY NEA TEACHERS UNION According to OpenSecrets.org, donations from the two unions have long been on the rise and grew from $4.3 million in 2004 to more than $32 million in 2016. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The data also shows that in preparation of the 2022 midterms the two teachers unions have so far provided $1.3 million to Democrats and $2,500 to Republicans.
Jan. 6 Committee subpoena for private phone records requests swath of data, from call logs to IP addresses: Fox News obtained a copy of a notice sent from AT&T to a private customer whose phone records were subpoenaed by the Jan. 6 Committee. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. EXCLUSIVE – Fox News obtained a redacted copy of a notice AT&T sent to a private citizen customer after the company received a subpoena from the House Jan. 6 Committee for that individual's phone records. "The AT&T Global Legal Demand Center responds to subpoenas addressed to AT&T companies," the document, which includes a copy of the subpoena, says. "We have received the enclosed congressional subpoena directing AT&T to disclose information about you, your account or one or more phone numbers associated with you." "As a courtesy, we are sending this notice to your address on file to enable you to contest the subpoena if you wish to do so," the notice continues. It adds that the company will respond to the subpoena by Dec. 16 unless the customer takes legal action to fight the subpoena. Personal details about the recipient of the subject, including the phone number being subpoenaed, are redacted from the document obtained by Fox News. The subpoena is a broad request for electronic records associated with a specific phone number. Supporters of President Donald Trump climb the west wall of the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021, in Washington. This includes all the authorized users on a certain account, email addresses associated with it, the length of service with the company, every phone number on an account, electronic serial numbers, the "[a]ctivation and termination date of each device associated with the account," "[a]ny and all number and/or account number changes" and "[o]ther subscriber numbers or identities," including temporary IP addresses. HOUSE JAN. 6 COMMITTEE SUBPOENAING PHONE RECORDS OF PRIVATE INDIVIDUALS, REP. BANKS SAYS Most notably, the subpoena includes a demand for "all call, message, , and data-connection detail records associated with the phone numbers, including all phone numbers, IP addresses or devices that communicated with the phone number via delivered and undelivered inbound, outbound, and routed calls, messages, voicemails and data connections." A GOP source told Fox News this week that subpoenas were sent not just to AT&T but also to T-Mobile and Verizon. None of those companies directly replied to requests for comment. But the Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association  reached out to Fox News with a statement. "While CTIA is not privy to the specifics of any request, wireless carriers are compelled to comply with valid subpoenas and do so every day," the CTIA said. The subpoena is signed by Jan. 6 Committee Chairman Rep. Bennie Thompson, D-Miss. The committee did not immediately respond to a request for comment from Fox News. Neither did a spokesperson for Ranking Member Liz Cheney, R-Wyo. The subpoenas follow preservation orders the committee issued to telecom companies in August for a swath of data pertaining to many individuals. It isn't clear exactly whose records are being subpoenaed by the committee now, but a GOP aide knowledgeable about the subpoenas said the committee hasn't issued any for phone records of members of Congress yet. Rep. Adam Kinzinger, a Republican from Illinois, speaks during a House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing in Washington, D.C. Sept. 16, 2020. JUDGES DUBIOUS OF TRUMP LAWYERS' CLAIMS IN MAJOR CASE ON JAN. 6 COMMITTEE DOCUMENTS: ‘ONE PRESIDENT AT A TIME’ "The committee has moved forward with issuing subpoenas to telephone companies," the GOP aide said Wednesday. "Our understanding at this point is they have not subpoenaed member information, but they are subpoenaing telephone records of private American citizens." "I'm not gonna get too far ahead of what we're releasing. But we're gonna get – we'll be thorough, we'll get to the bottom," Jan. 6 Committee member Rep. Adam Kinzinger, R-Ill., told Fox News when asked about subpoenas for private citizens' phone records Wednesday. "I won't say anything on that yet," he added when pressed again. In this Jan. 6, 2021, file photo with the White House in the background, President Donald Trump speaks at a rally in Washington. Cheney simply said "no comment" when asked about such subpoenas. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The Jan. 6 Committee is tasked with investigating the attack on the Capitol by a mob of supporters of former President Donald Trump earlier this year. The attack happened after Trump falsely claimed he won the presidential election for months. Democrats say the committee is crucial to ensuring there is never a repeat of Jan. 6. Most Republicans say it is a highly partisan witch hunt meant to hurt Republicans and the former president. Fox News' Bill Mears contributed to this report.
Gov. Kay Ivey warns Biden, OSHA vaccine mandate could create 'economic damage' in Alabama: Ivey says 'economic damage likely would be great' if mandate is adopted as final standard. Certified nursing assistant Becca Pitts says that the vaccine deadline is supposed to take place on December 5. Alabama Gov. Kay Ivey has penned a letter to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, warning that President Biden's COVID-19 vaccine mandate for companies with more than 100 employees will have a negative impact on the Yellowhammer State's economy. In the letter, which was sent to Assistant Secretary of Labor Douglas Parker on Friday, Ivey urged OSHA to not adopt its COVID-19 Vaccination and Testing Emergency Temporary Standard  as a "final standard or rule" as she claims the ETS is "misguided" and that any standard based off of it would be a "mistake." BIDEN HIT WITH STRING OF LEGAL LOSSES ON VACCINE MANDATE, AS DOJ VOWS TO 'VIGOROUSLY DEFEND' IT IN COURT Republican Alabama Gov. Kay Ivey speaks to Fox News about Big Tech and her opposition to President Joe Biden's proposed coronavirus vaccine mandates. While voicing her opposition to the vaccine mandate, which is facing numerous court battles, Ivey urged OSHA to discontinue the mandate "sooner, rather than later" as it increases "vaccine skepticism in Alabama" and continues to "disrupt the State's economy." She also stated she believes a final standard based on the ETS could be "harmful to businesses in Alabama" as "significant percentages of Alabama's workforce have not received at least one dose" of the vaccine. "Given all the efforts to educate and persuade Alabamians of the vaccine's safety and effectiveness, I can only conclude that many Alabamians have profound – and sincere – medical, religious, or other reasons not to take it," Ivey wrote. "I believe that enforcement of the ETS may lead many Alabamians to quit their jobs and leave the workforce – in the middle of a substantial labor shortage, no less – or to seek work at businesses not covered by the mandate." A pharmacist prepares a syringe of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine at Queen Anne Healthcare. Ivey continued, saying that "disruption would interrupt people's careers and threaten their livelihoods and the well-being of their families" and could "damage the productivity and bottom lines of businesses statewide." "If a federal court strikes down the ETS, well and good," Ivey wrote. "If not, I ask that OSHA not continue its provisions under a final standard. The economic damage likely would be great. Ending the provisions sooner rather than later could lessen the damage likely to be caused by them." Ivey has maintained that she believes COVID-19 vaccines should not be forced on Americans by the federal government. Last May, she signed into law legislation which bans the use of vaccine passports in the state, saying then that she is "supportive of a voluntary vaccine." President Joe Biden delivers remarks on the authorization of the coronavirus disease  vaccine for kids ages 5 to 11, during a speech in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building’s South Court Auditorium at the White House in Washington, U.S., November 3, 2021. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Alabama is standing strong in our fight against the overreaching, un-American Biden vaccine mandates," Ivey said in a statement Friday. "President Trump said it well in an interview yesterday morning. The Biden Administration is driving distrust and anxieties about this vaccine." Ivey also stated that Americans "should never have to choose between getting this shot and putting food on the tables for their families" and vowed to continue "fighting these mandates every step of the way." In October, Ivey signed Executive Order 724 which prevents any agency, department, board, commission, or other state entity from imposing penalties on businesses that are not in compliance with the federal vaccine mandate.
Omicron-stricken South Africa may be a glimpse into the future of COVID-19: Even with the rapid increase, infections are still below 25,000 new daily cases. Fox News medical contributor Dr. Marc Siegel on his interview with Dr. Rochelle Walensky on the severity of omicron. Dr. Sikhulile Moyo was analyzing COVID-19 samples in his lab in Botswana last week when he noticed they looked startlingly different from others. Within days, the world was ablaze with the news that the coronavirus had a new variant of concern — one that appears to be driving a dramatic surge in South Africa and offering a glimpse of where the pandemic might be headed. New COVID-19 cases in South Africa have burgeoned from about 200 a day in mid-November to more than 16,000 on Friday. Omicron was detected over a week ago in the country’s most populous province, Gauteng, and has since spread to all eight other provinces, Health Minister Joe Phaahla said. Even with the rapid increase, infections are still below the 25,000 new daily cases that South Africa reported in the previous surge, in June and July. WHITE HOUSE SAYS DOMESTIC TRAVEL VACCINE REQUIREMENTS ON THE TABLE DUE TO OMICRON VARIANT Little is known about the new variant, but the spike in South Africa suggests it might be more contagious, said Moyo, the scientist who may have been the first to identify the new variant, though researchers in neighboring South Africa were close on his heels. Omicron has more than 50 mutations, and scientists have called it a big jump in the evolution of the virus. An Orange Farm, South Africa, resident listens to a nurse after receiving his jab against COVID-19 Friday Dec. 3, 2021 at the Orange Farm multipurpose center. South Africa has accelerated its vaccination campaign a week after the discovery of the omicron variant of the coronavirus. This undated image provided by the Botswana-Harvard Partnership shows Dr. Sikhulile Moyo. Moyo was analyzing COVID-19 samples in his lab in Botswana when he noticed they looked startlingly different from others. Within days, the world was ablaze with the news that the coronavirus had a new variant of concern called omicron, which appears to be driving a dramatic surge in South Africa. It’s not clear if the variant causes more serious illness or can evade the protection of vaccines. Phaahla noted that only a small number of people who have been vaccinated have gotten sick, mostly with mild cases, while the vast majority of those who have been hospitalized were not vaccinated. But in a worrisome development, South African scientists reported that omicron appears more likely than earlier variants to cause reinfections among people who have already had a bout with COVID-19. People who just received their jab against COVID-19 Friday Dec. 3, 2021 wait for their vaccine card to be processed at the Orange Farm, South Africa, multipurpose center. South Africa has accelerated its vaccination campaign a week after the discovery of the omicron variant of the coronavirus. People who have just received their jab against COVID-19 Friday Dec. 3, 2021 wait for their vaccine card to be processed at the Orange Farm, South Africa, multipurpose center. South Africa has accelerated its vaccination campaign a week after the discovery of the omicron variant of the coronavirus. "Previous infection used to protect against delta, and now with omicron it doesn’t seem to be the case," one of the researchers, Anne von Gottberg of the University of Witwatersrand, said at a World Health Organization briefing on Thursday. OMICRON VARIANT OF COVID-19 FOUND IN MULTIPLE US STATES While the study did not examine the protection offered by vaccination, von Gottberg said: "We believe that vaccines will still, however, protect against severe disease." The findings, posted online Thursday, are preliminary and haven’t yet undergone scientific review. A staff member is seen at the Vaccination Centre of Hope at the Cape Town International Convention Centre in Cape Town, South Africa, Friday, Dec. 3, 2021. The mass Covid-19 vaccination site is closing today after vaccinating more than 136 000 people at the Western Cape's first mass vaccination centre. South Africa’s hospitals are so far coping with the surge, even those in Gauteng province, which accounts for more than 70% of all new infections, Phaahla said. The picture could change because most of those infected thus far have been younger people who generally do not get as sick as older patients. But Moyo expressed hope that vaccines would continue to work against the variant. "I have a lot of hope from the data that we see that those vaccinated should be able to have a lot of protection," he said. That dovetails with what officials from WHO in Asia said Friday. Residents stand in the streets of Lawley, South Africa, during a visit of local government officials for the launch of the Vooma vaccination program against COVID-19 Friday Dec. 3, 2021. South Africa has accelerated its vaccination campaign a week after the discovery of the omicron variant of the coronavirus. Volunteers go door to door with vaccination information material in Lawley, South Africa, during a visit of local government officials for the launch of the Vooma vaccination program against COVID-19 Friday Dec. 3, 2021. South Africa has accelerated its vaccination campaign a week after the discovery of the omicron variant of the coronavirus. A woman receives a COVID-19 vaccine at a facility in Soweto, South Africa, Wednesday Dec. 2, 2021. South Africa has accelerated its vaccination campaign by giving jabs at pop-up sites in shopping centers and transport hubs to combat the rapidly rising new cases of COVID-19. While warning that cases could well rise quickly because of omicron, Dr. Takeshi Kasai, WHO regional director for the Western Pacific, said the measures used against the delta variant — which itself caused surges the world over — should remain at the core of the response. "The positive news in all of this is that none of the information we have currently about omicron suggests we need to change the directions of our response," Kasai said. An Orange Farm, South Africa, resident listens to a nurse after receiving his jab against COVID-19 Friday Dec. 3, 2021 at the Orange Farm multipurpose center. South Africa has accelerated its vaccination campaign a week after the discovery of the omicron variant of the coronavirus. That means continuing to push for higher vaccination rates, abiding by social-distancing guidelines and wearing masks, among other measures, said WHO Regional Emergency Director Dr. Babatunde Olowokure. While more than three dozen countries worldwide have reported omicron infections, the numbers so far are small outside of South Africa. That has led many countries to race to impose travel restrictions on visitors from Southern Africa — a move WHO officials said may buy some time, though the agency previously urged against the closing of borders. Noesqui Muanza, 33, receives a dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine at the Vaccination Centre of Hope at the Cape Town International Convention Centre in Cape Town, South Africa, Friday, Dec. 3, 2021. The mass Covid-19 vaccination site is closing today after vaccinating more than 136 000 people at the Western Cape's first mass vaccination centre. The travel restrictions have been severely criticized by South Africa, which says it is being punished for being transparent and moving so quickly to alert the world to omicron. WHO said it was notified by the country on Nov. 24 about the new variant. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "What we must reemphasize is that while our scientists and those in Botswana were the first to discover and report on the variant, no one knows where it originated," Phaahla said.
Dr. Siegel 'confident' Biden's in good health: Siegel says he does have questions about Biden's most recent exam. Fox News medical contributor Dr. Marc Siegel on his interview with Dr. Rochelle Walensky on the severity of omicron. Fox News contributor Dr. Marc Siegel said he was "confident" that President Biden is in good health, despite recent concerns about the president’s raspy voice. "I think that frequent testing of the president is a very good idea," Siegel told Fox News, adding he would hope the president was tested regularly following signs of upper respiratory congestion. BIDEN EXPLAINS COUGHING, HOARSE VOICE, SAYS GRANDSON GAVE HIM A COLD  The president’s physician, Kevin O’Connor, said in a memo Friday that Biden had been tested for 19 common respiratory pathogens that included influenza and streptococcus. "All of these tests were negative," O’Connor said, adding that Biden had also been tested for COVID-19 three times this week. "Treatment will include common over-the-counter medications for symptoms." The president dismissed questions regarding his health during a press event Friday, assuring reporters he caught a cold from his grandson. President Biden speaks about the COVID-19 variant omicron in the Roosevelt Room of the White House Monday, Nov. 29, 2021, in Washington as Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, listens. "What I have is a one-and-a-half-year-old grandson who had a cold who likes to kiss his pop," Biden said. Siegel said he was assured by the president’s overall health following a routine physical exam last month but noted he would have liked to have seen additional reports on some issues the president’s physician noted. "He had an extensive physical examination done. I was very impressed with the thoroughness of it," the top doc said. DR. SIEGEL INTERVIEWS CDC DIRECTOR ON OMICRON COVID VARIANT Siegel noted that a couple of issues did arise in the president’s examination, including the discovery of a colon polyp. The Fox News contributor said he believes this is "nothing to worry about" but serves as a good reminder for Americans to get their colonoscopies. Siegel noted the president had a neurological evaluation after his physician found Biden’s gait had altered from the previous evaluation, a caution that the Siegel said is routine. "I’m wondering, from that neurological evaluation, A: was an MRI of the spine or brain done?" Siegel said, noting there could be a correlation between the change in gait and other neurological issues. "And B: nerve conduction EMG?" Siegel asked, referring to an evaluation done to test whether muscles respond correctly to certain nerve signals. If completed, neither test was included in the publicly released report, Siegel said. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "The other thing is no sign of any cognitive testing," he added, noting it might have been a good test to include given that questions that have arisen relating to the president's cognitive abilities. "I’m confident from this physical that he seems to be in really good health," Siegel said. "But those things stand out."
Stephen Colbert declares 'we don't live in a democracy' as right-leaning SCOTUS considers abortion case: The CBS star expressed concern the court will overturn Roe v. Wade despite its popularity among Americans. Correspondent at Large Geraldo Rivera and former department assistant Attorney General John Yoo join ‘Your World with Neil Cavuto’ to discuss the case "Late Show" host Stephen Colbert offered a grim assessment of the landmark abortion case that was brought in front of the Supreme Court this week. Colbert began his monologue Thursday by knocking the "slightly less-trusted body" over concerns among the left that the lawsuit brought against Mississippi's abortion cut-off of 15 weeks into the pregnancy can result in the overturning of Roe v. Wade with a conservative-leaning court. ‘THE VIEW’ HOST WHOOPI GOLDBERG ERUPTS ON ABORTION DEBATE: HOW DARE MEN ‘TALK ABOUT WHAT A FETUS WANTS?’ "We don't know ultimately what's going to happen other than we definitely know cuz based on what we heard from the justices, it is looking rough for Roe," Colbert told his audience. The CBS star mocked Chief Justice John Roberts' inquiry during oral arguments about abortion ban precedent and suggested Associate Justice Clarence Thomas was "confused" for asking what specific constitutional "right" is at jeopardy. "He knows it's his job to interpret the Constitution, right?" Colbert jabbed the justice.  He then took shots at Justice Amy Coney Barrett for linking the subject of infringing bodily autonomy to vaccine mandates, saying it's a "false analogy" since COVID is contagious and no one is asking for "bellies" to be masked to prevent "catching baby." Colbert also warned the political consequences of the Supreme Court overturning Roe v. Wade, citing a poll showing 60% of the population supporting the precedent versus the 27% who oppose, stressing "That's more than two-to-one." SUPREME COURT ABORTION CASE: 5 KEY MOMENTS FROM ORAL ARGUMENTS "So, if it is this unpopular, why is everyone saying it's going to happen?" Colbert asked. "Well, I don’t want to get too technical but we, what’s the word, don’t live in a democracy." "Five of the nine justices were appointed by presidents who lost the popular vote, the last three confirmed by a Republican senate who now represent 41 million fewer Americans than the Democrats. In fact, Republican Senators haven't represented a majority of the U.S. population since 1996! A lot has changed since 1996. Back then, the Oscar for Best Supporting Actor went to Kevin Spacey! And the Best Director was Mel Gibson!" he added. supremecourt.gov "The View" co-host Whoopi Goldberg similarly sounded the alarm, scolding the male justices for having a say in the abortion debate. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Do any of you men have any eggs or the possibility of carrying a fetus? How dare you talk about what a fetus wants? You have no idea," Goldberg said. "I’m fine if you disagree with abortion, I have no problem with that. My problem comes when you tell me what I need to do with my doctor and my family. How dare you. How dare you!"
New Zealand to try new COVID-19 system with Auckland reopening: Auckland has a 90% vaccination rate of people age 12 or older. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Bars, restaurants and gyms reopened in Auckland on Friday as the last major parts of a lockdown that lasted more than 100 days ended. New Zealand has begun a new phase in its coronavirus response in which there won’t be lock downs, but people will be required to be fully vaccinated — and prove it with vaccine passes — in order to access many services. The government decided that vaccination rates were high enough to switch to the new system, with about 87% of people aged 12 and over fully vaccinated. In Auckland, which has been at the center of the nation’s outbreak, the rate is over 90%. Customers enjoy meals and drinks at a restaurant in central Auckland, New Zealand, Friday, Dec. 3, 2021. Bars, restaurants and gyms reopened in Auckland on Friday as the last major parts of a lockdown that lasted more than 100 days ended. New Zealand has begun a new phase in its virus response in which there won't be lockdowns, but people will be required to show vaccine passes for many services. OMCRON VARIANT: WHO CLAIMS MEASURES USED TO COUNTER DELTA VARIANT SHOULD BE USED The threat posed by the new omicron variant did not change plans for the reopening, after New Zealand on Sunday restricted travel from nine southern African countries. No cases of omicron have been found in New Zealand and officials remain confident cases will be caught at the border by the quarantine system. On Friday, there was a feeling of excitement among patrons in Auckland, some of whom visited bars the moment they were allowed to open at midnight. A man sits outside a cafe in central Auckland, New Zealand, Friday, Dec.3, 2021. Bars, restaurants and gyms reopened in Auckland on Friday as the last major parts of a lockdown that lasted more than 100 days ended. New Zealand has begun a new phase in its virus response in which there won't be lockdowns but people will be required to show vaccine passes for many services. NEW ZEALAND CAN'T ERADICATE CORONAVIRUS COMPLETELY, GOVERNMENT SAYS Michael Barnett, the chief executive of the Auckland Business Chamber, said there was a sense of relief for many business owners, who would try to make the most of the next couple of weeks before Christmas. He said many owners were trying to come to terms with new obligations to check vaccine passes. "There were lots of questions, more than anything else," Barnett said. "Questions about ‘How do I operate? What do I do? What do I ask?’ It was a bedding down day for a lot of businesses." Customers eat outside in cafes in central Auckland, New Zealand, Friday, Dec. 3, 2021. Bars, restaurants and gyms reopened in Auckland on Friday as the last major parts of a lockdown that lasted more than 100 days ended. New Zealand has begun a new phase in its virus response in which there won't be lockdowns but people will be required to show vaccine passes for many services. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Some restrictions still remain. Auckland’s border to the rest of the country does not reopen until mid-December. A new "traffic light" system is designed to indicate where outbreaks are putting pressure on the health system. A green designation imposes few restrictions, orange requires more mask wearing and distancing, and red limits gathering sizes to 100 people or fewer. Auckland and a few other areas have begun at a red light while the rest of the country has begun at orange. The government hopes to move Auckland to orange soon.
Sparks fly in 'View' clash over 'broken' Biden campaign promise concerning 'Remain in Mexico' policy: '[Biden] knows better, he needs to do better, and he did break all of his campaign promises'. In media news today, CNN stays silent on who will conduct an outside firm probe into the Cuomo scandal, Kathy Griffin calls out the liberal network for keeping Jeffrey Toobin despite firing her, and an MSNBC analyst claims Republicans oppose Fauci because they want the pandemic to continue. Sparks flew on the set of ABC's "The View" Friday as co-hosts clashed over President Biden's decision to restart the Trump-era "Remain in Mexico" policy. During a segment discussing Biden's decision, co-host Ana Navarro butted heads with Sunny Hostin and guest host America Ferrera over the policy, with the latter two excoriating Biden for breaking his campaign promise to end it, and the former arguing that the policy discouraged people from attempting to make the dangerous journey to the southern U.S. border. BIDEN ADMINISTRATION REACHES DEAL WITH MEXICO TO RE-IMPLEMENT TRUMP-ERA ‘REMAIN-IN-MEXICO’ POLICY "You can’t make an inhumane policy humane," Ferrera said after co-host Joy Behar asked if she thought the policy implementation would work. Ferrera read a previous tweet from Biden calling the policy "dangerous" and "inhumane" and vowing to end it. "I am so disappointed in Joe Biden’s decision, not only to allow it to be re-implemented but to expand on it," she added, claiming Biden was expanding the policy to include Haitian and Jamaican migrants. "Not only is this a broken campaign promise, this is an incredible disappointment that will put tens of thousands of people in real danger." Behar pointed out that Biden was acting under a court order, which came about following his ending the policy after taking office in January. A federal court order, upheld by the Supreme Court, ordered the Biden administration to re-implement the program after Missouri and Texas argued the policy had not been rescinded lawfully. "Yes, but the court order isn't for him to expand it. He’s not just implementing, he's expanding," Ferrera claimed. "The View" co-hosts Ana Navarro and Sunny Hostin debate Biden's re-implementation of the "Remain in Mexico" policy on December 3, 2021. LIBERAL DC MAYOR'S FORMER SPOKESMAN BLASTS BIDEN OVER BORDER CRISIS: WE DON'T HAVE AN IMMIGRATION POLICY' Hostin jumped in, appearing frustrated, and declared that anyone who sets foot on U.S. soil has "an automatic right to legal asylum." "[Biden] knows better, he needs to do better, and he did break all of his campaign promises," she said. "It is your right the minute you step into this country to seek asylum, and that’s what people are doing, and now Joe Biden is basically breaking the law. His administration is breaking the law." Navarro, interrupting Hostin, stated the issue wasn't as black and white as she was arguing the U.S. needed to figure out how to help people in places like Central America get more opportunities and be able to apply for asylum in their home countries, rather than attempting the trek up to the border. "What do you do when they get here? Send them back?" Hostin interrupted. The debate devolved into multiple co-hosts attempting to speak over each other before Behar said, "One at a time, girls." TEXAS, USA - SEPTEMBER 19: Migrants are seen at the Rio Grande near the Del Rio-Acuna Port of Entry in Del Rio, Texas, on September 18, 2021. BIDEN'S BORDER CRISIS – PREVENTABLE, PREDICTABLE AND DEADLY Navarro argued that some sort of balance in policies addressing immigration needed to be found, that it needed to be recognized that the Biden administration gave a multi-billion dollar commitment to invest in the region, and that Congress needed to pass comprehensive immigration reform. "We can all agree to that. The issue is when people come to this country you don’t break the law. You don’t send them back to a country where they are going to be persecuted, where they’re going to be harmed, where they’re going to be possibly killed. That is not the promise of this country. This administration is acting illegally," Hostin said. Ferrera claimed the policy was against everything America stood for as a country of immigrants before Hostin chimed in again oddly claiming, without evidence, that there was a double standard when it came to people like former First Lady Melania Trump being able to immigrate to the U.S. The conversation ended without any apparent agreement between the co-hosts. A U.S. Customs and Border Protection border patrol agent talks to people on the Mexican side of the border wall at Border Field State Park in San Diego, California, U.S., November 28, 2018. REUTERS/Chris Wattie CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Fox News' Adam Shaw contributed to this report.
Ghislaine Maxwell trial: Jeffrey Epstein had nude photos, paintings of young women inside Palm Beach home: Maxwell trial jurors shown video of nude photos, paintings inside Epstein's Palm Beach home. Maxwell faces six federal sex trafficking charges as prosecutors say the former British socialite groomed victims for billionaire sex offender. Jurors at the New York sex-abuse trial of Ghislaine Maxwell, the ex-girlfriend and longtime associate of Jeffrey Epstein, were shown a law enforcement videotape of the interior of a Florida estate where prosecutors say she and the financier exploited underage victims when the pair lived there together. The video, which was played for the panel of jurors on Friday afternoon, was shot during a 2005 raid at the Palm Beach home, which was decorated with nude photos and paintings of young women — decor that federal prosecutors in Manhattan claim is proof of a sexualized atmosphere encouraged by Maxwell, Epstein's "partner in crime." GHISLAINE MAXWELL TRIAL: HOUSEKEEPER FOUND SEX TOYS, LEATHER COSTUME AFTER EPSTEIN'S MASSAGES In this courtroom sketch, Ghislaine Maxwell is seated at the defense table while watching testimony of witnesses during her trial, Tuesday, Nov. 30, 2021, in New York. In this courtroom sketch, Ghislaine Maxwell enters the courtroom escorted by U.S. Marshalls at the start of her trial, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021, in New York. In this courtroom sketch, Lawrence Paul Visoski Jr., who was one of Jeffrey Epstein's pilots, testifies on the witness stand during Ghislaine Maxwell's sex trafficking trial, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021, in New York. In this courtroom sketch, Lead Maxwell defense attorney Bobbi Sternheim gives an opening statement while Ghislaine Maxwell, far left, listens, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021, in New York. In this courtroom sketch, Ghislaine Maxwell, far right, appears in Manhattan Federal court seated next to her attorney Bobbi C. Sternheim, second from left, along with her sister Isabel Maxwell, far left, during her arraignment on a superceding indictment, Friday, April 23, 2021, in New York. Maxwell, a British socialite, was Epstein’s onetime girlfriend and, later, employee. Prosecutors said she took the girls on shopping trips and movie outings, talked to them about their lives and encouraged them to accept financial help from him. GHISLAINE MAXWELL TRIAL: FIRST ACCUSER SAYS EPSTEIN INTRODUCED HER TO TRUMP AT AGE 14 The government also says she helped to create a sexualized atmosphere by talking with the girls about sex and encouraging them to give Epstein massages. A woman identified as "Jane" testified this week that she had sexual interactions with Epstein at age 14 with Maxwell in the room and sometimes participating. Maxwell, 59, denies the allegations against her, and her lawyers say prosecutors are going after her because they can’t try Epstein. Epstein died in a New York City federal corrections facility in 2019, while charged with sex trafficking counts that alleged he abused dozens of underage girls in New York and Florida. The case against Maxwell stems from four now-adult women who said she helped him victimize them. GHISLAINE MAXWELL WAS PART OF EPSTEIN ORGIES, SAYS FIRST ACCUSER IN TRIAL Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell attend de Grisogono Sponsors The 2005 Wall Street Concert Series Benefitting Wall Street Rising, with a Performance by Rod Stewart at Cipriani Wall Street on March 15, 2005 in New York City. Also on Friday, former Epstein housekeeper Juan Patricio Alessi returned to the witness stand on Friday to face cross-examination over his testimony that "Jane" and another woman who has accused Epstein of sexually abusing her as teens were repeated visitors at the Palm Beach mansion, where Maxwell was "the lady of the house." GHISLAINE MAXWELL WAS ‘NO. 2’ IN HIERARCHY OF EPSTEIN'S OPERATION, PILOT TESTIFIES A lawyer for the British socialite sought to discredit Alessi — who worked for Epstein from 1990 to 2002 — by confronting him with a deposition from a civil case that the defense says was inconsistent with his trial testimony. Alessi claimed on Friday that none of the many young women who visited the Florida home alerted him to any misconduct. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "I wish they would have because I would have done something," he said. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Dem pollster circulates 'wake-up call' memo after Virginia defeat: The pollster says Democrats are in trouble if they link their GOP opponents to Trump. The Fox News contributor Joe Concha discusses the president’s thin schedule as he continues to avoid one-on-one interviews with the press. A memo sent out by a Democratic pollster following Glenn Youngkin’s victory in the Virginia gubernatorial race warns Democrats that the party "has a problem" heading into the 2022 midterms and 2024 presidential election. "[I]f we are running 2022 on ‘Republican candidate = Trump,’ we’re getting killed," Democratic pollster Brian Stryker wrote in a memo last month outlining several "challenges" the party will have to win going forward. President Joe Biden delivers remarks on the debt ceiling during an event in the State Dining Room of the White House, Monday, Oct. 4, 2021, in Washington. TRUMP TO BE 'VERY INVOLVED' IN 2022 MIDTERMS, SAYS HE 'WILL STAY BUSY FOR GOOD PEOPLE' "Our weak national brand left us vulnerable. Voters couldn’t name anything that Democrats had done, except a few who said we passed the infrastructure bill," Stryker wrote. "That bill didn’t overcome their opinions that we have spent the last year infighting and careening from crisis to crisis." Stryker explained that Democrats don’t seem to understand that voters are "unhappy with the direction of the country" and "believe that the economy is bad." DEMOCRATS REELING YEAR BEFORE MIDTERM ELECTIONS – HERE'S HOW REPUBLICANS STAY ON TOP AND WIN BIG IN 2022 Virginia Republican gubernatorial nominee Glenn Youngkin speaks during his election night party at a hotel in Chantilly, Virginia, U.S., November 3, 2021. Stryker also said he believes voters view Democrats as a party that focuses too much on social issues rather than the economy. "I would tell them that we have a problem," Stryker told the New York Times. "We’ve got a national branding problem that is probably deeper than a lot of people suspect. Our party thinks maybe some things we’re saying aren’t cutting through, but I think it’s much deeper than that." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Stryker's warning comes after a Quinnipiac poll in mid-November showed President Biden's approval rating falling to a record low of 36%. FILE PHOTO: Former U.S. President Donald Trump looks on during his first post-presidency campaign rally at the Lorain County Fairgrounds in Wellington, Ohio, U.S., June 26, 2021. Those questioned in the poll said by a 46%-28% margin they would want to see the Republican Party win control of the House of Representatives if the midterm elections were held today, with 16% not offering an opinion. And by a 46%-40% margin, those surveyed said they’d like to see the GOP win the Senate majority, with 15% not offering an opinion. White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said in late November that it is Biden's "intention" to run again in 2024. Fox News' Paul Steinhauser contributed to this report
CENTCOM confirms drone strike targeted Al-Qaeda leader in Syria: CENTCOM says civilian casualties are a possibility. The House minority leader blasted Democratic leadership, saying the current policy is 'creating another Syria' in the Middle East. The United States military conducted a drone strike in Syria targeting a senior al-Qaeda leader and planner, a CENTCOM spokesperson says. "U.S. forces conducted a kinetic strike near Idlib, Syria, December 3, targeting a senior al-Qaeda leader and planner," CENTCOM spokesperson Captain Bill Urban told Fox News Digital in a statement. "The strike was conducted using a precision strike method from MQ-9 aircraft." Syria's Bashar Assad AUSTIN ORDERS INVESTIGATION OF SYRIA AIRSTRIKE THAT KILLED CIVILIANS Urban added that an "initial review of this strike indicates the potential for possible civilian casualties." "We abhor the loss of innocent life and take all possible measures to prevent them. The possibility of a civilian casualty was immediately self-reported to U.S. Central Command. We are initiating a full investigation of the allegations and will release the results when appropriate," Urban added. US MILITARY WAS TIPPED OFF ABOUT IRAN-BACKED ATTACK ON TROOPS IN SYRIA, SAVING LIVES File photo - Airman 1st Class Andrew Frano, an MQ-9 Crew Chief, at Holloman Air Force Base, N.M., Dec. 19, 2016. CENTCOM says it will reveal the results of the strike "when appropriate." The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment from Fox News Digital. News of the strike comes days after Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin ordered a renewed investigation into a 2019 airstrike in Syria that resulted in the deaths of civilians after the attack was first reported in detail by the New York Times earlier this month. U.S. Army Forces commander Gen. Michael Garrett has been assigned to conduct the investigation, which will review "reports of investigation already conducted" while also conducting "further inquiry into the facts and circumstances" of the strike, Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said Monday. Maintainers from the 386th Expeditionary Aircraft Maintenance Squadron prepare to tow an MQ-9 Reaper unmanned aerial vehicle into position for an engine test before Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance The investigation stems from a March 2019 strike on ISIS in Baghouz, Syria, in support of U.S.-allied Syrian Democratic Forces, who called for air support after they were attacked by ISIS fighters. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP While the Syrian fighters, U.S. special operations forces operating in the area, and an unmanned aerial vehicle overhead flying above the battlefield reported no civilians in the area where the strike was to be carried out, later reports from a UAV operator said there may have been civilians in the area where bombs were dropped. The New York Times report last month details that there were mostly women and children in the area the bombs were dropped, possibly resulting in the deaths of 70 civilians. Fox News’ Michael Lee contributed to this report
Alec Baldwin hits back at George Clooney's response to 'Rust' shooting: 'Good for you': Baldwin accidentally shot and killed cinematographer Halyna Hutchins and injured director Joel Souza on Western's set. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. In Alec Baldwin's first TV interview since the fatal "Rust" shooting, he addressed comments made by fellow actor George Clooney about gun safety on movie sets. The 63-year-old actor told George Stephanopoulos that any outside comments made were not going to help the situation. "How do you respond to actors like George Clooney who say that every time they were handed a gun, they checked it themselves?" the news anchor asked. "Well, there were a lot of people who felt it necessary to contribute some comment to the situation, which really didn't help the situation," Baldwin said. "At all." ALEC BALDWIN 'RUST' SHOOTING INTERVIEW: FIVE MOST SHOCKING REVELATIONS "If your protocol is you check the gun every time, well, good for you. I've probably handled weapons as much as any other actor in films with an average career. Again, shooting or being shot by someone," he continued. "And in that time, I had a protocol and it never let me down." George Stephanopoulos had the first exclusive interview with actor Alec Baldwin, following the deadly shooting on the set of the film "Rust." Clooney said on the podcast "WTF with Marc Maron" that he always personally checks a weapon after someone hands it to him on a set. "I've been on sets for 40 years and the person that hands you the gun, the person that is responsible for the gun is either the prop or the armorer, period," Clooney reflected. "Now every single time I'm handed a gun on the set, every time they hand me a gun I look at it, I open it. I show it to the person I'm pointing it to, I show it to the crew. Every single take you had to back to the armorer when you're done… You do it again and part of it is because of what happened to Brandon [Lee], everyone does it. Everybody knows and maybe Alec did that, hopefully he did do that." 'RUST' SHOOTING VICTIM HALYNA HUTCHINS' HUSBAND WILL MAKE LEGAL DECISIONS 'WHEN HE IS READY,' FILM GAFFER SAYS A rep for Clooney did not immediately return Fox News' request for comment. Baldwin explained that when he was a young actor a prop person told him not to manipulate a weapon before a scene. "The prop person said, 'Don't do that,' when I was young," he explained. "And they'd say, 'One thing you would need to understand is we don't want the actor to be the last line of defense against any catastrophic breach of safety with the gun. My job is to make sure the gun is safe and then I hand you the gun and I declare the gun is safe. The crew is not relying on you to say that it's safe. They're relying on me to say that it's safe.'" Baldwin's fist tweet after he shot and killed "Rust" cinematographer Halyna Hutchins. Baldwin reasoned, "When that person who is charged with that job handed me the weapon, I trusted them. And I never had a problem." ALEC BALDWIN PRAISES WIFE HILARIA AFTER TELL-ALL INTERVIEW: 'FAMILY IS ALL I CARE ABOUT' Stephanopoulos then asked the Emmy-winner what responsibility the actor has on the set to ensure safety. "I guess that's a tough question because the actor's responsibility going this day forward is very different than it was the day before that," Baldwin reflected. "First of all I can't imagine that I'd ever do a movie that had a gun in it again," he added. "The actor's responsibility is to do what the prop armorer tells them to do." Baldwin said he was handed the gun that discharged and killed cinematographer Halyna Hutchins and injured director Joel Souza by the film's assistant director Dave Halls who told him the gun was "cold" meaning unloaded. The gun was in fact loaded with a real bullet which should have never been on set. The church at the Bonanza Creek Ranch in Santa Fe, N.M. where cinematographer Halyna Hutchins died. The producer clarified he never pulled the gun's trigger. He was holding the gun to line up a shot as directed by Hutchins to do when Baldwin "let go of the hammer" and the gun went off. ALEC BALDWIN ‘RUST’ SHOOTING VICTIMS: WHO ARE HALYNA HUTCHINS AND JOEL SOUZA? The film's armorer, Hannah Gutierrez-Reed, said in a statement through her attorney obtained by Fox News that she doesn't know how a live round was loaded into the gun. "Never in a million years did Hannah think that live rounds could have been in the ‘dummy’ round box," one of her attorneys, Jason Bowles, said in a statement. "Who put those in there and why is the central question." "Hannah was incredibly safety conscious and took her job very seriously from the moment she started on Oct. 4," Bowles said. "She did firearms training for the actors as well as Mr. Baldwin, she fought for more training days and she regularly emphasized to never point a firearm at a person." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "She inspected the rounds that she loaded into the firearms that day," Bowles said. "She always inspected the rounds. She did again right before handing the firearm to Mr. Halls, by spinning the cylinder and showing him all of the rounds and then handing him the firearm."
Prince William had a ‘cyber relationship' with Britney Spears, Lauren Bush before Kate Middleton: book: Prince William also had a crush on supermodel Cindy Crawford, Christopher Andersen shared in his new book. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. The princess of pop could have been a British royal. The claim was made by bestselling author Christopher Andersen in his new book titled "Brothers and Wives: Inside the Private Lives of William, Kate, Harry, and Meghan." In it, Andersen alleged that Prince William, who is second in line to the throne, connected with Britney Spears and even Lauren Bush virtually before his 2011 marriage to Kate Middleton. "[William and Spears] tried to get together back when they were young, and he also had a kind of similar cyber relationship with Lauren Bush, the model and niece of President [George W.] Bush," Andersen recently told Us Weekly. PRINCE WILLIAM HASN’T RETURNED PRINCE HARRY’S PHONE CALLS FOR MONTHS, AUTHOR CLAIMS: ‘A LOT OF BAD BLOOD’ Prince William allegedly had a "cyber relationship" with Britney Spears  and Lauren Bush, Christopher Andersen alleged. "While William, 39, and Spears, 39, were in contact, Andersen noted that the relationship never escalated. "There may have been phone conversations, but I don’t recall that they ever actually managed to get together during that period," he said. The singer previously spoke about her brief counter with William in 2002. Spears told ITV she was "quite friendly" with the prince. "Yeah, it was just like, all blown out of proportion — we exchanged e-mails for a little bit and he was supposed to come and see me somewhere, but it didn't work out," Spears said at the time. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Britney Spears previously spoke out about her brief encounter with Prince William. But before Spears, Andersen said that William had his eye on another American star. "William had a huge crush on Cindy Crawford," said Andersen. "I think it’s very cute. So [Princess] Diana, being the kind of person she [was], she arranged for a meeting with him when he was, like, 14." William began dating Middleton, 39, in 2003 after meeting as students at the University of St Andrews in 2001. They announced their engagement in 2010 and said "I do" in 2011. The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge share three children: Prince George, 8, Princess Charlotte, 6, and Prince Louis, 3. In his book, Andersen explored the alleged feud between William and his younger brother Prince Harry who married former American actress Meghan Markle in 2018. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP American actress Meghan Markle became the Duchess of Sussex when she married Britain's Prince Harry. In response, a spokesperson for Buckingham Palace told Fox News that "we never comment on these sort of books." A spokesperson for Kensington Palace, which represents the household of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge had "no comment." A spokesperson for Clarence House, which represents Prince Charles and Duchess Camilla’s household didn’t immediately respond to Fox News’ request for comment. However, a spokesperson told The New York Post that "this is fiction and not worth further comment." A spokesperson for the Duke and Duchess and Sussex also didn’t immediately respond to Fox News’ request for comment. Andersen is sticking by the claims he made in his book. "I have sources that I’ve been tending to for 50 years," said Andersen, who has previously written several books on the royal family. Markle, 40, starred in the legal drama "Suits" before she became the Duchess of Sussex. She and Harry, 37, welcomed a son named Archie Harrison Mountbatten-Windsor in 2019. PRINCE CHARLES, PRINCE WILLIAM TOLD PRINCE HARRY HE WAS 'OVERREACTING' ABOUT ARCHIE'S SKIN TONE REMARKS: BOOK In his book, Christopher Andersen detailed the alleged rift between Prince William and Prince Harry. The Duke and Duchess of Sussex’s departures from royal duties began in 2020 over what they described as the British media’s intrusions and racist attitudes towards Markle. The family now resides in the coastal city of Montecito, California. In the wake of quitting royal duties, they gave an explosive TV interview to Oprah Winfrey in March, in which the couple described painful comments about how dark Archie’s skin might be before his birth. The duchess talked about the intense isolation she felt inside the royal family that led her to contemplate suicide. Buckingham Palace said the allegations of racism made by the couple were "concerning" and would be addressed privately On June 4, the couple welcomed their second child, a daughter named Lilibet "Lili" Diana Mountbatten-Windsor. The name pays tribute to both Harry’s grandmother, Queen Elizabeth II, whose family nickname is Lilibet, and his late mother. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Omicron variant of COVID-19 found in multiple US states: First known US case was found in California. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. The omicron variant of COVID-19, which had been undetected in the U.S. before the middle of this week, had been discovered in at least five states by the end of Thursday, showing yet again how mutations of the virus can circumnavigate the globe with speed and ease. Just a day after the first known U.S. case was found in California, tests showed the omicron variant had infected at least five people in the New York City metropolitan area, plus a man from Minnesota who had attended an anime convention in Manhattan in late November. NEW YORK CONFIRMS 5 CASES OF THE OMICRON CORONAVIRUS VARIANT A Colorado woman who had recently traveled to southern Africa, a Hawaii resident with no recent travel history, and another California resident who traveled to South Africa last month also were infected by the variant, officials said. Much remains unknown about omicron, including whether it is more contagious, as some health authorities suspect, whether it can thwart vaccines and whether it makes people as sick as the original strain. Health officials in each state said there was no cause for undue alarm. But the spread of the cases, some involving people who hadn’t been away from home recently, meant the variant was likely already circulating domestically in some parts of the U.S. "We gotta assume there’s a lot more behind that and that it has been here for a meaningful amount of time," New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said at a news conference with Gov. Kathy Hochul. The infected New Yorkers included a 67-year-old woman on Long Island who had recently traveled to South Africa, residents of Brooklyn and Queens and another case possibly linked to travel. At least one person had received a dose of a COVID-19 vaccine but officials did not have details about the vaccination status of the four other cases. A mobile COVID-19 vaccination and booster shot site operates out of a bus on 59th Street south of Central Park as patients wait on the sidewalk, Thursday, Dec. 2, 2021, in New York. In Minnesota, health officials said a man who had not traveled outside the U.S. began experiencing symptoms the day after attending the Anime NYC 2021 convention in New York City. Minnesota Health Commissioner Jan Malcolm said it’s likely the man contracted COVID-19 at the convention, but officials did not know for sure. Officials in New York said they were working to trace attendees of the convention, which was held Nov. 19-21 and drew about 50,000 people, according to event organizers. Attendees were required to wear masks and show proof of having received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine. It was held at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center as New York City prepared to host the annual Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade and braced for throngs of tourists to return after the U.S. opened up to vaccinated international travelers. City Health Commissioner Dave Chokshi urged people who attended the event to get tested. WHITE HOUSE SAYS DOMESTIC TRAVEL VACCINE REQUIREMENTS ON THE TABLE DUE TO OMICRON VARIANT "This is not just due to people who are traveling to southern Africa or to other parts of the world where omicron has already been identified," Chokshi said Thursday. The Minnesota man began experiencing mild symptoms Nov. 22. He had been vaccinated and received a booster shot in early November, according to health officials in his home state. He sought COVID-19 testing Nov. 24, and his symptoms have subsided, officials said. Nov. 22 was the same day the person infected in the first California case returned to the U.S. from South Africa. The California traveler, who was vaccinated, developed mild symptoms and tested positive Monday. The second person in the state didn’t need medical care and was also vaccinated. The unvaccinated adult infected with the variant in Hawaii had gotten COVID-19 a year ago. The person isn’t currently hospitalized and had "mild-to-moderate" symptoms including headache, body aches and cough, Hawaii Epidemiologist Dr. Sarah Kemble said. She wouldn’t identify the patient other to say the person lives on the island of Oahu. Omicron is classified by the World Health Organization as a "variant of concern" as scientists work to determine how it may compare with the predominant delta variant in terms of transmissibility and severity. Scientists also are studying the degree to which existing vaccines and therapies protect against omicron. Scientists in South Africa first reported it, but the samples came from several countries in southern Africa. And health officials in the Netherlands now say it was found there prior to the South Africa detection. As comfort over air travel returns, it’s inevitable that new variants like omicron will spread from country to country and state to state, said professor Danielle Ompad, an epidemiologist at New York University’s School of Global Public Health. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "We shouldn’t panic, but we should be concerned," she said. Hochul said the case involving the Minnesota visitor underlined the need for everyone who is eligible to get vaccinated against COVID-19 or receive a booster shot if they have not already. "There is one way to address this — New Yorkers, get vaccinated, get boosted, and get ready," the Democrat said.
Emily Compagno shares her dad's recipe for a delicious holiday pasta dish: Fox News cohost describes her family's Christmas traditions, including a hearty, home-cooked meal featured in the new book, 'All American Christmas'. ‘Fox & Friends Weekend’ previews Rachel Campos-Duffy and husband Sean Duffy’s ‘All American Christmas’ book ahead of the holiday season. Who among us can resist a plate of warm, delicious pasta topped with freshly grated cheese — and served up in the festive spirit of the Christmas holidays ? OK, time to dish! Tucked into the new book All American Christmas by Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy is a collection of holiday-focused recipes shared by Fox News personalities. Among the offerings is a pasta dish from Emily Compagno, a cohost of Fox News' "Outnumbered." Emily Compagno and her dog, Duchess, in front of the family's beautifully decorated Christmas tree. As she says in the book, "There's a lot of joy in the things we have, but the real joy is when they serve as reminders of family, loved ones, and Christmas joy." It's why she wanted to share some heartwarming stories of her close-knit family, which includes her mom, dad, two older sisters, and a large extended family. Here, from All American Christmas, is a helping of holiday goodness from Emily Compagno, including a recipe from her dad. It's one you may want to try making  for your own family, as it's sure to please probably the toughest crowds. Emily Compagno in All American Christmas: Our Italian-American heritage featured prominently in our Christmas traditions. On Christmas Eve, we got to open presents from our extended family. Most of my Sicilian family on my dad's side lived two hours away on the picturesque Monterey Peninsula, a place of rich Italian-American history. WHY DO WE HANG CHRISTMAS STOCKINGS? THE HISTORY OF THE HOLIDAY TRADITION My incredible grandmother Nonnie Josephine and the memory of my grandfather Nonno Giovanni; her magical two sisters, Violent and Evelyn; her brother, Joe; my beloved uncle Nino and auntie Catherine and the three best cousins in the world; my beautiful godmother, Mary Ann; and all the rest of my wonderful family celebrated Christmas and life with us every time we were together. My dear uncle  Sal was our close neighbor in Berkeley, California, and would join us for our Christmas celebration. We were very close with our family, and I loved visiting them and celebrating Christmas there every year just prior to the actual holiday. At home on Christmas Day, we’d open presents from Santa and from my immediate family. We were allowed to open our stockings instantly upon waking up but had to wait for everyone to be awake and downstairs to open the actual gifts. On Christmas mornings, Emily Compagno and her sisters had to wait for the rest of the family "to be awake and downstairs" before they could open their gifts from Santa and her immediate family. Oh, the anticipation! Every gift had a tag signed "From Santa" or "Love, Mom & Dad." And in every written "Mom," the "o" was a heart. Strong, rich coffee  with my dad’s famous homemade Café Beaujolais coffee cake was the perfect breakfast while we exchanged gifts. BEST CHRISTMAS GIFT EVER: AMAZING REVEALS FROM FOX NEWS HOSTS We enjoyed a huge Italian meal both nights, with stories, laughter, and talking around the table far into the night. My sisters and I took turns saying grace, and not one bite was had until we had all toasted to family and good health. Salute! Always we had caprese to start, presented in the il tricolore circular fashion with each layer of fresh, hand-sliced mozzarella cheese, fresh basil , and ripe red tomatoes encircling mixed or black olives in the center of the dish. "As adults," says Emily Compagno, "we've taken the same recipes and traditions from our family's two-day celebration and turned it into a three-day one!" My dad is an incredible cook, and pasta alla Siciliana or capellini with sundried tomatoes would follow, with freshly grated Parmigiano-Reggiano lightly sprinkled on top. There was also fresh, warm bread with olive oil for dipping and vegetables sauteed with just olive oil, lemon, and a bit of salt and pepper. Ingredients ¼ cup olive oil 4 cloves garlic, minced 14.5-ounce can diced or whole tomatoes 2 teaspoons dried oregano 8-10 anchovy fillets, minced 24 Nicoise or green olives, pitted and halved 2 ½ tablespoons salted capers, rinsed and chopped 1 pound penne or mostaccioli Instructions 1. Bring a large pot of salted water to boil. 2. Heat the olive oil in a large skillet over low heat. Add the garlic and saute for 1 minute. 3. Add the tomatoes and oregano, crumbling the oregano between your fingers. Cook at a gentle simmer for 10 minutes, stirring often. If it appears dry, add a bit of water. 4. Remove from the heat and stir in the anchovies, olives, and capers. 5. Add the pasta to the boiling water and cook according to the instructions on the box until al dente. Reserve 1 cup of pasta water. Drain the pasta and return it to the pot. Add the sauce and stir to coat. Add the reserved pasta water if needed. Taste and adjust seasoning. 6. Divide among warm bowls and serve immediately. Excerpted from All American Christmas by Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy. To buy your copy of the book, click here.
Jen Psaki confronted with poor jobs report live on MSNBC, says she can't comment right away: Psaki says we're seeing 'good trends' after the November jobs report fell short of expectations. In media news today, CNN stays silent on who will conduct an outside firm probe into the Cuomo scandal, Kathy Griffin calls out the liberal network for keeping Jeffrey Toobin despite firing her, and an MSNBC analyst claims Republicans oppose Fauci because they want the pandemic to continue. White House press secretary Jen Psaki was confronted with a disappointing jobs report as it broke during an MSNBC appearance Friday, before awkwardly saying she couldn't comment for almost another hour. Economists expected more than 550,000 new jobs in November, but only 210,000 were created, suggesting the labor market is still languishing from people hesitant to return to work. During her in-studio appearance on "Morning Joe," Psaki said it was obvious that economic issues were the most pressing for Americans and Democratic proposals like the nearly $2 trillion Build Back Better bill would lower costs on a variety of issues. White House press secretary Jen Psaki and President Joe Biden Co-host Mika Brzezinski then noted the November jobs number had just dropped. "210,000. So if we look at that breaking news right now, that's a number that feels a little … what? A little off?" REPORTER CONFRONTS PSAKI AFTER SAYING BIDEN WOULD GRANT MORE LOCAL TV HITS: ‘HE’S ONLY DONE ONE' "Well, I know this sounds a little archaic, but I can't comment on them until 9:30, by rules, because I work at the White House," Psaki responded. "What I will say is people can expect the president to continue to say, today, month to month, is that what we’re seeing are good trends, that we are continuing to put people back to work, that we are continuing to see participation in the workforce, that we are continuing to see the unemployment rate go down, but there’s more we need to do to address core problems that have existed long before the pandemic." Brzezinski, noting Psaki couldn't comment apparently for another hour, turned to Democratic strategist Adrienne Elrod to ask what Democrats could do more in order to "own" the economy. Despite record inflation and continued supply chain problems, Elrod said she was frustrated because the economy is "doing so well," but Democrats are still forced to play defense. PSAKI DUCKS QUESTION ON BIDEN CLAIM TRUMP RESPONSIBLE FOR ‘MANY’ COVID-19 DEATLS AS TOLL KEEPS MOUNTING Signage for a job fair is seen on 5th Avenue in Manhattan, New York City. Similar to pundits like CNN's Brian Stelter who have said Americans are putting "feelings" over "facts" when they don't feel the economy is strong, Elrod asked what Democrats could be doing to make Americans believe it was. Psaki said people don't tend to vote on or respond to "data." She also predicted Build Back Better, the sprawling social policy package currently being debated in the U.S. Senate, would be signed by President Biden by the end of the year. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "That’s why I love being a Democrat, there's a lot of wonky nerds in the Democratic Party, but we need to make it real for people," she said. "So we need to really think carefully about not getting too wonkified and making we're we talk about things in a way that is accessible."
Comedian Bill Burr rails against cancel culture: 'I also have the right to say whatever I want': The stand-up star reasoned that a comedian has to be both 'irreverent' and 'empathetic'. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Bill Burr voiced his opinion about cancel culture and how it doesn't affect his stand-up material in the slightest. The comedian appeared on The Pat McAfee show this week and shared his take on why he doesn't lose sleep worrying about being "canceled" online. "This is a time to be irreverent, and it's also a time to be empathetic," Burr reasoned. "And you have to know how to do both. These people that are on the extreme right and left, I think, only represent about 15% of the population. And any time you're hardcore or extreme, you inevitably become intolerant. I just feel like 85% of the country on the right and the left is kind of sitting there, when are dad and mom going to stop screaming at each other." "The thing is, I don't do anything in my act that's malicious," he added. "I'm not going out there to hurt anybody. But like, I also have the right to say whatever I want to say and say it the way I want to say it." GRAMMYS NOMINATE LOUIS C.K., DAVE CHAPPELLE DESPITE SCANDALS Burr admitted, "I'm not saying that I never have made mistakes, and most times I've, you know, pissed somebody off and made somebody cry. If they come up to me, and they have a legitimate thing then I'll apologize to them. But I'm not apologizing to a bunch of f--king people because I told a joke [at a show] that they weren't at." WARNING: VIDEO BELOW CONTAINS GRAPHIC LANGUAGE Others have also addressed cancel culture. Comedian Al Franken, a former Democratic Minnesota senator, recently spoke out about being canceled after he was pressured to resign from the U.S. Senate in 2018 in the wake of sexual misconduct allegations. "It was a bit of a shock when it happened," Franken said on CBS Mornings in reference to the allegations and resigning. "This is me going back to my roots." BILL BURR'S 'SNL' OPENING MONOLOGUE DRAWS MIXED REACTIONS FOR HITTING CONTROVERSIAL TOPICS Three dozen of Franken's Democratic colleagues called on him to step down without due process. Later, nine senators admitted their decision was wrong. Bill Burr admitted he doesn't worry about cancel culture when performing his stand-up comedy. When asked by cohost Nate Burleson if he believes he was canceled, Franken said, "I don't know what the vocabulary is. I believe it was just a point in time where everything came together. I think the nine [senators] have expressed exactly what I feel, which is what you should do, especially in the United States Senate, is have an ethics investigation. That's what I asked for and didn't get." CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Burleson then followed up and asked if Franken thinks comedy should be free of "cancel culture criticism," citing the backlash from Dave Chappelle's latest Netflix special as an example. "Satire has a very important place. It's meant to be provocative. It's meant to start discussions. You offend very often … it's hard to figure out where exactly the line is, and people have different ideas of where that line is," Franken said. "I think we need to be careful and understand what the role of satire is." Al Franken reasoned that "satire has a very important place. It's meant to be provocative." Lin-Manuel Miranda also addressed the concept of cancel culture, specifically regarding past criticism and complaints of colorism in his work. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The "Tick, Tick... Boom!" director sat down for a lengthy interview with The New Yorker and said he believes dissenting opinions are often misconstrued as "cancellation." Lin-Manuel Miranda apologized after receiving backlash online and being accused of colorism in his work. "Once something has success, you’re not the underdog trying to make it happen anymore. You have to graduate past the mindset of, like, ‘It’s a miracle I got something on the stage.’ Because now that is expected of me. And people go, ‘Yeah, but what about this? And what about this?’ And that’s fair! I do that with art I find lacking," he explained. "It’s not cancellation. That’s having opinions. So I try to take it in that spirit."
Omicron 3 times more likely to cause reinfection than previous COVID variants: researchers: The research has yet to be peer-reviewed. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. South African scientists say the risk of reinfection from the omicron COVID-19 variant is at least three times higher than for any previous variant. In the preliminary study, researchers looked at approximately 2.8 million positive coronavirus infections between March 2020 and Nov. 27, 2021, and 35,670 suspected reinfections were identified. From this retrospective analysis, the group said increases in primary infection were observed following the introduction of both the beta and delta variants, but no corresponding increase was observed in the reinfection hazard. NEW YORK CONFIRMS 5 CASES OF THE OMICRON CORONAVIRUS VARIANT Additionally, the estimated hazard ratio for reinfection versus primary infection was lower during COVID-19 waves driven by the beta and delta variants than for the first wave. "In contrast, the recent spread of the omicron variant has been associated with a decrease in the hazard of primary infection and an increase in reinfection hazard. The estimated hazard ratio for reinfection versus primary infection for the period from Nov. 1, 2021, to Nov. 27, 2021, versus wave 1 was 2.39," the authors wrote. Based on "population-level evidence," they concluded that the omicron mutation is "associated with substantial ability to evade immunity from prior infection." "In contrast, there is no population-wide epidemiological evidence of immune escape associated with the beta or delta variants," the study read, and the authors noted that "urgent questions remain regarding whether omicron is also able to evade vaccine-induced immunity and the potential implications of reduced immunity to infection on protection against severe disease and death." Other variants have been known to cause reinfection, and several patients reinfected with the beta variant were identified in Israel earlier this year. Juliet Pulliam, a South Africa-based epidemiologist and one of the study’s authors, tweeted Thursday that the researchers did not have information about the vaccination status of individuals in the data set and "therefore cannot make any assessment of whether omicron also evades vaccine-derived immunity." "Immune escape from prior infection, whether or not omicron can also evade vaccine-derived immunity, has important implications for public health globally, but there is still a lot we don’t know," she wrote. WHITE HOUSE SAYS DOMESTIC TRAVEL VACCINE REQUIREMENTS ON THE TABLE DUE TO OMICRON VARIANT Pulliam said the next steps include quantifying the extent of the variant of concern's immune escape for both natural and vaccine-derived immunity, as well as its transmissibility relative to other variants. "Data are also urgently needed on disease severity associated with omicron infection, including in individuals with a history of prior infection," she said. "Previous infection used to protect against delta and now with omicron it doesn’t seem to be the case," one of the researchers, Anne von Gottberg of the University of Witwatersrand, said at a World Health Organization briefing on Thursday. "We believe that vaccines will still, however, protect against severe disease," she said. The team's research was uploaded to a preprint server and has not yet been peer-reviewed. The researchers did not say what portion of the reinfections were confirmed as omicron cases — or whether they caused serious illness. The newest variant was discovered just over a week ago by scientists in South Africa and Botswana. Much remains unknown about the new variant, including whether it is more contagious, as some health authorities suspect, whether it makes people more seriously ill, and whether it can thwart the vaccine. At a White House COVID-19 response team briefing, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  Director Rochelle Walensky said Friday that omicron cases have been detected in around 40 countries. According to The Washington Post, South Africa’s National Institute for Communicable Diseases said Wednesday that omicron overtook other virus variants in November. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP New cases in South Africa have jumped from about 200 a day last month to more than 11,500 on Thursday. In the week since omicron was detected in the country’s most populous province, Gauteng, infections have surged 300%, Health Minister Joe Phaahla said Friday. The variant has also now spread to all eight other provinces, he added. Even with the rapid increase, infections are still below the 25,000 daily new cases that South Africa reported in the previous surge, in June and July. Only 6% of Africa's population has been fully vaccinated. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Stroke contributing factors may include losing temper, extreme exercise: study: Nearly 800,000 people have a stroke every year in the US. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Losing one's temper or exercising too rigorously could be contributing factors for a stroke, according to new research. In a study published Wednesday in the European Society of Cardiology's "European Heart Journal," a team of international researchers looked at more than 13,000 stroke patients in 32 countries as part of the INTERSTROKE study. 10 DIETARY TIPS TO REDUCE HEART DISEASE AND STROKE RISK, ACCORDING TO NEW RESEARCH Using a "case-crossover approach," the team determined whether a trigger within one hour of symptom onset was associated with acute stroke, versus the same time period on the previous day. "Stroke prevention is a priority for physicians, and despite advances it remains difficult to predict when a stroke will occur. Many studies have focused on medium to long-term exposures, such as hypertension, obesity or smoking. Our study aimed to look at acute exposures that may act as triggers," lead researcher and National University of Ireland Galway professor Andrew Smyth said in a statement. The research analyzed patterns in patients who suffered an ischemic stroke and the less common intracerebral hemorrhage. One in 11 survivors experienced a period of anger or upset in the one hour leading up to it, and the global INTERSTROKE study found that one in 20 patients had engaged in heavy physical exertion. The paper, co-led by the National University of Ireland Galway, suggested that anger or emotional upset was linked to around a 30% increase in the risk of stroke during one hour after an episode – with a greater increase if the patient did not have a history of depression and larger odds for those with a lower level of education. Heavy physical exertion was linked to around a 60% increase in the risk of intracerebral hemorrhage  – a rare form of stroke that causes bleeding in the brain – during that same period after heavy exertion, but not with all strokes or ischemic strokes. There was a greater increase for women and less risk for those with a normal body mass index . VEGETABLE FATS LINKED TO LOWER STROKE RISKS, REPORTS SAY "Acute anger or emotional upset was associated with the onset of all stroke, ischemic stroke, and ICH, while acute heavy physical exertion was associated with ICH only," the authors wrote. "The study also concluded that there was no increase with exposure to both triggers of anger and heavy physical exertion," Smythe said. The study pointed out that there was no modifying effect by region, prior cardiovascular disease, risk factors, cardiovascular medications, time or day of symptom onset. "Compared with exposure to neither trigger during the control period, the odds of stroke associated with exposure to both triggers were not additive," the study noted. Co-author and Galway University Hospitals consultant stroke physician Dr. Michelle Canavan said that people should practice mental and physical wellness at all ages, but added that it is "also important for some people to avoid heavy physical exertion, particularly if they are high-risk of cardiovascular, while also adopting a healthy lifestyle of regular exercise." In the U.S., the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  says that someone has a stroke every 40 seconds and someone dies of stroke every four minutes. Nearly 800,000 people in America have a stroke every year. About 87% of all strokes are ischemic strokes, in which blood flow to the brain is blocked. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Some of the best ways to prevent stroke are to maintain a healthy lifestyle, treat high blood pressure and not to smoke, but our research also shows other events such as an episode of anger or upset or a period of heavy physical exertion independently increase the short-term risk." study co-leader and National University of Ireland Galway Professor Martin O'Donnell said. "We would emphasize that a brief episode of heavy physical exertion is different to getting regular physical activity, which reduces the long-term risk of stroke," he explained. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Student's viral brain teaser revealing the different ways to spell 'empty' has TikTok amazed: The footage has been viewed more than 21 million times. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A video gone viral showing the different ways you can "spell" the word "empty" is captivating millions of viewers on TikTok. User @TheChristianTeacher63, who refers to themselves as "Just your friendly neighborhood Christian Academy Teacher," shared the post on Nov. 11 which features a "student-led brain break." VIRAL BRAIN TEASER, PREDICTING WHICH CARD YOU WILL CHOOSE, STUNS TIKTOK In the video, a student wrote the word "empty" inside a rectangle on a white board. The student first removed the letter "e" and what was left on the board still, arguably, read like "empty." Each time a certain letter is removed, the class still shouts the word "empty." At the close of the exercise, the student erases the word empty to end with an empty box. The students once again shout "empty" in awe. ##classroom ##highschool##ForzaHorizon5GO ##privateschool ##christiantiktok ##christianschool ##hype ##brainbreak "Kids were blown away by our student lead brain break," the teacher wrote on TikTok. The footage, viewed more than 21 million times, garnered thousands of comments from people who appreciated the brain teaser. "Low key genius," one TikTok-er commented. "I swear I would have been the kid to yell out "BOX" at the end," a woman wrote. "My wallet rn [right now]," joked another.
