Sotomayor compares fetus to brain dead person, says fetal movement doesn't prove consciousness: Sotomayor was slammed for the comment on Twitter. March for Life president Jeanne Mancini is ‘hopeful’ the high court will uphold the state law to ban abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy. Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor rejected the idea that a fetus that has the ability to move and react to pain is a human life that should be protected from abortion. "Virtually every state defines a brain death as death," Sotomayor, appointed by former President Barack Obama, said during oral arguments in a potential landmark abortion rights case Wednesday, as the state of Mississippi defended an abortion restriction law that directly challenges Roe v. Wade. Supreme Court Police officers erect a barrier between anti-abortion and pro-abortion rights protesters outside the court building, ahead of arguments in the Mississippi abortion rights case Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health, in Washington, U.S., December 1, 2021. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst DEM SENATOR WARNS SUPREME COURT OF 'REVOLUTION' IF ROE V. WADE IS OVERTURNED "Yet, the literature is filled with episodes of people who are completely and utterly brain dead responding to stimuli," Sotomayor continued. "There's about 40 percent of dead people who, if you touch their feet, the foot will recoil. There are spontaneous acts by dead brain people. So I don't think that a response to -- by a fetus necessarily proves that there's a sensation of pain or that there's consciousness." Sotomayor also said that she believes the idea that a fetus is a human life is a "religious view." WASHINGTON, DC - DECEMBER 01: Abortion rights advocates and anti-abortion protesters demonstrate in front of the Supreme Court of the United States Supreme Court of the United States on Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021 in Washington, DC. The Justices will weigh whether to uphold a Mississippi law that bans abortion after 15 weeks and overrule the 1973 Roe v. Wade decision. (Kent Nishimura / Los Angeles Times via Getty Images Sotomayor was criticized for her remarks by conservatives on social media including Fox News contributor Katie Pavlich. SUPREME COURT ORAL ARGUMENTS IN DOBBS PROMPT STRONG REACTIONS FROM BOTH SIDES OF ABORTION DEBATE "Justice Sotomayor is comparing babies in the womb to dead people," Pavlich tweeted. "Sotomayor is revealing just how poor the pro-Roe arguments are," Breitbart News Senior Editor Joel Pollak tweeted. "Inadvertently, of course." "Oh good grief, Sotomayor playing the ‘brain death’ card now," Ethics and Public Policy Center Director Ryan T. Anderson tweeted. "There is no dispute about whether or not an unborn the baby is in fact a baby, a living human being. It's not a debate about when the baby is viable outside a womb, it's a question about whether the baby's life matters." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP FILE - In this Aug. 17, 2019 file photo, U.S. Supreme Court Associate Justice Sonia Sotomayor, speaks at the Mississippi Book Festival in Jackson, Miss.  U.S. District Judge Esther Salas in New Jersey says the lawyer who killed her son and seriously wounded her husband also had been tracking Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor. . The case, Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health, centers on the law, which bans most abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy, much sooner than the current legal standard, which prohibits abortion bans prior to fetal viability — roughly 23 to 24 weeks into pregnancy. Throughout the arguments, the justices alternated between examining not just the legal standards for abortion laws based on interests of women and protecting potential life, but also the court’s own interest in protecting itself from losing the faith of the public. Fox News’ Ronn Blitzer contributed to this report
Michigan school shooting suspect Ethan Crumbley charged with terrorism, murder: 'Not just an impulsive act': The 15-year-old recorded videos the night before the shooting in which he talked 'about shooting and killing students,' according to law enforcement. Fox News correspondent Steve Harrigan has the latest on the charges against the Michigan school shooting suspect on 'Your World.' Ethan Crumbley, the 15-year-old suspect accused of opening fire at his Michigan high school, pleaded not guilty on Wednesday to one count of terrorism causing death, four counts of first-degree murder, seven counts of assault with intent to murder, and 12 counts of possession of a firearm in the commission of a felony. The sophomore, who is being charged as an adult, allegedly fired more than 30 rounds in the hallways of Oxford High School on Tuesday shortly before 1:00 p.m., killing four students and wounding seven others, including a teacher. He appeared in Oakland County Court by video on Wednesday, slumped over in a vest, white mask, and glasses. Ethan Crumbley is being held without bond on murder, terrorism, and other charges. Mark Keast, an assistant prosecuting attorney in Oakland County, told Judge Nancy Carniak that he doesn't "have the words to describe how horrific" the surveillance video of the shooting is. "He methodically and deliberately walked down a hallway, aimed the firearm at students and fired it," Keast said. "After children started running away from the defendant, he continued down the hallway, again at a deliberate and methodical pace, pointing and aiming inside classrooms and at students who hadn’t had the opportunity to escape." Ethan Crumbley allegedly shot and killed four students and wounded seven others at Oxford High School. Judge Carniak ordered Crumbley to be held without bond and transferred to Oakland County Jail, where he will be separated from adults. MICHIGAN HIGH SCHOOL TEEN KILLED IN SHOOTING WAS 'HERO,' CLASSMATES SAY Lt. Tim Willis told the judge that Crumbley recorded videos on his phone the night before the incident in which he "talked about shooting and killing students the next day at Oxford High School." "Further, a journal was recovered from Ethan’s backpack also detailing his desire to shoot up a school to include murdering students," Willis said. Crumbley's parents went to Oxford High School about two to three hours before the shooting to meet with their son and school officials over behavioral issues in the classroom. "The parents were brought in the morning of the shooting and had a face-to-face meeting with the school," Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard said. "The content of that meeting obviously is part of the investigation but we did not learn of that meeting, nor of the content of that meeting until after the shooting and during this investigation." Ethan Crumbley's parents appeared in court by video on Wednesday. Crumbley also had to meet with school officials the day before the shooting "over behavior in the classroom that they felt was concerning." Oakland County Prosecutor Karen McDonald noted that the terrorism count is not a "typical" charge, but she said that it is necessary to get justice for all the victims in this shooting. "The children that I have just listed and those that were injured, they’re the victims in the first-degree murder charges and assault with intent to murder," McDonald said. "But what about all these other children? What about all the children who ran, screaming, hiding under desks? What about all the children at home right now who can’t eat and can’t sleep and can’t imagine a world where they could ever step foot back in that school. Those are victims too." GUN USED IN MICHIGAN SCHOOL SHOOTING PURCHASED BY SUSPECT'S FATHER ON BLACK FRIDAY The suspect used a 9mm Sig Sauer, according to police, which the boy’s father bought on Black Friday, just four days before the shooting. A motive has not been announced. McDonald said that her office is looking at charging the parents and "that decision will be made swiftly." The suspect has declined to speak with authorities following his arrest and his parents have hired an attorney. "There is no conversation that’s going on and no cooperation at that level," Bouchard said Tuesday. Nov 30, 2021; Oxford, MI, USA; Parents wait to be reunited with their kids following an active shooter situation at Oxford High School in Oxford on November 30, 2021.  Mandatory Credit: Eric Seals-USA TODAY NETWORK Dozens of ambulances responded to the scene of the shooting on Tuesday. Officers apprehended the suspect within five minutes of the first 911 call. Nov 30, 2021; Oxford, MI, USA; Police cars line up in front of the school following an active shooter situation at Oxford High School in Oxford on November 30, 2021. Police took a suspected shooter into custody and there were multiple victims, . Mandatory Credit: Liz Shepard-USA TODAY NETWORK At least 30 shell casings were found at the scene and the suspect still had 18 live rounds when deputies apprehended him. Crumbley was apprehended by police within five minutes of the first 911 call, Bouchard said. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Four students died due to the shooting. Bouchard identified three of the students on Tuesday as 16-year-old Tate Myre, 14-year-old Hana St. Juliana, and 17-year-old Madisyn Baldwin. The fourth student died on Wednesday morning and was identified as 15-year-old Justin Shilling. Three of the injured victims – a 15-year-old male, a 17-year-old male, and a 47-year-old teacher – have been discharged from the hospital. Four injured victims are still hospitalized.
Waukesha Christmas parade alleged killer's mom blames lack of mental health services on tragedy: Dawn Woods offered her condolences to the victims of her son's deadly rampage. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. WAUKESHA, Wis. – Darrell Brooks’ mother broke her silence Wednesday in a letter to the media, blaming the tragedy on a lack of mental health services for her son, according to a press report. Brooks was living with his mom, Dawn Woods, 62, when he plowed his red Ford Escape into an annual Christmas parade Nov. 21, killing six people and injuring more than 60, according to court records. WAUKESHA CHRISTMAS PARADE SUSPECT DARRELL BROOKS JR. RECEIVED $1G BAIL DESPITE RED-FLAG WARNINGS, COURT DOCUMENTS SHOW "We are not making excuses, but we believe what has happened is because he was not given the help and resources he needed," Woods wrote in the letter, CBS58 reported. Darrell Brooks, charged with killing five people and injuring nearly 50 after plowing through a Christmas parade with his sport utility vehicle on November 21, appears in Waukesha County Court in Waukesha, Wisconsin, U.S. November 23, 2021. Brooks, 39, suffered from mental illness and was on medication since he was child, according to the letter and court papers. "Institutions that are equipped and have trained staff is what was needed as well as resources in the communities where people who suffer with mental illness live," the letter says. "Jail is not the answer, because they get released back in society sicker than what they were when they entered. We all see what a tragedy that can turn out to be." Darrell Brooks’ home in Milwaukee, Wis. Her son, a career criminal, has a sprawling rap sheet with more than two dozen arrests spanning Georgia, Wisconsin and Nevada. SHIVERING WAUKESHA SUSPECT DARRELL BROOKS HAD NO SHOES, JACKET, ASKING FOR HELP AFTER PARADE ATTACK In a widely criticized move, a junior Milwaukee prosecutor requested $1,000 cash bail after he was busted for allegedly running over his ex-girlfriend with his SUV, leaving a tire mark on her left leg. Woods posted her son's bail on Nov. 5, and 16 days later he allegedly used the same vehicle to commit the horrific attack on holiday revelers. Milwaukee District Attorney John Chisholm called the bail "inappropriately low" and launched an internal investigation into the decision.  "We as a society must take mental illness seriously by fixing a broken system or suffer the consequences, sad as it is to say what happened in Waukesha will keep happening all over this country, in one form or another with more innocent lives lost and grieving families and communities," Dawn wrote. WAUKESHA SUSPECT DARRELL BROOKS BEAT UP GIRLFRIEND FIVE MONTHS BEFORE RUNNING HER OVER WITH HIS SUV Brooks’ mom offered her condolences to the victims and the Waukesha community. "What was meant to be a joyous day became a day of tragedy and heartache — a day that we wish with all our heart would have never happened," the letter says. Five adult victims killed in the Waukesha parade attack. A sixth victim, this one a child, was announced in court Tuesday. She added that Brooks came from a "loving Christian family" and is the grandson of ministers. The trouble began when as an adult it was determined that he no longer suffered from mental illness and his treatment was terminated, according to Woods. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Instead of offering help and resources to combat the problem, a jail cell was given over and over again," she wrote.
Tom Brady makes appearance on FaceTime call with HS basketball team that misdialed Sean Murphy-Bunting: Vinny Tartaglia was adding his teammates' numbers to a group text when he accidentally added the wrong number. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A Michigan high school basketball team was organizing team practices when someone accidentally included a wrong number in the group text. What happened next is something they’ll remember for the rest of their lives. Vinny Tartaglia, a member of the Notre Dame Prep freshman basketball team, was adding his teammates' numbers to a group text last week when he accidentally added the wrong number. What he didn’t realize was that the number was Tampa Bay Buccaneers cornerback Sean Murphy-Bunting's. TOM BRADY CELEBRATES MICHIGAN VICTORY OVER OHIO STATE: ‘THE WOLVERINES ARE BACK’ Tampa Bay Buccaneers cornerback Sean Murphy-Bunting "We were trying to add people, and the last person was Luca, but I was one digit off," Tartaglia told ClickonDetriot.com. Murphy-Bunting responded by asking if the boys meant to add him to the chat and, thinking he was their teammate Luca, the group said yes. Seemingly amused by the boys’ confusion, the NFL player asked them if they knew who he was and he quickly revealed his identity. He even sent a selfie in the Bucs locker room to prove it but the team wasn’t buying it. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM "Everyone was skeptical, it’s definitely not an NFL player, right?" Tartaglia told the outlet. That’s when Murphy-Bunting decided to FaceTime the group. Tight end Rob Gronkowski, cornerback Richard Sherman and running back Leonard Fournette all hopped on the call and, eventually, Tom Brady made an appearance. "They were shocked," Fournette told ESPN Wednesday. "I think that's ... to guys in high school, Tom is the figure for them. You know what I mean? Who wouldn't want to look up to a guy like that?" "That was sweet," Brady added of the call. "I didn't know who it was. [Leonard] said, 'Here's my boy' or whatever he said. It was nice. It would have been nice for me when I had been in high school too." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP School counselor P. Jason Whalen, whose son is also on the team, took to Twitter to share screenshots of the call. In this Sunday, Feb. 7, 2021 file photo, Tampa Bay Buccaneers tight end Rob Gronkowski  celebrate their Super Bowl win over the Kansas City Chiefs in Tampa, Fla. "I can’t believe they took the time to entertain Colin and his teammates. I’m sure they had a good time laughing at the fact that the SuperBowl champs got randomly added to a freshman basketball team group chat," his tweet said. Murphy-Bunting eventually ended the call and gave the team some words of encouragement: "Ball out this season!"
Wife of legendary music executive Clarence Avant fatally shot in Beverly Hills home: She was a local philanthropist and her husband was recently inducted into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame.  Jacqueline Avant, the wife of Grammy Award-winning music executive Clarence Avant, was fatally shot early Wednesday in her Los Angeles-area home. Beverly Hills police officers responded to a home just before 2:30 a.m. where they found one person shot. Avant was taken to a hospital and died. It was unclear why the home was targeted, police Chief Mark Stainbrook told reporters on his first full day as head of the department. No suspects were found at the scene and no one else was harmed, he said. MICHIGAN SUSPECT OPENS FIRE ON BUS, WOUNDING 3; LATER KILLED BY POLICE Crime scene photos of broken window and detectives at the home of Clarence Avant wife's murder. 01 Dec 2021 Pictured: Clarence Avant. Photo credit: APEX / MEGA TheMegaAgency.com +1 888 505 6342  [Photo via Mega Agency] "The Avant family's contributions to the world of entertainment and to better communities across Los Angeles are unmatched," Stainbrook said. "There are no words to express our profound sorrow for this immense loss." A Netflix spokeswoman earlier confirmed to Fox News that the victim was 81-year-old Jacqueline Avant before authorities identified her. Avant's daughter, Nicole, is married to Ted Sarandos, Netflix co-CEO and chief content officer. "Jacqueline was an amazing woman, wife, mother, philanthropist and a 55-year resident of Beverly Hills who has made an immeasurable positive contribution and impact on the arts community," a statement from the Avant and Sarandos families said. "She will be missed by her family, friends and all of the people she has helped throughout her amazing life." Jacqueline Avant, left, and Clarence Avant appear at the 11th Annual AAFCA Awards in Los Angeles on Jan. 22, 2020. She was fatally shot early Wednesday in Beverly Hills, Calif. Stainbrook declined to release details of the shooting as the investigation is still in its infancy, he said. He said detectives will look at all possible motives but would not speculate if Avant was killed during a robbery or how many suspects were involved. The Los Angeles area has seen a wave of robberies by thieves associated with street gangs who confront victims after following them home from prime locations. Several celebrities have been targeted in recent weeks, including Terrence J and "Real Housewife" Dorit Kemsley. "I don't think it's a random attack but I can't speculate on that right now," the chief said. Avant was a local philanthropist and president of the Neighbors of Watts support group. She also served on the board of directors of the International Student Center at the University of California, Los Angeles. Her 90-year-old husband is known as the "Godfather of Black Music" and was recently inducted into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame. Former President Barack Obama and Vice President Kamala Harris were among those who paid tribute to him in a video made for the induction ceremony in October. Nicole Avant and Ted Sarandos attend the 2021 LACMA Art + Film Gala presented by Gucci at Los Angeles County Museum of Art in Los Angeles. He mentored a number of artists including Bill Withers, Little Willie John, L.A. Reid, Babyface, Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis. In 2019, Netflix released "The Black Godfather," a documentary about his career. News of Avant's death triggered a slew of tributes from celebrities and political figures, including former President Bill Clinton. "Jackie Avant was a wonderful woman, a great partner to Clarence and mother to Alex and Nicole, an active citizen & a dear friend to Hillary and me for 30 years," he wrote on Twitter. "She inspired admiration, respect & affection in everyone who knew her. We are heartbroken. She will be deeply missed." Daniel Bakewell, a lifelong friend of the Avant family and publisher of the Los Angeles Sentinel, a Black-owned weekly newspaper, conveyed his condolences in a statement released through the publication. "I cannot express how overwhelmingly pained I am at the loss of such a beautiful person as Jackie Avant. For her to be killed in such a senseless way is unfathomable," he said. "There are no 2 more kind and generous people than Clarence and Jackie and for their home and their lives to be violated in such a violent manner is unconscionable." NBA legend and former Los Angeles Lakers star Earvin "Magic" Johnson called Jacqueline Avant "the sweetest person you could ever meet." "She had a beautiful soul, kind heart, & always had a kind word for everybody. She was quiet, yet powerful, & very smart. We are crying for Clarence, Nicole, & Alex’s loss. Our thoughts & prayers go out to the entire family," he wrote on Twitter. U.S. Rep. Karen Bass, D-Calif., said she was "heartbroken" by the tragic news. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Mrs. Avant was a force of compassion and empowerment locally and nationally for decades, as well as a model of service and giving back to those who needed it most," she tweeted. "The devastating events of last night along with recent reports of brazen crime in Los Angeles rupture the expectation of safety we have for our friends, families and fellow Angelenos." A police officer walks down Maytor Place in the Trousdale Estates section of Beverly Hills, Calif., Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021. Jacqueline Avant, the wife of music legend Clarence Avant, was fatally shot in the neighborhood early Wednesday. "All of us have a right to be safe and last night was an absolute violation of that right," she added. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Biden administration to extend transportation mask requirement through mid-March: report: Federal officials expected to make a formal announcement regarding an extension through March 18. Fox News White House correspondent Peter Doocy has the details on 'Special Report.' The Biden administration will announce an extension for mask requirements for passengers on public transportation systems through mid-March, according to a report. Federal officials are expected to make a formal announcement regarding an extension through March 18 on Thursday, Reuters reported, citing sources familiar with the matter. In addition, President Biden is expected to discuss the extension during an event detailing his administration’s broader effort to combat the COVID-19 pandemic this winter. The current mask requirement was slated to expire on Jan. 18 following an extension last August. The Transportation Security Administration, which has issued guidance on previous extensions, and the White House declined Reuters' requests for comment. President Biden speaks about the COVID-19 variant named omicron, in the Roosevelt Room of the White House, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021, in Washington. as Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases listens. Public health officials have expressed concern about the omicron variant, the latest mutant strain of COVID-19. A California resident who was vaccinated against COVID-19 was confirmed as the first U.S. case of the omicron variant, which was first identified in South Africa. FILE PHOTO: Passengers wait in line inside the terminal at Newark Liberty International Airport in Newark, New Jersey, U.S., November 24, 2021. REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz The mask requirement applies to trains, planes, buses, cruise ships and other forms of transportation, as well as public transportation hubs. The TSA implemented its first security directive for the mask requirement in February 2021. The Biden administration has barred entry for most travelers from eight South African countries in response to the omicron variant. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP FILE PHOTO: Air travelers make their way past a sign mandating face masks for all during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease  at Phoenix international airport in Phoenix, Arizona, U.S. September 24, 2021. REUTERS/Mike Blake The mask requirement has contributed to a spike in altercations on flight and other forms of public transportation. Last month, Attorney General Merrick Garland ordered the Justice Department to enhance its efforts to prosecute unruly passengers.
Sen. Tom Cotton says DOJ quiet on Waukesha while actively 'chilling free speech' of parents: Cotton juxtaposed the DOJ's pursuit of parents who speak out about school policies with its silence on Waukesha. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., sent a letter to Attorney General Merrick Garland on Wednesday demanding answers regarding how the Department of Justice plans to respond to the recent mass murder in Waukesha, Wisconsin. Cotton also juxtaposed the DOJ's pursuit of parents protesting at local school board meetings with the department's silence regarding the Waukesha massacre, when 39-year-old Darrell Brooks Jr. allegedly killed six people by plowing his SUV into a Christmas parade. "The defendant in this case has spent more than two decades committing crimes, including a number of violent and sexual felonies, and had also reportedly shared anti-Semitic posts and called for violence against white people," Cotton wrote. Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., questions Attorney General Merrick Garland during a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing examining the Department of Justice on Capitol Hill in Washington, Wednesday, Oct. 27, 2021. "In October, you issued a memorandum to all United States Attorneys and to the FBI, directing them to bring a federal law enforcement presence to local school board meetings all across the country, despite a lack of any apparent federal crime or national outbreak of violence," Cotton continued. WAUKESHA PARADE SUSPECT DARRELL BROOKS SAYS HE FEELS ‘DEHUMANIZED,’ ‘DEMONIZED’ IN FIRST JAILHOUSE INTERVIEW "Yet, while you seemed to have no hesitation to prioritize chilling free speech from concerned parents, neither you nor the Department of Justice appear to have even issued a public statement about the mass murder in Waukesha. You have also issued no statements about the lenient bail policies that appear to have allowed this attack to take place," he added. Cotton concluded his letter by demanding that Garland explain what the DOJ is doing to investigate or assist in the Waukesha investigation. Cotton also asked to know if the Civil Rights Division plans to look into Brooks' alleged racist posts on social media, and he also asked if Garland has directed federal investigators to "take any actions to fill gaps in the criminal justice system left by soft-on-crime policies like the weakening or elimination of cash bail." The DOJ did not respond to Fox News' request for comment in time for publication. BIDEN HAS NO PLANS ‘AT THIS POINT IN TIME’ TO VISIT WAUKESHA AFTER CHRISTMAS PARADE ATTACK Prosecutors have charged Brooks with six counts of intentional first-degree homicide. He is being held on $5 million cash bail and faces up to life in prison if convicted on all counts. Waukesha parade suspect Darrell Brooks arrives in court for his arraignment. The White House on Monday said President Biden does not have any plans to visit Waukesha "at this point in time." "As you saw the president convey last week, our hearts go out to this community, to the people in Waukesha that we've been in touch, obviously, with officials there," White House press secretary Jen Psaki said. "We're all watching as people are recovering, and this is such a difficult time of year for this to happen—it's difficult any time." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Psaki clarified that "any president going to visit a community requires a lot of assets" and requires "taking their resources." "It's not something that I have a trip to preview at this point in time," Psaki said. "But we remain in touch with local officials, and certainly our hearts are with the community as they've gone through such a difficult time."
Omicron detected in California, first case in the US, officials say: Much remains unknown about the new variant, including whether it is more contagious than previous strains. Former Assistant Health Secretary Brett Giroir on federal judge citing ‘grave risks’ to civil liberties after shooting down vaccine mandate. A traveler who returned to California from South Africa has become the first person in the United States identified to have the omicron variant of COVID-19, officials confirmed Wednesday. Speaking to reporters at the White House, Dr. Anthony Fauci said the person returned from South Africa on Nov. 22 and tested positive on Nov. 29. He said the person was vaccinated but had not received a booster shot and was experiencing "mild symptoms." "We knew that it was just a matter of time before the first case of omicron would be detected in the United States," Fauci said. Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, speaks during the daily briefing at the White House in Washington, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021. Officials said they had contacted everyone who had close contact with the person and they had all tested negative. Later Wednesday, White House COVID REsponse Coordinator Jeff Zients urged people to get vaccinated, saying that the President's medical team "continues to believe that existing vaccines will provide some level of protection against severe illness from Omicron, and individuals who have gotten boosters have even stronger protection." OMICRON: WHAT ARE THE VARIANT'S SYMPTOMS? "This new variant is cause for continued vigilance, not panic," Zients said in a statement. "We know what it takes to limit the spread of COVID: Get vaccinated, get boosted, and take public health measures like masking and distancing." The Biden administration moved late last month to restrict travel from Southern Africa where the variant was first identified and had been widespread. Since then, scientists around the world have been scrambling to study the risks the new virus strain poses. Clusters of cases have been identified in about two dozen other countries. A flight crew walk through the terminal at Sydney Airport, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021. Authorities in Australia said Sunday, Nov. 28, 2021, that two travelers who arrived in Sydney from Africa became the first in the country to test positive for the new variant of the coronavirus, omicron. Genomic sequencing was conducted at the University of California, San Francisco and the sequence was confirmed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Matshidiso Moeti, World Health Organization  Regional Director for Africa, speaks at a press conference at the European headquarters of the United Nations in Geneva, Switzerland, on Feb. 1, 2019. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is taking steps to tighten U.S. testing rules for travelers from overseas, including requiring a test for all travelers within a day of boarding a flight to the U.S. regardless of vaccination status. It was also considering mandating post-arrival testing. Officials said those measures would only "buy time" for the country to learn more about the new variant and to take appropriate precautions, but that given its transmissibility its arrival in the U.S. was inevitable. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Much remains unknown about the new variant, including whether it is more contagious than previous strains, whether it makes people more seriously ill, and whether it can thwart the vaccine. Fauci said more would be known about the omicron strain in two to four weeks as scientists grow and test lab samples of the virus. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Supreme Court abortion case: Justices grill lawyers on precedent, fetal viability, constitutional rights: Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health case centers on Mississippi abortion law that challenges Roe v. Wade. Former assistant U.S. attorney Andrew McCarthy and constitutional law professor Jonathan Turley provide reaction and analysis as the U.S. Supreme Court hears oral arguments in a case that challenges Roe v. Wade The Supreme Court heard oral arguments in a potential landmark abortion rights case Wednesday, as the state of Mississippi defended an abortion restriction law that directly challenges Roe v. Wade. The case, Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health, centers on the law, which bans most abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy, much sooner than the current legal standard, which prohibits abortion bans prior to fetal viability — roughly 23 to 24 weeks into pregnancy. PRO-LIFE, PRO-CHOICE LAWMAKERS BRACE FOR HISTORIC SUPREME COURT ABORTION ARGUMENTS Throughout the arguments, the justices alternated between examining not just the legal standards for abortion laws based on interests of women and protecting potential life, but also the court’s own interest in protecting itself from losing the faith of the public. Pro and anti-abortion activists gather outside the Supreme Court. "[T]o overrule under fire in the absence of the most compelling reason to reexamine a watershed decision would subvert the Court's legitimacy beyond any serious question," Justice Stephen Breyer said, quoting the opinion in 1992's Planned Parenthood v. Casey. Justice Amy Coney Barrett also pointed to how Casey "very explicitly took into account" public reaction. She asked if there should be a special standard for overturning cases of particular importance. Mississippi Solicitor General Scott Stewart said there should not. He argued that while Casey was "unusual" and "a mistake," the court could say now that their legitimacy comes from standing for constitutional principles and overruling when appropriate. Breyer later pointed to Barrett’s discussion of public reaction, and warned that in watershed cases where people are "really opposed on both sides," no matter how the court rules there will be accusations of politicization. An anti-abortion activist attends a protest outside the Supreme Court building, ahead of arguments in the Mississippi abortion rights case Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health, in Washington, Dec. 1, 2021. "That’s what kills us as an institution," he said, arguing that if the court is going to overturn such a case, "you better be damn sure that the normal stare decisis" elements are analyzed with a clear conclusion that the case warrants overturning. PROTESTERS ALLEGEDLY TAKE ABORTION PILLS OUTSIDE SUPREME COURT AHEAD OF BLOCKBUSTER CASE Justice Sonia Sotomayor noted that a woman’s right to get an abortion has been "clearly set" and never challenged since Casey, and how over 50 years there have been 15 justices who ruled in favor of a right to abortion compared to four against, and that the sponsors of the Mississippi law came right out and said they were introducing the bill because there are new justices on the high court. "Will this institution survive the stench that this creates in the public perception … that the Constitution and its reading are just political acts?" she asked. Stewart said that the court’s concern about appearing political means that they should base their decision on the Constitution. Sotomayor said that Casey did this, even if Stewart does not think so. "Casey gave one paragraph to the workability of Roe," Stewart responded, adding that the decision then went into the undue burden standard, which Stewart called "the most unworkable" legal standard in history. Stewart then added that Casey did not take into account advancement in medical knowledge. When asked what advancements have taken place since Casey, he pointed to studies on fetal pain, which Sotomayor dismissed as being from "a small fringe of doctors" and not a signal of an actual advancement of knowledge. She noted that brain dead people have responded to stimuli, so a fetal response does not necessarily mean anything. Returning to the viability line, Stewart said it was "quintessentially legislative." He later argued that this line discounts the state interest in protecting human life. Pro-abortion rights activist Alicia Hurt holds a placard during a protest outside the Supreme Court building, ahead of arguments in the Mississippi abortion rights case Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health, in Washington, Dec. 1, 2021. Justice Elena Kagan questioned whether his viewpoint of when life begins is a religious one. Stewart insisted that it is not, and that regardless of when life begins, it is still a "human organism" involved. Stewart said there are difficult questions involved in the abortion debate, and that "the people should get to debate these hard issues." When asked when the interest of the woman enters the equation, Stewart said that it is always there but that Roe and Casey changed this by putting in a viability line that eliminates the unborn child’s interest pre-viability. Justice Brett Kavanaugh asked Stewart to clarify that he is not arguing for the court to make abortion illegal, but should remain neutral on the issue and let the states handle it. "Allows all interests to have full voice," Stewart said. Kagan asked how the court should handle abortion cases if the viability line was eliminated and it was just a blanket undue burden standard throughout pregnancy. Stewart admitted that this would be difficult, which is why his preference is for Roe and Casey to be overturned entirely. Julie Rikelman, representing Jackson Women’s Health, argued that an undue burden test "would not be workable" without the viability line. She also claimed that the undue burden test does not even apply to this case because the Mississippi law is not a restriction on abortions but a flat out ban after 15 weeks. Therefore, she said, the viability line is the only issue. Julia Rikelman, left, in 2018. Justice Samuel Alito asked Rikelman to defend the viability line against the argument that it is "arbitrary." Pointing to a woman’s interest in being free of the burden of pregnancy, he asked whether that interest is still there post-viability. Similarly, he argued, a fetus’ interest in life is there pre-viability. Alito asserted that this comes down to a philosophical debate. Rikelman said the viability line is good because it does not ask the court to settle that debate. Later on, she said that the viability line makes sense because once the court recognizes the woman’s interest they need a line for balancing interests — viability provides a line by giving a marker when the fetus can survive. U.S. Solicitor General Elizabeth Prelogar, who also delivered arguments Wednesday, agreed that the viability line is the most useful standard. Justice Neil Gorsuch asked whether some other standard could be used if the court did away with viability. "I don’t think there’s any line that could be more principled than viability," Prelogar said. A pro-choice activist held this sign outside the Supreme Court as oral arguments in Dobbs v. Jackson began Justice Clarence Thomas focused on the broad constitutional principles involved and what Rikelman was relying on. Early in her presentation Thomas asked her if she was relying on the theory of autonomy. She said she was looking to that as well as bodily integrity. Later on, Thomas asked what particular constitutional right protects abortion. "It’s liberty," Rikelman said. Discussing liberty with Kavanaugh, Rikelman noted that liberty has in the past been held to include marriage, child-bearing, and family. The argument is that this includes abortion as part of family decision-making. Without that, she said, women "will never have equal status under the Constitution." Throughout the hearing, Stewart emphasized the need to allow states – via the people – to decide on abortion because of its complex nature. "Abortion is a hard issue," he said at the beginning of his presentation. "Roe and Casey have failed but the people, if given the chance, will succeed." He echoed this at the conclusion of the hearing. "There are interests here on both sides," he said. "There are interests for everyone involved. This is unique for the woman, it’s unique for the unborn child too, whose life is at stake in all of these decisions. It’s unique for us as a society in how we decide if the states get to legislate on this issue, how to decide, and how to weigh these tremendously momentous issues." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Protesters gathered outside the Supreme Court on Wednesday before arguments began. Some, from the group Shout Your Abortion, staged a demonstration where they claimed to be taking abortion pills, chanting, "Abortion pills forever." The group did not immediately respond to Fox News’ request for comment on the video and protest. Pro-life protesters also gathered outside the protest, with some chanting, "Hey hey, ho ho, Roe v. Wade has got to go." Fox News' Emma Colton and Tyler Olson contributed to this report.
Christmas at Fox: Third-annual 'All-American' Christmas Tree lighting returns to Fox Square: The Fox Nation special, hosted by Abby Hornacek and Lawrence Jones will air Sunday on the Fox News Channel at 10:00 p.m. ET.. The ‘All American Christmas’ tree lighting on Fox Square will air Sunday at 10p ET. Fox News hosts will usher in the Christmas season on Sunday with a fun-filled night of music, holiday advice, and trivia as they participate in the third annual All-American Christmas Tree lighting at Fox Square, "The Five" host Jesse Watters revealed on Wednesday. The Fox Nation special, hosted by Abby Hornacek and Lawrence Jones will air at 10:00 p.m. ET. and will take an exclusive look at all the new and original Christmas content coming this month. Watters said the 50-foot tree, which has been adorned with 10,000 ornaments, and 100,000 lights took a team 21 hours to assemble. WATCH THE LIVE FEED OF THE ALL-AMERICAN CHRISTMAS TREE BELOW:
Dave Chappelle’s alma mater to name theater after star despite 'Closer' backlash: 'Stand behind our decision': The comedian was previously disinvited from a charity event for the theater-naming ceremony before it was canceled. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Dave Chappelle’s former high school will move ahead with honoring the comedian. The decision comes after students jeered and heckled him during a recent Q&A. They reportedly expected him to apologize following the backlash Chappelle received for jokes he made about the transgender community in his "Closer" special. The Duke Ellington School of the Arts in Washington, D.C., had made plans to call off the theater-naming ceremony for the performer due to the special's criticism but now says it will "stand behind" its alumnus, after all – even after Chappelle had joked that the school was "canceling stuff I didn't even want to do." "Recently, Dave Chappelle, via his Instagram page, challenged those who both support and oppose the decision to name the theatre at Duke Ellington School of the Arts after him through a fundraising contest," the institution said in a statement on Sunday. "While we appreciate Dave’s impromptu and spirited fundraising initiative, we stand behind our decision to honor the wishes of our co-founder, the late Peggy Cooper Cafritz, to name the theatre after Chappelle," it adds in part. DAVE CHAPPELLE SAYS HE'LL REJECT FORMER HIGH SCHOOL'S HONOR IF HIS CRITICS DONATE MORE THAN HIS FANS The Duke Ellington School of the Arts is moving forward with a decision to honor alum Dave Chappelle and will name its theater after the comedian. Some students at the school staged a protest just weeks after Chappelle pledged $100,000 to the arts school. Chappelle was also disinvited from a charity event for the theater-naming after he vowed to remove himself as a prospect altogether if those who criticized him put their money where their mouths were and donated more to the school than his supporters. DAVE CHAPPELLE'S NETFLIX SPECIAL FACING CANCELLATION AFTER TRANS COMMENTS LEAVE CRITICS IRATE "Chappelle cares deeply about Ellington and its students and regards them as family," the school’s memorandum states. "He made an unannounced visit before the Thanksgiving break to meet with his Ellington family and to hear directly from the few students who have concerns about his recent comedy special, ‘The Closer.’ He also wanted to directly express support for their safety in light of some disturbing online comments targeting the Ellington community. "As an art institution, we educate our students on the importance of media literacy and art as a free and open form of expression to both reflect and challenge society. Although it appears that the clear majority of students at Ellington favor naming the theater for Dave Chappelle, we are seizing this moment to demonstrate the importance of carefully listening to every voice within our diverse and inclusive community." Duke Ellington School for the Arts, Washington, D.C. Following the special, many called for it to be removed by Netflix, and a group of Netflix employees staged a walkout in October to protest. In response, Chappelle said: "To the transgender community, I am more than willing to give you an audience, but you will not summon me. I am not bending to anybody’s demands. And if you want to meet with me, I’d be more than willing to." JON STEWART SAYS DAVE CHAPPELLE NETFLIX CONTROVERSY A RESULT OF ‘MISCOMMUNICATION,’ COMIC ‘NOT A HURTFUL GUY’ He shared the message in a video posted to his Instagram, before adding certain "conditions" that needed to be met before a meeting could happen. Last week, Chappelle received a Grammy nomination for best spoken word album for "8:46," which documents a stand-up special centered on violence against Black Americans amid the angst surrounding the George Floyd protests. Dave Chappelle sits in the big green chair, a landmark on the campus of the Duke Ellington School of the Arts on September 29, 2017, in Washington, D.C. GRAMMYS NOMINATE LOUIS C.K., DAVE CHAPPELLE DESPITE SCANDALS The Recording Academy’s CEO Harvey Mason Jr. told Rolling Stone it would not "restrict the people who can submit their material for consideration" following the nominations of Marilyn Manson and Louis C.K. "We won’t look back at people’s history, we won’t look at their criminal record, we won’t look at anything other than the legality within our rules: Is this recording for this work eligible based on date and other criteria. If it is, they can submit for consideration," Mason told the publication in a statement. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER "What we will control is our stages, our shows, our events, our red carpets," he continued. "We’ll take a look at anyone who is asking to be a part of that, asking to be in attendance, and we’ll make our decisions at that point. But we’re not going to be in the business of restricting people from submitting their work for our voters to decide on."
Abortion 'saves lives,' woman says as protesters crowd around Supreme Court: Roe v. Wade 'saves lives,' one protester says.  Pro-life and pro-choice protesters who gathered outside the Supreme Court on Wednesday morning told Fox News why they came to protest, with one saying abortions save lives, while others said they kill humans. "I'm here today because I think that abortion hurts both the unborn and it hurts women," an anti-abortion activist told Fox News. In contrast, a pro-choice supporter said: "I'm here today because I believe that a woman's right to choose her future, her destiny, her reproductive health care, is a fundamental right." The anti-abortion activist said: "I think that science has come a long way and proved that the babies in the womb are alive and well." SUPREME COURT HEARING ORAL ARGUMENTS IN CASE THAT COULD OVERTURN LANDMARK ABORTION RULING IN ROE V. WADE Hundreds of protesters on both sides of the abortion debate gathered outside the court as oral arguments began in Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization, a case that could overturn Roe v. Wade. "It's critical that it is not overturned because it saves lives," one woman wearing a "Clinic Escort" face mask told Fox News. A pro-choice activist held this sign outside the Supreme Court as oral arguments in Dobbs v. Jackson began. A woman holding a "Supreme Court: Overturn Roe v. Wade" sign disagreed, saying "abortion intentionally kills human beings, and it's one of the greatest Holocausts of our time." A pro-life activist held this sign outside the Supreme Court. The woman in the "Clinic Escort" mask said abortion is the "basic floor level of human autonomy, bodily autonomy." She said she believes abortion has been in jeopardy since it was codified and worries about what overturning Roe would mean "for the rest of us who are Black, Brown, queer, indigenous – what other rights are going to be stripped away?" CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Another woman disagreed: "I want to protect LGBT children in the womb. If they ever found a gene that makes them predisposed to LGBT, I don't want them to be targeted like people with disabilities have been." A man holding a "Hands Off Roe" banner said he was there to express his concern that Roe v. Wade could be overturned. "The state has no business getting involved in a woman's intimate decision as to whether to carry a pregnancy to term," he said.
New York Dem says we are not 'in a democracy' without abortion access: Rep. Carolyn Maloney: 'We're not even in a democracy if women can't make decisions about their own bodies'. Rep. Carolyn Maloney speaks with Fox News about the Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health case in front of the Supreme Court WASHINGTON – A New York Democrat said the U.S. isn't a democracy if women can't have abortions. "We're not even in a democracy if women can't make decisions about their own bodies," Rep. Carolyn Maloney told Fox News in front of the Supreme Court on Wednesday. "We are speaking out against any efforts to roll back Roe v. Wade," Maloney, who chairs the House Oversight and Reform Committee, said as she exited her car to join a demonstration alongside other House Democrats. WATCH: The Supreme Court heard a case Wednesday regarding a Mississippi law that bans abortions after 15 weeks. The case, Dobbs v. Jackson, could upend Roe v. Wade, which in 1973 granted women the constitutional right to abortions during the first two trimesters. Anti-abortion protesters demonstrate in front of the U.S. Supreme Court Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021, in Washington. MISSISSIPPI GOVERNOR SAYS SCIENTIFIC ADVANCES HAVE BOLSTERED CHANCE ABORTION BAN WILL SUCCEED AT SCOTUS Mississippi's argument rests on the idea that existing evidence has given states enough justification to protect fetal life 15 weeks into a woman's pregnancy. CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Outside of the Supreme Court, pro-life and pro-choice groups chanted and waved signs as the court heard arguments. "Women's rights begin in the womb," one sign said. "Stop. The. Bans," read another. Sam Dorman contributed to this report.
Squad member Cori Bush says she shouldn’t have to fight for abortion access: Progressives react to abortion case before Supreme Court. Rep. Cori Bush speaks with Fox News about the Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health case before the Supreme Court. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cori Bush said women should have abortion access without a fight, the Missouri Democrat told Fox News outside the Capitol on Wednesday. "We always have to fight for the things that we shouldn't even have to ask for," Bush told Fox News after she gathered with around 35 fellow House Democrats supporting abortion rights. Among them was Rep. Diana DeGette of Colorado, a Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus co-chair who was heard shouting, "Abortion is essential." WATCH: The Supreme Court heard a case Wednesday regarding a Mississippi law that bans abortions after 15 weeks. The case, Dobbs v. Jackson, could upend Roe v. Wade, which in 1973 granted women the constitutional right to abortions during the first two trimesters of pregnancy. Pro-life and pro-choice demonstrators gathered outside the Capitol and the Supreme Court holding signs and megaphones. NEW YORK DEM SAYS WE ARE NOT 'IN A DEMOCRACY' WITHOUT ABORTION An anti-abortion activist attends a protest outside the Supreme Court ahead of arguments in the Mississippi abortion rights case in Washington, Dec. 1, 2021. "We have the freedom to make decisions about our lives, our futures and our families," one speaker said through a microphone. "Abortion is healthcare," one sign read. Pro-abortion rights activists protest outside the Supreme Court ahead of arguments in Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health in Washington, Dec. 1, 2021. CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Bush told Fox News: "How we push now is going to affect what happens, you know, what we're looking at in 10 years, in 50 years. We have to do this work now." "The Supreme Court, this cannot be a partisan thing, this cannot be a partisan decision," Bush, a member of the progressive Squad, continued. The Supreme Court, which has a 6-3 conservative majority, will likely announce its decision sometime in the spring. Fox News' Tyler Olson contributed to this report.
Best Christmas gift ever: Amazing reveals from Fox News hosts and more: From the new book 'All American Christmas,' Fox News hosts reveal their most cherished Christmas presents ever — and others share their picks as well. Fox News' Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy debut their holiday book on ‘Fox News Live.’ Some of the best gifts we've ever received for Christmas are often the simplest and most enduring, given to us by family, friends, loved ones — and of course, Santa! — and remembered for a lifetime. Or, the most memorable gifts at holiday time might be truly stunning and unexpected items we never imagined we'd actually receive. All American Christmas, the new book by Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy, contains a sparkling collection of stories and sentiments about gift-giving at holiday time, including this quote from Fox News Channel's Dana Perino: "It's a great feeling when you give the right gift to the right person." BEST GIFTS TO PASS DOWN THROUGH THE GENERATIONS So just what is that "right gift"? What's the best Christmas gift ever received? As we enter this year's Christmas season, here are some of the "best gift" picks from an array of people, including Fox News personalities and others. These stories will surprise you, charm you — even move you. "One of the best gifts I ever got [as a child] was a play kitchen, complete with an oven, pots and pans," says Dana Perino in All American Christmas. "I already had the imagination I needed to cook up delicious meals for all my dolls and stuffed-animal friends. I also had a ‘Sesame Street' playhouse that would unfold, and I was right there with Big Bird and all the other residents hanging out on the steps of the best neighborhood in the world. It was amazing to live on a block where I could have so many friends." The new book ‘All American Christmas’ by Rachel Campos-Duffy, along with her husband, Fox News contributor Sean Duffy, is available now. Dana Perino continues, "I am, still today, a list-making machine, and those toys must have been among what I'd asked for. I don't recall any really extravagant gifts or wishes, and things like getting Bonne Bell lip balm in my stocking made me very happy. Maybe that was because of all the wind and cold in Wyoming! We also got foil-wrapped chocolates and candy canes in there, and they were a real treat." WHY RACHEL CAMPOS-DUFFY FEELS ‘ALL AMERICAN CHRISTMAS’ IS PERFECT GIFT FOR ANY FOX NEWS FAN "Of course, I also love giving gifts, and when I was working on ‘The Five,’ we did a Secret Santa gift exchange," Perino says. "The best gift I ever gave during that period was for Jesse Watters. A segment of the show was called ‘Facebook Friday,’ and someone asked us via Facebook what was one gift we really wanted at Christmas that we never received. Jesse mentioned that he'd wanted a red leather Michael Jackson jacket. I had drawn Jesse's name and was joking that I would get that jacket for him. "My producer Mina Pertesis managed to track one down. We gave it to Jesse, and he still says to this day that it was one of the best Christmas gifts he ever received … The mix of surprise and delight when a gift connects with someone is worth all the time and thought that goes into it." —Dana Perino is cohost of Fox News Channel’s "America’s Newsroom" and "The Five." Her Christmas memories appear in All American Christmas by Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy. "I'd just started working at Fox’s show 'The Five,'" says Fox News Channel's Jesse Watters. "Dana Perino found out about my Michael Jackson obsession and, as part of our Secret Santa gift exchange, got me that jacket. It was worth the wait! Nothing could 'beat it.' I still have it, and it's great to think about how thoughtful a gesture that was." —Jesse Watters is host of Fox News Channel’s "Watters’ World" and cohost of "The Five." His Christmas memories also appear in All American Christmas by Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy. Jesse's childhood obsession with getting a Michael Jackson jacket would finally pay off when Dana tracked it down. "As a child, my favorite gift was a Magnus Chord Organ. My father was disabled and money was limited, so this was a miracle gift to me. I recall on Christmas Eve as a young girl the majestic sound of the plastic keys as I played ‘Silent Night,’ hoping to catch sight of the Star of Bethlehem in the dark winter sky." —Patti Garibay, founder and executive director, American Heritage Girls, Cincinnati, Ohio "My best gift was a small brown leather-covered Bible from my mother. I never knew it would be the greatest Christmas gift ever until she passed away four years after she gave it to me. This Christmas and every Christmas — every day, in fact — I feel comfort when I read my Bible and when I read the inscription from my mother to me. In the front of the book, she wrote, in her beautiful flowing script, 'God bless you for all your life. Your Loving Mother.'" —Corine G., Suffolk, Virginia THE CHRISTMAS TOY GIFTS THAT MADE PARENTS SCRAMBLE "My best Christmas gift ever was a basketball hoop game that I set up in my room. It was sort of like an arcade game. The basketballs were automatically fed back to the player, with a digital feature that kept score. I played it with one of my older brothers for hours, and we laughed so hard as we competed against each other. It was like we were in our own little bubble, staying up late and bringing snacks up to my bedroom so we could keep playing. We are 10 years apart in age, and I was eight years old at the time — and I remember being thrilled that my big brother was spending so much time with me." —James R., Greensboro, North Carolina "I received my best Christmas gift when I was a little kid, about seven years old. I had seen a nutcracker — one of those classic ‘soldier’ nutcrackers, complete with a tiny gold sword, military hat and long coattails — in the Smithsonian Institution’s gift shop when my parents took me there. I wanted that nutcracker so badly! I still remember that childlike wonder and joy I felt when I finally held it on Christmas morning, and my sense of awe that came from knowing that ‘Santa’ had read my letter and stopped his sleigh at the Smithsonian, just for me!" —Deirdre R., Reading, Massachusetts Leaders and readers alike share their ‘best Christmas gift ever’ picks with Fox News Digital as the countdown to Christmas begins. "My three sisters and I were very close. We shared a lot of great times with my mom, while my dad sometimes felt as if he were on an island all by himself, not always privy to our late-night heart-to-heart talks. When my mom passed away suddenly after a short battle with pancreatic cancer, we were all in shock — we'd lost our best friend, our confidant. It was a void my father felt pressure to fill, yet he wasn't sure how. "Not long after, he asked each of us individually if there was something special we wanted of our mother’s to remember her by. We four girls had no idea that each of us asked him for the same thing: the gold cross necklace our mother wore every day. My father showed no reaction. But he came up with a plan." What joys await this little one and all of us? The wonders of the Christmas season are here! "On Christmas morning, he presented each of us girls with a gold box tied with a white ribbon. When we opened our boxes, we were all delighted — and teary-eyed — to find Mother's gold cross inside. But we were also confused. Seeing the look on our faces, my father explained, 'I went to a jeweler and had the same cross made for each of you girls. I asked him not to let me know which one was the original. I have no idea which one is Mom’s real cross. But does it really matter?' he added. ‘She loved you all the same. She would’ve wanted each of you to have it. Please wear it and remember her.' "I will never forget that Christmas. I not only felt my mother’s presence there with me in the room, but I felt a much deeper bond with my father. Almost a decade has passed since my father joined my mother in heaven To this day, when I put on that cross, I not only think of my mother but my father, too, and the joy he brought all of us that Christmas Day." —Barbara Booth, co-founder and CEO of Go-Be, Cape Cod, Massachusetts HOW TO MAKE SURE YOUR PACKAGES ARRIVE BY CHRISTMAS "My best Christmas gift ever was my first two-wheeled bike. It was green and had a cool banana seat and high handlebars. I named it the Green Hornet. I’ll never forget my first ride on it, which sadly was a disaster! I couldn’t wait to ride it, and I slid on the ice as I took it down the driveway, crashing hard. I was seven when I got that bike, and all these years later — I’m 60 now! — I remember the joy that bike brought me." —Fred R., Boston, Massachusetts "Giving to others is a wonderful thing. I really prefer it to receiving things. One year for Christmas, I dressed up as Santa and went to a few local hospitals to visit children. I gave out candy canes to the little ones. Just looking at the kids and seeing their happy faces was very rewarding to me. That was one of the best Christmas seasons I ever enjoyed." —Richard P., Hastings-on-Hudson, New York CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "A few weeks before Christmas, I was joking with my dad about his set of golf clubs. It had been an ongoing joke for years that Dad needed to let my brother know that his clubs were going to me when he died — our humor could be a little dark! Sadly, Dad passed away suddenly and was laid to rest just a few days before Christmas. "Weeks later, as we were going through his belongings, we got to the clubs. Inside one of the pockets of the golf bag was a note to me. It read, ‘Merry Christmas, son. I hope you enjoy the clubs. Love, Dad.’ He had intended to give them to me that Christmas after all. I still have those clubs, all these years later." —John B., Hampton, Iowa What’s the best Christmas gift you've ever received? Share your thoughts with us in the comments section below.
COVID cases double over 24 hours in South Africa, where omicron variant was discovered: New confirmed cases rose to 8,561 Wednesday from 4,373 a day earlier. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. South Africa's new cases of COVID-19 nearly doubled in a day, authorities reported Wednesday, signaling a dramatic surge in the country where scientists detected the omicron variant last week. New confirmed cases rose to 8,561 Wednesday from 4,373 a day earlier, according to official statistics. Scientists in South Africa said they are bracing for a rapid increase in COVID-19 cases following the discovery of the new omicron variant. A hospital worker ensures people practice social distancing as they wait in line to get vaccinated against COVID-19 at the Lenasia South Hospital, near Johannesburg, South Africa, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021. Despite the global worry, doctors in South Africa are reporting patients with the omicron variant are suffering mostly mild symptoms so far. But they warn that it is early. "There is a possibility that really we’re going to be seeing a serious doubling or tripling of the cases as we move along or as the week unfolds," Dr. Nicksy Gumede-Moeletsi, regional virologist for the World Health Organization, told The Associated Press. "There is a possibility that we are going to see a vast increase in number of cases being identified in South Africa." OMICRON DETECTED IN CALIFORNIA, FIRST CASE IN THE US, OFFICIALS SAY South Africa had seen a period of low transmission in early November with a seven-day average of about 200 new cases per day, but in the middle of November new cases began to rapidly increase. The new cases reported Wednesday represent a 16.5% positivity rate of cases tested, up from a 1% rate early in November. South Africa's previous surge, driven by the delta variant in June and July, saw daily new cases reach a peak of more than 20,000. With a population of 60 million people, South Africa has recorded more than 2.9 million COVID-19 cases, including nearly 90,000 deaths. A woman is vaccinated against COVID-19 in Lawley, south of Johannesburg, South Africa, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021. It's too early to be certain that the omicron variant is responsible for the rise in cases, but it is very possible, say experts. Standard PCR tests can suggest that a positive case is caused by omicron, but only a full genetic sequencing can confirm it. OMICRON VARIANT: BIDEN PREPARING STRICTER CORONAVIRUS TESTING FOR ALL TRAVELERS TO US: LIVE UPDATES Labs in South Africa and Botswana are urgently doing genomic sequencing to study omicron cases in order to see if it is significantly more transmissible, causes more serious cases of COVID-19 or if it evades protection from vaccinations, said Gumede-Moeletsi. "The current data that we’re having is still very limited. So there are so many additional characteristics of this virus that the researchers are busy studying, of which transmissibility is one of them. Severity is also another," she said, adding that researchers also need to find out if current vaccines will still be effective against it. A woman is tested for COVID-19 at the Lenasia South Hospital, near Johannesburg, South Africa, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 1021. Hospitalizations for COVID-19 are rising in South Africa, but not at the dramatic rate of the new cases. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The omicron variant has been detected in five of South Africa's nine provinces and accounted for 74% of the virus genomes sequenced in November, the country’s National Institute for Communicable Diseases announced Wednesday. The earliest detection of the variant in South Africa may have been on Nov. 8 in Gauteng province, according to data released by the institute. It said until the end of October, the delta variant accounted for most genomes sequenced in the country, but in November the omicron variant overtook it.
AOC slams 'Ku Klux Klan caucus' within the House GOP: Ocasio-Cortez's comments come amid dispute between Reps. Ilhan Omar and Lauren Boebert. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez on Wednesday alleged that House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., is working with what she described as his "Ku Klux Klan caucus" to enable violent threats against Rep. Ilhan Omar, D-Minn., and other women of color in Congress. "People truly don’t understand the scale, intensity, & volume of threats targeting [Omar]," Ocasio-Cortez wrote. "Kevin McCarthy is so desperate to be speaker that he is working with his Ku Klux Klan caucus to look aside & allow violent targeting of woc members of Congress. This cannot be ignored." "While people toss out clichés like ‘we condemn all forms of racism & bigotry,’ the fact is Islamophobia is far too often tolerated and ignored. Bigotry is not made unacceptable by what one says about it, it’s made acceptable based on whether there are consequences for it or not," the congresswoman continued. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., speaks with reporters, Thursday, June 17, 2021, as she arrives on Capitol Hill in Washington. "It’s not just about nasty phone calls and e-mails," she added. "GOP are given freedom to incite without consequence. They don’t have to pay for the security required from their acts- we do. They make money off it. &They are targeting those least likely to be institutionally protected first." Ocasio-Cortez's comments were in response to a press conference Omar gave Tuesday about death threats she said she has received following high-profile criticism directed at her by Rep. Lauren Boebert, R-Colo. Omar played a recording of one of the voicemails she says she received, which called her the N-word and referred to her as a "traitor" who will "not live much longer." REP. ILHAN OMAR HANGS UP ON REP. LAUREN BOEBERT AFTER TENSE PHONE CALL Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., listens as House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., speaks during a news conference at the Capitol in Washington. The dispute between Omar and Boebert started when Boebert was secretly filmed telling supporters about a run-in she had with Omar in a Capitol elevator. She said she was getting in the elevator with a staffer when she saw a Capitol police officer running toward them "with fret all over his face" in an effort to stop the elevator door from closing. OMAR ON BOEBERT SPAT: ‘ISLAMOPHOBIA PERVADES OUR CULTURE, POLITICS AND EVEN POLICY DECISIONS’ Boebert added: "And I said, ‘Well, she doesn’t have a backpack. We should be fine.'" She also called Omar "the jihad squad." Boebert later called Omar to apologize for her comments, which ended with Omar hanging up on her. Reps. Ilhan Omar, D-Minn., and Lauren Boebert, R-Colo. During the Monday press conference, Omar was joined by Democratic colleagues Reps. Rashida Tlaib, D-Mich., Andre Carson, D-Ind., and Jamaal Bowman, D-N.Y. The term "Islamophobia" was a recurring topic. "The truth is that Islamophobia pervades our culture, our politics and even policy decisions," said Omar, who is Muslim and immigrated from Somalia as a child. "Leading politicians in the Republican Party routinely spout hateful rhetoric about a religion that includes a diverse group of more than a billion peaceful worshipers around the world. This includes falsely claiming Muslims want to replace the Constitution and implement Sharia law, portraying Muslims as inherently violent." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Omar also laid into McCarthy during the press conference, saying, "What I will say is that the silence speaks for itself. If they want to get rid of this kind of toxic, hateful behavior in their conference, they have to take action." Fox News' Andrew Mark Miller contributed to this report.
Biden repeats debunked claim he ‘used to drive a tractor-trailer’: 'I know a little bit about big trucks,' the president said. Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., on President Biden addressing supply chain issues amid the holiday season. President Biden declared Tuesday during an event in Minnesota that he "used to drive" a tractor-trailer – a claim the White House has struggled to defend in the past. Biden repeated the debunked claim during a trip to Dakota County Technical College in Rosemount, Minnesota, to tout the newly passed bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act. BIDEN RAISES EYEBROWS WITH CLAIM HE 'USED TO DRIVE' 18-WHEELER TRUCK "I used to drive a tractor-trailer," Biden said. "I know a little bit about big trucks." Biden’s claim was debunked earlier this year after the president said at a Mack Truck facility in Pennsylvania that he "used to drive an 18-wheeler." When asked at the time if the president had ever driven such a truck, a White House spokesperson pointed to a December 1973 article from the Wilmington Evening Journal that showed Biden rode in an 18-wheeler on a 536-mile haul to Ohio. President Biden speaks about the COVID-19 variant omicron at the White House, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021, in Washington. Fox News pressed the spokesperson at the time about the president’s claim – noting that riding in a truck is not the same as driving one – at which point the president's spokesperson pointed to a United Federation of Teachers post that touched on Biden once driving a school bus for a summer job. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The majority of school buses, on average, "have two axles, with the bigger models having two wheels on the front axle and four wheels on the dual axle, for a total of six wheels," according to SchoolBusFleet.com. President Biden waves as he walks to board Air Force One, at Andrews Air Force Base, Maryland, Tuesday, Nov. 30, 2021. The truck story is just one of many tales Biden has embellished over the years. Last month, he said his house burned down with his wife Jill Biden inside before he tried to correct himself to say a "significant portion" of the home burned. A 2004 report from The Associated Press, however, said it was a "small" fire caused by a lightning strike that was contained to only the kitchen. Fox News’ Houston Keene contributed to this report.
Waukesha parade suspect Darrell Brooks says he feels 'dehumanized,' 'demonized' in first jailhouse interview: Darrell Brooks Jr. spoke to Fox News Digital on Wednesday in Waukesha County Jail. Matt Finn reports the latest on Darrell Brooks at he makes his first court appearance on ‘Special Report’. WAUKESHA, Wis. – EXCLUSIVE: Darrell Brooks Jr. has spent the last 10 days locked up in a Wisconsin jail cell after allegedly mowing through the barricades and into revelers at the Waukesha Christmas parade, killing six people and injuring 62. Now he feels "dehumanized," he told Fox News Digital Wednesday in his first remarks to the media, seemingly surprised that he had visitors. "I just feel like I'm being monster – demonized," Brooks, 39, said during a brief video visit in Waukesha County Jail – a stone’s throw from where tragedy struck over a week earlier. A lineup of multiple mugshots showing Waukesha suspect Darrell Brooks over the years. Waukesha Sheriff’s Department Darrell Brooks, charged with killing five people and injuring nearly 50 after plowing through a Christmas parade with his sport utility vehicle on November 21, appears in Waukesha County Court in Waukesha, Wisconsin, U.S. November 23, 2021. Darrell Brooks, center, is escorted out of the courtroom after making his initial appearance, Tuesday in Waukesha County Court in Waukesha, Wisconsin. Waukesha parade suspect Darrell Brooks arrives in court for his arraignment. WAUKESHA PARADE SUSPECT DARRELL BROOKS' EX-GIRLFRIEND SAYS SHE IS 'DEVASTATED' BY HIS 'MONSTROUS ACT' Wearing a sleeveless green jail jumpsuit and his hair in braids, the soft-spoken accused killer offered no details about what prompted the carnage. The two Fox News reporters on the other side of the video screen marked the first visitors he’s seen since the Nov. 21 night of horror. Brooks appeared calm, lucid and took time to answer each question – even repeating reporters' questions and answers at times. "I just feel like I'm being monster – demonized…" Not even his mother has dropped by, he said. Earlier in the day, she released a statement on behalf of the family decrying Wisconsin’s criminal justice system for failing her son, a longtime felon with a 50-page rap sheet detailing domestic violence, firearms, drugs and other convictions in Wisconsin, according to documents obtained by Fox News Digital. Brooks is also a registered child sex offender in Nevada and served time in Georgia for beating his ex, records show. Waukesha County Jail in Waukesha, Wisconsin. WAUKESHA SUSPECT DARRELL BROOKS GRIPED ABOUT UNFAIR TREATMENT FROM JAIL Still, Brooks said he was "very" close with his mother. He hasn't spoken to any family since the parade attack but they talked earlier that day, he said. He said he was no longer staying at the address listed in city records as being his residence. Just over one mile from the jail, Brooks allegedly plowed his red Ford SUV through a throng of paradegoers out taking part an annual holiday celebration that had been canceled last year due to the coronavirus pandemic. After a few minutes of conversation, shortly after he learned his mother had released a statement on his mental health, Brooks put down the phone and rose from his chair. Two flanking corrections officers shielded him from view, but the sound of what may have been sobbing rattled the receiver. Brooks allegedly plowed his red Ford SUV through a throng of paradegoers out taking part an annual holiday celebration. Deadly Christmas parade in Waukesha, Wisconsin A police car is seen at Main Street in downtown Waukesha, as it's blocked off after a car plowed through a holiday parade in Waukesha, Wisconsin, U.S., November 22, 2021.  REUTERS/Cheney Orr People hold candles and embrace during a vigil in Cutler Park on November 22, 2021 in Waukesha, Wisconsin.   People hold candles and embrace during a vigil in Cutler Park on November 22, 2021 in Waukesha, Wisconsin. People hold candles during a vigil in Cutler Park on November 22, 2021 in Waukesha, Wisconsin. People hold candles during a vigil in Cutler Park on November 22, 2021 in Waukesha, Wisconsin. People hold candles during a vigil in Cutler Park on November 22, 2021 in Waukesha, Wisconsin. People hold candles and embrace during a vigil in Cutler Park on Monday in Waukesha, Wisconsin. WAUKESHA SUSPECT DODGED JAIL IN DEADBEAT DAD CASE DAYS BEFORE PARADE ATTACK Waukesha Police officials have said they were responding to what they believe was a related report of a domestic incident nearby, but were not able to fully respond before being diverted to early reports of the parade tragedy. The six victims range in age from 8 to 81 years old, and have been identified as Jackson Sparks, 8; Tamara Durand, 52; Jane Kulich, 52; LeAnna Owen, 71; Virginia Sorenson, 79; and Wilhelm, 81. During his Nov. 23 court appearance in connection with the alleged crimes, Brooks cried, and at times sobbed audibly, as Court Commissioner Kevin Costello and District Attorney Susan Opper recounted the night's horrific events. Five adult victims and one child were killed in the Waukesha parade attack. Prosecutors have charged him with six counts of intentional first-degree homicide. He is being held on $5 million cash bail and faces up to life in prison if convicted on all counts. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Only the top half of his face was visible until he ended the call and stood up. He returned to his cell. The guards shut down the monitor. Brooks had nothing more to say, but he peered out from behind his cell door until the feed cut out. A spokesperson for Brooks' attorney declined to comment.
Biden on World AIDS Day declares racism a ‘public health threat’: The new strategy was released on the annual commemoration of World AIDS Day.  President Joe Biden on Wednesday unveiled his new HIV/AIDS strategy to end the more than 40-year-old epidemic, calling for a renewed focus on vulnerable Americans — including gay and bisexual Black and Latino men, who his administration says are too often stigmatized even as they are disproportionately affected. The new strategy, which declares racism a "public health threat," was released on the annual commemoration of World AIDS Day. It is meant to serve as a framework for how the administration shapes its policies, research, programs and planning over the next three years. FAUCI SAYS COVID-19 DIVERTED RESOURCES FROM FIGHT AGAINST AIDS But Biden acknowledged that the country still needs to work to destigmatize HIV/AIDS and noted that LGBT and racial minority groups have "endured the brunt" of the epidemic that’s killed more than 36 million worldwide, including 700,000 Americans. "I want to make sure that everyone in the United States knows their HIV status, and everyone with HIV receives high-quality care and treatment that they deserve and that we end the harmful stigma around HIV and AIDS," Biden said. The North Portico of the White House is adorned with a huge red ribbon to commemorate the annual World AIDS Day, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021, in Washington. The Biden administration in its new HIV/AIDS strategy is calling racism "a public health threat" that must be fully recognized as the world looks to end the epidemic. The new strategy asserts that over generations "structural inequities have resulted in racial and ethnic health disparities that are severe, far-reaching, and unacceptable." New HIV infections in the U.S. fell about 8% from 2015 to 2019, but Black and Latino communities — particularly gay and bisexual men within those groups — continue to be disproportionately affected, according to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention data. Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra speaks before President Joe Biden at an event to commemorate World AIDS Day during an event in the East Room of the White House, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021, in Washington. Gabriel Maldonado, HIV/AIDS Advocate, CEO and Founder of TruEvolution, speaks before President Joe Biden at an event to commemorate World AIDS Day during an event in the East Room of the White House, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021, in Washington. African Americans make up about 13% of the U.S. population but accounted for more than 40% of new infections. The Latino population accounted for nearly 25% of new infections but makes up about 18.5% of the U.S. population. Historically, gay and bisexual men have been the most disproportionately affected group. They account for about 66% of new HIV infections, even though they are only 2% of the population, according to the CDC. In 2019, 26% of new HIV infections were among Black gay and bisexual men, 23% among Latino gay and bisexual men, and 45% among gay and bisexual men under the age of 35. Disparities also persist among women. Black women’s HIV infection rate is 11 times that of white women and four times that of Latina women. To reduce the disparities, the strategy includes calls for focusing on the needs of disproportionately affected populations, supporting racial justice, combating HIV-related stigma and discrimination and providing leadership and employment opportunities for people with or at risk for HIV. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi of Calif., and Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra listen before President Joe Biden at an event to commemorate World AIDS Day in the East Room of the White House, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021, in Washington. Besides addressing racism’s impact on Americans battling the virus or at risk of contracting it, the new strategy also puts greater emphasis on harm reduction and syringe service programs, encourages reform of state laws that criminalize behavior of people with HIV for potentially exposing others and adds focus on the needs of the growing population of people with HIV who are aging. VERMONT FIRST STATE TO REQUIRE ACCESS TO CONDOMS IN ALL SECONDARY SCHOOLS: REPORTS Biden expressed disbelief that some states have laws on the book that criminalize spitting in public by HIV-positive people even though it has long been proven that the virus can’t be transmitted through saliva. Thirty-five states have laws that criminalize various forms of HIV exposure, according to the CDC "We have to follow science and that means eliminating laws that perpetuate discrimination, exacerbate disparities, discourage HIV testing and take us further away from our goal," Biden said. President Joe Biden speaks to commemorate World AIDS Day during an event in the East Room of the White House, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021, in Washington. President Joe Biden speaks to commemorate World AIDS Day during an event in the East Room of the White House, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021, in Washington. The Biden administration recently announced it will host the Global Fund to Fight AIDS replenishment conference next year. The United States has contributed about $17 billion to the fund, about a third of all donor contributions. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP A giant red ribbon, a symbol of support for people living with HIV, was displayed on the North Portico of the White House to mark World AIDS Day. The two-story ribbon display has become an annual tradition at the White House since 2007.
Rep. McMorris Rodgers 'hopeful' modern science will sway public opinion against abortion: Congresswoman and mother of a child diagnosed with Down syndrome says she hopes the Supreme Court stands for life. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Washington Republican Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers told Fox News Wednesday she is "hopeful" modern developments in science and technology will help turn public opinion on abortion. "I am hopeful that as people really consider the science, the research, the technology, that more and more are going to review their position on this question," she said in answer to whether she believes the majority of Americans support overturning Roe v. Wade. "It’s the sharpest soul-searching question before us as a nation." Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers HAWLEY SAYS DEMOCRATIC RHETORIC AMID SCOTUS ABORTION HEARING ‘REALLY DANGEROUS’ The congresswoman’s comments came just hours after the Supreme Court heard arguments on the constitutionality of a 2018 Mississippi law that banned abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy. Proponents of abortion rights argue the law infringes on protections granted under the 1973 Supreme Court decision in Roe v. Wade that federally secured a women’s right to an abortion. "We are not in the same place today as we were in 1973 when Roe v. Wade was decided," McMorris Rodgers told Fox News. "Today, because of technology, we can look into the womb, we can see the baby day by day, week by week." U.S. Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers Two-thirds of voters said they want to keep Roe v. Wade intact, according to a September Fox News poll. The 65% of poll takers opposed to overturning the 1973 landmark decision was a record in Fox News polling, up from 61% in October 2020 and barely eclipsing the previous high of 64% in June 2019. LAWMAKERS REMAIN DIVIDED AS ROE V. WADE HANGS IN THE BALANCE AT SUPREME COURT But tough questioning by the predominately conservative high court justices could spell trouble for those who oppose not only Mississippi abortion limits, but Roe v. Wade as a whole. Republicans championed Wednesday’s oral arguments. "I am encouraged," McMorris Rodgers, mother of three, told Fox News. "I hope that the court stands for life." The Washington Republican said the issue strikes home for her as her oldest child, Cole, was born with Down syndrome. "It was tough when we got that diagnosis," she said. "A team basically gave us a long list of potential challenges and struggles we would have. "And yet today I cannot imagine life without Cole, and I believe from the bottom of my heart that his life is worth living," she added. Anti-abortion rights activists protest outside the Supreme Court building ahead of arguments in the Mississippi abortion rights case Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health, in Washington, Dec. 1, 2021. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP McMorris Rodgers explained that children diagnosed with Down syndrome are living longer with life expectancies of up to 60 years, nearly triple what the life expectancy was believed to be just a few decades ago. "Science has evolved, and my hope is that we learn from this, and we will reject abortion," she told Fox News.  "Abortion doesn’t reflect the latest research or modern medicine and it’s not in alignment with American values of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness for all."
Watters blasts potential Biden orders: He 'lets COVID caravans' in but I have to quarantine after vacation: A new report said Biden may enact quarantine order for returning American travelers regardless of COVID test results.. 'The Five' panel react to Biden administration's push for strict travel testing and quarantines after the first Omicron COVID variant case in the U.S. was reported in California Jesse Watters and the panel on "The Five" reacted to the prospect of President Biden announcing new quarantine orders for traveling American citizens, amid expectations his Thursday coronavirus mitigation remarks will also include stricter testing mandates. Biden is reportedly expected to announce an extremely strict testing regimen for U.S. citizens traveling by air, as well as a potential mandatory week-long quarantine for any American citizen flying home, according to a report from the Washington Post. The quarantine would be mandatory and enforced by "fines and penalties" regardless of whether an administered test finds the subject is not infected with the virus, the Post report said. The Post clarified that the quarantine order was not in a "draft" obtained by the paper "but could be added later if the proposals win broader sign-off." U.S. President Joe Biden gives a speech in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building’s South Court Auditorium at the White House in Washington, U.S., November 23, 2021. REUTERS/Evelyn Hockstein Watters said Wednesday that he often travels to Europe on vacation and finds the potential mandatory stateside quarantine a ridiculous overreach. "If I come back … and I have vaxxed. I have been boosted and I have tested negative, I get on the plane and touch down at JFK and I have to quarantine for seven days and not go to work," he said. "It sounds… crazy. Luckily the country is not full with a lot of international travelers." "You have to be scratching your head because they’re letting COVID caravans from countries cross over [the southern border] with vax rates in the single digits."  Watters noted that many illegal immigrants are not only being let in untested and unvaccinated but that Biden is clandestinely putting them on American buses and planes and transporting them to Florida, Tennessee, New York, and elsewhere. "You can’t double-bolt your front door and leave your back door wide open. Everybody understands that except Joe Biden," he said. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP When host Dana Perino listed off the instances of Biden's previous mandates being either stayed or knocked down by federal courts – including blocking states from using American Rescue Plan funds to lower taxes, reinstituting the Trump-era Remain In Mexico policy for migrants and workplace vaccine mandates – Watters concluded it shows the president is collectively "bumbling" in his response.
Sen. Tom Cotton: Biden is in denial about what his policies have done to America: Cotton said Biden is largely shifting the blame on multiple crises. Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., reacts to Presiednt Biden downplaying the supply chain crisis in America. Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., blasted President Biden for downplaying crises in America that are leading to inflation and forcing families to make tough choices Wednesday on "America Reports." SEN. TOM COTTON: The president is still in denial about what his reckless spending policies have done to our economy. Families all across Arkansas are starting to face painfully tragic choices between paying the mortgage, heating the home, paying for gasoline, buying kids an extra Christmas present or two. That’s a direct result of Joe Biden and the Democrat's reckless taxing and spending policy. ... We’ve had this pandemic for two years. We did not have this kind of inflation though until Joe Biden and the Democrats took office. He is largely just shifting the blame. He’s not trying to come up with answers. He is blaming oil companies or OPEC for high gas prices, for instance. It was Joe Biden who shut down the Keystone pipeline on his first day in office; Who refuses to authorize other pipelines needed to move petroleum products across the country. Who is trying to charge oil producers more fees for drilling on federal lands or in federal waters? These are things that are directly contributing to inflation that is hurting American families. WATCH FULL INTERVIEW BELOW:
Utah girl with autism commits suicide, sparking outrage online over bullying, racism: The school initially defended its handling of the bullying allegations but later launched an outside investigation. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. When her 10-year-old daughter tried spraying air freshener on herself before school one morning, Brittany Tichenor-Cox suspected something was wrong with the sweet little girl whose beaming smile had gone dormant after she started the fifth grade. She coaxed out of Isabella "Izzy" Tichenor that a boy in her class told her she stank after their teacher instructed students that they needed to shower. It was the latest in a series of bullying episodes that targeted Izzy, who was autistic and the only Black student in class. Other incidents included harassment about her skin color, eyebrows and a beauty mark on her forehead, her mother said. Tichenor-Cox informed the teacher, the school and the district about the bullying. She said nothing was done to improve the situation. Then on Nov. 6, at their home near Salt Lake City, Izzy died by suicide. Her shocking death triggered an outpouring of anger about youth suicides, racism in the classroom and the treatment of children with autism, issues that have been highlighted by the nation's racial reckoning and a renewed emphasis on student mental health during the COVID-19 pandemic. In Utah, the suicide also intensified questions about the Davis School District, which was recently reprimanded by the Justice Department for failing to address widespread racial discrimination. The district, where Black and Asian American students account for roughly 1% of the approximately 73,000 students, initially defended its handling of the bullying allegations but later launched an outside investigation that is ongoing. ALABAMA STUDENTS RAISE AWARENESS FOR VETERAN SUICIDE IN MARCH FROM TUSCALOOSA TO AUBURN "When I was crying out for help for somebody to do something, nobody even showed up for her," Tichenor-Cox said this week in an interview with The Associated Press. "It just hurts to know that my baby was bullied all day throughout school — from the time I dropped her off to the time I picked her up." Brittany Tichenor-Cox, holds a photo of her daughter, Isabella "Izzy" Tichenor, during an interview Monday, Nov. 29, 2021, in Draper, Utah. Being autistic made it difficult for Izzy to find words to express what she was feeling, but her mother sensed her daughter was internalizing the messages from school. She asked her mother to get rid of the beauty mark and shave her unibrow. Her mother told her those features made her different and beautiful. She told her mother her teacher didn’t like her and wouldn’t say hi or help with schoolwork. Izzy's mother, 31, blames the teacher for allowing the bullying to happen. Prior to this year, she said, Izzy and two of her other children liked the school. Tichenor-Cox has also called out deep-rooted racism in the predominantly white state of Utah, where she said the N-word that kids called her when she was a child in the 1990s is still hurled at her children three decades later. But she doesn't want fury to be her only message. She vows to make Izzy's life matter by speaking out about bullying, racism and the importance of understanding autism so that no other parent has to suffer like she is. GEORGIA MIDDLE SCHOOL STUDENT, 11, JUMPED FROM SCHOOL BUS TO ESCAPE BULLYING: FATHER As she looked at a picture on her cellphone of Izzy smiling with fresh braids in her hair last May, Tichenor-Cox teared up as she realized that was her last birthday with her dear daughter, who dreamed of being a professional dancer. "No parent should have to bury their 10-year old," she said. "I’m still in shock. ... This pushes me to get this out there like this. Mommy is pushing to make sure that this don’t happen to nobody else." In this photo provided by Brittany Tichenor-Cox is her daughter, Isabella "Izzy" Tichenor, in 2014. Davis School District spokesman Christopher Williams declined to provide an exact timeline on the investigation, reveal the employment status of Izzy's teacher or respond to any direct accusations. He did say in a statement Wednesday that an independent investigative team is working "urgently" and that findings will be released when finished. In a previous statement from last month, when the district pledged to do an outside investigation, it said it would review its "handling of critical issues, such as bullying, to provide a safe and welcoming environment for all." The Justice Department investigation uncovered hundreds of documented uses of the N-word and other racial epithets over the last five years in the district. The probe also found physical assaults, derogatory racial comments and harsher discipline for students of color. TEXAS MOM IRATE, FINDS HICKEYS ON BULLIED 6-YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER'S NECK AFTER SCHOOL: 'SEXUAL ASSAULT' Black students throughout the district told investigators about people referring to them as monkeys or apes and saying that their skin was dirty or looked like feces. Students also made monkey noises at their Black peers, repeatedly referenced slavery and lynching and told Black students to "go pick cotton" and "you are my slave," according to the department's findings. The district has agreed to take several steps as part of a settlement agreement, including establishing a new department to handle complaints, offering more training and collecting data. Tichenor-Cox told the AP she doesn't trust the district's investigation and said the district has zero credibility. Instead, her attorney, Tyler Ayres, hired a private investigator to do their own probe as Tichenor-Cox considers possible legal action. She and Ayres also said the Justice Department is looking into what happened with Izzy. The agency would not say if it's investigating what happened to Izzy at the school but said in a statement Wednesday that it is saddened by her death and aware of reports she was harassed because of her race and "disability." The department said it is committed to ensuring the school district follows through on the plan established in the settlement agreement. Brittany Tichenor-Cox speaks during an interview Monday, Nov. 29, 2021, in Draper, Utah. Youth suicides in Utah have leveled off in recent years after an alarming spike from 2011 to 2015, but the rate remains sharply higher than the national average. The state's 2020 per capita rate was 8.85 suicides among 10- to 17-year-olds per 100,000, compared with 2.3 suicides per 100,000 nationally in 2019, the latest year with data available. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Tributes to Izzy are scattered on social media under #standforizzy. The Utah Jazz basketball team honored her at a recent game, and players Donovan Mitchell and Joe Ingles, who has an autistic son, both expressed dismay over what happened, calling it "disgusting." Other parents from the school district have sent letters to the school board calling out the district's "dismissive actions." Tichenor-Cox and her husband, Charles Cox, have five other children to focus on, so they’re doing all they can to handle the grief while trying to remember the sparkle Izzy brought to their lives for a decade. "I want her to be remembered of how kind she was, how beautiful she was, how brilliant she was and intelligent she was," Tichenor-Cox said. "Because if I keep thinking of what happened, it’s just going to put me back, and I’m trying to be strong for her."
NBC producer appears to admit ordering freelancer to tail Rittenhouse jury bus: Kenosha police video: Policeman to NBC producer: 'We can't afford anything crazy happening'. Kenosha Police Department bodycam footage shows police pulling over and speaking with an NBC freelancer alleged to be following the Rittenhouse juror bus. NBC producer Irene Byon also speaks with police over the phone to try to explain his actions. A police video of the encounter between the Kenosha, Wis., police department and NBC freelancer James Morrison last month shows an NBC producer seeming to admit she instructed Morrison to follow a vehicle holding jury members in the Kyle Rittenhouse murder trial. The video, taken on the night of Nov. 17 during deliberations in the closely watched trial, showed police questioning Morrison as to why he was following the vehicle, and reprimanding booking producer Irene Byon via phone for instructing him to do so. A sign is pictured outside NBC headquarters at Rockefeller Center in the Manhattan borough of New York City, New York, U.S., January 16, 2020. REUTERS/Carlo Allegri "So were you following a vehicle?" the officer asked Morrison in the video, after he identified himself as a "producer" for NBC. "I was trying to see – I was being called by New York going, maybe these are the people you need to follow, but I don't know, I was trying to –" Morrison said, before the officer interrupted him asking, "You were trying to what?" MSNBC DENIES FREELANCER INTENDED TO CONTACT OR PHOTOGRAPH RITTENHOUSE JURY "Just do what they told me to do," Morrison said. "New York told you to follow a vehicle?" the officer asked, to which Morrison responded, "Yes." The officer asked if it was his "offices in New York," telling him to do so, to which Morrison said, "That's right." "How did they know about this vehicle?" the officer asked. "I don't know," Morrison said. RITTENHOUSE JUDGE BANS MSNBC FROM COURTROOM AFTER PERSON ACCUSED OF TRAILING JURY BUS Morrison claimed he was intending to be discreet and wasn't trying to talk to anybody. "Just trying to find a location, that's all," he added. The officer asked for the information of the person who told Morrison to follow the vehicle, and Morrison called Byon and put her on the phone with the police officer. Kyle Rittenhouse reacts to the verdict as he sits next to one of his attorneys Corey Chirafisi during his trial at the Kenosha County Courthouse in Kenosha, Wisconsin, U.S., November 19, 2021. MSNBC BAN FROM RITTENHOUSE TRIAL SPOTLIGHTS MEDIA'S OFTEN RECKLESS COVERAGE OF CASE Notably, the officer asked Byon why she had a producer following "vehicles," without mentioning the van had the trial's jurors, but Byon said NBC wasn't trying to get in touch with "any of the jury members." "Hi officer, my name is Irene. I'm a booking producer with NBC News. We were just trying to respectfully – just trying to see if it's possible to find any leads about the case," Byon can be heard saying. "And so we were just keeping our distance, just to see where people involved in the trial are positioned. By no means were we trying to get in contact with any of the jury members or whoever is in the car. We just were trying to see where key players in the trial may be at." "You advised him to follow any vehicle? Did you know which vehicle he was following?" the officer asked. "We just had our people positioned in different areas of the courthouse to see if anyone would be able to –" Byon said before her audio started to fade in and out. The officer than admonished the pair. "Well, we're going to ask you guys to not do that. All right? That's a concern here. This is huge. We can't afford anything crazy happening, putting people in dangerous positions. This individual violated some traffic laws here doing this. So we're going to ask you guys to refrain from doing that," the officer said. KYLE RITTENHOUSE FOUND NOT GUILTY ON ALL COUNTS IN KENOSHA TRIAL Judge Bruce Schroeder alerts the attorneys that an MSNBC staffer was ticketed the previous night during Kyle Rittenhouse's trial at the Kenosha County Courthouse in Kenosha, Wis., on Thursday, Nov. 18, 2021. Both apologized to the officer and Morrison was later released after receiving a traffic citation. Following the encounter last month, an NBC spokesperson provided a statement to Fox News reading, "Last night, a freelancer received a traffic citation. While the traffic violation took place near the jury van, the freelancer never contacted or intended to contact the jurors during deliberations, and never photographed or intended to photograph them. We regret the incident and will fully cooperate with the authorities on any investigation." The following day, Judge Bruce Schroeder banned MSNBC from the courtroom over the incident. The jury went on to acquit Rittenhouse on all charges for the shooting deaths of two people and the injury of another last year during unrest in Kenosha. Rittenhouse successfully argued he acted in self-defense. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Byon and NBC News didn't respond to requests for comment.
Brian Laundrie's parents seen hiking in Myakkahatchee Creek park following son's death: Chris and Roberta Laundrie spent about three hours hiking in the North Port, Florida, park. Senior correspondent Laura Ingle reports on the Brian Laundrie autopsy results revealing the fiancé of Gabby Petito died by a self-inflicted gunshot wound. Deceased fugitive Brian Laundrie's parents, Chris and Roberta Laundrie, on Tuesday, were seen walking in the park where their son's remains were recovered in October. Chris and Roberta Laundrie spent about three hours hiking in the North Port, Florida, park where, just a month earlier, they helped law enforcement discover their son's remains and belongings after a significant amount of water had drained in the swampy area. "They go [there] to hike and mourn their son," Laundrie family attorney Steven Bertolino said. Chris and Roberta Laundrie at the Myakkahatchee Creek nature reserve Tuesday. Neighbor Charlene Guthrie told Fox News that the Laundries are away from home for hours most days since media left their neighborhood after the autopsy results were revealed. A for-sale sign that was likely a hoax briefly appeared on their lawn but was taken down. Photos also show the pair getting groceries and going about daily life after their son's death. The Florida District 12 Medical Examiner's Office revealed on Nov. 23 that Laundrie, 23, took his own life with a gunshot wound to the head. The Laundries had turned over all of the firearms in their home to the FBI – but one was missing, sources close to the investigation told Fox News Digital. Brian Laundrie as seen in bodycam footage released by the Moab Police Department in Utah. BRIAN LAUNDRIE UPDATE: FAMILY SURRENDERED GUN TO LAW ENFORCEMENT ON SEPT. 17 – BUT ONE WAS MISSING The 23-year-old fugitive was a person of interest in the disappearance and homicide of his former 22-year-old fiancée, Gabby Petito  — a tragedy that captured the nation's attention for more than a month after Petito's family reported her missing on September 11. Laundrie's parents, along with police, recovered his partial skeletal remains, along with a backpack and other personal items belonging to Laundrie, on Oct. 20 at the Myakkahatchee Creek Environmental Park, where the family frequently hiked. The following day, after a comparison of dental records, the agency confirmed the remains as Laundrie's. BRIAN LAUNDRIE FOUND: PARENTS MAY HAVE JUST MISSED DISCOVERING SON THEMSELVES The medical examiner's office conducted an initial autopsy in late October, but results came back inconclusive. The remains were then sent to a forensic anthropologist. Chris and Roberta Laundrie in the Myakkahatchee Creek Environmental Park with at least one law enforcement officer in October. Authorities also found Laundrie's notebook on Oct. 20, which police say "may be salvageable." It is unclear what is inside the notebook. BRIAN LAUNDRIE SEARCH: FBI CONFIRMS UNIDENTIFIED HUMAN REMAINS, FUGITIVE'S BACKPACK AND NOTEBOOK FOUND Laundrie had returned to his parents' home on September 1 without Petito. Petito's family reported her missing 10 days later. Laundrie's parents then reported their son missing on September 17 but clarified later that the last time they saw him was September 13. The North Port Police Department and the FBI searched the Myakkahatchee Creek park for more than a month before eventually finding Brian's remains and personal items with help from Laundrie's parents in an area that had previously been underwater. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Petito-Schmidt family attorney Richard Stafford told Fox News' Laura Ingle last week that the family "has been aware of the circumstances surrounding the suicide of the sole suspect in Gabby’s murder" and "will not be making a statement at this time due to the request of the United States Attorney’s Office and the Teton County Prosecutor’s Office."
Alec Baldwin says he did not pull the trigger in fatal 'Rust' shooting incident: 'I would never': Alec Baldwin did not deny he was holding the gun that discharged on the set of 'Rust'. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Alec Baldwin alleged that he did not pull the trigger on the gun that fired resulting in the death of cinematographer Halyna Hutchins in a preview for an upcoming televised interview on Thursday night. It was announced on Wednesday that Baldwin will sit down for his first formal interview about the fatal shooting that took place on the set of the indie-Western film "Rust." In a preview for the tell-all, Baldwin addresses the fact that he was holding a gun that was somehow loaded with a live bullet that should not have been on the set at all, let alone in an actor’s hand. During the preview, which is heavily edited for the purpose of teasing the larger interview that’s set to air Thursday evening, an emotional Baldwin states unequivocally that he did not pull the trigger. "The trigger wasn’t pulled. I didn’t pull the trigger," Baldwin told George Stephanopoulos. ALEC BALDWIN’S ROLE AS PRODUCER ON ‘RUST’ COULD PLAY A KEY ROLE IN SHOOTING INVESTIGATION: FORMER FILMMAKER He adds: "No, no, no, no, I would never point a gun at anyone and pull the trigger. Never." However, the Santa Fe Country Sheriff’s department said in a warrant that Baldwin "fired" the gun. Baldwin was holding the gun and rehearsing a scene for the movie when a live round rang out, hitting Hutchins before getting stuck in the shoulder of director Joel Souza. In the heavily edited preview clip, Baldwin does not seem to deny that he was holding the gun at the time, with the distinction seemingly being that he did not pull the trigger. Alec Baldwin spoke with reporters about the deadly on-set shooting on the movie 'Rust.' ALEC BALDWIN 'RUST' SHOOTING: SEARCH WARRANT DESCRIBES MOMENTS ARE DISCHARGE: LIVE UPDATES This is in line with previous reports that indicated that Baldwin was not scripted to fire the firearm in the scene. Representatives for the Santa Fe County Sheriff’s Department, which is leading the investigation, did not immediately respond to Fox News’ request for comment. 'RUST' MOVIE SHOOTING: DEPUTIES CONFISCATE MORE WEAPONS, AMMUNITION FROM SET The Los Angeles Times previously reported that a total of three incidents involving guns being fired accidentally happened prior to the incident involving Baldwin on Oct. 21. One involved Baldwin’s stunt double firing a blank round after he was told the gun he was holding was "cold," an industry term meaning that there were no projectiles in the firearm. This is similar to what assistant director Dave Halls told Baldwin on the day of the shooting, not realizing that a live round was in the gun he handed the actor before declaring it "cold." The outlet reports another shooting involved a woman in the props department. She was handling a gun and accidentally shot herself in the foot with a blank round, according to Lane Luper, the A-camera first assistant on "Rust." CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Elsewhere in the preview clip, Baldwin seems to focus on what the police previously said the investigation is focused on as well — how a live round got into the gun. Alec Baldwin alleged that he did not pull the trigger on the gun that killed Halyna Hutchins. "Someone put a live bullet in the gun, a bullet that wasn’t even supposed to be on the property," Baldwin says. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Indeed, the one thing that seems to be consistent throughout everyone’s account of the event is that live rounds should not have been on the set at all. However, it seems like there was confusion regarding the use of dummy rounds and blank rounds. While the latter is made to look entirely different from live rounds but simulate a gunshot when discharged, dummy rounds cannot fire but are made to look similar to real bullets for the purposes of filming. Halyna Hutchins died on the set of the movie "Rust." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Armorer Hanna Gutierrez Reed, who was one of the few people who handled the gun prior to the shooting, alleged through her attorneys that sabotage may have been at play on the set of the movie.
Alessandra Ambrosio explains why she posed nude for new photo book: ‘It was something very special’: Stewart Shining has released a new book on the former Victoria's Secret model titled 'Alessandra By Stewart Shining'. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Alessandra Ambrosio has been photographed by every top photographer – but there was one who put her completely at ease when it came to baring it all. The former Victoria’s Secret Angel teamed up with Stewart Shining for a coffee table book titled "Alessandra By Stewart Shining," which features never-before-seen shots, new editorial images, throwback snaps and more intimate nude photographs. The two met in the late ‘90s when the supermodel, then 17, came to New York City from her native Brazil, People magazine reported on Tuesday. According to the star, they "bonded from day one." The 40-year-old told the outlet that the final result of their latest collaboration is "an art book" because "you can see more intimate moments of my life, my career." SUPERMODEL ALESSANDRA AMBROSIO UNVEILS HER TONED ABS IN NEON-GREEN BIKINI DURING BEACH OUTING Alessandra Ambrosio has led a successful decades-long career as a model. Many fans still remember her as a Victoria's Secret Angel. "It was something very special for me to be able to do," the mother of two shared. According to Ambrosio, one of the main reasons she posed nude for Shining was because she "trusts him." "Even if I have been a model for a long time, there aren’t that many times that I’ve posed nude," she explained. "But with him, I decided, ‘No, let’s do it. Especially for the book.’ Because I just feel comfortable." "I know that the picture’s not going to be vulgar," she continued. "I know it’s going to be more like a piece of art than just a sexy picture. We have [a] very similar vision on what we want from our work. So I can be 100% myself when he has the camera in front of him. We can just be super natural and free in a way." CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Alessandra Ambrosio walks the runway during the 2016 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show on November 30, 2016 in Paris, France. Ambrosio also noted that her boyfriend, model Richard Lee, was a welcoming addition on set. "[He] directs very well," she said. "If he is not working and I’m doing a photo shoot somewhere that he can come we’ll do a few pictures together sometimes." Back in May 2020, Ambrosio spoke to Fox News about how she stays in camera-ready shape for any shoot. "I love to do yoga as it centers me and also at the same time keeps me in shape," she said at the time. "Since there is a lot to do around the house sometimes I don’t have much time to work out, in which case I try to do some stretching and hold a plank for five to 10 minutes." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Alessandra Ambrosio credited yoga for helping her stay in camera-ready shape. Ambrosio revealed that while she's committed to eating clean on most days, she's made a few exceptions. "I have always eaten healthy and that has not changed during the quarantine. I try to eat fresh, organic fruit and vegetables, but since I had multiple birthdays during this time there is an occasional piece of cake incorporated in my diet," she admitted. Still, she pointed out that as long as you are staying active, "there is no reason to not treat yourself with a dessert here and there." Fox News' Melissa Roberto contributed to this report.
Political cartoon of the day: Mixed messages: Check back each day to see them all!. Mixed messages 12.1.21 The science of Fauci 11.30.21 It's based on science! 11.29.21 No more mean tweets 11.28.21 Equity justice 11.27.21 Socialists drool 11.26.21 Safe spaces 11.25.21 Master of disguise 11.24.21 On the chopping block 11.23.21 Woke blinders on? 11.22.21 Taking notes 11.21.21 Kenosha blowback  11.20.21 Adding fuel to the fire 11.19.21 Down the toilet 11.18.21 Pointing fingers 11.17.21 Misplaced priorities? 11.16.21 Hung out to dry? 11.15.21 Political science  11.14.21 Dems' go-to arguments 11.13.21 Moving the goalposts 11.12.21 Media's missing priorities. 11.11.21 Plugging the pipeline 11.10.21 Shooting himself in the foot 11.9.21 Steaming mad
11.8.21 Hibernation over  11.7.21 Driven to win  11.6.21 That failed far-left magic
11.5.21 Virginia is for lovers...of Democracy
11.4.21 While Biden sleeps
11.3.21 'Jab' turns into low blow
11.2.21 This next dedication goes out to Brandon 11.1.21 Far-left logic  10.31.21 Not Nancy  10.30.21 Not intimidated 10.29.21 Joe's got it under control 10.28.21 Bad buzz 10.27.21   Crime spike? What crime spike? 10.24.21 Hypocrisy exposed 10.23.21 Let's go, Biden? 10.22.21 Diving into debt 10.21.21 Misplaced priorities?
10.20.21 How old are you kids?
10.19.21 Dumpster fire 10.18.21  Breaking point
10.16.21 2020 hindsight 10.15.21 Fauci in the rearview
10.13.21 Border redrawn Garland's memo 10.11.21 Traditions in the Trash 10.10.21 Along for the ride
10.9.21 Art meets reality
10.8.21 Justice is blind?
10.7.21 Deception in vogue?
10.6.21 US is selling the farm
10.5.21 Full steam ahead 10.4.21 Laughing at whose expense?  Finger pointing
10.1.21 Too many curveballs
9.30.21 Save the lipstick
9.29.21 Misplaced outrage?
9.28.21 Trial by fire 9.27.21 What amendment? 9.26  Newsom on notice
9.25.21 Lifeguard's litmus test
9.24.21 Bridge over Biden's disaster
9.23.21 Sick and sickle?
9.22.21 Dems immigration policy flaws
9.21.21 Give us your tired, your poor and Democratic voters 9.20.21 Biden's wrecking ball Master plan
9.18.21 Wrong priorities? 9.17.21 Anything Goes 9.12.21 Somebody 'woke' up Gen. Milley 9.16.21 America’s greatest threat? 9.15.21 Joe's Taliban booster shot Something stinks 9.13.21 America Remembers 9.11.21 Dems' diversion Biden's bungled airlift 9.9.2021 One happy fetus 9.8.21 Wandering thoughts 9.7.21 Larry v. Goliath
9.6.21 After the defunding  9.5.21 Odd man out 9.4.21 Gunslinger Joe
9.3.21 Their hero 9.2.21 September 1, 2021 No comparison
9.1.21 Hey Joe, somewhere you need to be?
8-31-2021 A failed plan
8.30.21 Fair warning  8.29.21 Biden's care package  8.28.21 Remembering the fallen
8.27.21 Who's the boss?
8.26.21 A major cleanup
8.25.21 Who's pulling the strings
8.23.21 Blame the middleman.  8.22.21 Didn't see it coming  8.21.21 Pulling the pin on diplomacy
8.20.21 While Milley napped ...
8.19.21 House specials 8.18.21 Fiddling while the world burns
8.17.21 Joe's Saigon moment
8.16.21 Word police watching  8.15.21 Dems' cover-up  8.14.21 Burning money
8.13.21 Taking a bite out of the dollar
8.12.21 Biden, Dems seize opportunity
8.11.21 Congress tosses away kid's future
8.10.21 Iceberg on the Potomac
8.9.21 For me, not thee 8.8.21 Worms crawl in, worms crawl out 8.7.21 Sticking it to the Constitution
8.6.21 Dems crawl back 8.5.21 A helping hand
8.4.21 Bubble Wrap to the rescue
8.3.21 Puttering along 8.2.21 Life in the nanny state  8.1.21 Selective outrage  7.31.21 Biden's mixed messages 7.30.21 'Follow the science' 7.29.21 Judge and jury
7.28.21 A load of bull
7.27.21 Best of political cartoons: AOC's solution to methane problems Gold Coast loses its shine
7.26.21 Best of political cartoons: When Democrats attack  7.25.21 Best of political cartoons: History of leftist panic 7.24.21 Erasing history 7.23.21 Bye bye golden goose 7.22.217.22.21 Spreading fear
7.21.21 Best of political cartoons: America's most lethal virus
7.19.21 Best of political cartoons: Eye of the beholder  7.18.21 His greatest fear realized
7.16.21 Biden's Cuba policy
7.15.21 Highly 'critical'
7.14.21 The coattails of prosperity
7.13.21 Best of political cartoons: Losing the patient Introducing: The Hunter Biden Art Gallery
7.12.21  Sounding the alarm  7.10.21 The man behind the...bag?
7.9.21 Slaying the three-headed dragon
7.8.21 Dem's 'repair' kit 7.7.21 Dem's new credo 7.6.21 Milley's medal 7.5.21 'With liberty and justice for all'  7.4.21 The ol' ball and chain 7.3.21 Dont't let school interfere with education
7.2.21 No shelter from the storm
7.1.21 Who's the dummy?
6.30.21 On the backs of slave labor
6.29.21 Psaki's shoe licker
6.28.21 Do as I say  6.27.21 Mismatch 6.26.21 Chuck sees dead people
6.25.21 Garbage in, garbage out?
6.24.21 Dem's crime solution
6.23.21 I'll Take Potpourri for $1,000
6.22.21 Misplaced concerns? 6.21.21 Biden mails it in  6.20.21 Tagger Joe 6.19.21 Art of the deals 6.18.21 Threat to homeland 6.17.21 The world stage 6.16.21 Pandemic origins 6.15.21 Who has America's back? Nowhere to hide  6.13.21 Changing the subject 6.12.21 Consumers bear the costs
6.11.21 Constitution up in smoke
6.10.21 Swinging the pendulum
6.9.21 Chasing windmills
6.8.21 Rookie mistake
6.7.21 Minnesota Woke 6.6.21 Wrong-way Biden 6.5.21 Fauci's droplets 6.4.21 Worth rewriting
6.3.21 Upside down world
6.2.21 Pelosi's taking names?
6.1.21 Freedom's foundation
5.28.21 Xi's pets
5.27.21  Bait and switch
5.25.21  None of your lip 5.23.21 Governors lead the way  5.22.21 Petro pals
5.21.21 Damned if he does
5.20.21 All bark, not bite 5.19.21 Follow the money
5.17.21 Class warfare 5.16.21 Crash and burn
5.15.21 Buyer's remorse
5.14.21 'Squad' cheering on Israel's sworn enemy
5.13.21 And the award goes to...
5.12.21 Long-term side effects 5.18.21 Shifting political winds
5.11.21 Buyer beware
5.10.21 Dems' loose lips 5.9.21 Joltin' Joe  5.8.21 Censorship meets its match?
5.7.21 Media splitting country over race
5.6.21 The smell test
5.5.21 Critical race theory accessory
5.4.21 Facing racism head on Please Riot Again! 5-2 Hit Piece 5-1 Burdened with debt
4.30.21 Rudy Giuliani under the microscope 4.29.21 Foot in the mouth
4.28.21 The man behind the mask
4.27.21 Equity isn't always equal
4.26.21 License to abuse  4.25.21 Weather happens  4.24.21 State of emergencies  4.18.21 Merit, schmerit
4.23.21 Silenced by color
4.22.21 Pouring gasoline on the fire
4.21.21 One last roadblock
4.20.21 Two-headed monster
4.19.21 The irony  4.17.21 Harris a puppeteer for Biden China policy
4.16.21 One big joke
4.15.21 From Bernie to BLM 4.14.21 Biden's infrastructure plan like putting lipstick on a pig
4.13.21 Ready to ignite
4.12.21 Weighty decision  4.11.21 Editor Joe  4.10.21 Senseless acts
4.9.21 Mixed message
4.8.21 It's starting to show
4.7.21 Democratic denial
4.6.21 MLB buys into 'woke' propaganda
4.5.21 Easter in Minnesota  4.4.21 Packed in  4.3.21 Mad about taxes
4.2.21 Pumping up his rep
4.1.21 Devil in the details
3.31.21 Election reform stake 3.30.21 Mixed messages 3.29.21 Unlimited supply  3.28.21 Any Democrat who's handy  3.27.21  Running on empty 3.25.21 Second Amendment under fire
3.24.21 Off with their heads! 3.23.21 Rolling out the red carpet.
3.22.21 No police allowed 3.21.21 Biden's fall 3.20.21 Ultimate slap in the face 3.19.21 Biden's Border Crisis 3.18.2021 The blame game 3.16.21 Obedience training 3.16.21 Inside Biden's mind 3.15.21 Dangerous waters 3.14.21 Just read the prompter 3.13.21 Cagey president? 3.12.21 Have you seen my dogs? 3.11.21 Royal robbery 3.10.21 Playing Biden like a violin 3.9.21 Return to open borders 3.8.21 AlphaNewsMN.com Cartoon, March 7, 2021 The Gipper speaks 3.6.21 A Cancel lineup 3.5.21 Rush Limbaugh at the Pearly gates Biden's migrant blood on hands The real Andrew Cuomo? 3/3/2021 Mr Potato Head goes gender-neutral 3.2.21 Fauci moves the goalposts yet again 3.1.21 First things first  2.28.21 Shot in the dark?  2.27.21 Going to the piggy bank 2.26.21 Free speech under fire  2.25.21 Mixed media message 2.24.21 The man behind the curtain 2.23.21 Who's running the White House 2.22.21 Licenses for all 2.21.21 Biden checks the boxes 2.20.21 Trump gone, but not forgotten 2.19.21 Passing the torch of truth and liberty 2.18.21 Global chill 2.17.21 Another swing and a miss! 2.16.21 Mickey Mouse fights freedom of speech 2.15.21 Dem governor's priorities 2.14.21 Cuomo wins again 2.13.21 Taking aim 2.12.21 Where is the media's attention? 2.11.21 Dems going "where no one has gone before"
2.10.21 Left's unhealthy addiction to Trump
Feb 09, 2021 Feb 08, 2021 Feb 07, 2021 Feb 06, 2021 Feb 03, 2021 Jan 31, 2021 Feb 05, 2021 Feb 04, 2021 Feb 02, 2021 Feb 01, 2021 Jan 29, 2021 Jan 28, 2021 Jan 27, 2021 Jan 26, 2021 Jan 25, 2021 Nowhere to hide  6.13.21
