Omicron variant is 'cause for concern, not a cause for panic,' Biden says: Biden says his plan to fight COVID-19 this winter will not involve shutdowns or lockdowns. Fox News correspondent Jonathan Serrie reports on ‘Special Report’ the race to contain the new COVID-19 threat, the omicron variant. President Biden on Monday said the new omicron variant of coronavirus is a "cause for concern, not a cause for panic," while maintaining that his administration's plan to combat COVID-19 this winter will not involve "shutdowns or lockdowns," but rather a strategy for more widespread vaccinations. The president spoke from the White House Monday, just days after the World Health Organization designated omicron a "variant of concern," its most serious designation of a COVID-19 variant. OMICRON VARIANT POSES ‘VERY HIGH’ GLOBAL RISK, ‘UNPRECEDENTED NUMBER OF SPIKE MUTATIONS’: WHO Biden, last week, restricted travel from South Africa and seven other countries over concerns of the "heavily mutated" omicron variant of COVID-19--a move he said Monday gives the United States "time." "It gives us time," Biden said, noting that the American people need to "understand that you have to get your vaccine, you have to get the shot, have to get the booster." "Sooner or later, we're going to see cases of this new variant here in the U.S.," Biden continued. "We'll have to face this new threat like we've faced those that have come before it." The president, though, stressed that the omicron variant is a "cause for concern, not a cause for panic." "We have the best vaccine in the world, the best medicines, the best scientists, and we're learning more every single day," he said, adding that the U.S. "will fight this variant with scientific and knowledgeable action and speed – not chaos and confusion." Biden said the U.S. has "more tools today" to fight the omicron variant than the country has had before, citing vaccines and boosters for adults, and vaccines for children. The president stressed the importance of getting vaccinated, saying the shots are "the best protection against this new variant, or any out there." Amid concern that the new omicron variant could be resistant to current vaccines, the president stressed that the administration is working to accelerate development of updated vaccinations if needed. "In the event, hopefully unlikely, that updated vaccinations or boosters are needed to respond to this new variant, we will accelerate their development and deployment with every available tool," Biden said. "We do not yet believe that additional measures will be needed." CLICK FOR THE LATEST ON THE CORONAVIRUS Biden, though, said his administration is working with Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson for "contingency plans if needed," and will direct the Food and Drug Administration to get those potential vaccines approved and on the market if needed "without cutting any corners." "I am sparing no effort and removing all road blocks to keep the American people safe," Biden said. The president said that the White House plans to release an updated strategy to fight COVID-19 during the winter months – a strategy, he said, that would not involve "shut downs or lock downs," but instead, "more widespread vaccinations, testing and more." The president stressed that individuals, whether vaccinated or not, should be wearing masks and face coverings in public settings again. When pressed on why he was taking shut downs off the table, the president said: "If people are vaccinated and wearing their masks, there is no need for the lock downs." Meanwhile, Biden maintained the importance of sharing vaccination supply around the globe, saying that he will "always make sure our people are protected first," but warned that both the delta and omicron variants of COVID-19 emerged "elsewhere in the world." OMICRON VARIANT: HERE’S WHAT OFFICIALS KNOW "So we can't let up until the world is vaccinated," Biden said. Last week, the president followed the advice of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  and Dr. Anthony Fauci in his move to restrict travel from several African nations, after the identification of the variant, which officials said appears to be highly contagious among young people. Travel restrictions do not apply to American citizens and lawful permanent residents, but all international travelers must test negative prior to travel. Biden, on Monday, said his administration has no plans to extend travel restrictions to other countries at this point. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The World Health Organization said that it could take some time to get a full picture of the threat posed by omicron. Over the weekend, WHO said that it wasn't clear whether omicron is more transmissible – more easily spread between people – compared to other variants, and said it was not yet clear whether infection with omicron would cause more severe disease. Cases of the omicron variant have been detected in African countries, as well as the Netherlands, Denmark, Australia, Canada, Italy, Israel, Hong Kong, Belgium, Germany, Great Britain, and France. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Biden has no plans 'at this point in time' to visit Waukesha after Christmas parade attack: 'Any president going to visit a community requires a lot of assets,' White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said.. Matt Finn reports the latest on Darrell Brooks at he makes his first court appearance on ‘Special Report’. The White House does not have any plans to preview "at this point in time" for President Biden to visit Waukesha, Wis. after the Christmas parade attack earlier this month. White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki on Monday was asked why the president has not yet visited Waukesha, after 39-year-old Darrell Brooks Jr. allegedly plowed through a crowd of innocent people attending a Christmas parade there, killing six people including an 8-year-old boy and injuring dozens more. WHITE HOUSE STANDS BY PUSH TO END CASH BAIL IN WAKE OF WAUKESHA PARADE ATTACK "As you saw the president convey last week, our hearts go out to this community, to the people in Waukesha that we've been in touch, obviously, with officials there," Psaki said. "We're all watching as people are recovering, and this is such a difficult time of year for this to happen--it's difficult any time." Psaki, though, explained that "any president going to visit a community requires a lot of assets" and requires "taking their resources." "It's not something that I have a trip to preview at this point in time," Psaki said. "But we remain in touch with local officials and certainly our hearts are with the community as they've gone through such a difficult time." In the wake of the tragedy, Biden flew to North Carolina to celebrate a "Friendsgiving" with U.S. troops and then jetted to Nantucket for six days to celebrate Thanksgiving with his extended family. U.S. President Joe Biden speaks to the media before entering "Nantucket Bookworks" bookstore following lunch with family at the Nantucket Tap Room, in Nantucket island, Massachusetts, U.S, November 26, 2021. REUTERS/Tasos Katopodis Brooks had an extensive criminal history dating back to 1999, including multiple felonies. A convicted sex offender, Brooks posted bail twice in Wisconsin this year – despite having an active warrant for jumping bail on a sex crime charge in Nevada. Earlier this month, Milwaukee prosecutors requested just $1,000 bail for Brooks after he was arrested and charged for allegedly punching his girlfriend in the face and then running her over with his car in a gas station parking lot. Prosecutors now admit that bail was "inappropriately low." KAMALA HARRIS' SHIFTING STANCE ON CASH BAIL: SUPPORT AS DA, OPPOSITION AS POLITICIAN Brooks’ criminal history ranges from multiple firearms and battery convictions, to strangulation, to sex offenses, and drug charges on a 50-page rap sheet that spans three states. A police car is seen at Main Street in downtown Waukesha, as it's blocked off after a car plowed through a holiday parade in Waukesha, Wisconsin, U.S., November 22, 2021.  REUTERS/Cheney Orr Cash bail policies have come into the spotlight after the incident, with the White House maintaining its position to end cash bail – saying the decision to hold defendants should be based on the threat they pose to society, not their ability to pay bail. "Ending cash bail will not automatically put people charged with crimes on the streets," a White House official told Fox News. "It just means that whether you get bail should be based on the threat you pose, and not how much money you have in your bank account." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "There shouldn’t be a separate criminal justice system for wealthy Americans," the official added. "Ultimately though, this was a decision made by local courts," the official said, referring to Milwaukee county prosecutors releasing Brooks on bail.
Rep. Omar hangs up on Rep. Boebert after tense phone call: Boebert and Omar demanded each other issue public apologies. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Republican Rep. Lauren Boebert of Colorado had a tense phone call with Rep. Ilhan Omar on Monday that centered around Boebert's recent controversial remarks about the Minnesota Democrat. The phone call ended with Omar hanging up after both congresswomen demanded each other issue public apologies for past remarks, Boebert said in an Instagram video Monday. Boebert said she organized the call with Omar because she "wanted to let her know directly that I had reflected on my previous remarks." BOEBERT APOLOGIZES TO MUSLIM COMMUNITY AFTER ILHAN OMAR COMMENTS: ‘I HAVE REACHED OUT TO HER’ WASHINGTON, DC - OCTOBER 21: "Now as a strong, Christian woman who values faith deeply, I never want anything I say to offend someone's religion. So I told her that. Even after I put out a public statement to that effect, she said that she still wanted a public apology because what I had done wasn't good enough. So I reiterated to her what I had just said," Boebert continued. "She kept asking for a public apology so I told Ilhan Omar that she should make a public apology to the American people for her anti-American, anti-Semitic, anti-police rhetoric. She continued to press and I continued to press back. And then, Representative Omar hung up on me." Omar issued a statement blaming Boebert for how the call unfolded and confirming that she ended the conversation. U.S. Reps; Ilhan Omar  hold a news conference after Democrats in the U.S. Congress moved to formally condemn President Donald Trump's attacks on the four minority congresswomen on Capitol Hill in Washington, U.S., July 15, 2019. REUTERS/Erin Scott "Today I graciously accepted a call from Rep. Lauren Boebert in the hope of receiving a direct apology for falsely claiming she met me in an elevator, suggesting I was a terrorist, and for a history of anti-Muslim hate," Omar said in a statement. "Instead of apologizing for her Islamophobic comments and fabricated lies, Rep. Boebert refused to publicly acknowledge her hurtful and dangerous comments. She instead doubled down on her rhetoric and I decided to end the unproductive call." The phone call came in response to Omar accusing the Colorado congresswoman of making up an "anti-Muslim" story about her while speaking to supporters. Boebert was filmed telling supporters that she recently had a run-in with Omar in a Capitol building elevator. She said as she was getting in the elevator with a staffer when she saw a Capitol police officer running toward them "with fret all over his face" in an effort to stop the elevator door from closing. "I look to my left and there she is: Ilhan Omar. And I said, ‘Well, she doesn’t have a backpack. We should be fine,’" Boebert said, sparking cheers. "I looked over and I said, ‘Oh look, the jihad squad decided to show up for work today.’ Rep. Ilhan Omar, D-Minn., walks to the House chamber on Capitol Hill in Washington, Wednesday, Jan. 13, 2021. "Don’t worry, it’s just her staffers on Twitter that talk for her. She’s not tough in person," she added. Boebert later issued an apology to the Muslim community for her comments. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "I apologize to anyone in the Muslim community I offended with my comment about Rep. Omar," Boebert said in a Friday statement. "I have reached out to her office to speak with her directly. There are plenty of policy differences to focus on without this unnecessary distraction." Fox News' Jessica Chasmar contributed reporting.
Jussie Smollett had celebrity support from these stars after alleged attack: The former 'Empire' actor is accused of faking a hate crime. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Jussie Smollett's disorderly conduct trial begins in Chicago on Monday. The former "Empire" actor maintains he was the victim of a racist and homophobic assault in downtown Chicago on January 29, 2019, but an investigation into the hate crime revealed Smollett allegedly set up the whole incident. When the attack first made headlines, celebrities rushed to support the 39-year-old before the hoax allegations came to light. Check out the list below: Actor Terrence Howard played Smollett's father on the drama series ‘Empire’. Howard, who played Smollett's father on "Empire," shared an Instagram post at the time of Smollett playing with his son, Hero, on a private plane. "All your lil homies got you...We love the hell outta you," the actor wrote along with a heart emoji at the end. The 52-year-old also fired back when a fan criticized him for supporting Smollett. "Sorry you feel that way but that's the only Jussie I know," he posted. "The Jussie I know could never even conceive of something so unconscious and ugly. His innocence or judgment is not for any of us to decide. Stay in your lane and my lane is empathy and love and compassion for someone I've called my son for five years. It's God's job to judge and it's ours to love and hope, especially for those that we claim to have loved." CELEBRITY JUSSIE SMOLLETT SUPPORTERS GRAPPLE WITH HOAX REPORTS Taraji P. Henson played Smollett's mother on ‘Empire’. Smollett's fellow "Empire" co-star told USA Today her feelings about Smollett's alleged hate crime hoax. "I know him and I know his track record," the actress said. "I'm not going to jump on clickbait just because someone says something derogatory about a person I know and love. I'm not easily swayed like that. Those little clickbait [reports] weren't enough to deter me from his immaculate track record. I know the type of activism this young man does in his community, I know that he's a giver – he's not an attention-seeker." The 51-year-old continued: "When I know someone, there's nothing you can say to make me flip on them, and that's what we miss in this world. We need people that stand by us. Whatever happened to that? Why are we so easy to believe strangers over people we know?" CHICAGO LEADERS SLAM SMOLLETT, DEMAND APOLOGIES FROM CELEBS WHO CAME TO HIS DEFENSE Tyler Perry supported Smollett when the alleged attack first made headlines. Actor and comedian Tyler Perry has continued to stick by his pal Smollett, whom he says he's "personally spoken" with since the alleged attack. "He is adamant that he’s telling the truth. Also, everyone that I know who knows him says that he is not the kind of person who would make up such a horrible and awful thing," the 52-year-old explained in a Facebook post at the time, though he admitted the "evidence seems to state otherwise." Rumer Willis called the news of Smollett's alleged hoax "devastating." Rumer Willis, who guest-starred on "Empire" in 2018, called the news of Smollett's alleged hoax "devastating." "I just think it’s a really devastating situation for everybody involved," the actress told "Access." "I don’t really know what to say about all of it. I just think it’s really devastating." The 33-year-old added that since she hasn't been on the show "in over a year" she has been "very separate from the whole thing for a while." Actor O'Shea Jackson Jr. said Smollett is innocent until proven guilty in his eyes "Straight Outta Compton" actor O'Shea Jackson Jr. said Smollett is innocent until proven guilty in his eyes. "I stand by what I say always. I felt for him when the attack happened and the current reports have made me feel like I was being played. Straight up," he wrote early Thursday following reports that authorities approved felony criminal charges against the "Empire" star. When Smollett was officially classified as a suspect, Jackson Jr. appeared to be shocked, tweeting, "Nooooo waaaaaaaaay!!!!!!!" Cynthia Nixon tweeted her support for Smollett before the hoax accusations came to light. At the time, the "Sex and the City" actress tweeted her gratitude to Smollett for being "an out and proud artist and activist, and a hero to so many of us—no small feat in the face of racism and homophobia." She added, "Sending you love today and always." JUSSIE SMOLLETT'S LAWYERS DENY HE PLANNED ATTACK AFTER CHICAGO POLICE CLAIM HE'S NO LONGER CONSIDERED A VICTIM IN CASE Smollett is accused of lying to police about the alleged attack and has been charged with felony disorderly conduct. A class 4 felony, the crime carries a sentence of up to three years in prison. However, experts have said it is more likely that if Smollett is convicted he would be placed on probation and perhaps ordered to perform community service. Abimbola and Olabinjo Osundairo, two brothers, told police Smollett paid them $3,500 to pose as his attackers. Whether Smollett, who is Black and gay, testifies remains an open question. But the siblings will take the witness stand where they are expected to repeat what they have told police officers and prosecutors — that they carried out the attack at Smollett's behest. CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP Smollett's attorneys, Todd S. Pugh and Victor P. Henderson, vehemently denied that the attack was a hoax, previously telling the press, "As a victim of a hate crime who has cooperated with the police investigation, Jussie Smollett is angered and devastated by recent reports that the perpetrators are individuals he is familiar with. He has now been further victimized by claims attributed to these alleged perpetrators that Jussie played a role in his own attack. Nothing is further from the truth and anyone claiming otherwise is lying." The Associated Press contributed to this report.
CNN’s Chris Cuomo snooped on Ronan Farrow’s reporting on his brother, relayed 'intel' to Andrew Cuomo aide: Text exchange shows top Andrew Cuomo aide asking CNN anchor what information he had on Farrow's reporting days before it published. Fox News contributor Joe Concha slams CNN anchor Chris Cuomo's 'dishonest hubris' for claiming he couldn't cover the scandals surrounding his brother, Gov. Andrew Cuomo, despite hosting the governor as a guest on his show throughout the pandemic. CNN’s Chris Cuomo snooped into the progress of Ronan Farrow’s reporting about his brother Andrew Cuomo and relayed it to the governor's inner circle, according to a newly released transcript of his testimony to New York state investigators in July. Farrow, who famously won the Pulitzer Prize and helped launch the #MeToo movement with his reporting on disgraced Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein, also took a deep dive into alleged sexual wrongdoing by former Gov. Cuomo, the CNN anchor'solder brother. CNN’s Chris Cuomo used his media industry connections to find out the progress of Ronan Farrow’s reporting about his brother. Chris Cuomo admitted to contacting colleagues of Farrow for updates but claimed it was simply "business-as-usual" to employ such methods. Text messages released by state investigators showed top Andrew Cuuomo aide Melissa DeRosa asking about "intel the CNN anchor had about Farrow's report on March 15, to which he replied it wasn't ready for publication. Farrrow's story was eventually published on March 18. A text exchange between CNN's Chris Cuomo and top Andrew Cuomo aide Melissa DeRosa discusses Cuomo looking into journalist Ronan Farrow's reporting on his brother, then-New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo. Cuomo's admission contradicts what he told CNN viewers in August when he claimed, "I never made calls to the press about my brother's situation." According to the transcript released last week, an attorney brought up the topic by asking the "Cuomo Prime Time" host if he recalled the governor’s team discussing Farrow’s article. "They were very concerned and it kept moving. What they thought it was about was moving, when it was coming out was moving," Cuomo said. "When Ronan Farrow writes something, people in the media are going to talk about it." The CNN host was then asked if he discussed Farrow’s reporting with his big brother. "Yes," the CNN host responded before being asked to elaborate. CNN’S CHRIS CUOMO HEMORRHAGING FEMALE VIEWERS AMID SCANDAL-PLAGUED YEAR "Just asking him, you know, how he – how he felt about it, what was in it. And him asking me what did I think the impact of it was," he said. "He said that he didn't think the article was fair, that she was being propped up and – you know, that's it." The CNN host then confirmed the "she" he referenced was Lindsey Boylan, the subject of the March 18, 2021, piece written by Farrow in which she gave her first extensive interview about her claims of harassment and retaliation by the now-former governor.  Boylan's allegation made to Farrow in the New Yorker came months after her initial tweet that then-Gov. Cuomo "sexually harassed me for years." Following that accusation, multiple other women came forward to accuse him of sexual harassment. Chris Cuomo CNN’s Cuomo was then asked about a March 2021 text message in which he wrote "If Ronan has nothing better – better than Boylan, that’s a great sign," when texting with DeRosa. He was asked what exactly he meant by that comment. "The concern was that Ronan always has more people. You know, I mean, that's part of his currency as a journalist, is that people come to him to expand understandings. I know he has his critics. But, to me, that's when he's at his best," Cuomo said. "So the assumption was he must have new people if he's waiting so long to have written about this. And then he didn't. So, what the context is specifically is: I had heard that all he was writing – the only person he was writing about was Lindsey Boylan," Cuomo continued. "So that means that he didn't find more people to complain that, once again, I would have to experience this team being shocked that there was another person. Which was this never ending cycle that was very hard for a family member. That was the context." WATCH THE COLLAPSE OF CUOMO ON FOX NATION Cuomo then claimed he didn’t recall any additional conversations with members of the governor’s inner circle about additional allegations that could be reported by Farrow. An attorney then reminded Cuomo that he was asked three days before Farrow’s story was published if he had received "any more intel." "Story not ready for tomorrow," Cuomo texted back, according to the transcript. Lindsey Boylan spoke out against now-former Gov. Andrew Cuomo in an interview with Ronan Farrow. CHRIS CUOMO'S WILD RIDE: 18 MONTHS OF ROUGH HEADLINES FOR CNN'S STAR ANCHOR "They didn’t know when the Ronan piece was coming out. So I just asked people, did you hear about when the Ronan piece – we do this with him all the time. It's a really good device that he has, that his people let you know that something's coming, but they don't tell you when," CNN’s Cuomo said. "You know, so that there's this – this constant speculation game. It's really effective in driving interest for his articles." The story that CNN’s most-watched anchor then admitted he called Farrow’s colleagues to meddle in the reporting process. "I called a fellow journalist who works with Ronan a lot. And I didn't want to contact Ronan directly. I know him. He's – he's been good to me. He's been on my show. But I didn't want to – I didn't want to push up on him like that. It's not right," Cuomo said. "I was told nothing’s coming right away." Cuomo was asked if he told CNN he was contacting people to ask about articles being written that could damage his brother. "No, not specifically," Cuomo said. The attorney pressed, asking if Cuomo told CNN he was making calls on "behalf of the executive chamber or behalf of your brother to learn information" and whether that was out of the ordinary, but the CNN host claimed he didn’t see it that way. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "There was going to be an article about my brother. So I'm interested. I wasn't going to call the person writing it. I wasn't going to try to influence any of the stories. And we know that that's true because you would have read about it had I. It's not exactly a loyalty-based business," Cuomo said. "If I had tried to influence any of the reporting at CNN or anywhere else, I guarantee you people would know, and so would a lot of others. So the idea of one reporter calling another to find out about what's coming down the pipe is completely business-as-usual." Boylan, a former Cuomo aide who initially came forward in December 2020, was the first woman to accuse Andrew Cuomo of sexual misconduct. She was one of 11 accusers that were included in New York Attorney General Letitia James' investigation into Gov. Cuomo, which ultimately resulted in his resignation. CNN did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Fox News' Joseph A. Wulfsohn contributed to this report.
Democrats' rush to judgment in Smollett case could blow up in their faces: Smollett is charged with 6 counts of disorderly conduct and faces up to 3 years in prison. Criminal Defense Attorney Jonna Spilbor on the difficulty of defending Jussie Smollett after the actor fabricated a hate crime. Democrats and media figures were quick to condemn what they described as a racist and homophobic attack against actor Jussie Smollett in 2019, blaming it on a culture of hate fostered by then-President Trump, but their words may come back to bite them now that Smollett faces up to three years in prison for allegedly fabricating the assault. Smollett originally told police that on Jan. 29, 2019, two masked men attacked him outside his apartment at 2 a.m. in Chicago, hurled racist and homophobic slurs at him, threw chemicals on him, looped a noose around his neck, and told him he was in "MAGA country." Smollett spent a night in the hospital following the incident and was released without any serious injuries. TRIAL SET TO START ON CHARGES SMOLLETT FAKED RACIST ATTACK Jussie Smollett walks out of the Leighton Criminal Courthouse today after pleading not guilty to a new indictment on Feb. 24, 2020 in Chicago, Illinois. Several 2020 Democratic presidential candidates immediately condemned the alleged attack. Vice President Kamala Harris, then a California senator, and Sen. Cory Booker, D-N.J., expressed solidarity with Smollett at the time and both blasted the alleged attack as "an attempted modern-day lynching." President Biden, also a candidate at the time, tweeted, "We are with you, Jussie," and that "homophobia and racism have no place on our streets or in our hearts." "The racist and homophobic attack on Jussie Smollett is a horrific instance of the surging hostility toward minorities around the country," Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., tweeted at the time. "We must come together to eradicate all forms of bigotry and violence." "The racist, homophobic attack on @JussieSmollett is an affront to our humanity," House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., tweeted at the time. "No one should be attacked for who they are or whom they love." Now, Smollett is set to stand trial on charges that he staged the attack against himself. As Chicago police started to investigate the attack in 2019, Smollett’s story fell apart. Police alleged weeks after he made his report that Smollett paid two friends to help stage the attack because he was unhappy with his salary on the TV show "Empire." Chicago Police Superintendent Eddie T. Johnson said in late February 2019 that Smollett "took advantage of the pain and anger of racism to promote his career." Smollet was arrested at the time and charged with fabricating the attack. Conservatives slammed the left for rushing to judgment on Smollett’s story. Then-President Trump, who initially called reports of the attack "horrible," tweeted after Smollett’s arrest in February 2019, "What about MAGA and the tens of millions of people you insulted with your racist and dangerous comments!?" Actor Jussie Smollett speaks with members of the media after his court appearance at Leighton Courthouse on March 26, 2019 in Chicago, Illinois. Harris reversed course weeks after her initial tweet, saying she was "sad, frustrated, and disappointed" over the developments. "When anyone makes false claims to police, it not only diverts resources away from serious investigations but it makes it more difficult for other victims of crime to come forward," Harris said in February 2019. "At the same time, we must speak the truth: hate crimes are on the rise in America." Booker took a similar approach at the time, declining to weigh in any further on the Smollett case and instead calling attention to a nationwide rise in "vicious, horrific, cruel violence that’s motivated by bias and hate." Pelosi deleted her initial tweet supporting Smollett but refrained from commenting on the case again. Her office did not respond to Fox News Digital’s request for comment. Biden and Sanders have yet to weigh in on any new developments in the case, and their initial tweets supporting Smollett remain active on their accounts. Their offices did not respond to Fox News Digital’s requests for comment. Shortly after his initial arrest, the Cook County State Attorney’s Office on Mar. 7, 2019, filed a 16-count felony indictment against Smollett on charges that he staged the hate crime attack and made numerous false statements to police. But then just three weeks later, the CCSAO dropped those charges in exchange for 15 hours of community service and the agreement that Smollett would forfeit his $10,000 bond to the City of Chicago. Months after the prosecutors dropped the charges with little explanation, a judge appointed a special prosecutor, former U.S. attorney Dan Webb, to look into the original investigation. Webb eventually determined that Smollett "planned and participated in a staged hate crime attack, and thereafter made numerous false statements to Chicago Police Department officers on multiple occasions, reporting a heinous hate crime that he, in fact, knew had not occurred." After Webb’s investigation, a Cook County grand jury in February 2020 returned a new six-count indictment charging Smollett with making multiple false reports to Chicago police. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Smollett pleaded not guilty and his defense team filed a motion to dismiss the latest charges over double jeopardy, but a judge shot that down in June 2020. Smollett still claimed he did nothing wrong, telling TMZ he's innocent. He was charged with felony disorderly conduct. The class 4 felony carries a sentence of up to three years in prison but experts have said it's more likely that if Smollett is convicted, he would be placed on probation and perhaps ordered to perform community service. Fox News’ Paul Best and the Associated Press contributed to this report.
Liberal media bemoans Biden's poor approval rating despite 'achievements': Biden had a 36% approval rating in October, according to a Quinnipiac University national poll. In media news today, a 'Good Morning America' guest worries omicron variant could hurt Biden's economic 'progress,' CNN gets roasted for a tweet about the Waukesha parade attack, and a New York Times columnist says he has a 'high tolerance' for inflation. President Biden's approval ratings have nosedived in the past few months following inflation and supply chain crises, but the liberal media have offered different suggestions and excuses that have largely put the blame on the American people. Multiple pundits and guests on left-leaning CNN and MSNBC have suggested that one reason why Biden isn't faring well in the polls is because Americans aren't engaged enough in politics. CNN's "Reliable Sources" unpacked that idea on Sunday. Host Brian Stelter asked one of his guests, writer and photographer Chris Arnade, "what's going on" with Biden's agenda and approval ratings, suggested the numbers don't add up. Arnade answered by comparing Americans' interest in politics to those who are only interested in football when the Super Bowl comes around. CNN PANEL ON BIDEN STRUGGLES: MEDIA NOT DOING ENOUGH TO SELL AGENDA, AMERICANS PUTTING ‘FEELINGS’ OVER FACTS "I mean, I think the way we talk about politics and the way most people talk about politics - I mean, it's entirely different," Arnade said. "We're like, you know, we're like – it's like the NFL and most people treat politics like they'll tune in to the Super Bowl once every few years and that's about it. That's how they view politics as something, you know, they're not a player in it, they're just a watcher. They support teams. They support a side. But they don't feel like - it's a distance thing that really that doesn't - doesn't - they don't have a say in that much. And so, how politics affects them is very experiential." "It's not about, you know, connecting what's going on to policy and connecting policy to what's going on," he continued. "It's just not something people do. That's what we do, but that's not how people perceive things. And quite honestly, you know, as I've written, what people see right now and I've been, as you said, walking across America. I go into cities and I walk 20 miles across America and just spend time hanging out talking to people." Stelter said it was an example of people employing "feelings" over "facts." FILE PHOTO: Gas prices grow along with inflation as this sign at a gas station shows in San Diego, California, U.S. November, 9, 2021. REUTERS/Mike Blake/File Photo AT JUST 36% SUPPORT, BIDEN SLIPS TO A RECORD LOW IN A NEW POLL MSNBC's Stephanie Ruhle sounded confused Monday as to why voters were souring on Biden at a time when he got his infrastructure bill through and when the economy recovery was "very good." She asked her guests to offer an explanation as her show displayed a chyron that read, "Biden approval rating under water despite achievements." Robert Gibbs said he thinks people "aren't looking at their economic health through a jobs report" and are instead focusing on hardships in their lives that are currently front and center. President Joe Biden delivers remarks on the debt ceiling during an event in the State Dining Room of the White House, Monday, Oct. 4, 2021, in Washington. "I think they're seeing gas prices go up," Gibbs said. "I think they're seeing their turkey dinners on Thanksgiving being more expensive." "People wanted to feel a sense of normalcy going into this holiday season … Unfortunately that hasn't materialized," he continued, later saying, "I think that while a lot of the president's agenda is popular, I don't think the American people know much about it." Containers line a Port of Oakland shipping terminal on Wednesday, Nov. 10, 2021, in Oakland, Calif. Intense demand for products has led to a backlog of container ships outside the nation's two largest ports along the Southern California coast. "The process of this has overwhelmed the of specifics of the substance," he later added, urging Biden and the Democrats to do a better job talking to Americans about Build Back Better, etc. Magdi Semrau, a columnist for The Editorial Board, echoed another popular argument on "Reliable Sources": The media isn't doing a good enough job reporting on Biden's agenda. "I wrote about the disconnect between Biden's approval rating--which appears to be slumping--& approval for his agenda--which remains high. This isn't just a problem for Democrats. It's a problem for democracy. The media has a role to play," she added on Twitter, with a link to her piece on the subject entitled, "Biden’s policies are more popular than he is. For the first time in the modern era, the link between president and agenda is broken." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Is the Media to Blame for Biden's Bad Poll Numbers?" New York Magazine similarly asked. Bloomberg Opinion writer Jonathan Bernstein suggested the media's bias on the economy is showing. Other pundits like MSNBC's Joy Reid have used the approval numbers to lecture Americans for not being more grateful for the efforts of the Biden administration. "There are also a lot of Americans who despite having gotten the shots and checks are still telling pollsters that he's accomplished nothing or almost nothing, which I find amazing. I guess they spent the whole $2,000 and now they're not happy anymore," Reid said earlier this month. "Does this matter? Should we think about this in terms of those polling numbers?" Biden had a 36% approval rating in October, according to a Quinnipiac University national poll.
Gov. Noem pushes back on narrative GOP is anti-woman, says telemedicine abortions show left is 'hypocritical': Supreme Court is set to hear oral arguments in abortion case Dec. 1.. Judicial Crisis Network president Carrie Severino and pro-life activist Alison Howard Centofante discussed the case and what it could mean for Roe v. Wade. Gov. Kristi Noem railed against Democratic narratives on abortion, arguing on Monday that her party's position was consistent with being pro-woman. "This is an issue that those who are pro-choice try to dehumanize – that they try to make an argument that we don't care about women, that we don't care about these babies," Noem said during an online press briefing with the anti-abortion Susan B. Anthony  List. She added: "That's just a false narrative that we have to push aggressively back against." Kristi Noem, governor of South Dakota, speaks during the FAMiLY Leader summit in Des Moines, Iowa, on Friday, July 16, 2021. Former Vice President Mike Pence is headlining the evangelical group's 10th annual leadership summit. Noem's comments come just days before the Supreme Court is scheduled to hear oral arguments in Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health, which Noem hopes will serve as an avenue for overturning Roe v. Wade. PRO-LIFE WOMEN BLAST PSAKI'S ABORTION DEFENSE, ‘SEXISM’ TOWARD REPORTER A mother of three, Noem argued that women didn't have to choose between career success and having children. She and more than 200 other women signed onto an amicus brief challenging Planned Parenthood v. Casey's contention that women had "reliance interests" in abortion as it helped them "participate equally in the economic and social life of the nation." She also took aim at telemedicine or chemical abortions, a relatively new method that is expected to grow if the Supreme Court allows states to beef up restrictions on the procedure. A police officer maintains a watch during a demonstration by victims of gun violence in front of the Supreme Court as arguments begin in a major case on gun rights on Nov. 3, 2021, in Washington, D.C. "For years and years, we've heard liberals talk about this decision on abortion being between a woman and her doctor," she said Monday. "Now they're changing their complete argument to now this can be a decision between a woman and virtually any stranger over the phone – that she doesn't even have to prove it's a doctor … or an informed decision." Noem added that these types of abortions were more "dangerous" for women and showed the left was "hypocritical" because it allows women to "make an impromptu" and "not well-informed" decision with strangers. According to Kaiser Family Foundation, 17 states and the District of Columbia allow advanced practice clinicians, including nurses, to dispense medication abortions. Anti-abortion advocates have also raised concerns about sites like AidAccess, which provide abortion pills remotely. Governor  of South Dakota Kristi Noem speaks to reporters at the Sturgis Buffalo Chip campground after riding in the Legends Ride for charity on Aug. 9, 2021, near Sturgis, South Dakota. Chemical abortions, which Noem attempted to restrict with an executive order, have prompted intense debate as they can provide easier access but also sidestep usual medical exams. The Food and Drug Administration  is set to announce a decision on the issue later this month but previously overturned a Trump-era rule that required in-person dispensing of the pills. CHEMICAL ABORTIONS SAW 500% INCREASE IN RATE OF ER VISITS FROM 2002-2015: STUDY Janet Woodcock, the acting FDA commissioner, argued in April that existing literature doesn't indicate serious complications arising without the in-person requirement. Meanwhile, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists  has praised the Biden administration's decision as a way to protect patients and medical professionals from contracting COVID-19 during in-person visits. The American Association of Pro-Life Obstetricians and Gynecologists  has said in-person visits are critical to detecting ectopic pregnancies, which can be life threatening; ensuring accurate estimations of gestational age; and for determining whether women need the medication Rhogam, which is used to prevent complications in future pregnancies. In this screenshot from the RNC’s livestream of the 2020 Republican National Convention, Iowa Gov. Kim Reynolds addresses the virtual convention on Aug. 25, 2020. Advocates like Planned Parenthood have emphasized the importance of women's autonomy and ease of access to abortion, especially during the pandemic. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., derided Mississippi's law in September alongside an amicus brief from both chambers of Congress. "Mississippi’s draconian abortion ban – one in a heartbreaking and nationwide assault against women’s freedoms – is unconstitutional," Pelosi said. "As the brief makes clear, the constitutional right to an abortion has been resoundingly affirmed." But Noem and Gov. Kim Reynolds, R-Iowa, maintained on Monday that current precedent on abortion is wrong. "With Dobbs, the Supreme Court can strike a blow for Democratic self-government, restore constitutional integrity, and right a historic wrong," said Reynolds during a recorded message for Monday's briefing.
Top 5 states with most daily COVID cases are now blue states, bottom 5 are mostly red: Omicron variant yet to be confirmed on American soil. Fox News medical contributor Dr. Marc Siegel provides insight on the new omicron coronavirus variant. Some U.S. states are grappling with severe coronavirus outbreaks as the omicron variant is spreading around the world. Although there have not yet been any confirmed omicron COVID-19 cases on U.S. soil, Dr. Anthony Fauci said over the weekend that he would not be shocked to learn that it’s already here. "We have not detected it yet," he told NBC’s ‘Weekend Today’ show. "But, when you have a virus that is showing this degree of transmissibility and you're already having travel-related cases that they've noted in Israel and Belgium and in other places – when you have a virus like this, it almost invariably is ultimately going to go, essentially, all over." Eric Aviles, 6, receives the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine from pharmacist Sylvia Uong at a pediatric vaccine clinic for children ages 5 to 11 set up at Willard Intermediate School in Santa Ana, Calif., on Nov. 9. CORONAVIRUS OMICRON COVERAGE: LIVE UPDATES As of Monday, Michigan has the highest daily rate of new cases per 100,000 residents with 85, according to the New York Times, followed by New Hampshire with 73, New Mexico with 67, and Vermont and Minnesota both with 61. All the states in the top five voted for president Biden in the 2020 election. When looking at that statistic over a weeklong period ending this past Sunday, Minnesota leads the nation with 426 new cases per 100,000 residents, followed by Michigan with 388.6, Wisconsin with 387.7, North Dakota with 361.5 and New Hampshire with 360.2, data from the CDC shows. All the states in the top five voted for president Biden in the 2020 election. A man walks through a deserted part of Johannesburg's OR Tambo's airport in South Africa on Monday. The World Health Organization urged countries around the world not to impose flight bans on southern African nations due to concern over the new omicron variant. On the other end of the chart, Louisiana, Texas, Alabama, Hawaii and Florida round out the states with lowest daily rate of new cases per 100,000 residents, with numbers ranging from 8 to 3, the New York Times reports. All but one of the states in the bottom five voted for Donald Trump in the 2020 election. In the CDC’s weekly metric, Hawaii, Georgia, Texas, Louisiana and Florida comprise that group. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP President Joe Biden speaks about the COVID-19 variant named omicron, in the Roosevelt Room of the White House on Monday. But those states are also testing fewer residents per 100,000 compared to some that are reported to be amongst those suffering the most severe outbreaks. Texas, for example, is only testing 125 residents per 100,000 as opposed to states in the top 5 such as Minnesota and New Hampshire, which are testing 492 and 420 per 100,000, respectively, according to Becker’s Hospital Review. Fox News’ Julia Musto contributed to this report.
Brit Hume on Omicron variant: Politicians' 'cures' for COVID have been worse than the virus: Says officials 'making same kind of mistakes' in response to omicron variant. Fox News Senior Political Analyst Brit Hume on countries imposing travel bans in the wake of the new omicron variant. In the wake of the new omicron variant, Fox News senior political analyst Brit Hume told "The Brian Kilmeade Show" on Monday that since the inception of the coronavirus pandemic, the cures from politicians have been worse than the virus. OMICRON VARIANT IS 'CAUSE FOR CONCERN, NOT A CAUSE FOR PANIC,' BIDEN SAYS BRIT HUME: It looks to me like we're freaking out again and making the same kinds of mistakes that we made the first and second and third time around. There are ripple effects of that. And this has been the issue from the very beginning of the pandemic. And that is that in our efforts to stamp it out, to stop it in its tracks, which was probably never going to be possible, we undertook all sorts of efforts without ever seriously considering the side effects of our efforts. You know, Trump may have made a lot of mistakes on this, but he was right when he said, you don't want a situation where the cure is worse than the disease. When you think of the school days missed by kids, really how much that contributes to continued inequality and educational outcomes that these poor kids who you know, who many of whose parents don't even have a computer in the house or who are struggling to try to be educated in this setting where, you know, they're really not in school, they're really not getting instruction and so on. It's very serious. You have health outcomes affected by the fact that people missed appointments for screenings and treatment and so on for cancer and other diseases. The supply chain problems we’re having as a consequence of COVID and the restrictions that were placed on travel and with people out of work and so on. So we're going to be feeling the pain from those for a long time. WATCH FULL VIDEO BELOW:
Jason Rantz blasts CNN for Waukesha tweet: This is why they're not trusted: CNN panned for saying 'car drove through Christmas parade,' ignoring suspect. Seattle radio host Jason Rantz on Twitter users blasting CNN's reporting on the Waukesha tragedy and violent robberies over the Black Friday weekend. Seattle radio host Jason Rantz tore into CNN on Monday after the network was panned for a tweet that seemed to place blame for last week's Waukesha parade attack on Darrell Brooks’ SUV without mention of the career criminal suspect. "Democrats like to focus on the weapon when they don’t want to make villains out of the criminals when that criminal kind of flies in the face of the narrative that they’re missing," Rantz said during an appearance on "The Faulkner Focus." Rantz asserted that the media is quick to divert the blame away from the criminal when it suits their agenda, citing activists and media outlets that blamed San Francisco retail theft on poverty and gang violence on guns rather than criminals. CNN ROASTED FOR TWEET SAYING WAUKESHA PARADE ATTACK WAS CAUSED BY 'A CAR' THAT DROVE THROUGH PARADE "Darrell Brooks can’t be the focus because he’s not a white supremacist," Rantz added before pointing out the stark difference in media coverage between Darrell Brooks and Kyle Rittenhouse. Darrell Brooks, charged with killing five people and injuring nearly 50 after plowing through a Christmas parade with his sport utility vehicle on November 21, appears in Waukesha County Court in Waukesha, Wisconsin, U.S. November 23, 2021. The 17-year-old Rittenhouse was labeled a murderer and white supremacist by various outlets and media personalities, including CNN before the Illinois teen was acquitted of all charges in November. Many outlets also got key facts about the case wrong, including the false claim that Rittenhouse crossed state lines with a weapon. "Kyle Rittenhouse was a white supremacist with the intent to kill. It wasn’t the weapon. Darrell Brooks, we ignore him, we ignore his views, we ignore his criminal history that has been enabled by left-wing light on crime policies and then we focus on the SUV, and then of course people wonder over at CNN ‘why don’t people trust us?’ Well, look at your tweets," said Rantz. On Sunday CNN became the center of social media backlash after a tweet suggested that Brooks’ SUV was responsible for the massacre that resulted in six deaths and dozens of injuries. Police officers close a street in downtown Waukesha the morning after a car plowed through a holiday parade in Waukesha, Wisconsin, U.S., November 22, 2021. "Waukesha will hold a moment of silence today, marking one week since a car drove through a city Christmas parade, killing six people and injuring scores of others," the tweet reads. Screenshot/Twitter Fox News' Yael Halon contributed to this report.
NYC Mayor-elect Eric Adams promotes 'stop and frisk' after latest shooting that wounded 2 officers: Adams, who will be NYC's second Black mayor, promotes 'stop, question, frisk' in new op-ed. A source released video of the shooting to Fox News. New York City Mayor-elect Eric Adams reiterated support for "stop and frisk" in a new op-ed piece published Sunday reacting to last week’s Thanksgiving Eve shooting that wounded two police officers. Adams, who will be the city’s second Black mayor, praised the "professional conduct" of NYPD officers Alejandra Jacobs and Robert Holmes in their handling of suspect Charlie Vasquez in the Bronx last week. Judging by the NYPD’s account, Adams said the officers handled the situation correctly – they approached the suspect matching a 911 caller’s description and asked him to show his hands. NYC ‘CAREER CRIMINAL’ CHARGED IN BRAZEN SHOOTING THAT WOUNDED TWO OFFICERS: ‘THERE IS NO FEAR ON THE STREETS’ But Vasquez open fired. Shot in the arm, Jacobs returned fire, and then, "the threat was neutralized. One more gun off the street. One more blow against the bad guys," Adams wrote in an op-ed for the New York Daily News. "Yet there are some in our city who would say these officers should never have confronted Vasquez, that he never should have been stopped and questioned." Adams rejected his opponents’ calls to "end stop and frisk forever," making the distinction in the op-ed that the tactic "stop, question and frisk" must be reinstated because it can actually help reduce crime "without infringing on personal liberties and human rights." Brooklyn Borough President and a Democratic mayoral candidate Eric Adams greets NYPD officers as participants gather for a march through the financial district during a parade honoring essential workers for their efforts in getting New York City through the COVID-19 pandemic, Wednesday, July 7, 2021, in New York. Brooklyn Borough President and New York City mayoral candidate Eric Adams listens as President Joe Biden speaks during a meeting on reducing gun violence, in the Roosevelt Room of the White House, Monday, July 12, 2021, in Washington. Eric Adams, Brooklyn borough president and Democratic candidate for New York City mayor speaks during a debate with Republican candidate for New York City mayor Curtis Sliwa at the ABC 7 studios in New York, Tuesday, Oct. 26, 2021. "In fact, as American courts have affirmed over many years, stop, question and frisk is a perfectly legal, appropriate and constitutional tool, when used smartly, as opposed to indiscriminately against hundreds of thousands of young Black and Brown men, as it was for years in New York City," Adams wrote. "Not only that, but it is a necessary tool, whereby police approach someone who fits a witness description or otherwise appears to be carrying an illegal weapon." He continued: "The question was never whether stop, question and frisk should be allowed; it was how it should be done. Those who claimed it should be outlawed entirely reduced a nuanced issue to an either-or argument, and unwisely answered it with a blanket ban." Adams, who said he visited the officers at the hospital on Thursday, called for an end to "fighting from the extremes about public safety" and vowed to make solutions his "number one priority" in January. He also addressed arguments about stop, question and frisk, defund the police and bail reform. "The question should not be whether or not police are allowed to confront suspects; it should be about how we train them," he said. "The question should not be whether we have police; it should be how we use them. The question should not be whether judges should have the ability to protect New Yorkers from violent offenders; it should be how we let them." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP At a press conference following the shooting, both NYPD Police Commissioner Dermot Shea and a police union president, Pat Lynch, remarked about the lack of fear among criminals in the streets despite efforts to remove illegal guns. Vasquez, who was also wounded in the shooting, was charged Saturday with attempted murder and other weapons offenses.
CNN host calls for global vaccine passports to prove which brand, dosage each person has received: Fareed Zakaria lamented that countries were instead focusing on 'nationalism, protectionism, reshoring supply lines'. CNN host Fareed Zakaria on Sunday implored countries across the world to implement a global vaccine passport that would require people to prove which vaccine brand and dosage they'd received. CNN host Fareed Zakaria on Sunday implored countries across the world to implement a global vaccine passport that would require people to prove which vaccine brand and dosage they'd received. During an appearance on "CNN Newsroom," Zakaria said the coronavirus would never go away and that society would have to "learn to live" with it and its potential mutations. He also lamented that there was no global coordination or common standards in terms of fighting the virus before calling for "a common certificate or passport" that would document everything about an individual's vaccination status. "We need to fundamentally understand this thing is not going away. And so any strategy that is based on the idea that we just do one more thing and it'll go away, that's not what's going to happen," Zakaria told fellow CNN host Jim Acosta. "We are going to have to learn to live with some level of virus and some mutations in our societies, moving from a pandemic to endemic stage." CNN'S FAREED ZAKARIA COZIES UP TO WH AIDE RON KLAIN, ASSURES HE PRAISED BIDEN ADMIN DURING TWITTER EXCHANGE Fareed Zakaria and Jim Acosta discuss the Omicron variant of the coronavirus on CNN, November 28, 2021. Zakaria argued that the travel bans being instituted by President Biden and other countries against certain African nations due to growing concerns over the new Omicron variant of the coronavirus were just "band- aids" and wouldn't help very much. He added that what needed to happen was for vaccinations and MRNA technology to be ramped up across the globe and for scientists to figure out what boosters would be needed to fight each new variant. Acosta claimed that if travel restrictions were actually based on the risk of spreading the coronavirus, then other countries would want to ban travel to the U.S. He then asked at what point there needed to be a vaccine mandate for air travelers worldwide. "Wouldn’t that potentially be a better measure here than arbitrarily going after one part of the world, even though the variant is around the globe at this point?" he asked. CNN'S FAREED ZAKARIA SAYS TRUMP WAS RIGHT ABOUT ASYLUM SYSTEM, ‘PAINS ME TO SAY’ FILE PHOTO: U.S. President Joe Biden delivers remarks on the authorization of the coronavirus disease  vaccine for kids ages 5 to 11, during a speech in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building’s South Court Auditorium at the White House in Washington, U.S., November 3, 2021. REUTERS/Evelyn Hockstein/File Photo "To your first point, as you point out, the U.S. still has a massive disproportionate number of Covid cases, Covid deaths, so this is a case of somebody in a glass house throwing a lot of stones," Zakaria said. "The single biggest gap here has been the global one. We have no global coordination, no common standards, no common certificate or passport that tells you whether someone has had one dose, two doses, what vaccine it was from," he added. Zakaria claimed that it would be "trivial" to be able to create such a document system technologically, but that no wanted to cooperate internationally. "Everyone is instead talking of nationalism, protectionism, reshoring supply lines," he said. "All of that is great, but what this new variant is showing us is none of it is going to work, because at the end of the day, the world is already so connected … The only solution here is to come together, figure out a joint set of standards, joint sets of travel procedures, joint sets of vaccine stats and make a huge push to vaccinate the world." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Passengers arrive at Heathrow Airport in London, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021. The new potentially more contagious omicron variant of the coronavirus popped up in more European countries on Saturday, just days after being identified in South Africa, leaving governments around the world scrambling to stop the spread. In Britain, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said mask-wearing in shops and on public transport will be required, starting Tuesday. "It remains true that vaccinating the world, while it sounds very ambitious, Jim, it’s going to cost a fraction of the cost of these serial shutdowns, these travel shutdowns. You could vaccinate all of Africa and save yourself an enormous amount of money, because if we have to do these shutdowns again, the cost will get back into the trillions," Zakaria added.
Ghislane Maxwell's alleged victim arrives at court: Sarah Ransome reportedly told media at the Manhattan courthouse, 'I never thought this day would come'. Sarah Ransome, one of several women who have accused Jeffrey Epstein and Maxwell of sexual abuse, enters NYC courthouse. One of Ghislaine Maxwell and Jeffrey Epstein’s alleged victims arrived Monday at the New York City courthouse where the jury was selected for the trial in the long-running sex trafficking case. Two years after Jeffrey Epstein's suicide behind bars, Sarah Ransome arrived at the courthouse for the start of Maxwell's trial in New York. Wearing a matching red beret and sweater, she said little to the media that surrounded her before she ascended the courthouse steps. "I never thought this day would come," she briefly remarked to reporters, according to The Independent. JURY SELECTED IN GHISLAINE MAXWELL'S TRIAL Ransome, who was born in South Africa to British parents, claims she attempted to escape from Epstein’s private island through shark-infested waters after being raped three times in one day. She is not expected to testify. Sarah Ransome, an alleged victim of Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell, arrives at the courthouse for the start of Maxwell's trial in New York, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021. "I never thought this day would come," Sarah Ransome remarked to reporters when arriving for the start of Ghislaine Maxwell's trial in New York, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021. Sarah Ransome arrives for the start of Ghislaine Maxwell's trial in New York, where a jury was selected on Monday, Nov. 29, 2021. Sarah Ransome arrives for the trial of Ghislaine Maxwell, who is accused of acting as Jeffrey Epstein's chief enabler, in New York, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021. Sarah Ransome arrives for the trial of Ghislaine Maxwell in New York on Monday, Nov. 29, 2021. Prosecutors say there is evidence that Maxwell knew Jeffrey Epstein's victims were below the age of consent. Maxwell, who once dated Epstein, is accused of acting as his chief enabler, recruiting and grooming young girls for him to abuse. The charges against her stem from the allegations of four women who say she and Epstein victimized them as teens from 1994 to 2004. Prosecutors say there’s evidence Maxwell knew that the victims, including a 14-year-old, were below the age of consent and that she arranged travel for some between Epstein’s homes, including his estate in Palm Beach, Florida, his Manhattan townhouse and other residences in Santa Fe, New Mexico, and London. Maxwell, 58, is charged with one count of enticing a minor to travel to engage in illegal sex acts, which carries a maximum sentence of five years in prison; one count of conspiracy to entice a minor to travel to engage in illegal sex acts, which carries a maximum sentence of five years; one count of transporting a minor with the intent to engage in criminal sexual activity, which carries a maximum sentence of 10 years; one count of conspiracy to transport a minor with the intent to engage in criminal sexual activity, which carries a maximum sentence of five years; and two counts of perjury, each of which carries a maximum sentence of five years. Ghislaine Maxwell, founder of the TerraMar Project, attends a press conference at United Nations headquarters on June 25, 2013. In this courtroom sketch, Ghislaine Maxwell enters the courtroom escorted by U.S. Marshalls Monday, Nov. 29, 2021, in New York. A line of people, mostly journalists, wait to enter the courthouse for the start of the Ghislaine Maxwell trial in New York, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021. Attorneys Laura Menninger and Jeffrey Pagliuca arrive to court in New York, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021. Attorneys Laura Menninger and Jeffrey Pagliuca arrive to court in New York, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021. Twelve jurors and six alternates were selected Monday to hear Maxwell’s case. They were picked from a pool of 40 to 60 potential jurors who made it through initial questioning. The jury was sworn in after U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan sorted out potential scheduling conflicts involving two jurors. Opening statements are expected to begin later in the day. Epstein killed himself at a Manhattan federal lockup in August 2019, a month after his arrest on sex trafficking charges. Authorities charged Maxwell in July 2020, arresting her after tracking her to a $1 million New Hampshire estate where she had been holed up during the coronavirus pandemic. Maxwell has pleaded not guilty and vehemently denies wrongdoing. The 59-year-old British socialite, jailed in Brooklyn since her arrest, has called the claims against her "absolute rubbish." Maxwell's lawyers and family say she was Epstein's pawn, now paying "a blood price" to satisfy public desire to see someone held accountable for his crimes. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The wealthy, Oxford-educated Maxwell is the daughter of British newspaper magnate Robert Maxwell, who died in 1991 after falling off his yacht – named the Lady Ghislaine – near the Canary Islands. Robert Maxwell, whose holdings at the time included the New York Daily News, was facing allegations that he had illegally looted his businesses’ pension funds. Ghislaine Maxwell holds U.S., British and French citizenships and was repeatedly denied bail in the run-up to her trial. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Wikipedia page on 'Mass killings under communist regimes' considered for deletion, prompting bias accusations: 'This article has multiple issues,' a warning on the page currently states. Larry Sanger discusses how the website has become more biased on 'Tucker Carlson Tonight' Wikipedia is considering deleting a page about the mass killings committed by communist regimes throughout the 20th century over claims of bias. The page titled "Mass killings under communist regimes," which details the atrocities of dictators like Stalin, Mao Zedong and Pol Pot, risks being purged from the online encyclopedia after editors complained it did not conform to company standards. WIKIPEDIA CO-FOUNDER LARRY SANGER BLASTS SITE FOR LEFT-WING BIAS: 'THE WORD FOR IT IS PROPAGANDA' A warning on the page currently states, "This article is being considered for deletion in accordance with Wikipedia's deletion policy. Please share your thoughts on the matter at this article's deletion discussion page." Another warning on the page states, "This article has multiple issues," including that its "neutrality" and verifiability of claims is being disputed, and that some sources in the article "may not be reliable." One proponent of deleting the page wrote on Wikipedia’s discussion page that "the view that the ideology of communism is somehow inherently violent" is a "fringe theory" that pushes an "anti-communist" point of view, The Daily Telegraph reported. Another proponent of deleting the page wrote, "Proper historiography discusses events in context, and without simplistic presuppositions that events are driven by any specific ideology." Another proponent of deletion wrote that the current article exists "purely to advance extremist anti-communist narratives against political alternatives which have been embraced by hundreds of millions of people all over the world." A Soviet-sponsored youth rally in the Lustgarten in Berlin, Germany, 1st June 1950. The youth carry huge portraits of Communist leaders such as Joseph Stalin . Some editors pushed back in arguing against the article's deletion. One editor who opposes deletion wrote Thursday that deleting the article "would be truly Orwellian" and that "it’s very nomination for deletion is a political act attempting to whitewash Communism." "Stop left and woke censorship," another opponent wrote. Critics on social media blasted Wikipedia for considering the page's deletion, accusing it of left-wing bias. Others pointed out that a similar Wikipedia article, titled, "Anti-communist mass killings," is not currently being disputed. Wikipedia has no central editorial board, but administrators have the ability to delete articles and other Wikipedia pages from general view, and to restore pages that were previously deleted. Most decisions are not made by majority vote, but rather through discussions among contributors to achieve consensus, Wikipedia says. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP A note on the discussion page for the "Mass killings under communist regimes" page states that an administrator or editor started the process of closing the discussion on Monday afternoon, and that the result would be posted shortly. Wikipedia did not immediately respond to Fox News Digital's request for comment.
China’s use of refueling aircraft during recent Taiwan sortie raises concern: Beijing deployed 18 fighter jets and five H-6 bombers along with the Y-20 aerial refueling aircraft, Taiwan says. Fox News contributor Kiron Skinner weighs in on the key foreign policy challenges facing the Biden administration. China’s unusual decision to deploy a Y-20 aerial refueling aircraft during Sunday’s foray into Taiwan’s air defense buffer zone may be indicative of the country’s ambition to extend its military reach and capabilities in the region, according to a report. On Sunday, Beijing deployed 18 fighter jets and five H-6 bombers, that have nuclear capabilities, Reuters reported. The report said that the Y-20 was likely used to refuel the fighters during the mission, which could help the country extend its military reach in any possible future confrontations. ‘MORE MONEY THAN GOD:’ CHINESE TITAN LAVISHED HUNTER BIDEN WITH 3-CARAT GEM, OFFER OF $30 MILLION A Y-20 large transport aircraft of the Chinese People's Liberation Army PLA air force. Tingting Liu, a reporter for TVBS, a Taiwanese TV station, tweeted that it appears to be the first time that China deployed the Y-20 and analysts say its presence "significantly changes’ the game as fighters can stay longer mid-air now." Lucas Tomlinson, the Pentagon reporter for Fox News, also pointed out that China's decision to deploy five bombers may have been symbolic. The mission came shortly after five members of the U.S. Congress visited Taipei. KELLOGG: CHINA, RUSSIA MILITARY DEAL ‘TROLLING’ BIDEN, DISPLAYING ‘LACK OF RESPECT’ FOR UNITED STATES The Chinese aircraft flew into Taiwan’s air defense identification zone near the southern part of the island and out into the Pacific Ocean before returning to China, according to a map by Taiwan authorities. GET THE FOX NEWS APP China claims democratically ruled Taiwan as its own territory, to be brought under its control by force if necessary. It refuses to recognize the island’s government and has increasingly sought to isolate the independence-leaning administration of President Tsai Ing-wen.
Giants troll Eagles fans with 'Always Sunny in Philadelphia' theme song after loss: The Giants improved to 4-7 and kept their playoff hopes alive for another week. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. The New York Giants got a much-needed win over the Philadelphia Eagles on Sunday and didn't hesitate to take an opportunity to troll their division rivals. The Giants defense stepped up to stop second-year quarterback Jalen Hurts with three interceptions and four forced turnovers, and held Philadelphia to a season-low in points in the 13-7 beating. GIANTS’ JOE JUDGE WANTED JASON GARRETT GONE LAST SEASON, MORE CHANGES TO COME: REPORTS Jalen Hurts walks off the field after his Philadelphia Eagles lost to the New York Giants at MetLife Stadium on Nov. 28, 2021 in East Rutherford, New Jersey. While running back Saquon Barkley was being interviewed on the field, Eagles fans were subjected to the "Always Sunny in Philadelphia" theme song playing in the background at MetLife Stadium. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Social media users took joy in the Giants' "savage" troll. Sunday’s game was the first for the Giants' offense since the firing of coordinator Jason Garrett on Tuesday. With former Browns coach and senior assistant Freddie Kitchens calling the plays, the offense was held to 264 yards but had the ball 32:02, and did just enough. New York Giants' Tae Crowder celebrates his interception against the Philadelphia Eagles, Sunday, Nov. 28, 2021, in East Rutherford, New Jeresey. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Darius Slayton of the New York Giants fends off a tackle attempt by Avonte Maddox of the Philadelphia Eagles at MetLife Stadium on Nov. 28, 2021, in East Rutherford, New Jersey. The Giants improved to 4-7 and kept their playoff hopes alive for another week. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Spencer Rattler enters transfer portal amid Oklahoma shake-up: Spencer Rattler was replaced by Caleb Williams as the starting quarterback. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Oklahoma quarterback Spencer Rattler announced Monday he will enter the transfer portal after a tumultuous season that saw him lose his starting job and coach Lincoln Riley to USC. Rattler played 11 games for the Sooners in 2020 and led the team to a 9-2 record, which included a win in the Cotton Bowl over Florida. He struggled out of the gate in 2021 and eventually lost his starting role to Caleb Williams. In nine games, he had 1,483 passing yards and 11 touchdown passes. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Oklahoma Sooners coach Lincoln Riley works with quarterbacks Spencer Rattler  and Caleb Williams before a game against Texas Christian University on Oct. 16, 2021, in Norman, Oklahoma. With Riley leaving for USC and a whole host of recruits decommitting, Rattler decided to enter the transfer portal. "Thank you for allowing me to be a student-athlete at this prestigious institution. Thank you to every teammate and coach these last three seasons," Rattler said in a statement. "We won several games together and made memories that I will cherish forever. Special thanks to my family and friends for your support. Thank God for the game of football. It’s the ultimate team sport and brings people and communities together unlike anything else. Oklahoma quarterback Spencer Rattler passes against West Virginia in Norman, Oklahoma, on Sept. 25, 2021. LINCOLN RILEY'S MOVE FROM OKLAHOMA TO USC 'GENIUS,' HEISMAN TROPHY WINNER SAYS "At this time, I would like to announce that I have decided to enter the transfer portal to continue my academic and athletic career. Thank you again, Oklahoma. I will miss you." Rattler will not be around for whatever bowl game the Sooners get placed in. Oklahoma quarterback Spencer Rattler throws against Texas at the Cotton Bowl on Oct. 9, 2021, in Dallas. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP With Riley already having left for USC, Bob Stoops is set to be the interim head coach for the bowl game.
Kirk Cousins' simple explanation for lining up under wrong Vikings player: The Vikings would lose the game 34-26. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Minnesota Vikings quarterback Kirk Cousins tried to explain what was going on when he lined up under his guard instead of his center on 4th and goal while the team was trying to score against the San Francisco 49ers on Sunday. The Vikings were down 34-26 in the fourth quarter and were going for a touchdown on 4th and goal with 9:09 left in the game. Minnesota was clearly scrambling, trying to get a snap off, and Cousins ended up trying to take the snap from under his guard instead of his center. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Nov 28, 2021; Santa Clara, California, USA; Minnesota Vikings quarterback Kirk Cousins leaves the field after a loss against the San Francisco 49ers at Levi's Stadium. Alexander Mattison tried to get Cousins over to the center before the team had to burn a timeout. But it was too late. Minnesota was forced to call a timeout. "We just didn’t get lined up properly and the play clock was winding down," Cousins told reporters, via MLive.com. "I was just moving, trying to get everybody settled up and just got under the wrong guy." Nov 28, 2021; Santa Clara, California, USA; Minnesota Vikings quarterback Kirk Cousins  after a touchdown during the third quarter at Levi's Stadium. VIKINGS' KIRK COUSINS INEXPLICABLY LINES UP BEHIND GUARD TO TAKE SNAP IN BRUTAL MISTAKE After the timeout, Cousins fired a pass incomplete to Justin Jefferson and turned the ball over back to the 49ers. Minnesota would get one more chance to tie the game but turned the ball over on downs again. Kirk Cousins #8 of the Minnesota Vikings reacts after a rushing touchdown by teammate Alexander Mattison #25  in the third quarter against the San Francisco 49ers at Levi's Stadium on Nov. 28, 2021 in Santa Clara, California. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP San Francisco won, 34-26.
Tiger Woods on how close he was to having leg amputated following February crash: Tiger Woods is still recovering from injuries sustained in a February car crash. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Tiger Woods shattered bones in his right leg, needed a rod in his tibia to stabilize the injuries, and needed screws and pins in his ankle after he was involved in a crash in Los Angeles in February. About nine months after the crash, Woods revealed in an interview with Golf Digest there was a moment during the immediate aftermath that amputating his leg was a serious possibility. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Tiger Woods reacts during the final round of the Masters at Augusta National Golf Club on Nov. 15, 2020, in Georgia. "There was a point in time when, I wouldn’t say it was 50/50, but it was damn near there if I was going to walk out of that hospital with one leg. Once I  throw me something. Throw me anything," Woods told Golf Digest in a story published Monday. The recovery process was slow. He said he needed to change his mindset to get through the 2-3 hours "of hell" each day in rehab. TIGER WOODS ADMITS HE MAY NEVER BE AT THE PINNACLE OF GOLF AGAIN: 'IT’S AN UNFORTUNATE REALITY' After a rollover accident involving Tiger Woods, the vehicle rests along a road in the Rancho Palos Verdes section of Los Angeles on Feb. 23, 2021. Law enforcement officers looks over a vehicle following a rollover accident involving golfer Tiger Woods on Feb. 23, 2021, in the Rancho Palos Verdes suburb of Los Angeles. Woods started to make public appearances. He returned back to his Florida home in March to continue the recovery and in April posted a photo of himself standing upright with crutches and a walking boot. It would only get better from there. He posted a video showing him on a golf course and swinging a club earlier this month. It appeared to be the first visual evidence of him hitting a ball and swinging a club since the February crash. He still had the black compression sleeve on his right leg while he was on the course. Tiger Woods lines up a putt at the Masters at Augusta National Golf Club on Nov. 15, 2020, in Georgia. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP He had also been spotted outside a Los Angeles hotel with Herman and still walking gingerly.
George Clooney criticizes onlookers who filmed him after 2018 motorbike crash in Italy: The 'Ocean's Eleven' actor was involved in a scary accident in 2018 that changed his perspective on his own celebrity. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. George Clooney is speaking out against modern social media culture after his scary motorbike accident three years ago. In 2018, the actor was riding his motorbike on the Italian island of Sardinia when an oncoming car turned suddenly into his lane and he was thrown several yards in the air. Fortunately, despite going around 75 mph, the actor didn’t suffer any serious long-term injuries and he was able to make a full recovery. However, speaking to The Sunday Times, Clooney, 60, lamented the fact that no one seemed interested in helping him at the time. Instead, a crowd gathered around him to film the aftermath of the incident. "I was waiting for my switch to turn off," he began. GEORGE CLOONEY TALKS QUARANTINING WITH WIFE AMAL, 3-YEAR-OLD TWINS: IT'S 'BEEN AN ADVENTURE' George Clooney spoke out about his motorbike accident in 2018. "If you’re in the public eye," he continued, "What you realize when you’re on the ground thinking it’s the last minute of your life is that, for some people, it’s just going to be entertainment for their Facebook page. I’m a pretty positive guy, but that told me – clearly – that you really are here just for their entertainment." He said that he wanted to take everyone and "shake them." The actor noted that he personally tries to avoid using his phone to capture things after the incident. He noted that his reaction to his children doing something is to record it, but he now tries to remain present and in the moment with them. "People are living their lives this way and I fight against it. If my kids do something cute, I want to take a picture, but I have to say, ‘Be in the moment – you don’t have to record everything,'" Clooney mused. George Clooney discussed the new culture in Hollywood following the #MeToo movement. AMAL CLOONEY CALLS HUSBAND GEORGE CLOONEY 'WONDERFULLY ENCOURAGING AND INSPIRING' AT BOOK LAUNCH Clooney was thrown over the front of his bike and up in the air before landing on the asphalt. He hit a car windscreen head first, causing the glass to shatter before he was tossed to the ground. The media gathered at the John Paul II hospital in Olbia where Clooney was treated at the time. Elsewhere in his interview, Clooney talked about modern culture further, noting that he has been paying attention to how Hollywood is changing since the fall of Harvey Weinstein and the beginning of the #MeToo movement. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER "It’s changed in this way," he said of Hollywood. "On top of the terrible things Weinstein did, being a jerk at work is now not OK." George Clooney was involved in a car accident in Italy in 2018. The actor also cited producer Scott Rudin to make the point that such behavior is not acceptable in the workplace anymore. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Just because you’re a boss, it doesn’t mean you get to shit on people. I’ve been the boss and the guy being sh-- on," he explained. "You can’t get away with being a dick any more — you’d get ratted out. Now there’s sometimes an overcorrection, where everyone points fingers, but that will settle. It always does. And I can’t imagine some producer having a casting session alone in his hotel room with a young girl any more. It’s moving in the right direction."
Tiger Woods admits he may never be at the pinnacle of golf again: 'It’s an unfortunate reality': Tiger Woods suffered a devastating leg injury in his February car crash. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Tiger Woods admitted in a recent interview that it's unlikely he'll be as good as he once was following the Los Angeles car crash that left him with a devastating leg injury. Woods, who hasn’t played in a tournament since he teamed up with his son for the 2020 PNC Championship, told Golf Digest in an interview published Monday he’ll be fine if he doesn’t compete with some of the best on the PGA Tour again. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Tiger Woods smiles during the PGA Tour Champions PNC Championship at Ritz-Carlton Golf Club on Dec. 19, 2020, in Orlando, Florida. "I think something that is realistic is playing the Tour one day – never full time, ever again – but pick and choose, just like Mr.  Hogan did. Pick and choose a few events a year and you play around that," Woods told Golf Digest. "You practice around that, and you gear yourself up for that. I think that’s how I’m going to have to play it from now on. It’s an unfortunate reality, but it’s my reality. And I understand it, and I accept it." Woods is tied with Sam Snead for the most wins on the PGA Tour with 82 and is three behind Jack Nicklaus for most major championships of all time. Woods has 15 and Nicklaus has 18. TIGER WOODS SWINGS GOLF CLUB IN VIDEO WITH OUTSTANDING HEALTH UPDATE Tiger Woods catches a ball during the PGA Tour Champions PNC Championship at Ritz-Carlton Golf Club on Dec. 20, 2020, in Orlando, Florida. "I don’t have to compete and play against the best players in the world to have a great life. After my back fusion, I had to climb Mount Everest one more time. I had to do it, and I did. This time around, I don’t think I’ll have the body to climb Mount Everest and that’s OK. I can still participate in the game of golf. I can still, if my leg gets OK, I can still click off a tournament here or there. But as far as climbing the mountain again and getting all the way to the top, I don’t think that’s a realistic expectation of me." Woods reached the mountaintop again when he won the 2019 Masters 14 years after his last green jacket. But the February car crash threw a wrench in his plans. Tiger Woods plays his shot during the PNC Championship at the Ritz-Carlton Golf Club Orlando on Dec. 19, 2020, in Orlando, Florida. Recently, Woods posted a video showing off his swing and raising fans’ hopes he may be able to play again. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP He’s been spotted in plenty of pictures and video in recent months walking around. Earlier this month, he was seen with his girlfriend Erica Herman. Woods was walking very carefully while getting out of his car and heading into a hotel.
Remains of missing Wisconsin mom found months after disappearance, search firm says: Ashley Miller Carlson, mom of 4, had been missing since September. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A body matching the description of a Wisconsin mother missing since September has been located in Minnesota, according to a private investigation firm. Ashley Miller Carlson, a 33-year-old mother of four who was living in Burnett County, Wisconsin, was last seen on Sept. 23 near the Lake Lena community on the Mille Lacs Band’s Reservation, about 25 miles east of Hinckley in eastern Minnesota's Pine County. Her rental car was found in the same county the next day partially submerged in Grace Lake with her personal belongings left inside, authorities said. Applied Professional Services, a private investigation firm hired by the family, announced Saturday the likely remains of the missing mother were found in a wooded area not far from where Miller Carlson vanished. An autopsy has not yet been completed, and the remains have not yet been positively identified by the coroner's office. INDIANA GIRL, 2, STILL MISSING AFTER FATHER RESCUED FROM SUBMERGED TRUCK; AUTHORITIES RECOVER HER COAT "This is a sad day our family hoped would not come, and there are still many questions that need answers, but the important thing is we now have Ashley," Krista Struck, Miller Carlson's mother, said in a statement. "Our family received incredible support from the community these past many weeks, and we thank them, the Christian Aid Ministries volunteer search and rescue team, the many involved law enforcement agencies and Applied Professional Services for helping locate Ashley." Ashley Miller-Carlson’s rental car was located on Sept. 24 partially submerged, in Grace Lake in Pine County, Minnesota. A tip line created for the case received more than 70 calls, the private investigation firm said. Neither the Pine County Sheriff’s Office nor the Burnett County Sheriff’s Office released statements since the gruesome discovery Saturday by a search team made up of Christian Aid Ministries volunteers and family members. Law enforcement was also on the scene at the time, Fox 9 Minneapolis reported. In their most recent public statement on Nov. 12, Pine County Sheriff Jeff Nelson and Burnett County Sheriff Tracy Finch said their agencies, along with the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension , the Wisconsin Department of Justice, the FBI and "numerous professional and volunteer groups have been diligently working to bring Ashley home." "Exhaustive searches of the area surrounding her home and where her vehicle was recovered have been completed including aircraft, drones, sonar and divers used in the lake, and foot searches with both live-find and Human Remains Detection  K9s," their statement said. "We have collectively conducted dozens of interviews, 32 search warrants, over 15 ground searches, at least 7 drone searches and 2 searches of Grace Lake. Additional searches will be conducted as the search areas are expanded." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP A cause of death has yet to be determined. Authorities ask anyone with information about the case to contact the Pine County Sheriff’s Office at 320-629-8380, the Burnett County Sheriff’s Office at 715-349-2121 or anonymously reach out to the Crime Stoppers Hotline at 1-800-222-8477.
See it: Rhino wrecks car at safari park: Mother was separated from her child. Using artificial insemination scientists are trying to save the Northern White Rhino. New driving tip: Don't get between a mother rhino and her child. Jackson's Skoda Fabia suffered serious damage when it was rammed by the adult rhino. That's apparently what happened to a father and son whose car was rammed and damaged by an adult rhino at a drive-through safari park in the U.K. Jamie Wood told SWNS that he and his five-year-old son, Jackson, were watching two Rhinos butting each other at the Midlands Safari Park when a baby got separated from them and on the other side of the compact car when the mother made a 200-foot charge and ran her horn into the front fender. The rhinos roam freely about the park. "It happened so quickly and I didn’t know what to do, I was just in shock," wood said. "I kept telling Jackson it would avoid us and then I heard myself swear when I realized it was going to hit us. If i’d have been a bit further forward that massive horn would have gone right through me." Wardens patrol the facility in Land Rover SUVs. According to a park spokesperson, a warden trying to get the adult rhinos to break it up by spinning its tires had scared the baby away, but would not cover the $2,000 repair bill. The facility's terms of entry says that it "accepts no responsibility for damage to persons or property by animals. Under no circumstance will West Midland Safari & Leisure Park accept responsibility for damage caused to any vehicle entering or exiting the electric gates." The Skoda Fabia weighs around 2,400 pounds. Neither of the Woods were injured in the injured in the incident, but Jamie had some explaining to do, because he'd borrowed the car from his own mother. It's not the first time something like this has happened at the facility. In 2015 a woman from Northfield suffered a similar incident that included the rhino hitting her vehicle then chasing it as she attempted to get away. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Jackson's Skoda Fabia subcompact hatchback weighs less than a fully-grown rhino and things could've been much worse. Video shot a park in Germany several years ago shows a rhino using its horn to roll a vehicle that's about the same size as a Fabia.
Snowstorm strands 61 in pub in Yorkshire, England, for third night, ‘plenty of beer available’: The snowstorm made driving on roads in the area unsafe. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. The last thing guests at one pub in Yorkshire, England, will need is a cold one. A strong snowstorm stranded about 61 people on hand for a concert Friday night and there's a good chance they will not be able to leave until Monday--at the earliest. The guests were hunkered down at the Tan Hill Inn after attending the Friday concert by an Oasis tribute band called Noasis. "I’m quite chilled about being stranded, it’s quite exciting, but we’re missing our son who is with his nana," Stephanie Overton, one of the guests, told the BBC. "I am wondering how long we will be here for though." The report said the storm dumped about three feet of snow in the Yorkshire Dales, which is about 1,732 feet above sea level. Besides the snow, fallen power cables have created a dangerous situation outside. The guests are all getting along, and the report said managers set up sleeping quarters in the pub’s lounge. The New York Times reported that a man at the pub was evacuated by a local rescue group because of a previous medical condition. The guests have been passing the time by singing karaoke and watching movies like "Grease," the report said. GET THE FOX NEWS APP Nicola Townsend, the inn’s general manager, told the paper that the guests have been respectful of each other and nobody has gotten "loud and drunk." The report said that some people who were stranded were guests at the inn.
Julia Roberts celebrates twins Hazel and Phinnaeus' 17th birthday with rare photo: 'Sweetest years of life': The 'Pretty Woman' star and cinematographer Daniel Moder said 'I do' in July 2002. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Julia Roberts is reflecting on motherhood. The notoriously private actress took to Instagram on Sunday and posted a throwback photo of her twins to commemorate their 17th birthday. The Oscar winner and her husband, cinematographer Daniel Moder, share daughter Hazel Patricia and son Phinnaeus "Finn" Walter. They are also proud parents to son Henry Daniel, 14. In the pic, the actress is seen snuggling up with her twin children as newborns. JULIA ROBERTS SHARES RARE PHOTO WITH HUSBAND DANIEL MODER FOR 19TH ANNIVERSARY: ‘JUST GETTING STARTED’ Julia Roberts is notoriously private about her personal life. "17 of the Sweetest years of life," the 54-year-old captioned the adorable snap. Moder, 52, also took to Instagram and shared a rare photo of his children to commemorate the special occasion. "These rabble rousers," he wrote. "17 today. Thank you for helping me through fatherhood." CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Danny Moder and daughter Hazel Moder arrive at the premiere of 'Flag Day' during the 74th Cannes Film Festival held at the Palais des Festivals in Cannes, France. The couple met on Roberts’ 2001 film "The Mexican," where Moder served as a cinematographer. A year later, they said "I do" on the Fourth of July in 2002. In July, Roberts gave fans a rare glimpse of her continuing romance with Moder. The "Pretty Woman" performer shared a sweet selfie on Instagram as the pair rang in their 19th wedding anniversary. "19 years. Just getting started!" Roberts wrote in the caption of the post in which she dons an orange bird-logo cap pulled low over her signature blonde locks, a floral-print blouse and oversized shades. In 2018, Roberts raved about the love she shares with Moder to Extra! and called him an "awesome human being" while adding that the pair "have so much fun." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Julia Roberts and Daniel Moder celebrated their 19th anniversary this year. "If we go to work together and go home together – all that work time – when you come home and [say], 'Oh, honey, how was your day?' We did all that in the day and in the car," she explained of their working relationship while on their 2015 movie "The Secret in Their Eyes." "So when we got home we got to put that all away, which was really delightful." Fox News' Julius Young contributed to this report.
Charlize Theron stuns in yellow one-piece while being a responsible mom on vacation in Mexico: The 'Old Guard' actress was on vacation with her two daughters and her mom. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Charlize Theron showed off her beach body while vacationing with her mother and two daughters in Cabo San Lucas over the holiday weekend. While most other Americans were gaining weight over the Thanksgiving weekend, the "Old Guard" and "Atomic Blonde" actress took to the beach in Mexico with her family to show that she’s somehow keeping quite fit as the holiday season kicks off. The star was spotted in a yellow, strapless one-piece swimsuit over the weekend as she went for a dip while vacationing with her mother, Gerda, and her two adopted daughters, Jackson and August. In various snaps, the star is seen exiting the water, laughing as she splashes around with her kids. The Oscar winner takes her role as a mom to adopted kids seriously and isn’t afraid of opening up about her challenges. The star discussed how she approached the topic of racism with her two girls, who are Black, during an appearance on "The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon" in July 2020. CHARLIZE THERON NOT FOCUSED ON DATING, SAYS GWYNETH PALTROW'S SEPARATE-HOME LIVING'S 'MY KIND OF RELATIONSHIP' Charlize Theron was spotted swimming with her family in Mexico over the Thanksgiving holiday. "The day I became a parent, I vowed that I would always tell them the truth in a way that they could handle. I feel like this is such an important moment for them, for all of us," Theron, 46, said at the time, noting that kids oftentimes "have an awareness." "I wanted them to know what this was all about, what happened to George Floyd and to so many other Black bodies that have died from this violence. I wanted them to have an awareness of how unfair and how unjust all of this is," Theron added. "I know that there's a part in telling them some of that ugliness about the world that would make them grow up a little bit faster than they should have or would have normally during this period, but I think this is too important of a moment to not be completely transparent." Charlize Theron swam with her kids while on vacation in Cabo. CHARLIZE THERON SAYS IT'S 'A LITTLE HEARTBREAKING' SHE WON'T GET TO STAR AS FURIOSA IN 'MAD MAX' PREQUEL The actress said that her daughters took the information "really well," but that the conversation was "heartbreaking at first." "That is really ultimately what it is. How do we allow anything like this to happen on our watch? They really wanted to be proactive and really wanted to know, what can we do?" Theron said. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Theron previously spoke with Entertainment Tonight about raising Black children, explaining that "as a parent, it's been a difficult time." Charlize Theron dutifully keeps track of her family's boogie boards while on vacation in Cabo. "I think all parents, we want to believe we have time. And the world has kind of shaken me in a way that I realize that I don't have time," she said. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "There was a moment where I felt like a little piece of my children's innocence was taken from them during this period because I had to sit down with them and have really, really hard, honest conversations about some really ugly things in our world today that they need to know. I want them to know because I want to raise two little warriors." Fox News’ Nate Day contributed to this report.
Cyber Bronco? Unusual 2-for-1 Cyber Monday deal surfaces for Ford's 4x4 SUV: Sweepstakes raising money for Henry Ford's historic Fair Lane estate. The 2021 Ford Bronco is the first model to wear the name in 25 years. Fox News Autos Editor Gary Gastelu travelled to Texas hill country to find out if it lives up to it. Your chances of winning this raffle are probably as good as finding a Ford Bronco to buy. Tickets to win a new Bronco SUV being offered through a charity sweepstakes aimed at raising money for Henry Ford's historic Fair Lane estate museum in Michigan are available as a two-for-one deal through Cyber Monday. A $25 donation now gets you 40 tickets instead of 20, and several tiers improve the deal up to a total of 8,000 tickets for $2,000. The truck is a Bronco Big Bend customized by racer Vaughn Gittin Jr's. RTR and equipped with the outfit's signature off-road accessories plus unique interior trim that includes a plan of the Fair Lane estate on the dashboard, leather upholstery inspired by the home's billiard room, a wood shifter inlay that uses walnut from the estate and a copper dash plaque made from metal borrowed from the home's roof. The sweepstakes runs through December 20 and a winner will be drawn the same day. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The Bronco is currently one of the fastest-selling vehicles and hard to find due in part to the ongoing shortage of automotive parts that's led some dealers to mark their trucks up by as much as double the list price.
Will Smith's 'Bad Boys' 1994 Porsche 911 Turbo is being auctioned for the first time: Was originally owned by director Michael Bay. The 2021 Porsche Taycan Cross Turismo is the brand's first all-electric station wagon, but Fox News Autos Editor Gary Gastelu says its far from a retro ride. "Bad Boys" fans, whatcha gonna do about this car auction? This 1994 Porsche 911 Turbo was featured in the film "Bad Boys". The 1994 Porsche 911 Turbo driven by Will Smith’s character, Mike Lowrey, in the buddy cop action blockbuster will be crossing the block for the first time at the Mecum Auctions Kissimmee, Fla., event in January. The 911 Turbo can be seen on the movie poster. The black coupe is one of just 350 that were built that year and by far the most famous. The 911 Turbo is currently registered in Florida with a BADBYS1 license plate. It was originally owned by the film’s director, Michael Bay, then sold privately several times over the years. The 911 Turbo has 34,396 miles on it. According to Mecum, the last time it changed hands was in 2014 when the current owner purchased it for the second time, reclaiming it from a collector who bought it in 2005. The 355 hp rear-wheel-drive car is well driven with 34,396 miles showing on the odometer, and well documented with letters of certification from both Porsche and the film’s producers. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Mecum hasn’t offered a pre-sale estimate on the car, which could accelerate to 60 mph in 4.0 seconds, but it cost around $110,000 when new and the Hagerty Price Guide says it could be worth over $300,000 without the celebrity connection.
Political cartoon of the day: It's based on science!: Check back each day to see them all!. It's based on science! 11.29.21 No more mean tweets 11.28.21 Equity justice 11.27.21 Socialists drool 11.26.21 Safe spaces 11.25.21 Master of disguise 11.24.21 On the chopping block 11.23.21 Woke blinders on? 11.22.21 Taking notes 11.21.21 Kenosha blowback  11.20.21 Adding fuel to the fire 11.19.21 Down the toilet 11.18.21 Pointing fingers 11.17.21 Misplaced priorities? 11.16.21 Hung out to dry? 11.15.21 Political science  11.14.21 Dems' go-to arguments 11.13.21 Moving the goalposts 11.12.21 Media's missing priorities. 11.11.21 Plugging the pipeline 11.10.21 Shooting himself in the foot 11.9.21 Steaming mad
11.8.21 Hibernation over  11.7.21 Driven to win  11.6.21 That failed far-left magic
11.5.21 Virginia is for lovers...of Democracy
11.4.21 While Biden sleeps
11.3.21 'Jab' turns into low blow
11.2.21 This next dedication goes out to Brandon 11.1.21 Far-left logic  10.31.21 Not Nancy  10.30.21 Not intimidated 10.29.21 Joe's got it under control 10.28.21 Bad buzz 10.27.21   Crime spike? What crime spike? 10.24.21 Hypocrisy exposed 10.23.21 Let's go, Biden? 10.22.21 Diving into debt 10.21.21 Misplaced priorities?
10.20.21 How old are you kids?
10.19.21 Dumpster fire 10.18.21  Breaking point
10.16.21 2020 hindsight 10.15.21 Fauci in the rearview
10.13.21 Border redrawn Garland's memo 10.11.21 Traditions in the Trash 10.10.21 Along for the ride
10.9.21 Art meets reality
10.8.21 Justice is blind?
10.7.21 Deception in vogue?
10.6.21 US is selling the farm
10.5.21 Full steam ahead 10.4.21 Laughing at whose expense?  Finger pointing
10.1.21 Too many curveballs
9.30.21 Save the lipstick
9.29.21 Misplaced outrage?
9.28.21 Trial by fire 9.27.21 What amendment? 9.26  Newsom on notice
9.25.21 Lifeguard's litmus test
9.24.21 Bridge over Biden's disaster
9.23.21 Sick and sickle?
9.22.21 Dems immigration policy flaws
9.21.21 Give us your tired, your poor and Democratic voters 9.20.21 Biden's wrecking ball Master plan
9.18.21 Wrong priorities? 9.17.21 Anything Goes 9.12.21 Somebody 'woke' up Gen. Milley 9.16.21 America’s greatest threat? 9.15.21 Joe's Taliban booster shot Something stinks 9.13.21 America Remembers 9.11.21 Dems' diversion Biden's bungled airlift 9.9.2021 One happy fetus 9.8.21 Wandering thoughts 9.7.21 Larry v. Goliath
9.6.21 After the defunding  9.5.21 Odd man out 9.4.21 Gunslinger Joe
9.3.21 Their hero 9.2.21 September 1, 2021 No comparison
9.1.21 Hey Joe, somewhere you need to be?
8-31-2021 A failed plan
8.30.21 Fair warning  8.29.21 Biden's care package  8.28.21 Remembering the fallen
8.27.21 Who's the boss?
8.26.21 A major cleanup
8.25.21 Who's pulling the strings
8.23.21 Blame the middleman.  8.22.21 Didn't see it coming  8.21.21 Pulling the pin on diplomacy
8.20.21 While Milley napped ...
8.19.21 House specials 8.18.21 Fiddling while the world burns
8.17.21 Joe's Saigon moment
8.16.21 Word police watching  8.15.21 Dems' cover-up  8.14.21 Burning money
8.13.21 Taking a bite out of the dollar
8.12.21 Biden, Dems seize opportunity
8.11.21 Congress tosses away kid's future
8.10.21 Iceberg on the Potomac
8.9.21 For me, not thee 8.8.21 Worms crawl in, worms crawl out 8.7.21 Sticking it to the Constitution
8.6.21 Dems crawl back 8.5.21 A helping hand
8.4.21 Bubble Wrap to the rescue
8.3.21 Puttering along 8.2.21 Life in the nanny state  8.1.21 Selective outrage  7.31.21 Biden's mixed messages 7.30.21 'Follow the science' 7.29.21 Judge and jury
7.28.21 A load of bull
7.27.21 Best of political cartoons: AOC's solution to methane problems Gold Coast loses its shine
7.26.21 Best of political cartoons: When Democrats attack  7.25.21 Best of political cartoons: History of leftist panic 7.24.21 Erasing history 7.23.21 Bye bye golden goose 7.22.217.22.21 Spreading fear
7.21.21 Best of political cartoons: America's most lethal virus
7.19.21 Best of political cartoons: Eye of the beholder  7.18.21 His greatest fear realized
7.16.21 Biden's Cuba policy
7.15.21 Highly 'critical'
7.14.21 The coattails of prosperity
7.13.21 Best of political cartoons: Losing the patient Introducing: The Hunter Biden Art Gallery
7.12.21  Sounding the alarm  7.10.21 The man behind the...bag?
7.9.21 Slaying the three-headed dragon
7.8.21 Dem's 'repair' kit 7.7.21 Dem's new credo 7.6.21 Milley's medal 7.5.21 'With liberty and justice for all'  7.4.21 The ol' ball and chain 7.3.21 Dont't let school interfere with education
7.2.21 No shelter from the storm
7.1.21 Who's the dummy?
6.30.21 On the backs of slave labor
6.29.21 Psaki's shoe licker
6.28.21 Do as I say  6.27.21 Mismatch 6.26.21 Chuck sees dead people
6.25.21 Garbage in, garbage out?
6.24.21 Dem's crime solution
6.23.21 I'll Take Potpourri for $1,000
6.22.21 Misplaced concerns? 6.21.21 Biden mails it in  6.20.21 Tagger Joe 6.19.21 Art of the deals 6.18.21 Threat to homeland 6.17.21 The world stage 6.16.21 Pandemic origins 6.15.21 Who has America's back? Nowhere to hide  6.13.21 Changing the subject 6.12.21 Consumers bear the costs
6.11.21 Constitution up in smoke
6.10.21 Swinging the pendulum
6.9.21 Chasing windmills
6.8.21 Rookie mistake
6.7.21 Minnesota Woke 6.6.21 Wrong-way Biden 6.5.21 Fauci's droplets 6.4.21 Worth rewriting
6.3.21 Upside down world
6.2.21 Pelosi's taking names?
6.1.21 Freedom's foundation
5.28.21 Xi's pets
5.27.21  Bait and switch
5.25.21  None of your lip 5.23.21 Governors lead the way  5.22.21 Petro pals
5.21.21 Damned if he does
5.20.21 All bark, not bite 5.19.21 Follow the money
5.17.21 Class warfare 5.16.21 Crash and burn
5.15.21 Buyer's remorse
5.14.21 'Squad' cheering on Israel's sworn enemy
5.13.21 And the award goes to...
5.12.21 Long-term side effects 5.18.21 Shifting political winds
5.11.21 Buyer beware
5.10.21 Dems' loose lips 5.9.21 Joltin' Joe  5.8.21 Censorship meets its match?
5.7.21 Media splitting country over race
5.6.21 The smell test
5.5.21 Critical race theory accessory
5.4.21 Facing racism head on Please Riot Again! 5-2 Hit Piece 5-1 Burdened with debt
4.30.21 Rudy Giuliani under the microscope 4.29.21 Foot in the mouth
4.28.21 The man behind the mask
4.27.21 Equity isn't always equal
4.26.21 License to abuse  4.25.21 Weather happens  4.24.21 State of emergencies  4.18.21 Merit, schmerit
4.23.21 Silenced by color
4.22.21 Pouring gasoline on the fire
4.21.21 One last roadblock
4.20.21 Two-headed monster
4.19.21 The irony  4.17.21 Harris a puppeteer for Biden China policy
4.16.21 One big joke
4.15.21 From Bernie to BLM 4.14.21 Biden's infrastructure plan like putting lipstick on a pig
4.13.21 Ready to ignite
4.12.21 Weighty decision  4.11.21 Editor Joe  4.10.21 Senseless acts
4.9.21 Mixed message
4.8.21 It's starting to show
4.7.21 Democratic denial
4.6.21 MLB buys into 'woke' propaganda
4.5.21 Easter in Minnesota  4.4.21 Packed in  4.3.21 Mad about taxes
4.2.21 Pumping up his rep
4.1.21 Devil in the details
3.31.21 Election reform stake 3.30.21 Mixed messages 3.29.21 Unlimited supply  3.28.21 Any Democrat who's handy  3.27.21  Running on empty 3.25.21 Second Amendment under fire
3.24.21 Off with their heads! 3.23.21 Rolling out the red carpet.
3.22.21 No police allowed 3.21.21 Biden's fall 3.20.21 Ultimate slap in the face 3.19.21 Biden's Border Crisis 3.18.2021 The blame game 3.16.21 Obedience training 3.16.21 Inside Biden's mind 3.15.21 Dangerous waters 3.14.21 Just read the prompter 3.13.21 Cagey president? 3.12.21 Have you seen my dogs? 3.11.21 Royal robbery 3.10.21 Playing Biden like a violin 3.9.21 Return to open borders 3.8.21 AlphaNewsMN.com Cartoon, March 7, 2021 The Gipper speaks 3.6.21 A Cancel lineup 3.5.21 Rush Limbaugh at the Pearly gates Biden's migrant blood on hands The real Andrew Cuomo? 3/3/2021 Mr Potato Head goes gender-neutral 3.2.21 Fauci moves the goalposts yet again 3.1.21 First things first  2.28.21 Shot in the dark?  2.27.21 Going to the piggy bank 2.26.21 Free speech under fire  2.25.21 Mixed media message 2.24.21 The man behind the curtain 2.23.21 Who's running the White House 2.22.21 Licenses for all 2.21.21 Biden checks the boxes 2.20.21 Trump gone, but not forgotten 2.19.21 Passing the torch of truth and liberty 2.18.21 Global chill 2.17.21 Another swing and a miss! 2.16.21 Mickey Mouse fights freedom of speech 2.15.21 Dem governor's priorities 2.14.21 Cuomo wins again 2.13.21 Taking aim 2.12.21 Where is the media's attention? 2.11.21 Dems going "where no one has gone before"
2.10.21 Left's unhealthy addiction to Trump
Feb 09, 2021 Feb 08, 2021 Feb 07, 2021 Feb 06, 2021 Feb 03, 2021 Jan 31, 2021 Feb 05, 2021 Feb 04, 2021 Feb 02, 2021 Feb 01, 2021 Jan 29, 2021 Jan 28, 2021 Jan 27, 2021 Jan 26, 2021 Jan 25, 2021 Nowhere to hide  6.13.21
Win $5,000 playing FOX Bet Super 6 'Quiz Show': Answer questions on football, travel, and Adele: Contestants can play for free on FOX Bet Super 6 app. Fox Nation host Tom Shillue reveals the questions for the $5,000 Quiz Show on 'Fox & Friends' this week. The FOX Bet Super 6 "Quiz Show," a weekly contest that features six multiple-choice questions on sports, stocks, movies and more, offers contestants a $5,000 grand prize. All contestants have to do each week is try to correctly answer six multiple-choice questions on topics ranging from sports to weather to entertainment to politics for a shot at the grand prize. The FOX Bet Super 6 app is free to download and the contests are free to enter. Fox Nation's Tom Shillue revealed this week's questions on "Fox & Friends," which include guessing the winner and margin of victory in the Ohio State-Michigan game, how many travelers will pass through TSA checkpoints the day after Thanksgiving, and how many Adele songs will make the top 10 of Spotify's "Top 200" U.S. daily stream chart on Friday. PLAY THE FOX BET SUPER 6 QUIZ SHOW More than $5 million has been paid out to various Super 6 contest winners so far. App users can also play other games answering questions on various sporting events, including the popular weekly "NFL Sunday Challenge" where you can win $100,000 of Terry Bradshaw's money. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP FOX Bet Super 6 is available nationwide with the exception of Washington state. FOX Bet is an online and mobile sportsbook originally developed through a first-of-its-kind national media and sports wagering partnership in the United States between The Stars Group Inc. and FOX Sports, a unit of Fox Corporation. On May 5, 2020, Flutter Entertainment Plc announced its acquisition of and subsequent merger with The Stars Group.
