L.A. County wants Vanessa Bryant's suit over crash photos dismissed. Lawyers for Los Angeles County asked the court Monday to issue a summary judgment in Vanessa Bryant's lawsuit, which would lead to dismissal of her damage claim over photos taken at the site of the helicopter crash that killed her husband, Kobe Bryant.A hearing was scheduled for late next month. Bryant's attorney, Luis Li, said by email that he had no comment, but he confirmed that her legal team planned to file a response in December.The county's motion, filed before U.S. Magistrate Judge Charles F. Eick and U.S. District Judge John F. Walter, argues that because the photos were not shared with the general public, any harm Bryant suffered has been "hypothetical." "It is undisputed that the complained-of photos have never been in the media, on the Internet, or otherwise publicly disseminated," county lawyers said in Monday's documents. "Plaintiff Vanessa Bryant has never seen County photos of her family members. There is no ... standing to sue for a hypothetical harm." Bryant's suit, the motion says, is "without legal merit and should be dismissed."The claim, filed last year in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles, says Bryant experienced severe emotional distress and alleges invasion of privacy after Los Angeles County first responders, including fire department and sheriff's employees, shared photographs of Kobe Bryant’s body.Also in the wreckage from the crash in Calabasas, California, in January 2020 were the remains of the Bryants' daughter Gianna, 13.The suit claims that "gratuitous photos of the dead children, parents and coaches" were shared. The county does not dispute that personnel showed the photos to other people, but its lawyers argue that they were shown mostly to authorized personnel.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsEl Paso firefighter arrested and accused of 'impersonating a public servant'U.S. newsU.S. newsMan seen carrying speaker's lectern at Jan. 6 riot pleads guiltyOne of four deputies named as defendants, Joey Cruz, admitted in a memo submitted to the court that he showed crash site photos to a niece and to an employee of a bar.Bryant's lawsuit argued that the images were shared widely within the sheriff's department. In March, Sheriff Alex Villanueva ordered deputies to delete any crash site images they had on their cellphones.County lawyers said supervisors took "appropriate action" after they learned that the images had been shown to others. The disciplinary status of deputies named in the suit was unknown. The county fire department moved to terminate firefighters said to have shared the images.Eick ordered Villanueva and Fire Chief Daryl Osby to give depositions last month because, he wrote, they appear to have "unique first-hand, non-repetitive knowledge" that is relevant.The helicopter crash on Jan. 26, 2020, killed all onboard: two of Gianna’s 13-year-old basketball teammates, Payton Chester and Alyssa Altobelli; Payton’s mother, Sarah; Alyssa’s parents, coach John Altobelli and his wife, Keri; coach Christina Mauser, 38; and pilot Ara Zobayan. The group was traveling from Santa Ana to Kobe Bryant’s Mamba Sports Academy in Thousand Oaks, two counties away, for a basketball tournament when the Sikorsky S-76B helicopter they were in encountered a marine layer of clouds and ultimately slammed into a hillside.The National Transportation Safety Board said in February that pilot disorientation was likely to have been a cause.
GOP Rep. Louie Gohmert announces bid for Texas attorney general. GOP Rep. Louie Gohmert announced Monday that he is running for Texas attorney general, throwing his hat in the ring for what's expected to be one of the most closely watched state races in 2022.Gohmert, who has served in Congress since 2005, said in a video announcement that he has already raised $1 million in his bid to unseat fellow Republican Ken Paxton. If elected, Gohmert said he would prioritize "election integrity," push back on "unconstitutional mandates" and clamp down on border crossings."A priority will be election integrity so that every legal vote counts," Gohmert said. "If you allow me, I will not wait to be my busiest until after there's some bad press about legal improprieties, I'll start boldly protecting your rights on day one."Paxton is under indictment on securities fraud charges and faces an FBI probe into allegations that he abused his office. In both instances, Paxton has denied any wrongdoing and rebuffed bipartisan calls to resign.Gohmert also said he would fight against pandemic mandates and take a hard line on immigration."Unconstitutional mandates will not be tolerated from anyone — parental consent is still an important concept in America, and especially in Texas," he said. "The invasion across our Southern border has to stop, but they're still pouring in."Texas has been at the forefront of resisting federal mandates from the Biden administration. It's also engaged in numerous legal battles with the Justice Department over voting laws, abortion and Covid policies.RecommendedLatinoLatino'Historic': White House pitches Build Back Better's help for Latino families Politics NewsPolitics NewsHouse committee seeking Jan. 6 documents urges appeals court to release Trump files quicklyGohmert is joining a crowded field of candidates that includes George P. Bush, the state's land commissioner who's also the son of former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush. GOP state Rep. Matt Krause and former Texas Supreme Court Justice Eva Guzman, a Republican, have also filed paperwork to run.Two Democrats are running for attorney general. Candidates have until mid-December to register to run. The primary is scheduled for March.Paxton won re-election in 2018 with 50 percent of the vote. He is seeking a third term under a cloud of legal and professional troubles, including the State Bar of Texas investigating whether his efforts to overturn the 2020 presidential election amounted to professional misconduct, according to The Associated Press.Gohmert last year filed a lawsuit that sought to overturn the 2020 presidential election results by allowing then-Vice President Mike Pence to hand the election to former President Donald Trump. The courts rejected the attempt, ruling that Gohmert and a group of 11 Arizona electors who favored Trump did not have standing to change Pence's constitutional role.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Prosecutor says defendants attacked Arbery because he was 'a Black man running down the street'. The three white men charged with murder in the killing of Ahmaud Arbery made the decision to “attack” because Arbery “was a Black man running down the street,” not because he was a threat, prosecutor Linda Dunikoski said Monday during closing arguments.  “Mr. Arbery was under attack,” Dunikoski told jurors, adding that the defendants were not justified in chasing and killing Arbery.Travis McMichael; his father, Gregory McMichael; and neighbor William “Roddie” Bryan are accused of pursuing Arbery in separate pickup trucks on Feb. 23, 2020, through the Satilla Shores neighborhood where they lived in Brunswick, Georgia. Travis McMichael shot Arbery, 25, with a shotgun at close range. Bryan filmed the fatal encounter on his cellphone. Closing arguments underway in trial over Ahmaud Arbery's killingNov. 22, 202103:05The three defendants were arrested months later after the video leaked and brought the world’s attention to the case.All are charged with malice murder, felony murder, aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony. They face up to life in prison if convicted.Closing arguments in the case began Monday and will continue Tuesday morning with a final rebuttal from the prosecution before the case goes to the jury.Defense lawyers have said that the defendants suspected that Arbery was a burglar and that they were attempting to carry out a citizen’s arrest, which was legal at the time. They also contend that Travis McMichael shot Arbery in self-defense. Dunikoski said Monday that the three defendants committed four felonies against Arbery and then “they shot and killed him. Not because he’s a threat to them, but because he wouldn’t stop and talk to them.”She said the defense was going to try to convince jurors that Arbery was the attacker and somehow a threat to the men.“Three-on-one, two pickup trucks, two guns," she said of the defendants. "Mr. Arbery,  nothing in his pockets. Not a cellphone, not a gun. Not even an ID,” she said.“If you are the initial unjustified aggressor, you don’t get to claim self defense,” she said.  Dunikoski also said the defendants were not conducting a “citizen’s arrest” because they did not see Arbery commit a crime in their presence that day and they had no immediate knowledge that Arbery had committed a crime.“The suggestion that Ahmaud committed a crime is based on what? Not immediate knowledge, but speculation,” she said.Defense attorneys for the McMichaels have said the men were protecting a neighborhood that had seen a rise in crime. "A good neighborhood is always policing itself," Laura Hogue, an attorney for Gregory McMichael told jurors during closing arguments. Each defendant has his own defense team.Jason Sheffield, who represents Travis McMichael, said Monday that his client had “the right to perform a citizen’s arrest” and believed Arbery committed the crime of burglary. Arbery had been spotted several times on security camera video at a nearby home under construction. The videos never showed Arbery taking anything from the property.“You do have the right to have a firearm when you make an arrest,” Sheffield said. “You do have the right to stop a person and to hold them and detain them for the police. And there is risk with that and there are tragic consequences that can come from that.”Sheffield said Travis McMichael had his own “horrifying” experience about two weeks before the fatal shooting when he saw a man in his neighborhood “run across the street and then duck into the shadows.” Travis McMichael has said the man, who was described to police as a Black male, lifted his shirt and acted as if he was reaching for his pocket.Sheffield said McMichael had also seen videos of a man at the home that was under construction and spoken with the man who owned the house about having property stolen from a boat.“He’s seen everything other than the hand on the equipment that was stolen,” the attorney said.Kevin Gough, the attorney for Bryan, sought to separate his client from the McMichaels and diminish Bryan's role in the men’s encounter with Arbery.“Mr. Bryan’s presence doesn’t contribute in a direct or substantial way to the death of Mr. Arbery,” Gough said. “Because the McMichaels were certainly capable of catching up with him and shooting if that was their intention.”Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Kyle Rittenhouse claims he supports Black Lives Matter in Tucker Carlson interview. Kyle Rittenhouse, who was acquitted on all charges related to his fatal shooting of two people at a racial injustice protest last year, says he supports the Black Lives Matter movement. "I’m not a racist person. I support the BLM movement. I support peacefully demonstrating," Rittenhouse told Fox News' Tucker Carlson in an interview that aired Monday night. "And I believe there needs to be change. I believe there’s a lot of prosecutorial misconduct, not just in my case, but in other cases," he said. "And it’s just amazing to see how much a prosecutor can take advantage of somebody."Rittenhouse, 18, was found not guilty Friday of charges related to the fatal shooting of two men and the wounding of a third during protests in Kenosha, Wisconsin, over the shooting of Jacob Blake, a Black man, by a white police officer. Rittenhouse's lawyers argued that Rittenhouse, of neighboring Illinois, was defending himself from attackers after he went to Wisconsin to protect businesses and provide medical assistance during the demonstrations in August 2020.Kyle Rittenhouse acquitted on all charges in homicide trialNov. 19, 202102:47"I told everybody there: 'I had to do it. I was just attacked.' I was dizzy. I was vomiting. I couldn’t breathe," Rittenhouse told Carlson. He said he tried to turn himself into police that night but was told to leave and was pepper-sprayed.“This case has nothing to do with race. It never had anything to do with race. It had to do with the right to self-defense,” he added. Rittenhouse's acquittal sparked some protests around the country, while many conservatives rejoiced. Conservatives paid most of his $2 million bond last year through a legal defense fund, and he has been met with praise by right-wing commentators, including Carlson. After Rittenhouse was released on bond, prosecutors said he was spotted at a Wisconsin bar flashing the “OK” sign — a gesture that has been co-opted by known white supremacist groups.He was also seen consuming alcohol while being serenaded by a group of adult men who sang the Proud Boys’ anthem, according to prosecutors who filed a motion with the court to restrict him from doing such things. Rittenhouse's lawyer said at the time that he was not and never had been a member of a white supremacist group. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsEl Paso firefighter arrested and accused of 'impersonating a public servant'Crime & CourtsCrime & CourtsL.A. County wants Vanessa Bryant's suit over crash photos dismissedRittenhouse told Carlson that lies have been told about him and that his case has been politicized.He was critical of President Joe Biden, who during the 2020 presidential campaign tweeted that President Donald Trump "refused to disavow white supremacists on the debate stage."The tweet included a campaign video that included a still image of Rittenhouse, among other footage of other events. The question at the debate was about white supremacists and militia groups and mentioned violence in Kenosha and Portland, Oregon."Mr. President, if I could say one thing to you, I would urge you to go back and watch the trial and understand the facts before you make a statement," Rittenhouse said in the interview that aired Monday. "It's actual malice, defaming my character, for him to say something like that."Rittenhouse is an online student at Arizona State University and said he hopes to attend school on campus, but he's not sure yet. Rittenhouse said he wants to become a nurse and may study law."I'm hoping I can live a quiet, stress-free life and be free of any intimidation or harassment and just go on with my life as a normal 18-year-old kid attending college," he said.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Can lobsters and octopuses feel pain? Scientists say yes, and the U.K. is listening. Lobsters, octopus and crabs are now among animals the United Kingdom plans to classify as sentient beings, a step that could lay the groundwork for changes in how these animals are treated and slaughtered in the  country. The British government, which is working on a reformation of its animal welfare laws following Brexit, added cephalopods (including squids and octopus, among others) and decapods (lobsters, crabs and shrimp, among others) last week to the roster of species included in a bill that would formally recognize some animals’ capability to experience feelings such as pain. The bill would create a committee that aims to ensure the  U.K. considers animals’ sentience as it designs public policy. The original bill considered all animals with backbones as sentient, leaving out other creatures  such as lobsters, octopus and crabs. The expansion comes after a report by the London School of Economics found these animals have the capacity to experience pain or distress. Researchers assessed and weighed more than 300 studies evaluating neurological or behavioral indicators in these invertebrate species, said Jonathan Birch, a professor at the London School of Economics and a principal investigator on the Foundations of Animal Sentience project. The studies examined things  such as whether animals  have pain receptors, whether they  demonstrate an ability to learn and how they  respond to pain-relieving drugs. “In all the cases, the balance of evidence seemed to tilt toward sentience. In octopus, that’s very strong. And looking at shrimps … confidence is much lower,” Birch said. He said researchers are interested in a range of animal feelings, including joy, pleasure and comfort. But pain and suffering have particular relevance in animal welfare  laws. The changes to the bill won’t have immediate consequences for restaurants or commercial fishing businesses, but could help shape future British animal welfare policy, according to the government’s news release. RecommendedCoronavirusCoronavirusHow Covid shots for kids help prevent dangerous new variantsClimate in CrisisClimate in CrisisThree U.S. cities have hired chief heat officers, a sign of an emerging major threatAs new policies are created, government ministers would have to evaluate their impact on animals and how they feel. “When you respect something as a sentient being, the sort of principles you accept for other sentient beings have to apply,” Birch said. “Humane slaughter requires training. These are principles people readily grant for any vertebrate.” The report considered commercial animal welfare concerns and recommended against practices  such as live boiling lobster without stunning, declawing crabs or selling live decapods to untrained handlers. The report could not identify a humane way that’s commercially viable to kill octopus and other cephalopods, the report says. The main ways people on fishing vessels kill these creatures in European waters — clubbing them, slicing their brains or by asphyxiating them in a suspended net bag, shouldn’t be acceptable, the report says. “There’s a real lack of research in this area,” Birch said. “Methods regarded as standard for humane killing in science can’t be done on a commercial scale to produce an edible product. That’s a fundamental issue we want to raise.” The animal welfare bill is moving through the U.K. Parliament’s upper chamber, the House of Lords, before it heads to the House of Commons, where it is expected to receive favor. Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Families of Parkland shooting victims settle with U.S. over FBI's failure to stop gunman. The Justice Department reached a tentative agreement Monday to settle lawsuits filed by families of the victims of the mass school shooting in Parkland, Florida, that left 17 people dead in 2018, according to a federal court filing.The families claimed that the FBI failed to follow up on tip about the gunman. “The parties are presently working to finalize additional details before submission for final approval by the appropriate Department of Justice official,” a notice filed in U.S. District Court in Florida said.According to the filing, once the details are finalized and the settlement is approved, the families will ask the court to dismiss the cases.FBI got a tip before Parkland shooting but did not follow upFeb. 16, 201802:15In the days after the incident Feb. 14, 2018, at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School — one of the deadliest school shootings in recent U.S. history — the FBI revealed that someone close to the shooter, Nikolas Cruz, had called an agency tip line about him.The person described Cruz's "gun ownership, desire to kill people, erratic behavior and disturbing social media posts," the agency said at the time.The caller also warned that Cruz was potentially capable of carrying out a school shooting.The tip wasn't assessed as a "potential threat to life" or forwarded to the FBI's field office in Miami, about 40 miles south of Parkland, as it should have been, the agency said.The confidential agreement reached Monday applies to families of 16 of the people who were killed, The Associated Press reported. One family chose not to sue.In a statement obtained by the AP, the families' lead lawyer, Kristina Infante, said it had "been an honor to represent the Parkland families who, through their immeasurable grief, have devoted themselves to making the world a safer place."“Although no resolution could ever restore what the Parkland families lost, this settlement marks an important step toward justice,” she said.Cruz, 23, pleaded guilty last month to 17 counts of murder and 17 counts of attempted murder. In a statement, he apologized for his crimes, saying they bring him nightmares daily. Jury selection for his sentencing is scheduled to begin Jan. 4.CORRECTION (Nov. 22, 2021, 8:10 p.m. ET): A previous version of this article misstated the date of the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. It was Feb. 14, 2018, not Feb. 16.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Chun Doo-hwan, ex-South Korean strongman, dies at  90. SEOUL, South Korea — Former South Korean military strongman Chun Doo-hwan, who took power in a 1979 coup and brutally crushed pro-democracy protests before going to prison for misdeeds in office, died on Tuesday. He was 90.Emergency officials said Chun died at his home. Police earlier said Chun suffered a cardiac arrest and emergency officials rushed to his Seoul residence.Hundreds of pro-democracy protesters were killed and tens of thousands were imprisoned during Chun’s presidency in the 1980s, but he allowed some liberalization after years of authoritarian rule. Under public pressure, he allowed the first direct and free election in the nation’s history.Former South Korean President Chun Doo-hwan speaks during a press conference in Seoul, South Korea, on Nov. 6, 1978.Yonhap via APFacing massive criticism after he left office in 1988, Chun took refuge for two years in a Buddhist temple before being arrested. He was tried for corruption, mutiny and treason and was sentenced to death upon conviction. He was pardoned in 1997 in a bid for national reconciliation.Chun was an army major general when he seized power in December 1979 with his military cronies. Tanks and troops rolled into Seoul in a coup that came less than two months after his mentor, President Park Chung-hee, was assassinated by the intelligence chief during a late-night drinking party.Chun quickly consolidated his power by suppressing a civil uprising in the southern city of Gwangju, then spelled Kwangju. His government also imprisoned tens of thousands of students and other citizens, saying it was rooting out social evil.Government records show the military crackdown on Gwangju resulted in the deaths of about 200 people. Activists, however, say far more civilians died. Chun’s military tribunal arrested opposition leader Kim Dae-jung and sentenced him to death for allegedly fomenting the Gwangju uprising.After the United States intervened, Kim’s sentence was reduced and he was later freed.South Korea’s economy boomed during Chun’s tenure. The country also successfully held the 1986 Asian Games and won the rights to host the 1988 Summer Olympics, which began after he left office.Chun introduced several liberalizing measures, including an end to a Korean War-era curfew and an easing of restrictions on overseas trips. To get Washington’s endorsement of his military-backed government, he reportedly dropped plans to develop atomic bombs and longer-range missiles.Chun sought reconciliation with North Korea by seeking summit talks with then-leader Kim Il Sung, the late grandfather of current leader Kim Jong Un. He also approved exchanges of visits by families separated by the Korean War and accepted a rare offer of flood aid from North Korea.North Korea, however, repeatedly challenged South Korea during Chun’s rule. In 1983, North Korean commandos triggered a bomb attack that targeted Chun during a visit to Myanmar. Chun narrowly escaped injury in the attack, which killed 21 people, including several South Korean government ministers. In 1987, North Korean agents bombed a South Korean airliner, killing all 115 people on board.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsEl Paso firefighter arrested and accused of 'impersonating a public servant'Crime & CourtsCrime & CourtsL.A. County wants Vanessa Bryant's suit over crash photos dismissedAt home, public anger and demonstrations over human rights abuses and an indirect presidential election system led to Chun eventually accepting a constitutional revision for a direct election system.Roh Tae-woo, Chun’s army colleague who assisted during his coup, won the 1987 election, largely thanks to a vote split among liberal opposition candidates.Calls mounted for Chun to be punished for corruption and human rights abuses.Former pro-democracy fighter Kim Yong-sam became president in 1993 and had both Chun and Roh stand trial as part of a reform drive.They were convicted of mutiny and treason over the coup and Gwangju crackdown, as well as corruption. Chun was sentenced to death and Roh to 22 1/2 years in prison.Those sentences were later reduced by the Supreme Court. Kim pardoned the two former presidents in late 1997 at the request of President-elect Kim Dae-jung, the once-jailed activist, who sought national reconciliation and the revival of the economy hit by an Asian foreign exchange crisis.Roh died last month at age 88 from complications from various illnesses.Before Chun was released, the court ordered him to pay back $190 million he had amassed in a slush fund during his rule. He returned only a portion, arguing he was broke, until his family said in 2013 that it would hand over real estate, paintings and other assets to pay back the remainder.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
J.K. Rowling slams transgender activists for posting her home address on Twitter. “Harry Potter” author J.K. Rowling slammed transgender activists Monday for publicizing her home address on social media. On Friday night, the eve of Transgender Day of Remembrance, comedian Holly Stars, actor Georgia Frost and drag king Richard Energy staged a demonstration in front of Rowling's home near Edinburgh, Scotland, in protest against her controversial views on the trans community. In a thread on Twitter, Rowling bashed the trio for "doxxing" her when they posted a now-deleted photo on the social media site with her home address visible in the background. "Doxxing" is the publication of someone's private information online without their consent."I have to assume that @IAmGeorgiaFrost, @hollywstars and @Richard_Energy_ thought doxxing me would intimidate me out of speaking up for women’s sex-based rights," Rowling wrote. "They should have reflected on the fact that I’ve now received so many death threats I could paper the house with them, and I haven’t stopped speaking out.""Perhaps — and I’m just throwing this out there — the best way to prove your movement isn’t a threat to women, is to stop stalking, harassing and threatening us," she added.Stars defended posting the photo and said she deleted the tweet after she received online threats."While we stand by the photo, since posting it we have received an overwhelming amount of serious and threatening transphobic messages so have decided to take the photo down," Stars wrote. "Love to our trans siblings."The disagreement is the latest battle in a war between Rowling and trans activists. Over the last several years, Rowling has been criticized for her controversial views on the trans community, which some have called transphobic.The rift blew up in 2019 when Rowling expressed her support for Maya Forstater, a British tax specialist who was fired for tweets that were deemed to be anti-transgender. Rowling then drew criticism for a slew of  tweets that were widely seen as including transphobic ideas.Last year, she doubled down on her views in a nearly 4,000-word blog post, questioning whether a “contagion” fueled by social media has led to the rise in the number of young people coming out as transgender. In the blog post, she also revealed that she is a survivor of domestic abuse and sexual assault. RecommendedNBC Out & ProudNBC Out & ProudAll-transgender hockey team takes the ice in WisconsinCulture MattersCulture MattersEddie Redmayne says it was a 'mistake' to play trans character in 'The Danish Girl'“So I want trans women to be safe. At the same time, I do not want to make natal girls and women less safe. When you throw open the doors of bathrooms and changing rooms to any man who believes or feels he’s a woman — and, as I’ve said, gender confirmation certificates may now be granted without any need for surgery or hormones — then you open the door to any and all men who wish to come inside. That is the simple truth,” she wrote.Rowling's views have led many to label her as a "TERF," which stands for transgender-exclusionary radical feminist. On Monday, she again defended women who share her views on trans people."None of these women are protected in the way I am. They and their families have been put into a state of fear and distress for no other reason than that they refuse to uncritically accept that the socio-political concept of gender identity should replace that of sex," she wrote. "Harry Potter" star Daniel Radcliffe hit back at Rowling last year in an essay, declaring that "transgender women are women.” “Any statement to the contrary erases the identity and dignity of transgender people and goes against all advice given by professional health care associations, who have far more expertise on this subject matter than either Jo or I,” he wrote, using a nickname for Rowling.Cast members from all eight films of the “Harry Potter” series, including Radcliffe, announced last week that they will reunite for the film franchise’s 20th anniversary.Rowling will not appear in the reunion special but will be featured in archival footage.Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & Instagram Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Shoplifting incident with 80 suspects is  worst they've seen, retired police say. A shoplifting incident involving 80 people accused of grabbing items and rushing out of a Nordstrom store in California in under a minute Saturday night is among the worst such episodes they’ve heard of,  two longtime police officers say.“These type of smash-and-grabs I have not seen in my 45 years in law enforcement,” said Andrew Scott, who was the police chief in Boca Raton, Florida, from 1998 to 2006. “I haven’t seen smash-and-grabs in such a mass scale. ... They ultimately blitzkrieg a particular location. ... And in the matter of minutes, in just a couple of minutes, they can literally steal hundreds of thousands of dollars of product.”About 80 looters descended on the Nordstrom at about 9 p.m. in the city’s Broadway Plaza, Walnut Creek police said. An employee was pepper-sprayed, and two others were punched and kicked, a police spokesperson said. The robbers were in and out of the store within a minute, police said. Officials didn’t specify the estimated value of the items that were stolen.The incident is among a cluster of quick-hit robberies that have been plaguing high-end retail stores and pharmacies in the San Francisco area all year.Dozens of looters target California Nordstrom in violent robberyNov. 22, 202101:59The shoplifting was “clearly a planned event,” police said.Timothy T. Williams Jr., who spent 29 years with the Los Angeles Police Department before he retired from its Robbery-Homicide Division, said he has also never seen so many suspects accused in a shoplifting incident.“That’s a hell of a lot,” Williams said. “Businesses need to invest in displays that are shatterproof. That will be a deterrent. They can’t go in and do smash-and-grab because nothing is smashing for them to grab.”Walnut Creek police said three people were arrested in connection with Saturday night’s incident.NBC Bay Area reported that a jewelry store in Southland Mall in Hayward, California, was targeted Sunday afternoon by about nine people who used hammers to smash cases before they fled. Police in Hayward and Walnut Creek, which is about 30 miles northeast, didn’t return requests for comment Monday about whether the incidents might be connected.Walgreens announced last month that it would close five stores in San Francisco because of organized retail theft.“Retail theft across our San Francisco stores has continued to increase in the past few months to five times our chain average” despite large increases in security, Walgreens spokesperson Phil Caruso said in a statement at the time.In an incident that seemed particularly shocking in San Francisco, a group of shoplifters in July was recorded on cellphone video sprinting out of a Neiman Marcus in Union Square lugging “several tens of thousands of dollars” in stolen merchandise, police said. The same month, city leaders pushed back against critics who argued that the shoplifting incidents were out of control. City officials released a midyear public safety report, which, according to police data, showed that overall thefts were down by 9 percent in the first six months of the year compared to the same period last year.San Francisco police didn’t respond to a request for comment or updated theft statistics Monday.Although the thefts have been clustered in California, they have also occurred elsewhere.Video shows 14 suspects raid Chicago Louis Vuitton storeNov. 22, 202100:40More than a dozen people in a Chicago suburb were recorded on security video Wednesday afternoon grabbing bags and wiping shelves clear at a Louis Vuitton store.The stolen merchandise was estimated at $120,000, Oak Brook police said in a statement.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Kevin Spacey loses arbitration case against 'House of Cards' production company . Actor Kevin Spacey breached his contract with the company that produced the Netflix series "House of Cards," MRC, an arbiter has ruled. MRC was awarded nearly $31 million — $29.5 million in damages and $1.4 million in attorneys’ fees and costs. “The safety of our employees, sets and work environments is of paramount importance to MRC and why we set out to push for accountability," MRC said in a statement.Spacey was fired from the show in 2017 following multiple sexual assault and misconduct allegations against him. Attorneys for Spacey did not immediately return a request for comment.In MRC’s petition to confirm the arbitration award, it stated that once it became aware of the allegations against Spacey it suspended him. After an investigation, he was terminated. The documents state that Spacey breached "provisions of both the Acting and Executive Producing Agreements that set standards for his workplace conduct, including by breaching MRC’s Harassment Policy.” The ruling was made in October 2020, and Spacey's appeal was denied earlier this month. The ruling became public on Monday when MRC moved to have the ruling confirmed in a Los Angeles court, according to The Wall Street Journal. RecommendedCulture MattersCulture MattersRobert Bly, prominent poet and author of ‘Iron John,’ dies at 95Pop Culture NewsPop Culture NewsMembers of Cody Rigsby's 'Peloton cult' don't care if you think 'DWTS' is unfairSpacey, who was an executive producer of the show, had already begun filming season six of "House of Cards" when he was fired. The episodes had to be trashed as the show re-wrote the season.MRC filed the complaint against Spacey in 2019. The actor has had multiple sexual assault and misconduct allegations brought forth against him beginning in late 2017. That year, Spacey was accused by Broadway veteran Anthony Rapp and Mexican actor Roberto Cavazos of inappropriate sexual behavior. In an article published by Buzzfeed News, Rapp wrote that Spacey laid on top of him in 1986 when he was 14 years old in an incident Rapp characterized as a sexual advance. Spacey said in a statement at the time that he didn’t remember the alleged incident but was “beyond horrified” and apologized.In 2018, Spacey was charged with indecent assault in Nantucket Island, Mass. in an incident involving a teenage boy, Variety reported. Spacey pleaded not guilty, and the charge was later dropped when the alleged victim withdrew their civil lawsuit.
LeBron James suspended 1 game, Isaiah Stewart out for 2 after on-court altercation. LeBron James of the Los Angeles Lakers has been suspended for one game and Detroit’s Isaiah Stewart was suspended two games for their roles in an ugly incident during Sunday’s Lakers-Pistons game.The NBA announced the suspensions Monday, and both will affect games on Tuesday. James will not play when the Lakers visit Madison Square Garden to play the New York Knicks. Stewart will miss the Pistons’ home game against Miami on Tuesday and their game Wednesday at Milwaukee.James will forfeit about $284,000 in salary, while Stewart will lose about $45,000. It is the first suspension in the 19-year career of James, who has won four NBA titles with three teams.The Lakers and Pistons meet again Sunday in Los Angeles, and James and Stewart will both be eligible to play.Stewart, the NBA said, was disciplined for “escalating an on-court altercation by repeatedly and aggressively pursuing ... James in an unsportsmanlike manner.” James merited the suspension “for recklessly hitting Stewart in the face and initiating an on-court altercation,” the NBA said.The incident happened in the third quarter, starting when James and Stewart were jostling for position during a free throw. Their arms appeared to get intertwined and James swung his elbow, making contact with Stewart, who quickly had blood streaming from above his eye. James, it appeared, attempted to defuse the situation after realizing he’d made contact with Stewart and drawn blood.It didn’t take long for most of the players from both teams — along with the referees, coaches and security personnel — to join the fray and try to keep James and Stewart separated. Within 25 seconds of the contact being made by James, there were at least 25 people on the floor. Referee Phenizee Ransom attached himself to James.Cooler heads seemed to prevail, for a moment. Stewart was guided away from the spot where the contact occurred by teammates and coaches, though he appeared to become more incensed along the way. He then tried to double back — on multiple occasions — and run toward James. A number of people again blocked his path and made sure the incident didn’t get uglier.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsEl Paso firefighter arrested and accused of 'impersonating a public servant'Crime & CourtsCrime & CourtsL.A. County wants Vanessa Bryant's suit over crash photos dismissedPistons coach Dwane Casey said Stewart needed eight stitches to close the wound, adding that he did not think what Stewart did in reaction to the play merited a suspension.“His eye got cracked all the way open. He was upset for a reason,” Casey said.Stewart eventually left the floor, seeming to sprint again as he did so, and there was concern that he would try to head back toward the floor through another entry tunnel. Pistons guard Cory Joseph even headed toward that tunnel, just in case — and with the blessing of referee Scott Foster, the game’s crew chief.“After Isaiah Stewart left the court, Cory was anticipating he may come around the back of (the) house and enter the Laker bench from the opposite side,” Foster told a pool reporter after the game. “So, he was going to intercept him. I actually told Cory that would be good.”Stewart was assessed two technical fouls, James was assessed a Flagrant Foul Penalty 2, and both players were ejected.James has been sanctioned multiple times by the league in the past, receiving fines for everything from flopping, skipping news conferences and kicking a water bottle. But the suspension is his first, and means he will miss the Lakers’ lone game this season at Madison Square Garden — one of his favorite arenas.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Peter Aykroyd, former 'Saturday Night Live' writer and cast member, dies at 66. Peter Aykroyd, a former cast member and writer on “Saturday Night Live” and brother to Dan Aykroyd, has died. He was 66. A cause of death was not released.RecommendedPop Culture NewsPop Culture NewsKevin Spacey loses arbitration case against 'House of Cards' production company Culture MattersCulture MattersRobert Bly, prominent poet and author of ‘Iron John,’ dies at 95Aykroyd’s passing was announced on Saturday’s Simu Liu-hosted episode of “Saturday Night Live.” The program aired a tribute to the late comic in the form of a short film that he had starred in titled “The Java Junkie.” The noir parody features Aykroyd as a buggy character darting around town to satiate his coffee addiction. The short ends with a title card in tribute to Aykroyd.Peter Aykroyd was born on Nov. 19, 1955, and was raised in Ottawa, Canada, with his older brother, Dan. He joined the Second City comedy troupe in Toronto after playing roles on “The New Avengers” and “SCTV.”Aykroyd joined “Saturday Night Live” in 1979, serving as a writer and featured player. He earned a shared Emmy nomination in the category of outstanding writing in a variety or music program during his year-long tenure at the show.Blues Brothers docuseries is reportedly in the worksOct. 28, 202100:34Aykroyd continued to work alongside his brother throughout his career, playing featured roles in the films “Coneheads” and “Spies Like Us.” Peter and Dan also co-wrote the 1991 comedy “Nothing but Trouble.” He also played a voice role on the “The Blues Brothers” animated series alongside Jim Belushi. The pair took on the roles originated by their respective brothers, Dan and John, on “Saturday Night Live” and in the 1980 comedy film.In the later 1990s, Peter Aykroyd worked with Christopher Chacon as co-creators on the series “PSI Factor: Chronicles of the Paranormal,” a Canadian sci-fi program hosted by Dan Aykroyd. The series enjoyed a four-season run.
Desperate for cash, Afghan families are selling young daughters into marriage. SHAIDAI, Afghanistan — Bashful, with long locks of rust-colored hair dyed with henna, Benazir fidgets with a handful of gravel when the topic of her marriage comes up.She looks down at the ground and buries her head in her knees when she is asked whether she knows she has been promised to another family to marry one of their sons.Her father says he will receive the equivalent of $2,000 for Benazir, but he hasn’t explained the details to her or what’s expected of her. She’s too young to understand, he says.Benazir is 8 years old.It is traditional for families here to pay dowries to brides’ families for marriages, but it is extreme to arrange a marriage for a child so young. And the economic collapse after the Taliban’s takeover in August has forced already poor families to make desperate choices. Benazir, 8, second right, walks with a group in Herat, Afghanistan. NBC NewsThe days are filled with hardships for children here in Shaidai, a desert community on the mountainous edge of Herat in western Afghanistan.Children like Benazir and her siblings beg on the streets or collect garbage to heat their simple mud homes because they don’t have enough money for wood.Her father, Murad Khan, a day laborer who hasn’t found work in months and has eight children to feed, looks much older than his 55 years — his face is worn with worry. His decision to sell Benazir to marriage at such a young age comes down to a cold calculation.“We are 10 people in the family. I’m trying to keep 10 alive by sacrificing one,” he said in Pashto. Khan said the arrangement is for Benazir to be married to a boy from a family in Iran when she reaches puberty. He hasn’t received the money yet for her dowry, and he said that as soon as he does, Benazir will be taken away by the man who bought her.“I’ve been telling the shopkeepers I’ve sold my daughter and I will be paying them back, so they have given me some food as a loan.” A father of a 7-year-old Girl“He will just take her hand and take her away from me,” he said. “He will take her away and say, ‘She’s ours now.’”A combination of a severe drought that decreased livestock and farmers’ yields and the freezing of foreign aid by governments that don’t recognize the new Taliban government has pushed poor Afghans over the edge.Promising their daughters early for marriage in exchange for cash is seen as a lifeline for families that barely have a scrap of bread to eat.Benazir, right, lights a fire with discarded paper to cook bread with a group of children in Herat.NBC NewsThe U.N. Population Fund has warned that it is “deeply concerned” by reports that child marriage is on the rise in Afghanistan. Henrietta Fore, the executive director of UNICEF, said in a statement: “We have received credible reports of families offering daughters as young as 20 days old up for future marriage in return for a dowry.”‘A piece of your heart’Benazir’s best friend, Saliha, who is just 7, has been sold for marriage for the same price, $2,000, to someone in the family of her father-in-law in Faryab province in the north.Benazir and Saliha already have responsibilities in the community. They go to a local mosque together to collect water, a scarcity in the desert, and haul the hefty jugs together back to their homes.Like her older neighbors, Saliha also spins yarn — pulling at a matted cloud of wool brought by traders and twisting it into neat spools of string. It takes four days to refine 8 pounds of the material, which earns her a dollar. But the family is in debt. Saliha’s father, Muhammed Khan, says he took out loans from store owners in town.Farzana is 8 months old but weighs just 6½  pounds.NBC News“I’ve been telling the shopkeepers I’ve sold my daughter and I will be paying them back, so they have given me some food as a loan,” he said.The money he makes from selling Saliha will help pay it all back and feed her four siblings.It was a soul-wrenching decision, he says. “Your children are a piece of your heart. If I wasn’t forced to do this, why would I do it?” he says.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsEl Paso firefighter arrested and accused of 'impersonating a public servant'Crime & CourtsCrime & CourtsL.A. County wants Vanessa Bryant's suit over crash photos dismissedAfghanistan was a poor country before the Taliban took over, propped up by foreign aid. According to the World Bank, about 75 percent of public finances were supplied by grants from the U.S. and other countries.When the  U.S. military withdrew and the hard-line Islamist Taliban government took over, a lot of that aid money was frozen. Salaries dried up and the flow of cash came to an abrupt halt, creating a humanitarian crisis.And things look likely to get worse as the crisis spirals, with more than half the population facing hunger and 3.2 million children suffering from malnutrition, according to the U.N. World Food Program. The agency said it has never seen so many people facing emergency levels of food insecurity in Afghanistan, where all 34 provinces are affected.In the relatively wealthy province of Herat in western Afghanistan, an emergency feeding center is running out of beds. The Doctors Without Borders-run facility at Herat Regional Hospital treats the most severely malnourished babies, like tiny Farzana, who at 8 months old weighs just 6 ½ pounds. She is one of 75 babies being cared for here.Her father is a butcher. His business has collapsed so badly that he couldn’t keep feeding his family.Farzana lies without making a sound, a tiny, pale, bone-thin arm sticking out, and her wide eyes don’t blink.“What we are seeing is very small kids, which are not well breastfed by the mothers because the mothers are all so malnourished they can’t produce enough breast milk to feed them,” said Gaia Giletta, Doctors Without Borders’ head nurse for pediatrics at the feeding center.Because of disruptions to health care and aid agencies across the region, Giletta said, many kids get no primary care. For many who arrive, it is already too late — a child dies nearly every day here.Another baby at the center, Ali, is small and pale, barely mustering up energy to cry. His mother, Smita Umar, was herself malnourished, so Ali was born too weak to suckle. At 4 months old, he has already spent three months at the center.“My husband is a house painter,” Umar said. “But he sold his tools so we could feed the baby. Things have  got worse since the Taliban came. What little we had went to zero.”Richard Engel, Gabe Joselow and Ahmed Mengli reported from Herat. Yuliya Talmazan reported from London.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Indigenous groups say Big Oil’s pollution threatens their existence in Canadian forest. This article was published in partnership with Inside Climate News, a nonprofit, independent news outlet that covers climate, energy and the environment. It is part of “The Fifth Crime,” a series on ecocide.FORT McMURRAY, Alberta — The land around Jean L’Hommecourt’s cabin was once miles away from the noise of the world. On long summer days, she would come with her mother to gather berries from the forest and to hunt moose when the leaves turned yellow and the air crisp.But over the last two decades, the cabin has been surrounded by the expanding mines of Alberta’s tar sands, where oil companies have dug vast open pits to extract a heavy form of crude called bitumen. L’Hommecourt and her Indigenous community of Fort McKay, about 35 miles north of Fort McMurray, have watched as the companies have replaced their traditional lands with a 40-mile string of mines, stripping away subarctic boreal forest and wetlands and rerouting waterways.“It’s an invasion of our territory, invasion of us trying to be out on the land,” L’Hommecourt said. Over the years, more and more workers have shown up in the area, stopping her along the road to tell her that she couldn’t hunt moose or that she was trespassing.“‘You’re the trespasser,’” she tells them. “‘I shouldn’t have to be answering your questions — you answer mine.’”Jean L'Hommecourt warms at the fire outside the cabin she has built near the Fort McKay First Nation's village, about an hour's drive north of Fort McMurray in Alberta.Michael KodasOil and gas companies like ExxonMobil and the Canadian giant Suncor have transformed the tar sands — also called oil sands — into one of the world’s largest industrial developments, covering an area larger than New York City. They have built sprawling waste pits that leach heavy metals into groundwater and processing plants that spew pollutants into the air, sending a sour stench for miles.The mines’ ecological impacts are so vast and so deep that L’Hommecourt and other Indigenous people here — mostly from the Dene and Cree First Nations — say the industry has challenged their very existence, even as it has provided jobs and revenue to Native businesses and communities. People in this region have long suspected that the tar sands mines were poisoning the land and everything it feeds.The economic benefits of the development are immense: Oil is Canada’s top export, and the mining and energy sector as a whole accounts for nearly a quarter of Alberta’s provincial economy. The sands pump out more than 3 million barrels of oil per day, helping make Canada the world’s fourth-largest oil producer and the top exporter of crude to the U.S. But the companies’ energy-hungry extraction has also made the oil and gas sector Canada’s largest source of greenhouse gas emissions, according to a government report. The largest oil sands companies have pledged to reduce their emissions, saying they will rely largely on government-subsidized carbon capture projects. Yet oil companies and the government expect output will climb well into the 2030s. Even a new proposal by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to cap emissions in the oil sector does not include any plan to lower production.Some lawyers and advocates have pointed to the tar sands as a prime example of the widespread environmental destruction they call “ecocide.” They are pushing the International Criminal Court to outlaw ecocide as a crime, on par with genocide or war crimes. While the campaign for a new international law is likely to last years, with no assurance that it will succeed, it has drawn attention to the inability of countries’ laws to contain industrial development like the tar sands, which will pollute the land for decades or centuries.Mike Mercredi, who is Dene and lives in Fort Chipewyan, about 100 miles north of Fort McKay, noted that the name of his people translates as “people of the land.”“It’s in our name of who we call ourselves,” he said. “We are the land. So when you’re destroying that land, when you’re committing ecocide, you’re committing genocide.”Julie King, an Exxon spokeswoman, said, “ExxonMobil is committed to operating our businesses in a responsible and sustainable manner, working to minimize environmental impacts and supporting the communities where we live and work.”Leithan Slade, a spokesman for Suncor, pointed to agreements the company has signed with First Nations, adding that “Suncor sees partnering with Indigenous communities as foundational to successful energy development.”L’Hommecourt is intimately familiar with the partnerships through her work as an environmental coordinator and researcher for the Fort McKay First Nation, of which she is a member, and in that position she has fought to protect whatever shreds of land she could. Her cabin is only 20 miles from town as the crow flies, but the drive takes more than an hour, because the road has to loop around several mines. The land, she said, is where she can think in her language, Dene, “where in the outside world it’s all English.”“You get that sense of belonging here,” she said, “and that’s what I want for our peoples, to have their land back.” She added, “If you have your land back, you have everything.”The tar sandsThe only way to fully appreciate the scope of the tar sands is to see the mines from the air. Flying across the region from the north, the twisting channels of the Peace-Athabasca Delta dominate the landscape, snaking through forest and marshlands with not a road or a power line in sight.The terrain gives way to a mixture of forest, muskeg and drylands, where the sandy soil rises to the surface. Out of nowhere, straight lines emerge — a wide, unpaved highway and paths leading to squares carved out of the forest, where companies have explored for oil.Then the mines come into view. Billowing plumes of smoke fill the sky. Flames shoot out of flare stacks. The forest’s green is replaced by vast black holes pockmarked with giant puddles. From the air, the dump trucks and the shovels look like toys, hauling mounds of bitumen from newly dug pits. As the plane nears its descent, the cabin fills with a tarry stench.“It’s just the most completely ludicrous approach to industrial and energy development that is possible, given everything we know about the impact on ecosystems, the impact on climate,” said Dale Marshall, the national program manager for Environmental Defence, a Canadian advocacy group.To extract bitumen from the sand, oil companies heat it and then treat it in a slurry of water and solvents. In other parts of Alberta, where the sands are too deep to mine, the bitumen is melted in place and extracted through wells by pumping high-pressure steam underground. The deeper deposits cover a much larger area than the mines, more than 50,000 square miles.The Syncrude Operation north of Fort McMurray, Alberta.Michael KodasThe extraction requires enormous amounts of energy: In 2018, the latest year for which figures are available, oil sands producers consumed 30 percent of all the natural gas burned in Canada. Collectively, the mines’ and deep-extraction projects’ greenhouse gas emissions about equal those of 21 coal-fired power plants, and that’s just to get the crude out of the ground.The operations also pump out nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, traces of which have been detected by scientists in soils and snowpack dozens of miles away.The mines guzzle vast quantities of water, with nearly 58 billion gallons drawn from the region’s rivers, lakes and aquifers in 2019, according to government figures. Much of that ends up as toxic liquid waste laced with hydrocarbons, naphthenic acids and carcinogenic heavy metals. Oil companies have been collecting the “tailings” in waste ponds, which have grown exponentially in size and now cover more than 100 square miles. Regulatory filings show that the ponds are expected to continue to expand well into the 2030s. While companies are required by law to eventually reclaim them, only a fraction have been reclaimed so far.Next to one pond, a coal-black mountain of debris towers over the water. High-voltage lines buzz overhead. Air cannons ring the pond and blast several times every minute, creating a constant explosive din. Industrial iron scarecrows are dressed with safety vests and helmets. The noise and the display are meant to scare off the millions of migratory birds that arrive in northern Alberta every year.North of Fort McMurray, scarecrows dressed like workers and devices that produce loud explosions that sound like gunshots are spread out around a Syncrude tailings pond, which has toxic water that could kill birds that land on it.Michael KodasSometimes even those defenses fail, however, or the birds ignore them and land anyway — tens of thousands every year, according to a 2016 report to provincial regulators, obtained this year by The Narwhal, a nonprofit Canadian news organization.Ottilie Coldbeck, a spokeswoman for the Alberta Energy Regulator, which oversees the industry, said the research in the report “was not considered complete.”The history	 White explorers set their sights on the tar sands as soon as they arrived. In 1789, Sir Alexander Mackenzie reported seeing veins of “bituminous quality” exposed along the Athabasca River. Within a century, prospectors and geologists had identified “almost inexhaustible supplies” of petroleum in the area. The only obstacle seemed to be the people living above it.In 1891, the superintendent general of Indian affairs recommended drafting a treaty “with a view to the extinguishment of the Indians’ title” to open access to petroleum and other minerals. Within eight years, First Nations leaders had signed Treaty 8, in which they surrendered title of 325,000 square miles of land to the British crown while retaining the right to hunt, fish and trap freely throughout the area.The tar sands remained largely beyond reach for decades, however, until Americans, driven by nationalistic ambitions, invested vast sums of capital.When J. Howard Pew, of Sun Oil Co., opened the first commercial mine in 1967, the people of Fort McKay were not happy, said Jim Boucher, who led the First Nation as chief for three decades, until 2019. Sun Oil, now Suncor, took over an important summer hunting ground called Tar Island, he said. “There was no discussion, no consultation,” Boucher said.The fur trade had provided the nation’s members with one of their few sources of income. But it collapsed just as the oil industry was taking hold, and they had few alternatives but to turn to the oil companies’ rapidly expanding mines.“We had no choice,” Boucher said.After he became chief in 1986, Boucher formed the Fort McKay Group of Companies to work with the oil industry, and over the following decades he oversaw partnerships with energy companies that would eventually net hundreds of millions of dollars for the community.The income has allowed Fort McKay to build subsidized housing and to pay for education and elder care, achievements that Boucher rattles off proudly. Enrolled members receive quarterly dividends.Jim Boucher was the chief of the Fort McKay First Nation from 1986 until 1994 and again from 1996 until 2019.Michael KodasSome First Nations have fought the development with lawsuits. The Beaver Lake Cree Nation, to the south, sued the federal and provincial governments in 2008, saying its treaty rights had been violated by the cumulative effects of development. Even though it got a ruling five years later allowing the case to proceed, the case is still awaiting trial, with a court date scheduled for 2024.Each of the area’s First Nations has signed “impact benefit agreements” with the oil companies that can include limits on certain practices, like water withdrawals, quotas for hiring Indigenous people and direct payments to the nations. But even as the impact agreements have secured benefits, they have deepened reliance on an industry that is consuming the land that was once the base of the Indigenous economy and culture.​​L’Hommecourt, who is Boucher’s cousin, said she holds no resentment toward him for tying their people’s fate to the industry.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsEl Paso firefighter arrested and accused of 'impersonating a public servant'Crime & CourtsCrime & CourtsL.A. County wants Vanessa Bryant's suit over crash photos dismissed“He did what he had to do, and as a chief I commend him,” L’Hommecourt said. “They call us the richest little First Nation in Canada.”Boucher lost his grandfather’s cabin, where he learned to hunt and trap as a boy, to a mine dug by Syncrude, a consortium of oil companies. A cabin Boucher later built for his father, to the north, now sits on a postage stamp of land, he said, surrounded by newer mines.“It’s empty. That’s how the cabin is to me,” Boucher said. “So I don’t go there anymore. No joy.” The effects	 While the mines cover an expansive area, their impact on the environment reaches much farther.The town of Fort Chipewyan sits where the Peace and Athabasca rivers empty into Lake Athabasca, about 90 miles north of the closest mine, and the land here offers a glimpse of what existed before. The mostly Indigenous residents can still hunt and trap in unbroken stretches of boreal forest.But while the nights are quiet and the air smells clean, the industry’s presence is strong. Kids zoom around town on ATVs, while the supermarket displays boxes of 87-inch flat-screen TVs —  ”toys,” as some residents call them, that only those who work in the industry can afford.And despite the lake’s distance from the development, the flesh of some animals that drink from it is laced with some of the same heavy metals that collect in the waste pits.In 2010, a paper published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences found elevated levels of mercury, lead, nickel and other heavy metals in the river downstream of oil sands development, as well as in Lake Athabasca. Three years later, another study in the same journal examined lake sediments surrounding Fort McMurray and found that a group of chemicals that include cancer-causing compounds started rising in the 1960s and ʼ70s, when oil sands development began.The Athabasca Chipewyan and Mikisew Cree First Nations commissioned Stéphane McLachlan, an environmental scientist at the University of Manitoba, to test the tissues of animals, and in 2014 he released a report finding elevated levels of toxic pollutants — including arsenic, mercury and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons — in the flesh of moose, ducks and muskrats in the region.Provincial officials acknowledge that the mines’ waste ponds leak into groundwater. To “limit the risk” that the seepage will spread farther, the Alberta Energy Regulator requires companies to install drains, wells, sumps and underground walls to capture and contain the contamination, said Coldbeck, the agency spokeswoman.An oil sands mine in Alberta adjacent to boreal forest outside of Fort McMurray.Michael KodasFederal and provincial officials have disputed research that has linked groundwater contamination to the waste pits, citing other studies that indicate that the compounds may be naturally occurring in groundwater because they are contained in bitumen.But last year, the Commission for Environmental Cooperation, an environmental body created alongside the North American Free Trade Agreement, assessed all the published studies of water contamination and concluded that there was “scientifically valid evidence” that the waste pits were leaching contaminants into groundwater. The analysis noted that some research has concluded that the contamination reached the Athabasca River but that scientists were still debating the findings.Asked about the report, Coldbeck said her agency “does not have any evidence” that contaminated groundwater has reached the Athabasca River. In response to a question about health concerns, she said the agency “is committed to ensuring that Alberta’s oil sands are developed in a safe and responsible manner” and referred questions to Alberta Health, the province’s public health agency.A spokesperson for Alberta Health did not reply to requests for comment.A spokeswoman for the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers declined to comment, pointing instead to reports the group has issued about engagement with Indigenous communities and about greenhouse gas emissions.Meanwhile, published surveys of cancer cases in Fort Chipewyan carried out in 2009 and 2014 came up with mixed results. Both showed higher-than-normal rates of certain cancers, including biliary tract cancers. One study determined that overall cancer rates were elevated. The other did not.Alice Rigney, an elder with the Athabasca Chipewyan First Nation, blames the oil development for her nephew’s death from bile duct cancer, even as she acknowledges that there is nothing to prove the connection.“They took it all away,” she said of the oil companies, speaking not just about her nephew but also about the broader environmental impacts. “What else is there to take?”The futureThe global oil industry is increasingly under assault, and Canada’s tar sands, because of the developments’ high greenhouse gas emissions, are a prime target of climate activists. Because new tar sands projects require billions of dollars of investment up front, many financial analysts say the era of opening new mines is over.		But even if production from the mines holds steady or declines gradually, their massive footprints are likely to expand for decades, because companies must continue to clear land to keep up production.And whenever the mines do decline, the industry will face the challenge of what to do with the waste it has produced. The provincial government has secured $730 million from companies as collateral for a cleanup, but that will not even begin to cover the costs. While regulators’ official estimate of the liability for Alberta’s mining industry is $27 billion, an internal report obtained in 2018 by Canadian journalists estimated cleanup costs of more than $100 billion. Jean L'Hommecourt visits a river near the Fort McKay First Nation's village about an hour's drive north of Fort McMurray in Alberta.Michael KodasL’Hommecourt said she is torn about whether she will remain here. “My heart is in the boreal forest,” she said. But her kids want to move away, and if they do, she might, too. The mines are coming closer to the cabin, and more roads are being blocked off.Regulatory filings show that Imperial Oil plans eventually to reroute the creek that runs past her cabin to make way for its Kearl mine. If it does so, the land where the cabin sits would be buried by land cleared from elsewhere within the mine.A spokeswoman for Imperial, Exxon’s Canadian affiliate, declined to comment specifically on the filings but said the company “has collaborative and unique relationship agreements with these local communities that provide mutual benefits.”The cabin itself has been a symbol of L’Hommecourt’s resistance. It sits on an old trappers’ trail that Imperial’s workers began using about 10 years ago as an unpaved access road for exploration, marking it off with a “No Trespassing” sign. L’Hommecourt built her cabin in the middle of that road.“I just said, ‘I don’t care,’” L’Hommecourt said. “I’m going to put my house right here, and this is where it’s going to be.” When company workers come by, she said, “I just tell them, ‘Turn around and go back, and if you have a problem with it, get your VP or whoever it is that you report to and then tell them to come and see me.’”So far, no one has shown up.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Could Kyle Rittenhouse face civil penalties despite acquittals in Kenosha deaths? . As an 18-year-old online college student, Kyle Rittenhouse wouldn't appear to have deep pockets to pay for any award should he face —and lose — a civil trial in the shooting deaths of the two men he was acquitted of killing on Friday. But Rittenhouse has proven to be a prodigious fundraiser when it comes to gathering resources to pay for his bail and defense in the wake of the deadly violence last year in the aftermath of the police shooting of Jacob Blake in Kenosha, Wisc."He's a public figure now, and money might come in," said Ion Meyn, who teaches law at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. "I'm not convinced there's nothing there."  Supporters have already given more than $2 million for his legal defense.If Rittenhouse were taken to civil trial for wrongful death, the teen could claim self-defense, as he did during the criminal case. He has said that he went to Kenosha to protect property from rioters but that he came under attack and feared for his life when he shot three people, two of them fatally. But the burden of proof civil plaintiffs need to make, by a preponderance of evidence rather than beyond a reasonable doubt, is much lower than what Kenosha prosecutors faced during the criminal trial, legal experts say."In a civil case you just have to prove negligence," said Rory Little, a professor at the University of California Hastings College of Law. "Did his conduct fall below the standard of care that the average person would have?"Rittenhouse "could say, 'I didn't have the intent to kill anyone — I just panicked,'" Little added. "The jury could still say, 'We didn't think the average person would do what you did.' If your conduct is judged to be less than that, you lose."A civil action would also allow a jury to examine a broader range of evidence.In the criminal case against Rittenhouse, Judge Bruce Schroeder barred jurors from considering Rittenhouse's links to the sometimes-violent, far-right Proud Boys and from seeing a video that prosecutors said showed him injuring a teenage girl. Instead, jurors were told to focus on the few moments before the shootings — or what Little called "a narrow piece of the day's action.""In a civil case, you can broaden the field," he said. "You can look into things like, what was he doing there?"Kariann Swart, Joseph Rosenbaum's fiancée, Susan Hughes, Anthony Huber's great-aunt, and Hannah Gittings, Anthony Huber's girlfriend, listen to the verdict during Kyle Rittenhouse's trial at the County Courthouse in Kenosha, Wis., on Nov. 19, 2021.Sean Krajacic / Pool via ReutersEven if there's no financial payout for taking Rittenhouse to civil court, the symbolic value of such action could be of emotional value to the victims' families.The families of Ron Goldman and Denise Brown famously took O.J. Simpson to civil court after a criminal jury cleared the former football star of double murder. A civil panel found Simpson liable for Goldman and Brown's deaths, though Simpson has paid only a fraction of the $33.5 million judgment.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsEl Paso firefighter arrested and accused of 'impersonating a public servant'Crime & CourtsCrime & CourtsL.A. County wants Vanessa Bryant's suit over crash photos dismissed"It would make a statement, and there’s definitely people who want to return something else, provide another view," Meyn said."That could be worth something, giving (the victims' families) a certain amount of accountability that the criminal justice system couldn't afford them." Jeff Scott Olson, a civil rights lawyer in Madison, Wisc., said that even though Rittenhouse probably isn't worth a "hill of beans," a civil judgment against him would function as a lien against his assets for years."Maybe he'd come into money," Olson said.The federal government will also likely investigate to determine if a criminal civil rights violation occurred, Little said.  Authorities are unlikely to bring such charges, because the burden of proof — beyond a reasonable doubt — is the same as state criminal court, he said. But every once in a while it happens. Little pointed to the aftermath of the brutal beating of Rodney King in 1991, when four Los Angeles police officers were acquitted of excessive use of force. The year after the acquittal, in a separate case, federal authorities secured convictions against two of the officers for violating King's civil rights. The officers served 30 months in prison.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Groveland Four, the Black men accused in a 1949 rape, get case dismissed. In the summer of 1949, a 17-year-old lodged an accusation that would thrust the rural Florida community of Groveland into decadeslong turmoil: The white teenager told police she and her husband were driving home from a dance when they were attacked by four young Black men who abducted and raped her at gunpoint.The claims made by Norma Padgett, who is now in her 80s, set off a manhunt that spurred an onslaught of violence against Black residents of Groveland, near Orlando, mobilizing the National Guard and prompting Thurgood Marshall, then a lead attorney for the NAACP, to take up the cause of the men who would come to be known as the Groveland Four.It took seven decades before the state of Florida formally recognized how the four accused — Charles Greenlee, Walter Irvin, Samuel Shepherd and Ernest Thomas — were failed by the criminal justice system. Thomas was gunned down by a mob in the wake of Padgett's allegations, and the others have also since died. In 2019, Gov. Ron DeSantis issued the Groveland Four a posthumous pardon.But Monday morning, a circuit court judge in Lake County went further, clearing the charges against the men and issuing a ruling that effectively exonerated them of the crime. Bill Gladson, a local prosecutor, set the extraordinary move into motion last month when he filed paperwork to toss Thomas' and Shepherd's indictments and set aside the sentences and judgments imposed on Greenlee and Irvin."We followed the evidence to see where it led us, and it led us to this moment," Gladson said at a news conference following the judge's decision.Carol Greenlee, the daughter of Charles Greenlee, who at 16 was the youngest of the suspects, wept and fell into the arms of those next to her as a judge formally dismissed the charges."If you know something is right, stand up for it," she said later of the lessons she learned. "Be persistent."In an earlier statement, Carol Greenlee said that despite proclamations from the governor and the state Legislature and a monument dedicated in honor of the Groveland Four, the families were awaiting "full justice" from the judicial branch to feel vindicated.How the lynching of a 14-year-old boy sparked a movementMarch 24, 201812:26Among those who traveled to Florida to witness the court's decision was Marshall's son, Thurgood Marshall Jr."There are countless people we need to remember who suffered similar fates who have been lost to history," Marshall Jr. said at the news conference. "Perhaps of all the cases my father worked on, this one haunted him for many, many years. And he believed there were better days ahead."The Groveland Four became a disturbing example of racial injustice from the Jim Crow-era, and preceded the high-profile killing of Emmett Till, a Black 14-year-old who was lynched in Mississippi in 1955 by white men after he was accused of whistling at a white woman.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsEl Paso firefighter arrested and accused of 'impersonating a public servant'Crime & CourtsCrime & CourtsL.A. County wants Vanessa Bryant's suit over crash photos dismissedSuch incidents show how the desire to protect white women was used to justify racism and the oppression of Black people's rights, said author Gilbert King, whose book "Devil in the Grove," which investigated the Groveland Four case and won the Pulitzer Prize for nonfiction in 2013.Gladson's appeal to ask a judge to dismiss charges against the Groveland Four was not based on whether Padgett may be lying, King said, but rather on the prosecutorial misconduct and the fabrication of evidence at the time.Padgett had said the couple’s car had stalled as they drove home from the dance when they were confronted by the four Black men who attacked her husband before abducting and raping her. Following her accusations, a mob of hundreds of white men led by Lake County Sheriff Willis McCall tracked Thomas to a swamp, where they found him asleep and shot him more than 400 times. Meanwhile, Greenlee, Irvin and Shepherd were arrested and later convicted by all-white juries. Marshall, who years later would become the first Black justice of the Supreme Court, had helped Irvin and Shepherd win appeals to have their case retried. In 1951, while Irvin and Shepherd were being transported, McCall shot the men, claiming they tried to escape. Shepherd, a World War II veteran, was killed, but Irvin survived and was convicted even though an FBI agent testified that prosecutors manufactured evidence against the men.Relatives of the Groveland Four, including Carol Greenlee, right, gather at a  monument that was unveiled in front of the Old Lake County Courthouse in Tavares, Fla., on Feb. 21, 2020. Joe Burbank / TNS via Getty Images fileIrvin, also a World War II veteran, received the death penalty. His sentence was later commuted to life in prison, and he was eventually paroled in 1968. He died the following year.Greenlee was paroled in 1962 and died in 2012.Padgett has rarely spoken publicly about the case, and her family did not return a message seeking comment. She last appeared before the state clemency board in January 2019 to ask them not to pardon the men."Y'all just don't know what kind of horror I've been through for all these many years," she told the board at the time. "I don't want them pardoned, no I do not, and you wouldn't neither."As part of his investigation, Gladson spoke with a grandson of the prosecutor in the case, now deceased, who said his grandfather and a judge believed no rape occurred. Gladson also had Irvin's pants tested at a crime lab, and the results showed no evidence of semen even though jurors at his trial were made to believe it existed.Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, Lake County Sheriff Peyton C. Grinnell, state Rep. Geraldine Thompson and other elected officials and family members unveil the Groveland Four monument in front of the Old Lake County Courthouse in Tavares, Fla., on Feb. 21, 2020.  Joe Burbank / TNS via Getty Images file"Officials, disguised as keepers of the peace and masquerading as ministers of justice, disregarded their oaths, and set in motion a series of events that forever destroyed these men, their families, and a community," Gladson wrote in his motion. "I have not witnessed a more complete breakdown of the criminal justice system."The dismissal of the Groveland Four's case is a rarity, particularly when none of the accused are still living, and prosecutors are generally reluctant or unable to revisit older cases because witnesses are no longer alive or documents and evidence are destroyed or missing.Other states this month moved to recognize people arrested for crimes in such historic cases. A state board in Louisiana unanimously granted a posthumous pardon to Homer Plessy, a Creole man who refused to leave a whites-only train car in the 1890s, which led to the Supreme Court's "separate but equal" ruling. In New York, two men who served decades in prison despite proclaiming their innocence in the 1965 assassination of civil rights icon Malcolm X had their convictions formally thrown out Thursday. Only one of the two men is still alive.A reopening of civil rights-era cases — and a reckoning with the past  — are essential, King said."Sometimes, by going back into the past and correcting a gross injustice, it adds more integrity to the court system today," he said.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
5 counts of homicide recommended for man suspected of driving through Wisconsin Christmas parade. A Wisconsin man was arrested and accused of driving an SUV into crowds at the Waukesha Christmas parade on Main Street as revelers watched in horror, officials said Monday. The man, Darrell E. Brooks, 39, was booked on suspicion of five counts of intentional homicide, Waukesha Police Chief Daniel Thompson told reporters.City officials identified the four women and the man who were killed as Virginia Sorenson, 79, LeAnna Owen, 71, Tamara Durand, 52, Jane Kulich, 52, and Wilhelm Hospel, 81.There were 48 additional injuries, included two to children who in critical condition, police said.Brooks "intentionally drove  his maroon SUV through barricades and into a crowd of people" at 4:39 p.m. Sunday, Thompson said.Brooks had been involved in a domestic incident involving a knife before the crash, but it was not clear who the victim was, law enforcement sources said.Brooks had fled scene of the domestic disturbance just as officers were arriving and then got redirected to the parade, police said."Was there an initial complaint of a knife being involved?  Yes," Thompson said. "Do we know if there actually was one there? We don’t know, because we didn’t even make it there. We ended up immediately responding to the crisis." An officer opened fire on the SUV but quickly stopped shooting, believing there were too many people nearby, Thompson said. No one was shot.Brooks was taken into custody shortly after the collisions. “We’re confident he acted alone,” Thompson said. “We have no information that Brooks knew anybody in the parade." The popular community event attracted many off-duty police officers, firefighters and emergency medical service personnel, who jumped into action as soon as the carnage began, officials said.“What stands out in my mind from the conversations is that we had people with military backgrounds who likened it to a war zone,” Waukesha Fire Chief Steven Howard said.Brooks, who has a significant criminal history, was questioned overnight, with investigators examining the possibility that he driver been fleeing an earlier incident involving a knife fight. The Milwaukee County District Attorney’s office released a summary Monday of pending charges, including second-degree recklessly endangering safety and being a felon in possession of a firearm from July 2020. In lieu of a speedy trial, which wasn’t possible at the time, his bail was reduced from $7,500 to $500. He posted bail in February and was released. Brooks had posted bail earlier this month in a separate domestic abuse case, court records show.He is charged with resisting or obstructing an officer, bail jumping, recklessly endangering safety, disorderly conduct and battery, the records show. He appeared in court Nov. 12 and is scheduled for another hearing next month. He posted a $1,000 cash bond Nov. 11, the court records show. "The State’s bail recommendation in this case was inappropriately low in light of the nature of the recent charges and the pending charges against Mr. Brooks," the Milwaukee County District Attorney’s Office said in a statement Monday. The office is conducting an internal review of the bail recommendation. Brooks' lawyer declined to comment. Five sources in positions to be briefed about the incident said that at this early stage of the investigation, there appeared to be no connection to terrorism and no indication that the incident was in retaliation for the not guilty verdict Friday in Kyle Rittenhouse’s trial.An FBI spokesperson said that the bureau was aware of the event but that local authorities would lead the inquiry.Video shows moment before SUV plows into crowd at paradeNov. 21, 202101:52Video from the scene showed the red SUV speeding down the parade route and barreling into the crowd while a band was playing. It went through barricades set up for the parade before it struck people, Thompson said.An officer opened fire in an attempt to stop the SUV, said Thompson, who said police were no longer searching for it.On Sunday afternoon, spectators gathered along the street in downtown Waukesha to watch the procession of floats, classic cars and dancing children. Video from just before the incident showed spectators standing and sitting in chairs, watching a marching band perform. Spectators began to scream when the vehicle plowed into the crowd. After it happened, people cleared the area.A group called the Milwaukee Dancing Grannies, whose members are grandmothers, said in a statement on social media that “members of the group and volunteers were impacted and we are waiting for word on their conditions.” Witness to Christmas parade horror: ‘I could have touched the car going by’Nov. 22, 202103:05“Please keep the Grannies, all those injured, and all those who witnessed this horrible event in your thoughts and prayers.”Jaymz Touchstone, who attended the parade, said he was watching his daughter’s band when the vehicle “swerved around the big truck right behind the band and then accelerated through the band and down the street.” “I tried to pursue the car. I couldn’t. I turned around and came back and started to render first aid to the people there,” Touchstone said. “The kid that I was rendering first aid to ... his feet were crushed. They ran over both of his legs. He hit his legs, got trapped under the tire.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsEl Paso firefighter arrested and accused of 'impersonating a public servant'Crime & CourtsCrime & CourtsL.A. County wants Vanessa Bryant's suit over crash photos dismissedThomas Kluka, who said he goes to the parade with his family every year, said that when he saw the SUV barreling toward him, he threw his daughter out of harm’s way and that the car came within 2 feet of him. “I could’ve touched the car going by,” he said. Angelito Tenorio, a candidate for Wisconsin state treasurer, said he had just finished marching in the parade with the Waukesha County Democratic Party when the vehicle sped down the route.“People [were] running away from the scene, leaving their belongings behind, looking for their kids, family, friends,” he said on MSNBC. “It looked like there were folks on the ground lying who may have been struck by the vehicle.”Scott Greger, a Waukesha resident, said he saw the vehicle strike someone, continue and then hit a float.“The red SUV came barreling down the street — very, very high rate of speed — and hit a pedestrian,” he said. He said the SUV’s arrival was preceded by police sirens.Greger said the route was full with marchers and spectators. The event in suburban Milwaukee, billed as Waukesha’s 58th annual Christmas Parade, was canceled last year because of the coronavirus pandemic. Waukesha eyewitness: It could have been usNov. 22, 202101:13Jesus Ochoa of Waukesha, who attended the event with his wife and their 3-year-old daughter, described how the parade continued marching in the moments just after the incident. “It carried on because no one realized yet, because the SUV, in the spot where we were, it didn’t pass in the middle of the street, but it passed on a side,” he told Reuters.Area hospitals reported treating at least 28 people, 13 of them at Aurora Medical Center in Summit. Aurora said in a statement that three of its patients were in critical condition.Officials of Children’s Wisconsin, a pediatric trauma center in Milwaukee, said at a news conference Monday that 18 children were treated there, including three sets of siblings. The children are 3 to 16 years old.Police alerted the hospital soon after the incident, and extra doctors, nurses and surgeons were brought in, the officials said. The first patient was admitted at 5:30 p.m.The children suffered facial abrasions, broken bones, serious head injuries and other injuries, said Dr. Amy Drendel, the hospital's medical director.Six children underwent surgery Sunday night, and two more were expected to undergo surgery Monday, she said. Six patients were listed in critical condition, three in serious and one in fair, officials said. Eight other patients were listed as fair, and two children had been discharged from the hospital.Ten children remained in intensive care, and six more were in other units of the hospital. "Injuries from Sunday night will go well beyond the physical and will take time to heal," said Dr. Michael Gutzeit, the hospital's chief medical officer.Mental health support has been organized for the children, their families and staff members. A Catholic priest and multiple parishioners and Waukesha Catholic school children were injured, said Sandra Peterson, a spokesperson for the Archdiocese of Milwaukee.Roads in the area will remain closed, as will businesses, the city said on Facebook. The Waukesha School District canceled classes Monday."I’m grateful for the first responders and folks who acted quickly to help, and we are in contact with local partners as we await more information," Wisconsin Gov. Tony Evers wrote Sunday evening on Facebook. Evers ordered for flags to be flown at half-staff Monday as a mark of respect. President Joe Biden expressed his condolences Monday, saying his administration is monitoring the situation “very closely.”“Last night people of Waukesha were gathered to celebrate the start of a season of hope and togetherness and Thanksgiving. This morning Jill and I and the entire Biden family, and I’m sure all of us, pray that that same spirit is going to embrace and lift up all the victims of this tragedy,” he said.“While we don’t have all the facts and details, we know this morning that five families in Waukesha are facing fresh grief of a life without a loved one,” he said.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Paid leave, immigration: What's likely to change as Senate weighs Build Back Better Act. WASHINGTON — President Joe Biden's safety net and climate change package passed the House on Friday and goes to the Senate next, where it is likely to be changed before it can become law.Some provisions of the $1.68 trillion bill may be removed or revised to win the support of all 50 Democratic-caucusing senators, from blue state progressives like Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., to red state moderates like Jon Tester, D-Mont., and Joe Manchin, D-W.Va. Other policies could be thwarted by Senate rules."There's going to be some changes," Tester said Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press." "We're dealing with reasonable people here. I think we can come up with a bill that's a very, very good bill that works for states like Montana and other states in the union."The Senate is expected to turn to the legislation after it returns next week from Thanksgiving recess. Before it can come to a vote, the bill will require a "Byrd bath" — a process named for the late Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., under which provisions are scrutinized for compliance with arcane budget rules. It will also require a "vote-a-rama" allowing virtually unlimited amendments, during which Republicans will seek to remove or edit provisions and force politically difficult votes.Tester: Democrats 'don't all see the world the same way' in spending negotiationNov. 21, 202101:41A single successful change could disrupt or scuttle the delicate deal among Democrats, which puts extra pressure on party leaders to keep senators unified.Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., told reporters Saturday that he hopes to pass the bill by Christmas."We're in very good shape to get 50 votes," he said. "But there are different ways — parliamentarian and other ways — the Republicans could try to knock it out."Here are the provisions that are most likely to change.Paid leaveThe House-passed legislation includes four weeks of guaranteed paid family and medical leave, a high priority of many Democrats, which the Congressional Budget Office estimates would cost $205 billion.Manchin has said repeatedly that he doesn't want the policy included in the bill. In an appearance on MSNBC this month, he said the Build Back Better Act is "not the right place for this piece of legislation.""I believe in family leave," he said, but he cautioned that it would "add an awful lot to the debt" and suggested that Congress "find a better position for this and do this in a bipartisan" manner.Unless Manchin backs down, it's likely to be stripped out.Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y., said Sunday on CBS that she is still trying to convince her colleague. "He wants to strengthen Social Security. That's what paid leave does. It gets people back to work," she said. "It allows people to stay in the workforce even when there's a family emergency."SALT deductionThe House-passed legislation would raise the $10,000 limit for state and local tax deductions, sometimes known as SALT, on federal returns to $80,000. A group of Democrats in high-tax states demanded it to win their support for the bill, arguing that the limit established by Republicans in 2017 taxes their middle-class constituents.Four lawmakers — Reps. Tom Suozzi, D-N.Y., Josh Gottheimer, D-N.J., Mikie Sherrill, D-N.J., and Bill Pascrell, D-N.J. — celebrated the provision after the vote, saying in a joint statement that "the cap has unfairly double taxed families across the country and worked to defund our states' critical priorities."The House provision faces resistance from senators, including Tester and Sanders, who say the $80,000 level gives too much of a tax break to the wealthy. But others, like Sen. Bob Menendez, D-N.J., feel strongly about it, and the Senate may have to approve some expansion of the deduction to get the bill to Biden's desk.ImmigrationThe House bill would grant provisional work permits to about 6.5 million undocumented people in the U.S., under a process known as parole, at a cost of more than $100 billion over a decade, as estimated by the Congressional Budget Office. It is a high priority of progressives and members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.But it's unclear that the policy will comply with the Senate budget rules. The parliamentarian, who is likely to have the last word, has rejected two previous immigration provisions by Democrats that would offer a path to citizenship, which the House bill policy wouldn't guarantee.Some Democratic House members say the party should include an immigration provision no matter what, but Manchin has signaled that he wants to abide by the parliamentarian's advice, and alienating him would endanger the bill's chances of passing.RecommendedPolitics NewsPolitics NewsGOP Rep. Louie Gohmert announces bid for Texas attorney generalLatinoLatino'Historic': White House pitches Build Back Better's help for Latino families The Hispanic caucus "urges the Senate to protect the work-permits and protections and we are hopeful they will use the Senate rules to build upon them and create an earned pathway to citizenship to further improve our nation's economy," Rep. Raul Ruiz, D-Calif., the caucus chair, said in a statement.Medicare benefitsSanders successfully pushed to add hearing benefits to Medicare in the House-passed bill. But he says he still wants dental and vision coverage, too. The three additions to Medicare coverage have been a high priority for him and progressive allies from the outset of the negotiations, and he hasn't given up."The American people overwhelmingly demand that we expand Medicare to cover dental, eyeglasses and hearing aids. That's what we must do," Sanders said in a statement Friday morning.There are challenges. Adding the benefits would be expensive, particularly dental coverage. And it is a lower priority for many Democrats, who prefer to put health care money toward insuring more people through larger Affordable Care Act subsidies and filling the Medicaid gap. But if the removal of other items creates fiscal space for the Medicare benefits, they could come back into play.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
All-transgender hockey team takes the ice in Wisconsin. Two years after 16 hockey players joined forces in Boston to become the first entirely transgender sports team in the United States, Team Trans — a growing group of novice to advanced players — reunited this past weekend at Capitol Ice Arena in Middleton, Wisconsin, to take on the Madison Gay Hockey Association in a weekend friendship series.Following the success of its first friendship series against Boston Pride Hockey, an LGBTQ hockey team that was founded in 1989, Team Trans began to draw the interest of other trans and nonbinary hockey players from around the world. And while the Covid-19 pandemic foiled earlier plans for a reunion, players and organizers alike were keen to bring the event to the Madison area, where there is already an abundance of LGBTQ hockey players. In a spirited two-day tournament, Team Trans, which was split into three teams based on skill level, went undefeated in six games against the Madison team.When the inaugural Team Trans first stepped off the ice and into the locker room two years ago, the players said they could tell that something was different. While many of them had played in LGBTQ leagues, they were often the only trans player on their team and struggled to find a community of trans athletes to talk to. But for one weekend, these players were all able to bond over a shared love for the sport and a mutual understanding of their personal struggles with gender identity.“I keep meeting people that I’ve barely spoken to or haven’t spoken to directly, and I feel like I already know them in a way, just because of the shared experiences that we’ve had in hockey spaces,” Mason LeFebvre, a Team Trans goaltender and out trans man, told NBC News. “It’s just casual and comfortable from the start. We’re not going to ask each other a bunch of awkward questions that other people might ask if they know we’re trans. Then, we talk about other things that would be completely off the table for conversations with mostly cis[gender] people.”Team Trans plays at Capitol Ice Arena in Middleton, Wis.Ian DeGraff of Ian Steven PhotoAvery Cordingley, who plays center and uses gender-neutral pronouns, shared a similar sentiment. “It’s feeling like you don’t have to get over a bunch of awkward hurdles before you can just exist together in a space,” they said. “Last night, I picked up a player at the airport at 11 o’clock, and we’re instantly chatting. We both have the experience of, like, ‘Are we going to be able to keep playing hockey if we choose to transition?’ And we didn’t even have to go into that. We’re just like, ‘Yeah, I’ve played hockey here and here and here.’”For LeFebvre and Cordingley, who both played girls’ hockey growing up before beginning their transition and now compete as teammates on Team Trans, there was always an inherent need to consistently prove themselves in a male-dominated sport. “But there’s an extra layer to it when you’re also trans, especially if you know it at that age,” LeFebvre said. “It’s extra uncomfortable because you belong in the boys’ locker room, but they don’t see that.”Cordingley said it’s even more uncomfortable if you “don’t have the language” to articulate what you’re going through. “Because you don’t know why you’re hurt, you don’t know why it hurts that you’re not allowed in there,” they explained. “For me, it’s like you get off the ice, and your teammates go one way, and you’re just alone in a room by yourself the other way. It’s alienating, it’s othering, it makes you feel like you don’t belong there, even if you love the sport and just want to play.”According to the Movement Advancement Project, a nonprofit think tank, 10 states have recently passed laws to ban transgender youth from participating in school sports that align with their gender identity, with proponents claiming that this legislation is designed to keep all athletes on a level playing field. Having weighed the consequences that transitioning would have on their own futures in hockey, LeFebvre and Cordingley both said that getting to know a trans or nonbinary athlete is the first step to understanding the harm that these policies have caused.“We should look at them as a human being with the same wants and needs as their own kids and their own friends,” Cordingley said. “It doesn’t matter what your gender identity is. Everyone wants that team, everyone wants to feel like they belong, everyone wants to play the game that brings them joy. We’re not blowing the competition away; we’re very average. They should just understand that trans athletes are regular athletes, and trans athletes can be very good at their sports, but so can cisgender athletes.”RecommendedOUT NewsOUT NewsJ.K. Rowling slams transgender activists for posting her home address on TwitterCulture MattersCulture MattersEddie Redmayne says it was a 'mistake' to play trans character in 'The Danish Girl'LeFebvre said proponents of trans sports bans “just need to watch trans athletes complete and realize they are just athletes who happen to be trans.”“It really doesn’t have anything to do with being trans — it has to do with dedication. Some of it is natural talent, but a lot of it is hard work and dedication, just like it is for anyone else,” he said. Last month, the Premier Hockey Federation, formerly known as the National Women’s Hockey League, released a new inclusion policy that was developed in consultation with Athlete Ally, a nonprofit LGBTQ athletic advocacy group, and Chris Mosier, a transgender triathlete. The policy itself provides a pathway for the participation of both trans and nonbinary athletes in the federation.While they both think that the federation has taken a step in the right direction, LeFebvre and Cordingley agreed that, until it is put into practice and updated with less ambiguous language, it will be hard to gauge the policy’s effectiveness. “You could get a hormone exemption, so that someone like me or Avery theoretically could play in the league, but what does the exemption require?” LeFebvre said. “Maybe it’s completely reasonable stuff, maybe it’s not. We don’t know, because it’s not specific, and it might just be partially because you can’t be super specific on an individual basis. But also, if they just use the vagueness of it to not write any exemptions ever, then that’s not great, obviously.”But for now, LeFebvre and Cordingley have turned their attention to the future of Team Trans, which has attracted hockey players from all over the United States, Canada and Japan. As a team, they hope to host a friendship series every year and travel to some LGBTQ tournaments, showing transgender athletes of all ages — but especially younger generations — that their dreams are not only valid but possible.“We’re not going anywhere, and we just love the game like everyone else,” Cordingley said. “We all have a place in the game, and the game is stronger" because of our differences.Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Eddie Redmayne says it was a 'mistake' to play trans character in 'The Danish Girl'. Oscar-winning actor Eddie Redmayne has said that playing a trans character in “The Danish Girl” was a “mistake.”Based on true events, Redmayne played one of the first people in the world who underwent gender reassignment surgery in the Tom Hooper-directed film.Redmayne, who won a best actor Oscar in 2015 for playing disabled scientist Stephen Hawking in “The Theory of Everything,” earned an Oscar nomination in the same category a year later for “The Danish Girl.” There were demands at the time for the character to be played by a trans actor.“No, I wouldn’t take it on now. I made that film with the best intentions, but I think it was a mistake,” Redmayne told The Sunday Times.“The bigger discussion about the frustrations around casting is because many people don’t have a chair at the table. There must be a leveling, otherwise we are going to carry on having these debates,” Redmayne added.2015: Watch Eddie Redmayne in ‘The Danish Girl’ trailerSept. 1, 201501:10Redmayne is currently starring alongside Jessie Buckley in a new production of “Cabaret” at London’s Playhouse Theatre. The actor plays The Emcee, or the Master of Ceremonies, a role that has been played several times by LGBTQ+ actors since it first premiered on Broadway in 1966.“Of all the characters I’ve ever read, this one defies pigeonholing. I would ask people to come and see it before casting judgment,” Redmayne told The Sunday Times.The actor is also the lead of “Harry Potter” creator J.K. Rowling’s “Fantastic Beasts” franchise, the latest of which, “Fantastic Beasts: The Secrets of Dumbledore,” is due in 2022.RecommendedPop Culture NewsPop Culture NewsKevin Spacey loses arbitration case against 'House of Cards' production company Culture MattersCulture MattersRobert Bly, prominent poet and author of ‘Iron John,’ dies at 95Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint and Emma Watson will join filmmaker Chris Columbus and other cast members from all eight “Harry Potter” films for the first time in “Harry Potter 20th Anniversary: Return to Hogwarts,” an HBO Max retrospective special to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the franchise’s first film, “Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone.”Currently, Rowling, who has been criticized for her anti-trans comments, is not scheduled to appear in the special.“As someone who has worked with both J.K. Rowling and members of the trans community, I wanted to make it absolutely clear where I stand,” Redmayne said in 2020 in a statement shared with Variety.“I disagree with Jo’s comments. Trans women are women, trans men are men and non-binary identities are valid. I would never want to speak on behalf of the community but I do know that my dear transgender friends and colleagues are tired of this constant questioning of their identities, which all too often results in violence and abuse. They simply want to live their lives peacefully, and it’s time to let them do so.”Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
JoJo Siwa's 'Dancing With the Stars' finale is an LGBTQ win. If you had asked me pre-pandemic if JoJo Siwa, the bow-loving merch maven and "Dance Moms" phenom, would turn out to be a game-changing LGBTQ renaissance woman, I would have snorted. However, if I’ve learned any lesson from the last year and a half, it’s that we should take our blessings as they come.If I’ve learned any lesson from the last year and a half, it’s that we should take our blessings as they come.If you have tween or teen children, you are likely already familiar with Siwa. Her perpetually peppy, high-ponytailed face is all over YouTube, and glittery hair bows and backpacks can be found in many a big-box retailer. All those bows add up. Since she debuted on the hit reality TV series “Dance Moms” at 13, Siwa has become the face of an empire some estimate to be around $20 million.The Gen Z internet sensation rocked the media landscape in January when she came out as a member of the LGBTQ community. Siwa has referred to herself as pansexual, queer and gay at different times and doesn’t seem concerned with labels at the moment. Some conservative groups clutched their pearls and sent Siwa hurtful messages, but her star, already on a meteoric path, has only burned brighter.In the fall, Siwa joined the cast of ABC’s highest-rated nonscripted show, “Dancing With the Stars,” as the first contestant to dance with a same-sex partner: Jenna Johnson, a fan-favorite dancer and five-year "DWTS" vet. While this queer writer and critic expected the pairing to be newsworthy, what I didn’t expect was how delightfully subversive and powerful it would be.Siwa and Johnson’s first dance was a colorful quick step, where the much taller Siwa caught her partner after a slight fumble. Engaging and high energy, it set the tone for the duo. By week three, Siwa and Johnson settled in as a team, and as they did, they invited the audience, particularly the queer audience, in. Wearing, I kid you not, plaid leotards, they danced the Argentine tango to Britney Spears’ “...Baby One More Time.” When was the last time you watched two women dance the tango on national television?RecommendedOpinionOpinionHow to spend Thanksgiving with the unvaccinatedOpinionOpinionThe Malcolm X case: less a whodunnit and more a who let it be done?But it wasn’t until the following week that I witnessed the true impact of this partnership on the LGBTQ community. Week four was “Disney Week: Heroes Night,” and out walked Siwa in full Prince Charming regalia. As she and Johnson did the Viennese waltz, I recalled my childhood. As a girl, dreaming of my personal Prince Charming was expected — but my heart had other ideas. Seeing Siwa as Charming was surprisingly, deeply moving, and I wasn’t alone: Queer Twitter was also abuzz.How JoJo turned mental health issues into an albumOct. 15, 202108:51Whenever people tell me that representation isn’t a big deal, I think of moments like this, when queer, trans and gender-nonconforming people can see themselves in something so culturally significant. Maybe your Prince Charming is a woman. Perhaps you are Prince Charming yourself.Siwa and Johnson have continued to play with heteronormativity, dancing as fanfic favs Mal and Evie of “Descendants” (talk about knowing your audience) in a powerful pasodoble. They followed that up as Sandy and Frenchy from “Grease” for a fox trot, for which they earned perfect scores from all the judges. Even Len Goodman!Serena, a friend and “DWTS” superfan who identifies as pansexual, summed this all up beautifully. “I’ve cried almost every week,” she told me, noting that “seeing two women dance together in romantic, nonromantic dances … just so important and magical.”RelatedOpinionOpinionWe want to hear what you THINK. Please submit a letter to the editor.Tonight is the finale, and if these two dancers win, it will be a monumental day not just for the show and the duo, but for LGBTQ representation on mainstream television. Any time we get to be ourselves in media is a chance to change hearts and minds. Siwa could help a parent embrace their queer kid. She could be the catalyst for a gay person to come out to themselves and their friends. While I may not have anticipated this a year ago, I am certainly grateful for it now. Leave it to young people like Siwa to make an impact, just by being who they are.Subscribe to the THINK newsletterReTHINK the news cycle with timely op-eds, in-depth analyses and personal essays delivered weekly to your inbox.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Support for Black Lives Matter movement is declining, according to new poll. A new poll found a decline in support among Americans for the Black Lives Matter movement, a year and a half after the killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis and other high-profile deaths of Black people in encounters with police sparked a global outcry. According to a national poll conducted by Civiqs, a nonpartisan online survey firm affiliated with the progressive media group Daily Kos, 44 percent of respondents, overall, said they support the Black Lives Matter movement. Another 43 oppose said they support it, while 11 percent said they neither support nor oppose it. The survey has tracked respondents’ viewpoints at multiple moments from April 2017 to this month. Civiqs did not provide a margin of error.According to the poll, support for the Black Lives Matter movement peaked in June 2020 at 52 percent, a month after Floyd was killed.  At the height of the movement, protesters marched across the country  to express their outrage at Floyd’s death, which was seen by millions in disturbing video showing Floyd losing consciousness as a white police officer knelt on his neck for almost 10 minutes. Since then, public support to Black Lives Matter has continue to decline, including after the shooting of Jacob Blake, a Black man, by police officers in Kenosha, Wisconsin, in August 2020 and the conviction in April of former police officer Derek Chauvin in the murder of Floyd.While 82 percent of Black respondents said they support the Black Lives Matter movement, 53 percent of white respondents said they opposed the movement, reflecting a pattern of public opinion when it comes to racial justice movements, said Vida Robertson, the director of the Center for Critical Race Studies at the University of Houston-Downtown. Robertson said the findings reveal the historical phenomenon of the liberation struggles of Black Americans and civil rights movements, from the Harlem Renaissance to the Black Power movement.“These polls are quite representative of America’s approach,” Robertson said. “There’s no historical evidence whatsoever that America has ever been interested in Black liberation and building an equitable society. We are simply coming to grips with our romantic ideals that are running up against our political realities. And the fact stands that America has constantly and will constantly struggle with the liberation of Black bodies, because we are endemically a racist society.”Black Lives Matter, founded in 2013 after the acquittal of George Zimmerman in the killing of a Black teenager, Trayvon Martin, began as a hashtag and grew into a global organization. In a previous interview, Alicia Garza, a co-founder of Black Lives Matter, said her organization has been adapting its focus toward more structural reforms.Robertson said he believes far more people became aware of issues affecting the Black community, such as police brutality, during the Covid-19 pandemic, which allowed the country to focus on problems that would otherwise have been ignored. However, as the pandemic shifts, so does support for movements like Black Lives Matter. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsEl Paso firefighter arrested and accused of 'impersonating a public servant'Crime & CourtsCrime & CourtsL.A. County wants Vanessa Bryant's suit over crash photos dismissed“Our country is simply going back to default,” Robertson said. “Our job is to reconstruct the game, so that we can actually move beyond winning them over to becoming the American Dream that we longed for.”Follow NBCBLK on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.CORRECTION (Nov. 22, 2:29 p.m.): A previous version of this article mischaracterized the respondents to the survey who said they support the Black Lives Matter movement. Eighty-two percent of the respondents who are Black support the movement, not 82 percent of overall respondents.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Stores push for a more diverse pool of Santas.  Old NavyOld Navy is launching a virtual “Santa BOOT Camp” on Friday to train would-be Kris Kringles of color in the art of spreading holiday cheer and make the ranks of the people who play the iconic Christmas character a little less white. But as conservative pundits and politicians stoke white grievance and a national battle rages over the teaching of critical race theory, one of the original Black Santas has some advice for the newbies who intend to don the red suit this season: Disarm the bigots with Christmas cheer.“I’m not about politics and I’m a faith-based Santa, so I know I am not the reason for the season and I’m happy to share that with anyone willing to listen,” Dion “Santa Dee” Sinclair, aka “The Real Black Santa,” told NBC News. “But if I’m not your kind of Santa, that’s OK. I will keep smiling and wishing the kids Merry Christmas and Happy Holidays.”Besides, Sinclair said, “the kids don’t see color. All they see is Santa Claus.”Dion Sinclair prepares to visit children at a library in Atlanta in 2013. John Bazemore / AP fileOther stores like Macy's and major retail outlets like the Mall of America in Minnesota have also tried to diversify their Santa ranks, delighting many shoppers while dismaying others. “It is a concern,” another of America’s premier Santas, Tim “Santa Tim” Connaghan, said when asked about the anger over nonwhite Santas. “Change is hard for some people, and things are definitely changing.”What’s not addressed specifically in the Old Navy tutorial is how a nonwhite Santa deals with bigotry, a company spokesperson said.“Our Santa BOOTcamp is a lighthearted experience aimed at bringing out the inner holiday spirit in all of our attendees,” a company statement said. “We will provide guidance on some of the most common challenges of playing Santa, including how to handle outrageous gift requests and to temper potential disbelief in little ones."Inside the world’s oldest Santa school ahead of the holidaysNov. 18, 202105:06That said, Old Navy said it “stands for inclusivity and has a zero tolerance police for workplace discrimination and harassment.”"Our brand is deeply committed to ensuring all employees — inclusive of our in-store Santas — are treated with respect and dignity."Sinclair, who is 57 and says he “became Santa Claus” some 20 years ago, is one of the Santa trainers taking part in Old Navy’s “Happy ALL-idays” campaign. In the 30-minute virtual course, the Santa trainees will also learn some key phrases in both sign language and Spanish, and how to take that perfect holiday photo, he said.“One of the most important things is to never make a promise you can’t keep,” Sinclair said. “If a child wants a certain present, you say ‘Let’s see what we can do.’ In my heart, I would give every kid the toy they want out of my bag. But the parents can’t always afford the present their child wants.”The most promising Santa boot camp grads could find themselves deployed to Old Navy’s flagship stories in New York City, Chicago and San Francisco.“There aren’t a lot of Santa’s out there who're like me,” said Sinclair. “It’s even harder to find an Asian Santa. Believe me, I’ve tried.”Connaghan, who is the national Santa for the Marine Corps and Toys for Tots, agreed. He, too, is taking part in the Santa BOOT Camp.“Businesses like Old Navy understand that more and more customers want their Santas to look like them,” said Connaghan, who also owns the Kringle Group, which is one of the largest Santa booking agencies. “But it’s just very hard to find an Asian or Hispanic or African American Santa, especially one with a full white and real beard. Many are, I guess you can say, follicly challenged.”“I am lucky,” Sinclair, who sports a bushy white beard year-round, said. “But lots of Black men have trouble growing a beard like mine, and the theatrical white beards don’t fool the kids anymore. The kids are smart. They can tell when somebody is wearing a fake beard.”Sinclair’s and Connaghan’s assertion about the scarcity of nonwhite Santas is backed up by some actual numbers. In a nation where half the children under the age of 15 are nonwhite, less than 5 percent of the professional Santas working the malls and street corners and festive gatherings are Black or Asian or Hispanic, according to a Santa survey done in 2017 by The Tampa Bay Times.But the idea of Santa being anything but an elderly white man with a big beard and rosy red cheeks has never sat well with some segments of U.S. society when Black Santas first started appearing after World War II.Santa shortage leading up to holiday seasonNov. 14, 202101:42In 2013, then-Fox News personality Megyn Kelly sparked a firestorm when she insisted on her show that both Santa and Jesus were white and anybody who believed otherwise needed to get over it. Three years later, the Mall of America was hit with an online backlash when it hired Larry Jefferson as its first Black Santa, a process that required a nationwide search.Sinclair, a father of four and grandfather of two based in Atlanta, said he came face-to-face with that ugliness early on in his Santa career when he found himself working the evening shift at a mall in a mostly white Atlanta neighborhood.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsEl Paso firefighter arrested and accused of 'impersonating a public servant'Crime & CourtsCrime & CourtsL.A. County wants Vanessa Bryant's suit over crash photos dismissed“A mom came who’d been in the mall earlier in the day and saw a white Santa and came back later in the day with her kids and, lo and behold, she found me,” Sinclair said. “'That’s not the Santa we’re looking for,' she told the manager. Her little daughter looked so disappointed. She just wanted to see the fat men in the red suit.”Why isn’t there more diversity among Santa Clauses? Connaghan addressed that very question in an essay several years back.Santa is based on the historical St. Nicholas, who is believed to have been a Greek bishop living in what’s now Turkey. But whenever he was portrayed in paintings during the Middle Ages and Renaissance he “mirrored the ethnicity of that community,” wrote Connaghan. Good old American commerce help solidify the image in the American psyche that Santa was, as Connaghan put it, “a white male with a beard of white.”As a result, many children were brought up with the idea that Santa is white. But good old American commerce also recognized rising Black consumer power after World War II and began hiring Black Santas to entertain children at department stores during the Christmas season, historian E. James West wrote in The Washington Post last year.Still, the resistance to a Black Santa “can be connected to the so-called War on Christmas which has become a conservative rallying cry over the past two decades,” West wrote. Connaghan said many generations of America grew up with a fixed concept of what Santa was supposed to look like “and just accepted it.”"That includes a lot of Black and Hispanic people who never thought of Santa as being anything other that white, like the Coca-Cola Santa," he said. But as the country changes, so, too, will the country’s concept of Santa, Connaghan and Sinclair said. “I think, in a couple of years, most people won’t be looking for Santas with white beards, and won’t be expecting a Santa that looks like Tim Allen,” Connaghan said, referring to the star of the 1994 movie “The Santa Clause,” who is also white. “Santa is constantly evolving.”Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Why the APA's apology for promoting white supremacy falls short. At the end of October, the American Psychological Association released an official apology for being “complicit in contributing to systemic inequities, and [having] hurt many through racism, racial discrimination, and denigration of people of color.” The apology sought to comprehensively denounce the eminent institution’s history of promoting white supremacy within the United States and position the association to effectively remedy these harms through commitments to anti-racist psychological practices. The APA also noted Black psychologists were ignored when they tried to raise these issues over half a century ago.The apology sought to comprehensively denounce the eminent institution’s history of promoting white supremacy within the United States.These more than 200 Black psychologists would go on to found the country’s first and oldest independent ethnic psychological association, the Association of Black Psychologists, in 1968. As members of that association, we feel the need to speak up once again. The APA’s apology is a far cry from what is needed. We cannot expect the association to truly right its wrongs and end damaging practices in psychology when it leaves much of the ongoing harm unexamined and cherry-picks its way through history. This risks actually perpetuating the past damages the association is now trying to rectify.While the apology details many of the past racist practices in psychology, it largely omits a key portion of this history: how the fields of psychology and psychiatry colluded with the state to suppress rights, liberties and, in many cases, political freedom. Largely, this looked like the creation and maintenance of state hospitals that often disproportionately and indefinitely confined Black people in particular. Indeed, this history led the former president-elect of ABPsi, Bobby Wright, to conclude that the discipline had historically been leveraged to wage war against Black communities.How these women are helping to break the stigma of therapy for Black womenSept. 8, 202009:59Based on a belief that a Black person’s desire for freedom was evidence of mental illness, hospitals were built across the country to enforce social control over Black people. For instance, the Central Lunatic Asylum for Colored Insane, the first state psychiatric hospital for Black people, forcibly institutionalized thousands of Black people in Virginia beginning in 1870. Hospital archives revealed that Black people were taken from their communities and enslaved on the belief that freedom produced mania and forced labor was an adequate treatment.A century later, these practices were still common. For example, the Ionia State Hospital for the Criminally Insane in Michigan justified the lifelong confinement of Black men through diagnoses of “protest psychosis” until it was closed in 1977. Beyond disrupting the freedom and humanity of generations of Black people, the legacy of these institutions still contributes to medical mistrust among our communities.An inability to challenge the harm caused by such psychiatric institutions has allowed many of these practices to continue. To this day, the APA provides training accreditation to state and forensic hospitals where patients, especially Black patients, endure misdiagnoses and marginalization. Forensic psychiatric hospitals in particular still disproportionately confine Black people. Not only does this deprive Black patients of their freedom, but it also places these communities at increased risk of death or serious illness during the height of the Covid-19 pandemic.RelatedOpinionOpinionHow a shake-up at medicine's old guard is forcing racism into the lightFurther, the APA’s decision to limit its apology to the U.S. ignores how the field has been used to harm people across the world. For example, the apology refuses to acknowledge the 2015 Hoffman report, which indicted the APA for helping the Bush administration optimize torture techniques for detainees at Guantanamo Bay. These techniques traumatized hundreds of individuals while the APA largely ignored the escalation in Islamophobia and bigotry experienced by Arab, Middle Eastern and Northern African peoples in the U.S. By failing to understand that many of the people they were apologizing to identify as part of a diaspora, the APA limited its capacity to address harm done.In recent years, we have seen Black youth suicide rates steadily increase. At the same time, the desire for culturally grounded mental health support is on the rise. Within this context, the APA’s inability to fully grapple with its history and how it continues, in its silence, to maintain racial inequity in access, misdiagnosis and maltreatment in mental health care is more than troubling.Despite this history, the APA continues to be the primary organization for establishing codes of ethics, lobbying state licensing boards, certifying and educating and training clinicians in the field of psychology. As opposed to continuing to modify this one organization’s response to its own damage, it’s time for the APA and government bodies to recognize the authority that other psychological associations have, particularly when it comes to working with underserved populations.RelatedOpinionOpinionWe want to hear what you THINK. Please submit a letter to the editor.We are in a moment where cultural anxieties around understanding racism’s historical and contemporary role in U.S. society is a determining factor in elections and other forms of social and civic engagement. As psychologists charged with tending to the mental health of our communities, we must hold ourselves and our peers to higher standards. As we shift away from these histories of denigrating and dehumanizing practices, we should take this opportunity to co-create the kinds of healing practices, geopolitical understandings and psycho-cultural social systems that can guide us toward a more humanizing field. This is a time of reckoning — and everyone is needed in the nonhierarchical planning of our restoration.Subscribe to the THINK newsletterReTHINK the news cycle with timely op-eds, in-depth analyses and personal essays delivered weekly to your inbox.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Simu Liu and Bowen Yang jokingly vie for the most ‘First Asian’ titles on 'SNL' . Simu Liu and Bowen Yang are often hailed as trailblazers in the Asian American community — for being the first Marvel Asian superhero and for being the first Asian cast member on "Saturday Night Live." So when the pair teamed up for an "SNL" sketch over the weekend, they poked fun at the idea by competing over increasingly ridiculous “firsts,” from the “First Gay Asian Cast Member to Mispronounce ‘Boutique’” to the “First Asian Man to Deadpan on Splash Mountain.”In the taped segment, Chinese Canadian actors Yang and Liu meet in a dressing room before the episode. “This has never happened before, right? Asian male host, Asian male cast member,” Yang said. The two congratulate each other on their respective milestones before admitting how tiring these historical titles can be in a predominantly white space. “I just think it’s weird that people keep track of this stuff,” Yang says. Liu then pulled out a medal he had tucked in his shirt for being the “1st Asian Man to Move from Canada to America Named Simu.” “I have one that says Bowen,” Yang says, pulling a similar medal out of his shirt. The conversation quickly delves into a competition about their “First Asian” accolades.“Don’t you think these titles are kind of ridiculous?” Liu asks, to which Yang agrees. A montage then shows Yang and Liu accepting awards for “Good Job (Asian),” “First Asian Man to Beat StarCraft II” and the “First Asian Man to ‘You pick 2’ at Panera.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsEl Paso firefighter arrested and accused of 'impersonating a public servant'Crime & CourtsCrime & CourtsL.A. County wants Vanessa Bryant's suit over crash photos dismissedNBCUniversal is the parent company of NBC News and "SNL."Yang’s work on "SNL" earned him an Emmy nomination this year, making him the show’s first featured player to be nominated for an acting award. He has previously spoken about his Asian American identity, and amid the rise of anti-Asian violence during the pandemic, he urged people to “do more” to stop the violence. Liu, meanwhile, made headlines this year after criticizing the TV show “Kim’s Convenience,” which he starred in, for its lack of diversity in the writer’s room. He has also credited the diverse production crew of “Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings” for ensuring the authenticity of the film. Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Series on Vincent Chin taps Chloé Zhao as executive producer. Chloé Zhao, the Academy Award-winning director of “Nomadland” and “Eternals,” will be the executive producer for a limited scripted series about the murder of Vincent Chin and the civil rights movement that arose in the aftermath, according to Deadline.The upcoming series by the media company Participant will tell the story of Chin, a 27-year-old Chinese American engineer who was beaten to death in Detroit in 1982 by two white auto workers who blamed Japanese car manufacturers for taking their jobs. His murder is widely considered the most infamous hate crime in Asian American history. Vincent Chin was 27 when he was beaten with a baseball bat in Detroit. He would later die from his injuries.Courtesy American Citizens of JuThe men were initially charged with second-degree murder but later pleaded to manslaughter and received probation and a $3,000 fine. The punishment sparked widespread protests and united Asian Americans from different ethnic backgrounds, galvanizing what would become the contemporary Asian American movement. Through an exclusive agreement with the Chin estate and executor Helen Zia, a former auto worker, activist, journalist and spokesperson for the Justice for Vincent Chin Campaign, Zhao’s will be the only authorized series about Chin’s murder.The project will “reveal the definitive account of a civil rights movement that matters today more than ever, when a community discovered its voice,” according to Participant.“I was deeply moved by Helen’s personal connection to Vincent’s story as well as her incredibly insightful and nuanced perspective on this difficult yet inspiring story,” Zhao told Deadline.The project was initially announced in December. The news comes after a dramatized podcast about Chin, “Hold Still, Vincent,” was removed from audio platforms in June after it was revealed that the producers hadn’t consult with Chin’s estate or Zia about the project. The star-studded podcast included Gemma Chan of “Eternals” and “Crazy Rich Asians” as a producer, and Kelly Marie Tran of “Raya and the Last Dragon” as a voice actor. The team behind the podcast later issued an apology on Instagram.“Vincent Chin, his legacy, and the communities that came together to fight for justice have been a part of my life for nearly 39 years," Zia previously told NBC Asian America. "In today’s climate of hate towards our Asian American and Pacific Islander communities, this story shows how many diverse people in America came together in solidarity, to stand together for the full humanity of all.” Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Author Karen Tei Yamashita wins lifetime literary achievement award. Karen Tei Yamashita was awarded the 2021 Medal for Distinguished Contribution to American Letters by the National Book Foundation on Wednesday. Yamashita is the 34th recipient of the award since it was created in 1988. Past recipients include Joan Didion, Toni Morrison, Maxine Hong Kingston and Stephen King. "A bold and groundbreaking writer, Yamashita's deeply creative body of work has made an enduring impact on our literary landscape," the foundation's chair, David Steinberger, said in a statement. In her acceptance speech, Yamashita said the award was especially significant to her community, given how the past year has been plagued by anti-Asian violence and hatred. "Asian American literature is, at heart, a literature of politics and resistance," Yamashita said. Yamashita has written eight books, all published by the Minneapolis publishing house Coffee House Press. Her works include a book of short stories about being Japanese American, "Sansei and Sensibility," and "Through the Arc of the Rain Forest," a novel about a Japanese ex-pat living in Brazil amid an environmental crisis. "I’m here because Coffee House has envisioned the long distance of a writer’s journey, [they] know that books take time to be read and to be shared," Yamashita said, adding that the publisher always kept her books in print, which gave her readership time to grow. In 2010, Yamashita's "I Hotel," a novel set in San Francisco's Chinatown in the 1960s and '70s, was a finalist for the National Book Award. The title won the 2011 California Book Award and was a finalist for the Asian American Literary Award for fiction in 2011. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsEl Paso firefighter arrested and accused of 'impersonating a public servant'Crime & CourtsCrime & CourtsL.A. County wants Vanessa Bryant's suit over crash photos dismissed"Karen Tei Yamashita is such a legend," author Jean Chen Ho tweeted in response to Yamashita's acceptance speech on Wednesday. "When I read 'I Hotel' in undergrad I remember just having my entire brain reorganized about what a novel is and can do."Yamashita currently serves as a professor emeritus at the University of California, Santa Cruz, where she researched Japanese immigration to Brazil and Asian American literature.She attended Carleton College in Minnesota and also studied at Waseda University in Tokyo. She was born in Oakland and raised in Los Angeles, according to the National Book Foundation. Both of her parents were incarcerated at Topaz internment camp during World War II.In addition to a bronze medal, the lifetime achievement award comes with $10,000. Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Univ. of Maryland slammed for separating Asian students from 'students of color' in graphic. The University of Maryland is facing backlash after an administrative graphic separated students into two categories — “students of color, minus Asians” and “white or Asian students.” The graphic was part of a presentation by university President Darryll Pines, who was sharing the incoming class’ diversity data with the student body senate. The school says it intended to highlight students who have been underrepresented on campus. Data on the slide spanned a five-year period, including information like UMD’s total number of applicants, with average SAT scores and grade point averages. But a point of contention for some students and a larger audience on Twitter is the race breakdown of yearly incoming first-years. Numbers listed under the “students of color, minus Asians” category were meant to represent the students with the lowest historical presence at the school, and it did include some Pacific Islanders, the university said in a statement provided to NBC Asian America. “The data in this specific section was intended to show student populations that have historically represented 11 percent or less of our campus community -- Black/African Americans, American Indians or Native Alaskans, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander and Hispanics,” the statement said. Students said the graphic perpetuates ideas like the model minority myth, which claims that Asians are inherently successful and close to whiteness. It also erases distinctions between groups within the Asian American and Pacific Islander umbrella, many of which are generally lower-income and underserved, they told The Diamondback.“[The university uses] us when they want to be diverse, and then not when they don’t want to,” Anish Kakarla, a UMD student and president of the South Asian Student Association, told the student newspaper The Diamondback.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsEl Paso firefighter arrested and accused of 'impersonating a public servant'Crime & CourtsCrime & CourtsL.A. County wants Vanessa Bryant's suit over crash photos dismissedAs the debate continues online, the university clarified that it does include Asians when describing students of color in data or otherwise.“When we refer to students of color, we include Asian students and Asian Americans,” the university said. Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'Historic': White House pitches Build Back Better's help for Latino families . The White House on Monday promoted what the Biden administration sees as the benefits for Latino families of the $1.7 trillion safety net and climate change package Democrats passed last week. In a White House-organized call with reporters, Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra and Rep. Raul Ruiz, D-Calif., the chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, called the legislation "historic" and said it was a "tremendous investment" in American families as they struggle to recover from the coronavirus-wracked economy.Becerra said the funding in the Build Back Better Act would help families pay for child care and preschool education funding, provide child tax credits and help families pay for Obamacare health insurance plans.It would cut costs for three of the most expensive items in families’ budgets: health care, housing and child care, Ruiz said. Ruiz and Becerra said the child care provision — which would cap child care costs for six years at 7 percent for families earning up to 250 percent of their states’ median incomes — would help Latinas “who had to bear the brunt of cuts in wages and unemployment” because of the pandemic. Extending the child tax credit would be like money in your pocket, Ruiz said.Also in the bill is money to pay for universal pre-K for 3- and 4-year-old children for two years. The money is said to be enough to pay for free preschool for more than 6 million children.Becerra said the bill offers older Americans the kind of help that his late father, a laborer, and his mother, who did clerical work, never had. “I’m from a migrant family, and I understand the importance of being able to say anyone who has worked very hard, helping to lift this country, helping to build it, now this country is going to invest in you, Becerra said in Spanish.Potential changes Senate could make to pass Build Back Better BillNov. 22, 202102:07Ruiz said that while the country is rounding the corner on the pandemic, Covid-19 has disproportionately affected essential workers and Hispanic communities. "Working families and parents are continuing to feel the lingering effects of the pandemic," he said.The legislation, which was crafted by Democrats, was approved Friday by the House and is now before the Senate, where leaders are working with centrist Democrats to get the necessary votes. ‘A blockbuster’ investmentThe House bill would provide the money for pre-K for all children, regardless of families’ incomes, with states eventually having to add money to cover some of the costs. Before the pandemic, about 27 percent of children in public school were Hispanic. In 2019-20, only about 4 in 10 (43 percent) of 3- to 5-year-olds were enrolled in school, according to the National Center for Education Statistics. The pre-K provisions would help not only groups that haven’t had access to quality pre-K, but also middle-class and upper-income families that often don’t qualify for subsidized preschool programs, said former San Antonio Mayor Julián Castro, who was housing secretary in the Obama administration. Castro, the only major Latino presidential candidate last year, said the universal pre-K part of the bill would be “a godsend” for many families and a “blockbuster” investment to celebrate.Early education varies among states, six of which had no state-funded pre-K program in the 2019-20 school year, according to the National Institute for Early Education Research at Rutgers University. Early data this school year show a 3 percent drop in all public school enrollment. The drop was higher among children in preschool and kindergarten than in later grades.Build Back Better’s success depends on states’ doing their part, Castro said. As mayor, Castro got San Antonio voters to support a half-cent sales tax in 2012 to create quality preschool for low-income children. The program is considered highly successful.Build Back Better’s provision would allow school districts or nonprofit organizations to help with costs for their areas even if their states don’t participate.“I’m hopeful that even conservative states like Texas and other places that don’t have universal pre-K will meet the challenge,” Castro said. “But if they don’t, then I encourage local communities to go ahead and universalize pre-K.”Better times ahead?Delivering a message of economic better times to the Latino community is critical for Democrats. The 2022 midterm election season will ramp up after the holidays, and Democrats need to be able blunt GOP arguments about inflation and the effects of climate change provisions on fossil fuels. President Donald Trump and other Republicans expanded their support on those issues last year among Latino voters, particularly in Texas. They also succeeded in framing Democratic programs as socialism, largely in Florida, where Cuban and Latin American voters connect the word with regimes from which they fled or in which have roots. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsEl Paso firefighter arrested and accused of 'impersonating a public servant'Crime & CourtsCrime & CourtsL.A. County wants Vanessa Bryant's suit over crash photos dismissedMacarena Martinez, the Republican National Committee spokeswoman for Texas, previewed more of what to expect in a statement after the House vote Friday. She said one African American and three Latino members of Congress, all Texas Democrats, "went all in for Biden's socialist agenda: 'Build Back Broke' at a time when Texas families already are being hit with skyrocketing inflation, record high gas prices, and an unmitigated border crisis."Latino unemployment began dropping in 2010 during the Obama administration and fell to about 4 percent early in the Trump administration. Latinos also had begun to experience a comeback from the Great Recession. The pandemic reversed that.The uncontrolled virus has put the Latino economic recovery at risk and cost some Latinos some of the wealth they had rebuilt.Latinos are 2.1 times more likely to die from Covid-19 compared to white Americans and 2.5 times more likely to be hospitalized, according to the latest data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Cases of Covid-19 are 1.6 times more likely among Latinos than whites, the CDC data show.   As of April, only 1 in 6 Hispanic workers were able to work from home during the pandemic, according to the Economic Policy Institute.In addition, Democrats need to buffer themselves from backlash they could face over immigration provisions in the bill. Immigrants advocates and many Democrats had hoped to include a pathway to citizenship in the legislation. But it would now provide only five-year work permits that could be renewed for five more years for about 7 million undocumented immigrants already in the county. If that is jettisoned to get the bill through the Senate, Democrats may feel the backlash from their base of support.Democrats are using a process to get the bill through the Senate that allows them to sidestep Republicans, most of whom oppose the immigration measures. But they also have to get the OK to have the immigration language in the bill from the Senate parliamentarian, and at least two Senate Democrats are lukewarm about the immigration provision, as well. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus has urged the Senate to keep the provision.The White House and Democrats put the focus Monday on legislation that they believe would have a direct impact on Latino households.Ruiz said the legislation would be a “rocket booster for the economy that will launch families across the country towards success by putting money in pockets.” Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Luis Roberto Vera Jr., Latino civil rights leader and attorney, dies at 65. Civil rights leader and attorney Luis Roberto Vera Jr. died Sunday after a long illness. He was 65.The League of United Latin American Citizens, the nation’s oldest Hispanic civil rights organization, which was founded in 1929, announced his death. Vera was its national general counsel and worked with it for three decades.Vera died in San Antonio, the city of his birth, surrounded by his family, according to LULAC."Ironically, Luis lives on through the recent lawsuits he helped file in federal court that will forever carry the imprint of his love for justice and the voice that shall never be silenced," LULAC National CEO Sindy Benavides said in a statement. Vera's landmark cases included a 2019 lawsuit to stop the Texas secretary of state from requiring nearly 100,000 voters to prove their citizenship or risk being removed from the voter rolls, a tactic that disproportionately impacts the Latino community. Another major case was a 2017 attempt to uphold the "sanctuary" status of border town El Cenizo and halt a measure that allowed law enforcement to question and detain undocumented residents. That same year, Vera was awarded Mexico's Ohtli Award, one of the highest federal recognitions that is given to those whose work empowers and supports Mexicans and Latinos."He was a fierce fighter for what is right and persisted even when the odds were against LULAC, as has been the case often given today's volatile politics," Elsie Valdes-Ramos, LULAC national board member and vice president for women, said in a statement."I knew we had in Luis, a tireless defender and a man who any enticement could never sway, nor was he seeking fame for himself," she said.“Latinos in Texas and indeed, our entire nation and Puerto Rico, have lost a selfless and brilliant legal fighter, cut from the same civil rights cloth as Cesar Chavez and Dolores Huerta,” Rodolfo Rosales Jr., LULAC’s Texas state director, said in a statement. Despite his illness, Vera was actively working as the organization’s counsel until very recently, according to the LULAC statement. “He was fearless and argued with the fire and brimstone passion of a legal preacher,” Rosales said. Vera earned both an undergraduate and a graduate degree from St. Mary’s University and earned his law degree from Western New England University School of Law, according to San Antonio Report.Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.  Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
A Bitcoin city? That's the plan in El Salvador. LA LIBERTAD, El Salvador  — In a rock concert-like atmosphere, El Salvador President Nayib Bukele announced that his government will build an oceanside “Bitcoin City” at the base of a volcano.Bukele used a gathering of Bitcoin enthusiasts Saturday night to launch his latest idea, much as he used an earlier Bitcoin conference in Miami to announce in a video message that El Salvador would be the first country to make the cryptocurrency legal tender.A bond offering would happen in 2022 entirely in Bitcoin, Bukele said, wearing his signature backwards baseball cap. And 60 days after financing was ready, construction would begin.The city will be built near the Conchagua volcano to take advantage of geothermal energy to power both the city and Bitcoin mining — the energy-intensive solving of complex mathematical calculations day and night to verify currency transactions.The government is already running a pilot Bitcoin mining venture at another geothermal power plant beside the Tecapa volcano.The oceanside Conchagua volcano sits in southeastern El Salvador on the Gulf of Fonseca.The government will provide land and infrastructure and work to attract investors.The only tax collected there will be the value-added tax, half of which will be used to pay the municipal bonds and the rest for municipal infrastructure and maintenance. Bukele said there would be no property, income or municipal taxes and the city would have zero carbon dioxide emissions.The city would be built with attracting foreign investment in mind. There would be residential areas, malls, restaurants and a port, Bukele said. The president talked of digital education, technology and sustainable public transportation.“Invest here and earn all the money you want,” Bukele told the cheering crowd in English at the closing of the Latin American Bitcoin and Blockchain Conference being held in El Salvador.Bitcoin has been legal tender alongside the U.S. dollar since Sept. 7.The government is backing Bitcoin with a $150 million fund. To incentivize Salvadorans to use it, the government offered $30 worth of credit to those using its digital wallet.Critics have warned that the currency’s lack of transparency could attract increased criminal activity to the country and that the digital currency’s wild swings in value would pose a risk to those holding it.Bitcoin was originally created to operate outside government controlled financial systems and Bukele says it will help attract foreign investment to El Salvador and make it cheaper for Salvadorans living abroad to send money home to their families.Concern among the Salvadoran opposition and outside observers has grown this year as Bukele has moved to consolidate power.Voters gave the highly popular president’s party control of the congress earlier this year. The new lawmakers immediately replaced the members of the constitutional chamber of the Supreme Court and the attorney general, leaving Bukele’s party firmly in control of the other branches of government.The U.S. government in response said it would shift its aid away from government agencies to civil society organizations. This month, Bukele sent a proposal to congress that would require organizations receiving foreign funding to register as foreign agents.Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
A hit song wins a Latin Grammy. One of its songwriters is in a Cuban prison. . A group of Cuban musicians, including one imprisoned in Cuba, won song of the year at the Latin Grammy awards on Thursday for their song "Patria y Vida"  — garnering even more international attention for a song that's become an anthem for Cuba's opposition.Banned in Cuba, "Patria y Vida" is a song that transcends politics and culture. Amid the guitar and rhythmic beat, it's an emotional song whose lyrics denounce the harsh realities Cuban face on an everyday basis —  including censorship, lack of food and the sadness of mothers whose children have migrated from the island. "For me, this song has been the emotional awakening for Cuban society," Yadam González, one of the song's authors and producer who was on stage Thursday, said in a phone interview with NBC News on Friday.González said the song has " served as a bridge for Cubans to have a way to reflect their pain and their desire for change." At the Grammys, the award winners dedicated the song to Cuba's political prisoners. The group Gente de Zona, Yotuel of the group Orishas, and singer-songwriter Descemer Bueno collaborated on the song with two rappers in Cuba, El Funky and Maykel Osorbo, whose real name is Michael Castillo. Both rappers are part of an artists’ collective in Cuba known as the San Isidro Movement, who have protested against the Cuban government’s censorship.Castillo is being held in a maximum-security prison in Cuba after his arrest in May. He went on a six-day hunger and thirst strike in late October to protest his imprisonment and Cuba’s crackdown on free expression. Activists have said that Castillo is sick. “Homeland and Life” is a play on the famous revolutionary slogan “Patria o Muerte” (Homeland or Death), a term that has been used by Cuba’s government for decades. The title is symbolic and full of meaning for those who oppose the Communist government. Acts of dissent, banned in Cuba, have grown during the past year. During the July 11 historic antigovernment protests that swept through the island people could be heard shouting “Patria y Vida” and some wrote the words on signs.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsEl Paso firefighter arrested and accused of 'impersonating a public servant'Crime & CourtsCrime & CourtsL.A. County wants Vanessa Bryant's suit over crash photos dismissedGonzález, who left Cuba for Denmark in 1996 and now resides in Miami, said that when he heard the words "Patria y Vida" being shouted during July's protests, he felt "very proud to be part of the emotions Cubans were feeling. "In this case, I refer to Cubans in a very personal way, because my parents still live in Cuba," he said.The group performed at the Latin Grammys dressed in white, in solidarity with activists in Cuba who had called for a nationwide protest on Monday. The protest never happened after authorities surrounded activists’ homes, preventing them from leaving while keeping a significant police presence on the streets. Instead, activists dressed in white and hung white sheets outside their homes in a sign of peace.Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
