'Long time coming': Ahmaud Arbery family rejoices as 3 men convicted for his murder  . Ahmaud Arbery's family rejoiced Wednesday following the conviction of three white men for gunning down their loved one, a Black man, as he was running through a Georgia neighborhood last year.As soon as the first “guilty” verdict was read out loud against Travis McMichael, a cheer erupted and the victim's father, Marcus Arbery,  leapt up to celebrate.Arbery’s mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones, appeared to be in silent prayer as the verdicts were read. As the first guilty verdict was read, the mother sobbed aloud, “Oh!” Cooper-Jones' head sunk into her chest as she wept, with civil rights activist, the Rev. Al Sharpton, holding her hand.Men found guilty in Ahmaud Arbery trial expected to get long prison sentencesNov. 24, 202105:15Glynn County Superior Court Judge Timothy Walmsley briefly halted proceedings to restore order and admonish the audience not to react outwardly again.As Marcus Arbery was led out of court due to his outburst, the father said: "It's been a long time coming." Ahmaud Arbery’s parents walked out of the courthouse, arms joyfully raised as supporters cheered them and the verdicts."Love everybody. All human beings need to be treated equally," Marcus Arbery said outside the courthouse. "Today is a good day." The victim’s aunt, Ruby Arbery, celebrated the convictions of Travis McMichael, 35; his father, Greg McMichael, 65; and neighbor William “Roddie” Bryan, 52. “My heart is pounding with gladness, excitement,” she said. “I’m glad that they got them off the streets so they won’t harm nobody else of color.” The three men face up to life in prison. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials sayCooper-Jones admitted she wasn't always certain this day would come.“It’s been a long fight, it’s been a hard fight. But God is good,” she told reporters. “To tell you the truth, I never saw this day back in 2020. I never thought this day would come. But God is good. I just wanted to tell everybody thank you, thank you for all those who marched and those who prayed.”The mother spoke lovingly of her slain son, calling him by his nickname.“You know him as Ahmaud, I know him as Quez,” she said. “He will now rest in peace.” Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Ahmaud Arbery's Black neighbors and supporters react to the verdict. BRUNSWICK, Ga. — In the seconds after a "guilty" verdict came down — ending the emotional trial of three white men accused of killing Ahmaud Arbery — the anxious throng assembled outside the Glynn County Courthouse erupted. Strangers embraced, tears flowed and people prayed.Mostly, however, was a sense of shared relief.The sheath of impending unrest that hovered over this small coastal town lifted like cloud cover. The specter of an uprising was gone; the hope that justice for Black people can be received was restored — if only momentarily.“Hallelujah,” said Cee Cee Warner, a Brunswick native who said she skipped work in anticipation of a verdict. “We can breathe again. We tried to downplay it, but there was a lot of tension, especially in the Black community. We were scared what could happen with the verdict — the wrong verdict. And that scared me because I think there would have been rioting and everything else. It would have become ugly. Our city could have burned down.”A woman raises a fist Wednesday outside the Glynn County Courthouse in Brunswick, Ga., after Travis McMichael, Gregory McMichael and William "Roddie" Bryan were convicted of murdering Ahmaud Arbery.Marco Bello / ReutersInstead, Black America in general and Brunswick in particular waited for the verdict. The nearly all-white jury convicted Travis McMichael of malice murder, felony murder, aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony. His father, Gregory McMichael, and their neighbor William “Roddie” Bryan were acquitted of the top charge. All now face up to life in prison. The three white men tracked Arbery, who was Black, in a pickup truck and gunned him down in the street on February 23, 2020. The McMichaels toted weapons — the father a handgun; the shooter, Travis McMichael, a shotgun used to blast three shots at close range into Arbery. Bryan followed without a gun, but blocked Arbery’s path, leading to the fatal confrontation in a quiet subdivision. Media from around the world descended upon this nondescript town that has been the center of attention since jury selection began in October. “Maybe everyone will go away now,” Warner said. “Everyone has known the name of our city for the wrong, horrible reasons. This verdict can at least be a positive for the city.”“I’m more relieved than happy,” Michael Irvin, a teacher from the Orlando, Florida, area told NBC News outside the courthouse. He said he drove more than three hours to Brunswick in anticipation of a verdict Wednesday. “I don’t want to be a spoilsport, but what if that video had not come out several months later? A young Black man would have been taken from his family and community with no one held responsible. That part, I can’t ignore. So, I’m happy justice was served. But even in a case that seemed pretty obvious to me and most people, we had to pray and hope and wish and pray some more for justice. It shouldn’t be that way. We shouldn’t have to go through all these emotions just to feel like a Black life matters.”People react Wednesday outside the Glynn County Courthouse in Brunswick, Ga., after the McMichaels and Bryan were convicted in the death of Ahmaud Arbery.Marco Bello / ReutersAt Brunswick High, where Arbery graduated in 2012, students said the discussion around the building on the case was limited. But the tension was pervasive. “If the verdict was not guilty, the city would have been hot,” student Keon Leggett, 17, said. “What they did to him was wrong. And we all felt it. He was one of us.”The jury deliberated for one day to convict the trio of men who had claimed they were making a citizen’s arrest. Because Thanksgiving was approaching and the jury discussed the case for an extended period after it received the case Tuesday, the anticipation of a verdict Wednesday mounted. The crowd doubled in anticipation of the verdict between Tuesday and Wednesday.The atmosphere outside the courthouse was festive after the verdict, with chants of “Justice for Ahmaud” and “Say his name ... Ahmaud Arbery,” a sustained calling. When Arbery’s mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones, and father, Marcus Arbery, exited the courtroom and walked toward the steps of the courthouse, the crowd erupted.“You all know him as Arbery; I know him as ‘Quez.’ He can now rest in peace,” Cooper-Jones said. “I never thought this day would come back in 2020. But God is good.”“In one sense, the jury had no choice — it was evident they hunted down and killed this young man,” Mary Lewis Richards said. She said Brunswick is her hometown, but she lives in Atlanta. “In another sense, we have seen what happens when white people kill Black people — nothing. So I couldn’t be comfortable at all that they would get what they deserve. But I tell you what, I feel so good right now.” People raise their fists Wednesday outside the Glynn County Courthouse in Brunswick, Ga., after the convictions of three men in the killing of Ahmaud Arbery.Octavio Jones / ReutersAt a mural of Arbery a few blocks from the courthouse at G and Albany streets, a small crowd gathered and rejoiced. “Ahmaud didn’t deserve to die, especially like that, hunted in the streets,” Gloria Johnson said, glancing at the large image of him as a high school student. “Look at that beautiful young man. He had so much to live for. It would have been worse if justice had not been done. Thank God it was. He deserved at least that. And with the Minnesota case, let’s hope this means change.” RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials sayShe referred to the conviction of former Minneapolis Police Officer Derek Chauvin, who murdered George Floyd last year.“We have had a lot of losses in cases like this, where Black people are killed by white people,” Will Bethune said. He drove from Savannah with five friends to wait for the verdict at the courthouse.“We were cramped up in that car, but it was important to be here,” he added. “For the family. For history. For Ahmaud Arbery. In times like these, we have to come together because no one is coming to save us. We’ve seen obvious cases like George Zimmerman get off for killing Trayvon Martin. So we couldn’t take it for granted this would happen.“But now that it has, a lot of stress has been let go. Maybe we can get back to living without everything hanging over us. Maybe.”Follow NBCBLK on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Biden says verdict in Ahmaud Arbery killing reflects 'justice system doing its job'. President Joe Biden said Wednesday that while the convictions of three men in the murder of Ahmaud Arbery were a reflection of a justice system that works, there is still much progress to be made on racial justice."While the guilty verdicts reflect our justice system doing its job, that alone is not enough," Biden said in a written statement shortly after the verdicts were announced in Brunswick, Georgia. "Instead, we must recommit ourselves to building a future of unity and shared strength, where no one fears violence because of the color of their skin."Three white men were found guilty Wednesday of felony murder in the shooting death of Arbery, 25, who was running in their neighborhood when they pursued and confronted him last year.Travis McMichael, 35; his father, Gregory McMichael, 65; and their neighbor William "Roddie" Bryan, 52, face up to life in prison for the state crimes.The men are also expected to stand trial in February on federal hate crime charges. Arbery's family and civil rights leaders have likened his death to a modern-day lynching.Vice President Kamala Harris said the verdicts "send an important message, but the fact remains that we still have work to do.""Ahmaud Arbery was a son. He was a brother. He was a friend. His life had meaning," she said. "We will not forget him. We honor him best by continuing the fight for justice."The McMichaels and Bryan chased Arbery in pickup trucks after they spotted him in their neighborhood outside Brunswick on Feb. 23, 2020. Travis McMichael shot Arbery with a shotgun at close range. Bryan recorded the fatal encounter on his cellphone; the video was eventually made public.RecommendedHealth newsHealth newsFirm that administers medical benefits for some 9/11 survivors loses federal contractNational SecurityNational SecurityCIA chief warns Russians of consequences if they caused 'Havana Syndrome'Sen. Raphael Warnock, D-Ga., said the verdict "upholds a sense of accountability but not true justice.""True justice looks like a Black man not having to worry about being harmed — or killed — while on a jog, while sleeping in his bed, while living what should be a very long life," he said. "Ahmaud should be with us today."Republican Gov. Brian Kemp said in a statement that Arbery was "the victim of vigilantism that has no place in Georgia.""As legal efforts continue to hold accountable all who may be responsible, we hope the Arbery family, the Brunswick community, our state and those around the nation who have been following his case can now move forward down a path of healing and reconciliation," Kemp said.The deaths of Arbery and George Floyd fueled racial justice protests around the country last year.Biden said Arbery's killing was a "devastating reminder of how far we have to go in the fight for racial justice in this country.""Nothing can bring Mr. Arbery back to his family and to his community, but the verdict ensures that those who committed this horrible crime will be punished," he said.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Keith Magee  Guilty verdicts in Ahmaud Arbery murder trial are bandages on festering racial wounds  . Over the past three weeks of the murder trial of the three white men — Gregory McMichael, Travis McMichael and William “Roddie” Bryan — charged in the killing of Ahmaud Arbery, Black America has been retraumatized.Like the trial of George Floyd’s murderer, then-Minneapolis Police Officer Derek Chauvin, in Minnesota in April 2021, the trial of the McMichaels and Bryan has revealed the shocking levels of racial hatred that still poison our society.RelatedOpinionOpinionAhmaud Arbery's alleged killers plan a legal defense tied to slave catchersThe men, facing charges of malice murder, felony murder, aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony, were all found guilty of felony murder Wednesday. Travis McMichael was also convicted of the other charges, but George McMichael and Bryan were acquitted of malice murder. They all face life in prison.Once again, the outcome of the proceedings leaves a bad taste in the mouth, for no prison sentence can ever put right the taking of an innocent life. These trials are the symptoms of our national sickness; guilty verdicts are like bandages applied in the hope of stemming bleeding during open-heart surgery. We will not be cured until we rid our country of racial injustice for good.RelatedOpinionOpinionWe want to hear what you THINK. Please submit a letter to the editor.Arbery died because his white assailants made assumptions about him based on the color of his skin. He was out running in the majority white neighborhood of Satilla Shores near Brunswick in south Georgia last February when both of the McMichaels and Bryan decided he must be up to no good, chased him and Travis McMichael shot him dead. They later claimed, with no proof whatsoever, that they suspected Arbery of being involved in burglaries in the area. According to an investigator, Bryan alleged that he heard Travis McMichael say " f------ N-word" after Arbery was shot. In fact, the violence unleashed on Arbery was so clearly racially motivated that the U.S. Department of Justice charged all three men with federal hate crimes in April. The men pleaded not guilty to these charges.More than four centuries after the first slaves were transported to America and then criminalized to keep them subjugated, we clearly still live in a nation in which being Black or brown is enough to make you appear suspicious, even threatening, to some white people.Steeped in hundreds of years of racist attitudes, some take one look at your outer layer and choose to assume that you have probably just committed a felony or are about to do so. And such assumptions can be fatal in a country in which white supremacy continues to fester.1 year after shooting death of Ahmaud Arbery, his mother speaks outFeb. 23, 202102:02Unlike white Americans, Black and brown citizens do not have the luxury of making assumptions. We can’t assume that law enforcement officers, active or retired, will protect rather than harm us. We can’t assume our white neighbors won’t see us as a threat. We can’t assume we are safe when we go jogging, pop into a grocery store, sleep in our own home or pull into a driveway to check our phone for directions.The Arbery case has reminded us that if we suffer a racist assault, we can’t assume the police will promptly open a thorough investigation or make an arrest. It took over two months for an arrest to be made. We can’t assume that the legal system will protect us from further discrimination. One of the prosecutors who recused himself earlier on in the case, wrote in a letter that he did so because the men who chased and killed Arbery had "solid first-hand probable cause" to pursue him, a "burglary suspect.” Again, there was no proof that Arbery had stolen anything. We can’t assume that the jury in our attacker’s trial will be remotely racially representative. Whether or not Arbery received justice was left up to 11 white jurors and one Black one. If we lose a loved one to racial violence, we can’t even assume that we will be allowed to refer to them as a “victim” during a trial for fear of being seen as prejudicial, as the McMichaels’ lawyers wrote in a motion.RelatedOpinionOpinionCharging the paramedics and prosecutor in recent killings of Black men flips the scriptFor nonwhite citizens like me, the toxic effects of others’ assumptions about us can literally shorten our lives, and not just through racist violence. When you are viewed with suspicion everywhere you go through no fault of your own, when you know that your country’s criminal justice system was actually designed to incarcerate as many people who look like you as possible, and when you are struggling against discrimination every day, you exist in a permanent state of hypervigilance. The stress that generates has a measurable impact on the physical health of Black Americans, who, as a result, are much more likely than their white counterparts to suffer from hypertension and therefore to succumb to an early death.If we are ever to end racial injustice and the countless injurious effects it spawns – including hate crimes like the one that stole Arbery’s life – we must examine where harmful assumptions about Black and brown people come from and then overturn them. Generations after the invention of the false social construct of race was used to justify the inhumane treatment of Black, Indigenous, and other people of color, misplaced fear of the “other” is now so deep-seated in some Americans’ hearts that it will not be quickly erased.RecommendedOpinionOpinion'House of Gucci' won't get Lady Gaga the Oscar she covets. But it might get viewers.OpinionOpinionLady Gaga isn't perfect in 'House of Gucci' — but she knows how to make you feelPositive change is possible, but we won’t achieve it just by exposing the darkness in our past and present. As a nation, in addition to stripping our justice and electoral systems of structural racism and creating equal access to opportunity for every person in America, we also need to begin the process of dismantling race altogether so we can move forward.It will not be an easy task, but all of us who care about making America more equitable must be willing to put in the work. And it will take more than refusing to elect lawmakers determined to infringe on the voting rights of Black and brown people, challenging a loved one’s racist comments at the holiday dinner table or carefully curating our friendship groups to make them more diverse.RelatedOpinionOpinionBlack death has long been a political tool. Ahmaud Arbery's shooting shows why.Important as such actions are, we have to go even further – we have to re-frame identity as being about something deeper than skin color by choosing instead to value and celebrate ethnicity, culture, heritage and citizenship. Education is the key to achieving this. If we can teach all our children to see every person as a human being with a soul just like them, we will be on the path to building a future free from finding the antidote not just to racism, but also to every kind of discrimination.I pray that I will never see another trial like the one that has just ended. I long to never hear about another life lost to hate, another family destroyed, and another campaign demanding something every person in America should simply take for granted – basic justice. The expectation of justice should be as natural as breathing or sleeping or going for a run on a sunny day – we should be able to assume that it is available to us all.Subscribe to the THINK newsletterReTHINK the news cycle with timely op-eds, in-depth analyses and personal essays delivered weekly to your inbox.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Trump argues Jan. 6 panel's pursuit of his records could permanently damage the presidency. Attorneys for former President Donald Trump on Wednesday argued that the pursuit of his White House records by a congressional committee investigating the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol could have long-lasting, harmful effects on the presidency."The [committee’s] clear disdain for President Trump is leading them to a course of action that will result in permanent damage to the institution of the presidency," the former president's attorneys wrote in a court brief filed in federal court."In reality, their success would gut the protections afforded presidential communications of any just and uniform standard. An incumbent president would always be able to condemn the actions of a former president from a rival party and permit confidentiality to be broken to further political ends,” they wrote.The filing comes two days after lawyers for the bipartisan Jan. 6 committee urged the appeals court to quickly release Trump's White House records surrounding the attack on the Capitol.The appeals court is slated to hear arguments in the case on Tuesday.Court order over Jan. 6 documents could be bad sign for TrumpNov. 24, 202101:23Trump is appealing a ruling earlier this month by U.S. District Court Judge Tanya Chutkan, who said the House committee's pursuit of his records was valid. Trump has claimed executive privilege over his White House records, but President Joe Biden refused to grant privilege over the tranche of documents, including memos, emails, records of White House conversations and visitor logs.Trump’s attorneys have suggested in briefs that partisanship motivated Biden in his refusal to assert executive privilege over his predecessor's records.RecommendedHealth newsHealth newsFirm that administers medical benefits for some 9/11 survivors loses federal contractNational SecurityNational SecurityCIA chief warns Russians of consequences if they caused 'Havana Syndrome'The appeals court recently granted Trump a short-term reprieve by temporarily blocking the National Archives from turning over his White House files to the Jan. 6 committee.In addition to seeking those records, the House committee has issued batches of subpoenas in recent weeks to dozens of Trump administration officials and allies of the former president. The committee issued a new round of subpoenas on Monday, targeting high-profile Trump allies like Roger Stone and Alex Jones.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
CIA chief warns Russians of consequences if they caused 'Havana Syndrome'. CIA Director William Burns delivered a secret warning to Russian intelligence services that they will face “consequences” if they are responsible for the mysterious health incidents known as “Havana Syndrome” that have afflicted U.S. spies, diplomats, FBI agents and others spies around the world, three sources familiar with the matter said.The warning was first reported by The Washington Post.Burns raised the issue during a visit to Moscow this month, the sources said, while he was speaking to top officials of Russia’s Federal Security Service, the FSB, and its Foreign Intelligence Service, the SVR. RecommendedHealth newsHealth newsFirm that administers medical benefits for some 9/11 survivors loses federal contractDonald TrumpDonald TrumpTrump argues Jan. 6 panel could permanently damage the presidency with its pursuit of White House recordsThe sources said he told the Russian spies that harming U.S. personnel and their families would break the unwritten rules of acceptable behavior for professional intelligence services. If it was determined that the Russians were responsible, he said, there would be repercussions.Victims suffering from Havana Syndrome have reported hearing a loud sound and feeling pressure in their heads and then experiencing dizziness, unsteady gait and visual disturbances. Many say they have suffered long-standing debilitating effects.NBC News reported in 2018 that U.S. intelligence officials considered Russia a leading suspect in what some of them assessed to have been deliberate attacks on diplomats and CIA officers overseas. But in the three years since then, the spy agencies have not uncovered enough evidence to pinpoint the cause or the culprit of the health incidents. U.S. officials cannot say for sure that they were the result of human activity.President Biden attends G-20 summitOct. 30, 202101:51Many U.S. officials remain convinced that Russia is behind the incidents, which Burns has privately called “attacks,” current and former officials say. Russia has consistently denied responsibility.The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine said in a report last year that some of the observed brain injuries were consistent with the effects of directed microwave energy, which the report said Russia has long studied.A team of medical and scientific experts who studied the symptoms of as many as 40 State Department and other government employees concluded that nothing like them had previously been documented in medical literature, the report said.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
CDC issues health advisory about rising flu cases among kids, young adults. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued a health advisory Wednesday that cases of influenza have been rising among young adults in recent weeks.While flu cases are still low nationally, more than 90 percent are among children and young adults ages 5 to 24, according to the CDC. Most cases are of the H3N2 lineage — a strain that health experts say is particularly troublesome, as it tends to mutate faster than other variants of influenza. The last time H3N2 was the dominant strain was during the 2017-18 flu season, when the U.S. had 710,000 flu-related hospitalizations and 52,000 flu-related deaths, the most since the 2009 H1N1 flu pandemic. A CDC map shows influenza rates.CDCThe CDC has been investigating a flu outbreak at the University of Michigan, where hundreds of students have tested positive. Flu outbreaks have been reported at other college campuses in the past month. Experts are concerned that college students and other young people who may have been exposed to flu could spread it around the country as they travel home for the holidays. “This is the time of the year when many people are going to be gathering together for the holidays for either Thanksgiving, Christmas or New Year's, and there’s just the potential to amplify it,” said Dr. Isaac Bogoch, an infectious disease specialist at the University of Toronto.He said people, especially those most at risk for severe disease, should get vaccinated, because the virus doesn’t stay within a particular age group for long. “It’s coming. It’s not quite clear how large a flu season we’re going to have, but we are going to have a flu season,” he said. RecommendedHealth newsHealth newsFirm that administers medical benefits for some 9/11 survivors loses federal contractNational SecurityNational SecurityCIA chief warns Russians of consequences if they caused 'Havana Syndrome'Full coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe flu season typically runs from October to as late as May, with activity tending to peak from December to February, according to the CDC. Influenza experts had previously said they were concerned that the country could be at risk for a severe flu season this year after seasonal flu cases reached an all-time low last year, when large parts of the country were shut down because of the coronavirus pandemic. Flu outbreak sickens hundreds at University of MichiganNov. 17, 202101:50Experts urge people to get both Covid and flu vaccinations, saying an increase in flu infections this winter could put more burden on the country’s health care system, which is already dealing with a surge in coronavirus cases. Download the NBC News app for full coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAs part of the health advisory, the CDC recommended that people with flulike symptoms be tested for both influenza and Covid. Follow NBC HEALTH on Twitter & Facebook.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Tearful Dick Vitale back at the college hoops mic after cancer diagnosis . Beloved college basketball analyst Dick Vitale broke down in tears Tuesday night, thanking hoops fans and returning to the mic just five weeks after being diagnosed with cancer. His voice choked with emotion as soon as the lights and camera lit up court-side at T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas, ahead of top-ranked Gonzaga University’s 83-63 victory over No. 2 University of California, Los Angeles."It's great being here, Dave. I didn't want to cry," Vitale told the audience and play-by-play man Dave O'Brien. "I can't believe I'm sitting here. This is really a big thrill for me. I want to thank all you people, sent me so many great messages. ESPN (company chairman) Jimmy Pitaro, all my buddies at ESPN. I want to thank, certainly, my family and all the fans, my, you've been unbelievable."Vitale, who had already overcome a battle with melanoma, was told on Oct. 12 that he had bile duct cancer and to prepare for an incredibly difficult path forward. A subsequent diagnosis found it wasn't bile duct cancer but rather lymphoma, which has a much higher rate of survival."I'll be honest with you, when they walked in and told me I had cancer, they thought it was bile duct cancer, and it was really going to be a serious surgery and all, I never dreamt at 82 that I'd ever be  court-side again, but to be here today, I'm sorry, I hope I don't cause a problem out there, but I feel so emotional,” the tearful Vitale said.O'Brien, his right arm wrapped around the popular ESPN personality known as "Dickie V," told Vitale that no one would begrudge him a moment of emotion.Vitale wiped his eyes and said: "The game is the big thing so let's get this game going, talk some basketball." Arguably ESPN's most well-known and loved voices, the Hall of Fame broadcaster Vitale has been calling college basketball games since 1979, virtually for as long as the network has been in existence.He's best known for catch phrases such as "Awesome, baby!" for a great play and "Get a TO, baby!" urging a coach to call timeout to stem a potential decisive run.The relentlessly upbeat Vitale tweeted a picture of himself leaving his hotel room before Tuesday's game and told fans: "Don't ever believe in can't." Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Gray wolf whose 'epic' travels captured headlines is killed in California . A gray wolf whose “epic” travels captured headlines and imaginations earlier this year was killed in California after being struck by a vehicle this month, wildlife officials said Wednesday.The wolf, known as OR93, was found dead on Interstate 5 roughly 90 miles north of Los Angeles, near the town of Lebec, the California Department of Fish and Wildlife said in a news release.Foul play wasn’t suspected, the department said.OR93 was born in northern Oregon in 2019. After being outfitted with a radio collar a year later, he was captured traveling to California's Central Coast — the first wolf to be reported there in hundreds of years, said Amaroq Weiss, an advocate with the Center for Biological Diversity. "I’m devastated to learn of the death of this remarkable wolf,” Weiss said in a statement. “His epic travels across California inspired the world. In this annual time of reflection, I thank him for the hope he gave us and for a brief glimpse into what it would be like for wolves to roam wild and free again."By April, OR93 had arrived in California's San Luis Obispo County, nearly 1,000 miles south of his birthplace. Then, his radio collar stopped working, prompting the San Francisco Chronicle to contemplate the whereabouts of this "young roaming gray wolf" who was "probably looking for love" and eluding wildlife officials while doing so.In his search for a mate, Weiss said, OR93 was captured on a trail camera even further south, in Kern County, where his body would later be found. In September, he was seen in northern Ventura County.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials sayThe last time a wolf was documented that far south was 1922, wildlife officials said, when one was seen in San Bernardino County."I always knew the odds of his finding another wolf on the Central Coast were slim to none, but his relentless wanderings seeking a kindred spirit connected him to the hearts of so many," Weiss said. "He won’t be forgotten, and we’ll honor his memory by continuing to fight for the safety of wolves everywhere.”Gray wolves are native to California but were killed off a century ago. Roughly 20 are now believed to live in the state in two northern counties, Weiss said. Weiss pointed to OR93’s death as a reminder of the impact of development and sprawl on the habitat of native animals and called for the construction of effective wildlife crossings, including underpasses and overpasses.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
A nursing home where 83 residents died of Covid is still in business under a new name. In December 2019, Sharon Farrell flew from Florida to visit her brother Stephen at a New Jersey nursing home, where, she said, she found “disgusting” conditions. "I told the nurse, 'I am calling the state,'" she said. "I’m paying $9,000 a month, and I wouldn’t let my dog live like this."Farrell said that four months later, as Covid-19 was spreading rapidly, she repeatedly called the facility to ask how her brother was doing. When she finally reached someone, she said, she was told he was fine. Within a few days, however, he was dead. It has been 19 months since the discovery of 17 bodies in a tiny morgue at the Andover Subacute II nursing home in Sussex County, New Jersey, in April 2020. The federal government fined the owners $221,115 for not being in "substantial compliance," and the attorney general’s office began an investigation. But the owners are still in business. They changed the names of Andover and its sister facility and installed new signs out front. As of Friday, there were 25 residents of Andover with Covid, according to state data. And the owners are still being paid by Medicare and Medicaid, the taxpayer-funded programs that pay most costs for U.S. nursing home operators — even though one of the owners, Louis Schwartz, helped run a chain called Skyline Healthcare, which collapsed in 2019 amid accusations of neglect and financial mismanagement, which the chain denied.Andover Subacute Facility I and II was renamed Woodland Behavioral and Nursing Center at Andover.NBC News"The individuals that ran Skyline should not ever be in charge of a nursing home again, and yet here we are," said David Grabowski, a professor of health care policy at Harvard Medical School. He said the pandemic exposed an industry already in crisis, with a lack of resources and regulation."Different names, same practices," Grabowski said. "We need to ensure that there aren’t these kind of back doors, that nursing homes aren’t able to simply put a new name on the building and continue to operate as is."Some family members of those who died at Andover say they are frustrated, and some are suing over the facility's alleged lack of preparation to deal with Covid and for mingling the infected and the healthy.Farrell joined a lawsuit with other families but said: "I couldn’t care less about the class action. I want these guys out of business."Before CovidAt its peak, Skyline Healthcare had more than 100 facilities and oversaw the care of more than 7,000 elderly residents. But from 2017 to 2019, the chain began a slow-motion collapse, and more than a dozen Skyline-operated nursing homes shut their doors, throwing residents, vendors, employees and state regulators into chaos.Many homes ran out of money. Others were shut down over neglect documented in government records. In one Arkansas nursing home regulators identified maggots in a resident’s catheter, according to an inspection. Fourteen homes were forced to close permanently, displacing more than 900 residents to new facilities, sometimes hours away.Skyline’s main owner, Joseph Schwartz, and his son Louis did not return multiple messages and emails requesting comment in 2019. They have denied the allegations of neglect.The Schwartz family has not left the nursing home business. While Skyline is defunct, Joseph Schwartz is still listed as the owner or a co-owner of four facilities, according to federal nursing home ownership data. Louis Schwartz and Chaim Scheinbaum have ownership stakes in at least seven nursing homes between them, including the facility once known as Andover Subacute II.In January 2020, New York health officials recommended against allowing Scheinbaum to take over a nursing home in upstate New York, citing an "ongoing investigation" and noting that they disapproved of his "character and competence," according to a Health Department document. Scheinbaum did not respond when asked to comment about the recommendation.A year before the Covid outbreak, a female Andover resident with dementia walked out of the facility through two broken doors and was found at 4:30 a.m. sitting in the snow with severe frostbite, according to a federal inspection. Terri Thompson, her daughter, sued the facility, alleging violations of the minimum standard of care. The lawsuit is pending, and the owners have denied the claims.Dante Maglioli said that in early 2020, his father, Joseph, complained about the quality of care at Andover. The family was talking about moving him to another facility. As Covid began to spread, Maglioli said, he heard his sister and his father talking on the phone. His father was saying he was not sure Andover could cope if he came down with the deadly new disease. And then, Maglioli said, "my sister never talked to my dad again." Maglioli’s father died April 9, 2020. Schwartz and Scheinbaum did not respond when asked to comment about the conditions at Andover before the pandemic.When the pandemic arrived, nursing homes in New York and New Jersey, including Andover, took the early brunt. Eighty-three of the home’s 539 residents, or almost 1 out of every 6, died of Covid in the first four months of the pandemic. Farrell’s brother was among the casualties.Health care officials prepare to load a patient into an ambulance at Andover Subacute and Rehab Center in Andover, N.J., on April 16, 2020.Stefan Jeremiah / Reuters filePreston Nicolai, then a 20-year-old maintenance worker at the facility, said it was "horrific.""We were losing sometimes between 10 and 12 people a night," he said.Before the bodies began to pile up at Andover, Nicolai said, he was told to move residents from room to room, even though the facility did not know who had Covid and who did not. "I do believe it helped spread the cases of Covid throughout the building," he said.Nicolai said he was told to stack bodies on top of one another in a small room as the facility struggled to deal with the surge in deaths.RecommendedHealth newsHealth newsFirm that administers medical benefits for some 9/11 survivors loses federal contractNational SecurityNational SecurityCIA chief warns Russians of consequences if they caused 'Havana Syndrome'On Easter Sunday, April 12, Nicolai said, he went to work and found the body of a woman in an outdoor maintenance shed, next to shovels, rakes and a lawn mower. He said there was no more room for corpses inside the nursing home.  "I was so morally devastated," he said. "It felt so wrong to put someone’s loved one out in the shed."He moved the body back inside the facility, but he cannot shake the images. "I have had really bad dreams, and I don’t have the money to pay a therapist," he said.‘They do not even know what they do not know’Documents newly obtained through an open records request by NBC News show how the facility struggled to cope with the outbreak in April 2020.Emails from Andover staff members to Sussex County officials document repeated requests for personal protective equipment, or PPE, like masks and gloves, some of which was delivered to the facility.A summary of an inspection from the early morning hours of April 12 written by Kyle Wilson, a registered nurse, and addressed to the Andover Township chief of police describes in detail conditions inside the facility days before the first story broke about bodies stuffed into the tiny morgue. Wilson is employed part-time at the police department, according to a dispatch operator. He did not return a call seeking comment.Wilson wrote that protective equipment delivered to the facility by the Sussex County Sheriff’s Office was unaccounted for. He said an Andover employee said the facility was "aware of a batch of PPE 'donated by the Sheriff’s office' but could not account for its whereabouts or the inventory of the facility’s existing PPE, if such an inventory exists."Police find 17 bodies in New Jersey nursing home hit by coronavirusApril 16, 202002:26Wilson wrote, "Staff were observed to be touching their PPE (face shield, gown, mask) and their face with bare hands." He wrote that he "confronted [the nurse on duty] about this observed behavior. She assured me that it was okay because she was 'not in a room.'"Wilson wrote that there was no Covid testing at the facility and that the staff had not segregated the patients suspected of having Covid. He wrote: "It is my opinion that the acquisition of PPE alone will not resolve the rate of spread at this facility. … [S]taff are undoubtedly contaminated throughout their shift. While the staff are tangibly scared, a culture of safety is not present in this facility. They have not been educated. They do not even know what they do not know."Two days later, a federal Department of Health and Human Services administrator working in Sussex County, Carol Novrit, emailed county officials to say Andover staff members had told her that residents were "not being fed," that residents had "open wounds" and that the deaths of both residents and staff members were not being reported to public health officials. She wrote that the staff told her "there is no infection control now."Schwartz and Scheinbaum did not respond when asked to comment about the documents obtained by NBC News.Federal inspection reports conducted in mid-April 2020 showed similar observations, noting that residents who had symptoms were intermingled with those who were asymptomatic.'Impossible to know' Representatives for the owners said that at that time it was "often impossible to know who had Covid and who did not because of a lack of testing capability."In a statement, the owners of Andover, now known as Woodland Behavioral, said that "the safety and health of our residents has always been the top priority for Woodland Behavioral," adding: "The COVID-19 pandemic brought unprecedented challenges, and our heroic staff faced those challenges as best as they could. We continue to thank them for everything they did (and continue to do) to protect our residents."Representatives for Scheinbaum and Schwartz said they asked for help from multiple government agencies, including two verbal requests to the National Guard on April 11 and April 15, but were told by military officials that they could not provide any assistance. A spokesperson for the New Jersey National Guard disputed their assertion. "The National Guard does not have any information indicating that the Andover Subacute facility made a request for assistance, much less one that was turned down." The spokesperson said that at the outset of Covid, the Guard "supported every single mission request we received."The National Guard did respond to a request for emergency aid that Sussex County officials sent to the governor on May 6. Two days later, 22 members of the Guard went to Andover and performed nonmedical tasks, like cleaning the facility.NBC News investigation: Nursing home chain collapses amid allegations of unpaid bills, poor careJuly 19, 201903:30The owners say problems identified in the federal inspections from spring 2020 have been resolved with state and federal regulators.  A spokesperson for an industry trade group, the American Health Care Association, said, "Even the best nursing homes with the most rigorous standards could not stop this highly contagious and invisible virus. Many lives were lost because long-term care was not made a priority by public health officials, especially in the initial months of the pandemic. Critical resources were directed toward hospitals, leaving long-term care facilities at a severe disadvantage."The investigation continuesPreston Nicolai said he was fired four months after the overstuffed morgue was discovered, accused of improperly disposing of medical waste.  He said he believes the owners were looking for an excuse to get rid of him after what he saw. He said he has not been contacted by the attorney general’s office. Sharon Farrell, however, was contacted this April.Asked when the attorney general’s office would complete its investigation, a spokesperson said, "As is our standard practice, we will not provide updates on the investigation or release any additional information unless and until we bring an enforcement action or close the matter."The spokesperson said the Andover inquiry is part of a larger investigation of "facilities with high numbers of Covid-related deaths and below-average track records for health inspections, staffing, and quality of care." The class-action lawsuit filed by some relatives of the deceased, including Maglioli and Farrell, recently won a legal ruling allowing the lawsuit to stay in state instead of federal court, said the families’ attorney, Daniel Marchese. Marchese said that is good for the plaintiffs, who can plead their case before a local jury instead of being referred to a federal compensation program set up through the PREP Act, which shields businesses from some forms of liability after natural disasters like Covid.Maglioli said: "I think that these gentlemen, their corporation, whatever it is, needs to pay the price. And I don’t mean in a financial way."Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Isaiah Austin’s NBA dreams shattered. Now he’s returned to the league in a new role.. Isaiah Austin walked into practice June 21, 2014, and immediately knew something was wrong.Austin was coming off a banner season playing for Baylor University, leading his team to the NCAA Sweet Sixteen. As a 7-foot, 1-inch center, he had been known for his flashy blocks. And now he was projected to be a first-round pick in the NBA Draft, making all his dreams come true, just five days later.“Everybody’s aura was off that day,” Austin said. “I’m the type of guy to speak up, so I’m yelling at guys like: ‘Yo, what’s up with you guys? You don’t have the same energy as we always do. I’m trying to get after it today.’”Ray Forsett, Austin’s high school coach, was leading one of Austin’s pre-draft workouts. But Forsett already knew Austin would not play in the NBA. He interrupted Austin’s pep talk at center court at Mo Williams Academy in Dallas and simply reminded him to enjoy being on the court, Austin said.  “After the workout, we were driving home, and I just felt like his whole personality changed towards me, almost like he was just sad for me or something,” Austin said. “And I just remember driving down the road. I was in the passenger seat. And I remember seeing my parents’ car in the driveway, and at this time they lived in Kansas. So I was like, ‘Man, they might have a surprise party for me or something,’ like, what’s going on? And I remember walking through the front door and my whole coaching staff was there from Baylor, my agent was there, my pastor was there — brother and sister, whole family, my whole circle, my tight-knit circle that I’ve been through everything with was there.”Austin’s mother delivered the news that he was medically ineligible to play in the NBA. Austin, who is blind in his right eye, said he knew before then that there was a chance he could not play, but he brushed it off. He was also notified at the NBA combine, where top draft prospects are exhaustively examined and assessed, that his DNA would be tested for Marfan syndrome. Still, he said, he thought he was in the clear because he was allowed to go through the pre-draft process. But his loved ones confirmed that he did, in fact, have Marfan syndrome, a rare genetic condition that disrupts how cells, organs and tissue connect, resulting in a key complication in which heart arteries enlarge to the point of tearing. The confirmed diagnosis meant the end of his plans to play in the NBA.Isaiah Austin speaks with a group of children during an NBA Fit Event in New York, New York, on June 24, 2015.Michael Lebrecht / NBAE via Getty Images file Austin’s career trajectory had suddenly flipped. But years later, he is taking on a new role in the NBA, one that had not been in his plans when he left Baylor after two seasons as a student-athlete eyeing the NBA. Last month, Austin started a one-year fellowship created specifically for him in the league’s player development department. “I work closely with the teams and try to help players find their interest points outside of basketball,” Austin said. He said it is an opportunity to “expand my horizons and show that I am more than just a basketball player and that I’m capable of doing anything I set my mind to.”Changing courseAustin recalled that before the diagnosis, he had been “overjoyed with the thought that my dream of being able to take care of my family and give something back to my family for all that they’ve sacrificed for me was about to come true.”But once he learned he would not be playing in the NBA, “I was filled with sorrow during that time,” Austin said. “I didn’t know what I was going to do with my life.”NBA Commissioner Adam Silver still drafted him as an honorary player. “Isaiah committed himself through endless hard work and dedication to a potential career as a professional basketball player, and we wanted to make sure he fulfilled at least this part of his dream,” Silver said in 2014. Austin said the moment brought him some closure.“Being able to walk across that stage and being able to shake Adam’s hand kind of brought some light at the end of the tunnel for me,” he said. “That moment will always be engraved in my mind and my family’s mind like a beacon.”Austin turned to opportunities overseas in hope of still playing professionally. His cardiologist, Dr. David Liang, wrote a letter in 2017 confirming that he was able and healthy to play, Austin said, adding that Liang observed no clear symptoms of Marfan syndrome.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials say“So me, personally, it doesn’t affect my life at all,” Austin said. “I’ve been healthy as can be my whole life. I’ve been an athlete my whole life.”In 2017, Austin began playing in leagues around the world, including the Chinese National Basketball League and the Lebanese Basketball League. He averaged more than 30 points for Guangzhi Weizhuang in the Chinese NBL.These days, Austin is at peace with how things unfolded: “Sometimes you’re just dealt a bad hand.”  Austin returned to Baylor  where he studied health, kinesiology, and leisure studies, and graduated last year. His position in the NBA keeps him close to basketball. Over the next year, he will network and shadow teams and events, such as the All-Star Game and the draft, for additional exposure to learn the league and members of its front office.Jamila Wideman, the NBA’s senior vice president of player development, said in a statement: “The NBA Player Development group has long supported former players in their transition to post-playing careers through a number of programs, and the League Office Fellowship was specifically designed to further develop Isaiah’s unique talents and experiences while giving him a foundational knowledge of the business of basketball. Isaiah has been a member of the NBA family for many years, and we continue to be inspired by his resilience and determination. We are committed to his growth as the first league office fellow and will continue to support him as he takes this next step in his professional journey.”  The journey includes learning the league’s organizational structure, brainstorming innovative ways to engage players in campaigns and working to land a job after the fellowship ends.“I’ve actually just really been enjoying the ride, trying to be a sponge and absorb as much information as I can and just learn the business side of basketball,” he said.Austin said his role involves helping players identify their passions off the court and offering support to pursue them. Austin is figuring out some dreams of his own: “My dream job? I don’t know. I feel like that’s the reason why I’m going through the fellowship, is to try to help pave in which direction I want to go in my career. I know I love the game of basketball. I know that I want to be around it forever, because it’s given me so much.”Follow NBCBLK on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Desperate for cash, Afghan families are selling young daughters into marriage. SHAIDAI, Afghanistan — Bashful, with long locks of rust-colored hair dyed with henna, Benazir fidgets with a handful of gravel when the topic of her marriage comes up.She looks down at the ground and buries her head in her knees when she is asked whether she knows she has been promised to another family to marry one of their sons.Her father says he will receive the equivalent of $2,000 for Benazir, but he hasn’t explained the details to her or what’s expected of her. She’s too young to understand, he says.Benazir is 8 years old.It is traditional for families here to pay dowries to brides’ families for marriages, but it is extreme to arrange a marriage for a child so young. And the economic collapse after the Taliban’s takeover in August has forced already poor families to make desperate choices. Benazir, 8, second right, walks with a group in Herat, Afghanistan. NBC NewsThe days are filled with hardships for children here in Shaidai, a desert community on the mountainous edge of Herat in western Afghanistan.Children like Benazir and her siblings beg on the streets or collect garbage to heat their simple mud homes because they don’t have enough money for wood.Her father, Murad Khan, a day laborer who hasn’t found work in months and has eight children to feed, looks much older than his 55 years — his face is worn with worry. His decision to sell Benazir to marriage at such a young age comes down to a cold calculation.“We are 10 people in the family. I’m trying to keep 10 alive by sacrificing one,” he said in Pashto. Khan said the arrangement is for Benazir to be married to a boy from a family in Iran when she reaches puberty. He hasn’t received the money yet for her dowry, and he said that as soon as he does, Benazir will be taken away by the man who bought her.“I’ve been telling the shopkeepers I’ve sold my daughter and I will be paying them back, so they have given me some food as a loan.” A father of a 7-year-old Girl“He will just take her hand and take her away from me,” he said. “He will take her away and say, ‘She’s ours now.’”A combination of a severe drought that decreased livestock and farmers’ yields and the freezing of foreign aid by governments that don’t recognize the new Taliban government has pushed poor Afghans over the edge.Promising their daughters early for marriage in exchange for cash is seen as a lifeline for families that barely have a scrap of bread to eat.Benazir, right, lights a fire with discarded paper to cook bread with a group of children in Herat.NBC NewsThe U.N. Population Fund has warned that it is “deeply concerned” by reports that child marriage is on the rise in Afghanistan. Henrietta Fore, the executive director of UNICEF, said in a statement: “We have received credible reports of families offering daughters as young as 20 days old up for future marriage in return for a dowry.”‘A piece of your heart’Benazir’s best friend, Saliha, who is just 7, has been sold for marriage for the same price, $2,000, to someone in the family of her father-in-law in Faryab province in the north.Benazir and Saliha already have responsibilities in the community. They go to a local mosque together to collect water, a scarcity in the desert, and haul the hefty jugs together back to their homes.Like her older neighbors, Saliha also spins yarn — pulling at a matted cloud of wool brought by traders and twisting it into neat spools of string. It takes four days to refine 8 pounds of the material, which earns her a dollar. But the family is in debt. Saliha’s father, Muhammed Khan, says he took out loans from store owners in town.Farzana is 8 months old but weighs just 6½  pounds.NBC News“I’ve been telling the shopkeepers I’ve sold my daughter and I will be paying them back, so they have given me some food as a loan,” he said.The money he makes from selling Saliha will help pay it all back and feed her four siblings.It was a soul-wrenching decision, he says. “Your children are a piece of your heart. If I wasn’t forced to do this, why would I do it?” he says.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials sayAfghanistan was a poor country before the Taliban took over, propped up by foreign aid. According to the World Bank, about 75 percent of public finances were supplied by grants from the U.S. and other countries.When the  U.S. military withdrew and the hard-line Islamist Taliban government took over, a lot of that aid money was frozen. Salaries dried up and the flow of cash came to an abrupt halt, creating a humanitarian crisis.And things look likely to get worse as the crisis spirals, with more than half the population facing hunger and 3.2 million children suffering from malnutrition, according to the U.N. World Food Program. The agency said it has never seen so many people facing emergency levels of food insecurity in Afghanistan, where all 34 provinces are affected.In the relatively wealthy province of Herat in western Afghanistan, an emergency feeding center is running out of beds. The Doctors Without Borders-run facility at Herat Regional Hospital treats the most severely malnourished babies, like tiny Farzana, who at 8 months old weighs just 6 ½ pounds. She is one of 75 babies being cared for here.Her father is a butcher. His business has collapsed so badly that he couldn’t keep feeding his family.Farzana lies without making a sound, a tiny, pale, bone-thin arm sticking out, and her wide eyes don’t blink.“What we are seeing is very small kids, which are not well breastfed by the mothers because the mothers are all so malnourished they can’t produce enough breast milk to feed them,” said Gaia Giletta, Doctors Without Borders’ head nurse for pediatrics at the feeding center.Because of disruptions to health care and aid agencies across the region, Giletta said, many kids get no primary care. For many who arrive, it is already too late — a child dies nearly every day here.Another baby at the center, Ali, is small and pale, barely mustering up energy to cry. His mother, Smita Umar, was herself malnourished, so Ali was born too weak to suckle. At 4 months old, he has already spent three months at the center.“My husband is a house painter,” Umar said. “But he sold his tools so we could feed the baby. Things have  got worse since the Taliban came. What little we had went to zero.”Richard Engel, Gabe Joselow and Ahmed Mengli reported from Herat. Yuliya Talmazan reported from London.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Appeals court order in Jan. 6 documents case may be bad news for Trump. WASHINGTON — A federal court order late Tuesday may be a worrisome sign for former President Donald Trump in his effort to assert executive privilege over documents sought by a House committee investigating the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol.The U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia notified lawyers for Trump, the House committee and the National Archives that they should be prepared to address whether the court even has the legal authority to hear the dispute. Oral arguments are scheduled for Nov. 30.Appeals court blocks Jan. 6 committee from obtaining Trump’s recordsNov. 12, 202103:10The committee investigating the riot has asked the National Archives to turn over scores of Trump administration documents — including memos, emails, records of White House conversations and visitor logs — as it investigates the origins of the attack.The House panel is seeking Trump's records from the Archives because the agency maintains all documents from past administrations. Trump claimed executive privilege over some of the material, but President Joe Biden said the records should be released to Congress, citing the importance of the bipartisan committee's work.U.S. District Judge Tanya S. Chutkan this month ordered the Archives to hand over the material, but the appeals court granted a brief stay to take a longer look at the issue.Late Tuesday, the appeals court ordered the lawyers in the case to be prepared to address the jurisdiction issue. The fact that the court is wondering about its own authority to take up the case is telling: Courts are typically protective of their jurisdictions.The court raised the question on its own, meaning it was not suggested by the lawyers in the case. It asked: "Does the provision in the Presidential Records Act providing that the Archivist’s 'determination whether access to a Presidential record ... shall be restricted ... shall not be subject to judicial review, except as provided in subsection (e) of this section' ... implicate this court’s or the district court’s jurisdiction in this case?"The court cited a 2001 case involving a challenge to the plans for the World War II Memorial on the National Mall in Washington. Congress had passed a law saying no court could review the plans. The challengers argued that the legislative language was unconstitutional, but an appeals court disagreed and tossed the lawsuit.Judge denies Trump’s attempt to withhold documents from Jan. 6 committeeNov. 10, 202102:37If the appeals court were to take similar action in Trump’s case, he could appeal to the Supreme Court. But if his lawsuit is ultimately dismissed, it would pave the way for the Jan. 6 committee to get documents from the Archives.Tuesday's order also directed the lawyers to be ready to answer a second question: "If so, what effect, if any, do [those provisions] have on the subject matter jurisdiction of the district court to adjudicate any of the requests listed in the Complaint’s Claim for Relief?"Lawyers for Trump have argued that the congressional committee had no proper legislative purpose for seeking his White House records and that it instead launched the investigation to "intimidate and harass President Trump and his closest advisors under the guise of investigating the events of January 6, 2021."RecommendedHealth newsHealth newsFirm that administers medical benefits for some 9/11 survivors loses federal contractNational SecurityNational SecurityCIA chief warns Russians of consequences if they caused 'Havana Syndrome'The committee responded by saying in its court filings that it needs the records "to complete a thorough investigation into how the actions of the former President, his advisers, and other government officials may have contributed to the attack on Congress to impede the peaceful transfer of Presidential power."In addition to seeking Trump White House records, the committee has issued numerous subpoenas in recent weeks for Trump administration officials and key allies of the former president, including Roger Stone and Alex Jones.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Elizabeth Holmes admits doctoring lab reports with pharma company logos. SAN JOSE, Calif. — Theranos founder and former CEO Elizabeth Holmes returned to the witness stand Tuesday, confirming key aspects of the prosecutor’s allegations behind the 11 counts of fraud she faces, but asserting that there was nothing wrong in what she did.The prosecution has repeatedly shown jurors lab reports emblazoned with logos of the pharmaceutical companies Pfizer and Schering-Plough. Witnesses from those companies who worked with Theranos testified that the use of the logos was unauthorized and they were unaware of it at the time.Holmes admitted that she was the one who had added the logos to Theranos lab reports and sent them to Walgreens as she pursued a deal to put her blood-testing startup's diagnostic machines in the pharmacy's retail stores.Holmes acknowledged that in some cases, Theranos used third-party devices, rather than its own equipment. “This work was done in partnership with those companies and I was trying to convey that,” she said by way of explanation. "I wish I had done it differently,” she added.Addressing another key point made by the prosecution, Holmes said that when Theranos switched from using on-site analyzers to process samples to a centralized lab approach, it used third-party devices rather than its own equipment as an “invention” because there were too many samples to handle. Witnesses have testified that Theranos' signature blood-testing machine repeatedly failed quality assurance tests and delivered erroneous results. Holmes said the company didn’t tell its business partners about this arrangement because it was a trade secret. She rebutted the prosecution's arguments about some of the alleged misrepresentations she made to investors, the media and business partners, affirming that she had received specific positive reports from employees and outside experts and believed their statements to be true.Cevallos: 'Doesn't seem plausible' that Theranos founder was unaware product didn't workNov. 23, 202106:34When presented with company emails and PowerPoint presentations, defense attorney Kevin Downey asked Holmes about specific instances brought up by the prosecution.Jurors saw an email sent to Holmes by then-chief company scientist, biochemist Ian Gibbons, about the development of Theranos' fourth-generation device.“Our immunoassays match the best that can be done in clinical labs and work with small blood samples. Generally our assays are faster by a factor of three to 10 than kits,” Gibbons wrote.RecommendedConsumerConsumerSecond pandemic Thanksgiving boasts higher prices, skimpier supplies, lower qualityEconomyEconomyLatest weekly jobless claims fall to 199,000, the lowest since 1969Downey asked Holmes what she took that email to mean. “I understood that the 4 series could do any blood test,” she replied. U.S. District Judge Edward Davila has instructed jurors that the emails between Holmes and her lab staff, along with many other exhibits, should be understood as indications of Holmes’ “state of mind” and not as facts of what actually happened.Despite those promises being made to investors and the media, other witnesses testified that Theranos’ proprietary devices could only do a few tests and had major quality issues. For its rollout with Walgreens, the company relied on  third-party devices that had been modified to process the company's proprietary smaller "nanotainer" blood vials, but still returned erroneous results, according to testimony.In a new line of defense, Holmes testified the Theranos testing equipment in its labs had issues with excessive power demands and heat production. They were designed to be used at retail stores visited by patients over the course of a day, she said, but in the Theranos lab the devices were all clustered together and processed patient tests at once. The defense brought up an email between hardware project manager Tim Kemp that said the Theranos building in Palo Alto, California, couldn’t handle the power demands of running the devices to process a high volume of patients from the retail rollout and running the air conditioning to cool them.If found guilty, Holmes faces up to 20 years in prison, a $250,000 fine and full or partial restitution to investors, totaling nearly $155 million.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
FBI acknowledges some agents may have Havana Syndrome symptoms . The FBI is promising to make sure employees who have symptoms consistent with Havana Syndrome get access to medical care after a former agent suffering almost daily headaches was rebuffed when he sought testing and treatment, according to documents obtained by NBC News.In an email last month, an FBI official told a former agent who had reported possible brain injury symptoms that "unfortunately, the FBI is not authorized to give any medical advice and there are not any medical programs in place for current and/or retired employees." The agent began suffering migraines and dizziness about a decade ago after a stint overseas in a country near Russia.Asked about the assertion, the FBI responded in a statement that confirmed the email, saying it was "one part of a larger exchange taken out of context and does not reflect the FBI’s commitment to supporting its personnel, both current and former."The statement amounted to the FBI's first formal acknowledgment that some of its current or former employees could have symptoms of Havana Syndrome, which got its name after a group of diplomats and CIA officers reported symptoms in 2016 at the U.S. Embassy in Cuba. Although the bureau did not confirm or deny the existence of FBI cases, NBC News has previously reported that several FBI personnel have reported possible symptoms, including some who had been posted to Vienna.Early victims of ‘Havana Syndrome’ speak out about health strugglesOct. 13, 202104:26The statement said that while the FBI "does not have the authority to provide direct medical treatment, we now have a process to guide current and former employees to the interagency medical treatment and evaluation options that are available to them."The statement did not say when the FBI implemented the policy; the language of the October email suggests that it was not in place last month.The statement added that the issue of "Anomalous Health Incidents," as the U.S. government calls the mysterious set of symptoms afflicting as many as 200 current or former government employees, "is a top priority for the FBI, as the protection, health and well-being of our employees and colleagues across the federal government is paramount."The FBI, the statement said, "has messaged its workforce on how to respond if they experience an AHI, how to report an incident, and where they can receive medical evaluations for symptoms or persistent effects."Over the past year, U.S. government agencies have encouraged employees to report any possible symptoms, and some who have come forward have health effects that began occurring before the 2016 Havana incidents. Several U.S. officials said not all of those who have come forward fit the profile of the Havana cohort. At the same time, brain injuries can be difficult to diagnose, so officials have encouraged anyone who suspects something wrong to come forward.U.S. officials say hundreds of Americans reported possible cases of Havana SyndromeJuly 20, 202101:20The former FBI agent was posted to an embassy that came under a suspected Russian electronic jamming operation that disrupted communications, he said, asking not to be identified because he was concerned that it could affect how the FBI handles his case. He began experiencing symptoms shortly afterward, and he has lived the past decade with almost daily headaches, dizziness and fatigue.The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine said in a report last year that some of the observed brain injuries were consistent with the effects of directed microwave energy, which the report said Russia has long studied.A team of medical and scientific experts who studied the symptoms of as many as 40 State Department and other government employees concluded that nothing like them had previously been documented in medical literature, the National Academies of Sciences report said. Many reported hearing a loud sound and feeling pressure in their heads and then experiencing dizziness, unsteady gait and visual disturbances. Many suffered long-standing debilitating effects.NBC News reported in 2018 that U.S. intelligence officials considered Russia a leading suspect in what some of them assess to have been deliberate attacks on diplomats and CIA officers overseas. But in the nearly three years since then, the spy agencies have not uncovered enough evidence to pinpoint the cause or the culprit of the health incidents. U.S. officials cannot say for sure that they were intentional attacks or even that they were the result of human activity.VP Harris’ flight to Vietnam delayed because of possible ‘Havana Syndrome’ casesAug. 24, 202100:50While some intelligence officials strongly suspect Russia, the longer intelligence agencies investigate without finding compelling evidence, the more questions are raised about that conclusion. Experts say it is hard to imagine that a secret Russian program to harm U.S. spies and diplomats could go completely undetected by the $80 billion U.S. intelligence apparatus, which is regularly hacking Russian communications, conducting surveillance of Russian officers and recruiting Russians to spy for the U.S.Russia has consistently denied any culpability.RecommendedHealth newsHealth newsFirm that administers medical benefits for some 9/11 survivors loses federal contractNational SecurityNational SecurityCIA chief warns Russians of consequences if they caused 'Havana Syndrome'At a public forum in September, Deputy CIA Director David Cohen suggested that the agency has made some progress, but not enough."In terms of have we gotten closer? I think the answer is yes — but not close enough to make the analytic judgment that people are waiting for," he said.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Mother, 2 children murdered after landlord didn't change locks, lawsuit says. A New Jersey woman "begged" her apartment complex to change the locks on her door after she was granted a restraining order against her husband. The complex failed to fulfill her request, and she and two children were fatally stabbed in their home, a lawsuit filed on the family's behalf claims. The woman, Ruth Esther Reyes de Severino, and her children, Eurianny, 5, and Eury, 2, were killed on Feb. 5, 2020. Police found the bodies in the family's Penns Grove Gardens apartment after they discovered the remains of Reyes de Severino's husband, Eugenio Severino, in a nearby park, according to the lawsuit, which was obtained by NBC News. The Penns Grove Gardens apartment complex in Penns Grove, N.J.Google mapsThe lawsuit claims that Eugenio Severino died by suicide after he murdered his family. Penns Grove police did not immediately reply to a request for comment Tuesday. The lawsuit, filed last month in Salem County Superior Court, alleges wrongful death, negligence, breach of contract and negligent hiring. It lists the defendants as Penns Grove Gardens, its operator, Housing Management Resources, and Roger J. Gendron, identified in the suit as "managing member" of Penns Grove Apartments and Penns Grove Gardens.The apartment complex and its operator did not immediately reply to a request for comment Tuesday. Gendron could not be reached at phone numbers listed for him.NJ.com first reported the suit. In January 2020, just weeks before the slayings, Reyes de Severino was granted a restraining order against her husband, ousting him from their apartment. The suit alleges that Eugenio Severino had threatened to kill his wife numerous times. Reyes de Severino informed the apartment complex about the restraining order and asked for her locks to be changed because her husband still had a set of keys. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials say"Ruth Reyes de Severino asked, nay, begged, Defendant Landlord Penns Grove Apartments LLC ... to change the locks on the door to her apartment such that her husband could not gain entry," the lawsuit says. "Despite Tenant’s fear for her own safety and security, as well as the safety and security of her two small children ... Defendant Landlord denied Tenant’s request to change the locks," it says. On the day of the murders, Eugenio Severino used his keys to enter the apartment and stabbed his wife and children, the lawsuit alleges. Reyes de Severino had made at least five in-person requests for the locks of her apartment to be changed, said Samuel D. Jackson, a lawyer who is representing her estate. She had also told the complex that her husband posed a danger to her and her children, he said."Women and their children should not have to fear for their lives —or lose them — because their landlords and the parties they contract with fail to keep those women and children safe," Jackson said in a statement Tuesday. The suit also claims that the apartment complex failed to follow a Penns Grove ordinance that was created in response to the shooting death of Tayshon Hayward at the same property in 2019. The ordinance said all apartment complexes in the municipality had to install exterior security cameras and lighting to improve safety. "The defendants here didn’t bother to follow a law that was passed to address their own bad behavior after someone else lost their life in similar circumstances at their property less than a year before," Jackson said. "The predictable result was an even worse tragedy," he said. "We hope this lawsuit sends shockwaves through the New Jersey landlord community and makes landlords realize the health and safety of their tenants should trump all other considerations — especially profits." Reyes de Severino's estate seeks compensatory and punitive damages, as well as other fees. Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Michigan teachers told to take down Pride flags after 'external challenge'. A middle school teacher in southern Michigan resigned after he and other educators in his district were told to remove LGBTQ Pride flags they had up in their classrooms.Teachers were told to take down the flags after Three Rivers Community Schools in Three Rivers, Michigan, received an “external challenge” about the symbols that had "reached the board level," according to an email obtained by NBC affiliate WOOD of Grand Rapids. “The rumors kind of floating around was that there's one or two parents that complained about the flags being in the classroom,” said Russell Ball, the teacher who resigned.Ball, who said he is part of the LGBTQ community, told WOOD that he is "disheartened and saddened." “To me, the flag represents love and inclusion for everybody, not just whoever is of the LGBTQIA+ community,” he said. “The students losing that representation throughout the classrooms really hurt. Losing my own representation in the classroom really hurt. It was just something I was not prepared to do.”The district's interim superintendent, Nikki Nash, said in a statement that it was “an ongoing situation.”“We continue to work with the district’s legal firm and board of education to ensure we are providing a safe learning environment for all students,” the statement read. RecommendedOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureLil Nas X's song about gay sex earns 3 Grammy nominationsOUT NewsOUT NewsIowa Medicaid denial of transgender surgery unlawful, judge rulesFor the full story, visit NBC affiliate WOOD. Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Lil Nas X's song about gay sex earns 3 Grammy nominations. Rapper Lil Nas X's hit song about gay sex was nominated Tuesday for three Grammy Awards, catapulting LGBTQ narratives to the highest echelon of achievement in the music industry.The provocative song  — “Montero (Call Me By Your Name)” — is up for song of the year, record of the year and best music video at the 64th annual Grammy Awards, which are being held Jan. 31 in Los Angeles. Its title is a reference to the gay romance novel and 2017 film “Call Me By Your Name.” But its lyrics are less about love and more about lust, with lines including “romantic talking? You don’t even have to try” and "I’m not fazed, only here to sin." Grammy awards announce nominees for 64th annual ceremonyNov. 23, 202100:26In the music video for the song, Lil Nas X is seduced out of what appears to be the Garden of Eden, falls into hell and gives the devil a lap dance.Lil Nas X, whose real name is Montero Lamar Hill, celebrated his nominations and thanked his fans in a string of Twitter posts."don’t have to win a single award, truly thankful for all the insight this year has brought me. and thankful for the journey. love u guys," the 22-year-old rapper wrote.In total, he was nominated for five of the major music awards, including for album of the year for his debut studio album, “Montero,” which opened at No. 2 on the Billboard 200 albums chart. Last year, he won two out of the six Grammy Awards he was nominated for, including for best music video for his hit song "Old Town Road (Remix)."LGBTQ advocates applauded the groundbreaking nature of the rapper's nominations.RecommendedOUT NewsOUT NewsMichigan teachers told to take down Pride flags after 'external challenge'OUT NewsOUT NewsIowa Medicaid denial of transgender surgery unlawful, judge rules"Lil Nas X continues to open doors for greater LGBTQ inclusion in rap and hip-hop, which will undoubtedly inspire and empower a new generation of artists to embrace their authenticity and individuality," GLAAD President & CEO Sarah Kate Ellis said in a statement Tuesday. Other LGBTQ artists who received Grammy nominations Tuesday include singer-songwriter Brandi Carlile, pop star Halsey and singer-songwriter Arlo Parks. Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Iowa Medicaid denial of transgender surgery unlawful, judge rules. An Iowa law that prohibits Medicaid coverage for sex reassignment surgeries for transgender residents violates state law and the state constitution, a judge ruled in a decision made public Monday.Judge William Kelly ordered the Iowa Department of Human Services to provide coverage for sex reassignment surgeries when ordered to treat gender dysphoria, a psychological distress that results from an incongruence between one’s sex assigned at birth and one’s gender identity. It often begins in childhood, and some people may not experience it until after puberty or much later, according to the American Psychiatric Association.At least nine states across the U.S. explicitly exclude gender-affirming care in Medicaid coverage, while 24 states and Washington, D.C., explicitly include this type of care, according to the Movement Advancement Project, an LGBTQ think tank. The remaining states have no explicit policy. The ruling is a victory for Aiden Vasquez and Mika Covington, two Iowans represented by the American Civil Liberties Union of Iowa.Aiden Vasquez.ACLUKelly said state and federal courts in the past 16 years have found that gender identity discrimination is a form of sex discrimination which is prohibited under civil rights laws. He also found the law violated the equal protection clause of the state constitution.It is not challenged in the record that surgical treatment for gender dysphoria is a serious medical condition and the surgery is recommended for Vasquez and Covington by medical professionals as necessary and effective, the judge said. He said Medicaid coverage is fundamental to ensure the availability of that treatment for economically disadvantaged Iowans.“Once the medical community determined that surgery is medically necessary to treat this health issue, the government lost its rational basis to refuse to pay for the surgery,” Kelly said in a ruling signed on Friday but posted publicly with online court records on Monday. “The law appears to draw an arbitrary distinction. So, there is no plausible policy reason advanced by, or rationally related to, excluding transgender people from Medicaid reimbursement for medically necessary procedures.”RecommendedOUT NewsOUT NewsMichigan teachers told to take down Pride flags after 'external challenge'OUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureLil Nas X's song about gay sex earns 3 Grammy nominationsRita Bettis Austen, legal director of the ACLU of Iowa, called the decision “a historic win for civil rights” in Iowa.“It recognizes what we’ve long known, that transgender Iowans must not be discriminated against, and that they are protected by the Iowa Constitution’s guarantee of equal protection, as well as by the Iowa Civil Rights Act,” Bettis Austen said.The ACLU of Iowa filed a lawsuit in April against the state of Iowa challenging a 2019 law that allows Medicaid to deny payment for sex reassignment surgeries for transgender residents.Vasquez and Covington initially sued in 2017 and a state court judge found the policy violated the Iowa Civil Rights Act and the Iowa Supreme Court in 2019 upheld that decision. The court concluded that Iowa’s Medicaid program may not categorically discriminate against transgender people seeking gender-affirming, medically necessary care.Shortly after the court ruling, Republicans in the Iowa Legislature passed an amendment as part of a last-minute addition to a human services budget bill in response to the court’s ruling. That change stated that any government agency in Iowa may decline to use taxpayer money for “sex reassignment surgery” or “any other cosmetic reconstructive or plastic surgery procedure related to transsexualism, hermaphroditism, gender identity disorder, or body dysmorphic disorder.”Vasquez and Covington, however, had to take their cases through the Department of Human Services system and apply for surgery, have it denied based on the new law and then again pursue a challenge in court. The Iowa DHS has since denied coverage to them. Vasquez is a transgender man who was diagnosed with gender dysphoria in 2016 and Mika Covington is a transgender woman who was diagnosed with gender dysphoria and began receiving hormone therapy in 2015.Gov. Kim Reynolds signed the bill into law in May 2019, arguing it only narrowly clarifies that Iowa’s Civil Rights Act does not require taxpayer dollars to pay for sex reassignment and other similar surgeries.Reynolds’ spokesman Alex Murphy said she is disappointed by the ruling “and disagrees with the district court’s ruling on Medicaid coverage for transgender reassignment surgeries. We are reviewing the decision with our legal team and exploring all options moving forward.”Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
J.K. Rowling slams transgender activists for posting her home address on Twitter. “Harry Potter” author J.K. Rowling slammed transgender activists Monday for publicizing her home address on social media. On Friday night, the eve of Transgender Day of Remembrance, comedian Holly Stars, actor Georgia Frost and drag king Richard Energy staged a demonstration in front of Rowling's home near Edinburgh, Scotland, in protest against her controversial views on the trans community. In a thread on Twitter, Rowling bashed the trio for "doxxing" her when they posted a now-deleted photo on the social media site with her home address visible in the background. "Doxxing" is the publication of someone's private information online without their consent."I have to assume that @IAmGeorgiaFrost, @hollywstars and @Richard_Energy_ thought doxxing me would intimidate me out of speaking up for women’s sex-based rights," Rowling wrote. "They should have reflected on the fact that I’ve now received so many death threats I could paper the house with them, and I haven’t stopped speaking out.""Perhaps — and I’m just throwing this out there — the best way to prove your movement isn’t a threat to women, is to stop stalking, harassing and threatening us," she added.Stars defended posting the photo and said she deleted the tweet after she received online threats."While we stand by the photo, since posting it we have received an overwhelming amount of serious and threatening transphobic messages so have decided to take the photo down," Stars wrote. "Love to our trans siblings."The disagreement is the latest battle in a war between Rowling and trans activists. Over the last several years, Rowling has been criticized for her controversial views on the trans community, which some have called transphobic.The rift blew up in 2019 when Rowling expressed her support for Maya Forstater, a British tax specialist who was fired for tweets that were deemed to be anti-transgender. Rowling then drew criticism for a slew of  tweets that were widely seen as including transphobic ideas.Last year, she doubled down on her views in a nearly 4,000-word blog post, questioning whether a “contagion” fueled by social media has led to the rise in the number of young people coming out as transgender. In the blog post, she also revealed that she is a survivor of domestic abuse and sexual assault. RecommendedOUT NewsOUT NewsMichigan teachers told to take down Pride flags after 'external challenge'OUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureLil Nas X's song about gay sex earns 3 Grammy nominations“So I want trans women to be safe. At the same time, I do not want to make natal girls and women less safe. When you throw open the doors of bathrooms and changing rooms to any man who believes or feels he’s a woman — and, as I’ve said, gender confirmation certificates may now be granted without any need for surgery or hormones — then you open the door to any and all men who wish to come inside. That is the simple truth,” she wrote.Rowling's views have led many to label her as a "TERF," which stands for transgender-exclusionary radical feminist. On Monday, she again defended women who share her views on trans people."None of these women are protected in the way I am. They and their families have been put into a state of fear and distress for no other reason than that they refuse to uncritically accept that the socio-political concept of gender identity should replace that of sex," she wrote. "Harry Potter" star Daniel Radcliffe hit back at Rowling last year in an essay, declaring that "transgender women are women.” “Any statement to the contrary erases the identity and dignity of transgender people and goes against all advice given by professional health care associations, who have far more expertise on this subject matter than either Jo or I,” he wrote, using a nickname for Rowling.Cast members from all eight films of the “Harry Potter” series, including Radcliffe, announced last week that they will reunite for the film franchise’s 20th anniversary.Rowling will not appear in the reunion special but will be featured in archival footage.Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & Instagram Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'They almost got away with it': How a leaked video led to convictions in the Ahmaud Arbery case. Nearly two years before a jury convicted three white men in the shooting death of Ahmaud Arbery, authorities had said there was no need to arrest them.On Wednesday, an almost all-white jury found Travis McMichael, his father, Gregory McMichael, and neighbor William "Roddie" Bryan guilty in the murder of Arbery in Georgia. But the three might never have been indicted in the first place had it not been for a leaked video that prompted calls for attention to his death. “I don’t want to be a spoilsport, but what if that video had not come out several months later?” Michael Irvin, a teacher from the Orlando, Florida, area told NBC News outside the courthouse Wednesday. “A young Black man would have been taken from his family and community with no one held responsible. That part, I can’t ignore. So, I’m happy justice was served.”The McMichaels and Bryan were not arrested until months after they chased Arbery in a pickup truck in Satilla Shores, their neighborhood near Brunswick, on Feb. 23, 2020. Travis McMichael shot Arbery, a 25-year-old Black man, with a shotgun at close range. Bryan filmed the fatal encounter on his cellphone. Only after video footage of the fatal shooting leaked online May 5, 2020, did authorities arrest the trio on felony murder charges. In the video, Arbery jogs down a road as a white pickup truck blocks his path. He is shown running around the vehicle, and a shot is fired. Then, Arbery and another man appear to scuffle and two more shots are fired. After the verdict, social media platforms lit up with comments from users who said the case wouldn’t have gone to trial at all if the video hadn’t thrust the case into the national spotlight and sparked an outcry. “They almost got away with it,” one social media user tweeted. “It’s devastating that these guiltily verdicts feel like a miracle.” RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials sayAnother person tweeted, “I’m happy Ahmaud Arbery’s killers are cooked. But never forget that this is not an example of the justice system working. Police didn’t arrest these men. Prosecutors didn’t want them charged. The video wasn’t released initially. It took outrage and pressure to make this happen.”The defense had argued that the men thought Arbery was a burglar and were attempting to make a citizen’s arrest and they acted in self-defense. However, Travis McMichael admitted during the trial that Arbery hadn’t shown a weapon or threatened him or spoken to him at all before he shot him. Travis McMichael was convicted of malice murder, felony murder, aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony. Gregory McMichael and William Bryan were found not guilty of the malice murder charge. All three face up to life in prison. News of the killing largely remained under wraps in the weeks that followed. Arbery’s mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones, accused Glynn County, Georgia, police and two local prosecutors of conspiring to cover up Arbery’s murder and protect the men involved in his death. A $1 million lawsuit filed earlier this year alleges that the police department and officials with the Brunswick County District Attorney’s Office worked together to paint Arbery as a violent criminal and absolve the McMichaels and Bryan of wrongdoing. The lawsuit has been stalled amid the trial. Just days after the shooting, Jackie Johnson, the Brunswick-area district attorney, recused herself from the case because she had worked with Gregory McMichael, a former Glynn County police officer, for decades. George Barnhill briefly took over the case. He soon recused himself but defended the actions of the McMichaels and Bryan, advising police that “he did not see grounds for the arrest of any of the individuals involved in Mr. Arbery’s death.” Now, in a statement following the verdict, Cooper-Jones admitted that she never believed she’d see the men convicted. “It’s been a long fight. It’s been a hard fight, but God is good,” she told reporters Wednesday. “To tell you the truth, I never saw this day back in 2020. I never thought this day would come.”Follow NBCBLK on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
3 men found guilty of felony murder and other crimes in fatal shooting of Ahmaud Arbery. Three white men were found guilty Wednesday of felony murder in the shooting death of Ahmaud Arbery, a Black man who was running in their neighborhood when they confronted him last year.The nearly all-white jury convicted Travis McMichael of malice murder, felony murder, aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony.His father, Gregory McMichael, and their neighbor William "Roddie" Bryan were acquitted of the top charge. All now face up to life in prison.“Even though this is not a celebration, it is a reflection to acknowledge that the spirit of Ahmaud defeated the lynch mob,” civil rights attorney Benjamin Crump, who is representing Arbery's father, Marcus Arbery, said outside the courthouse Wednesday afternoon.Wanda Cooper-Jones, Arbery’s mother, said that her son “will now rest in peace.”“It's been a long fight. It's been a hard fight,” she said. “I never saw this day back in 2020. I never thought this day would come. But God is good,” she said.The McMichaels and Bryan chased Arbery in pickup trucks after they spotted him in their neighborhood outside Brunswick, Georgia, on Feb. 23, 2020. Travis McMichael shot Arbery, 25, who was Black, with a shotgun at close range. Bryan filmed the fatal encounter on his cellphone.'It's been a long fight': Ahmaud Arbery's parents react to guilty verdictNov. 24, 202102:38The three men were arrested months later after the leaked video brought the world’s attention to the case.Arbery’s family and civil rights leaders have likened his death to a modern-day lynching. The men also face federal hate crime charges.The jury deliberated for about 11 hours before reaching its decision.Each man faced a total of nine counts: one count of malice murder, four counts of felony murder, two counts of aggravated assault, and one count each of false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony.Travis McMichael was convicted on all counts. His father, Gregory McMichael, was found guilty on all charges except the most serious, malice murder. Bryan was also acquitted of malice murder. He was convicted on three of the four counts of felony murder, one of the two counts of aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony.Superior Court Judge Timothy Walmsley had instructed jurors that they could consider simple assault, reckless conduct and reckless driving as lesser charges to aggravated assault for Bryan.About an hour into the second day of deliberations Wednesday, the jurors asked to review footage of the fatal encounter and a 911 call that Gregory McMichael made on the day of the shooting. The jury viewed two videos — one the original cellphone video and the other a “high contrast” version of the same video — three times each while seated in the courtroom.Arbery's father was removed from the courtroom as the verdict was being read after he audibly celebrated the announcement that Travis McMichael was guilty of malice murder."He could not contain it any further. Think about how long he and Wanda have been enduring all the innuendo, all the allegations, all the character assassinations," Crump said when speaking outside the courthouse after the verdict. "Just imagine all they went through."Analyzing closing arguments in Ahmaud Arbery murder trial as jury deliberations beginNov. 23, 202103:33The defense had argued that the men suspected Arbery was a burglar and that residents in the Satilla Shores subdivision were "on edge." Arbery was recorded on security camera video visiting a partially built home in the neighborhood several times. The videos did not show Arbery taking anything from the property. The last video was recorded the afternoon he was killed. Arbery could be seen visiting the home minutes before he was chased by Gregory McMichael and Travis McMichael and Bryan, who had separate defense teams.The defense had sought to convince the jury that their clients were trying to execute a citizen's arrest, which was legal at the time. Travis McMichael's attorneys have said he opened fire in self-defense.During the trial, Travis McMichael testified that he shot Arbery after he was "struck."RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials say"We were face to face. And being struck, that’s when I shot," he testified. He said he believed he was in "a life-or-death situation."Under cross-examination by lead prosecutor Linda Dunikoski on his second day of testimony, Travis McMichael said that Arbery hadn't shown a weapon or spoken to him at all before he raised his shotgun. Gregory McMichael and Bryan did not testify.Attorneys for Travis McMichael said they intend to appeal the verdict, describing it as “very disappointing and sad.""This is a very difficult day for Travis McMichael and Greg McMichael,” Jason Sheffield, an attorney for Travis McMichael said. “These are two men who honestly believed that what they were doing was the right thing to do. However, a Glynn County jury has spoken. They have found them guilty. They will be sentenced.”Kevin Gough, an attorney for Bryan, told NBC affiliate WLTV that he would also appeal and said that while he respects the jury’s verdict, he believes his client should have been found not guilty.In her closing argument, Dunikoski told the jury that the defendants made a series of "assumptions and driveway decisions" that led to Arbery's death and that the three men had no "immediate knowledge" that a crime had occurred. She said immediate knowledge of a crime is necessary to claim citizen's arrest. Without the claim of citizen's arrest, Dunikoski told the jurors during closing, the men cannot claim that they acted in self-defense.“If you determine that this was not a citizen's arrest, this was not legitimate, he had no probable cause, he can’t do this based on the law, then guess what?” Dunikoski said. "They’re not justified in killing him. They are not justified in any of the felonies they committed against him.”Dunikoski was cheered outside the courthouse after the verdict.“The verdict today was a verdict based on the facts. Based on the evidence," Dunikoski said. "That was our goal, to bring that to that jury so that they could do the right thing."Arbery verdict 'based on the facts' says prosecutor in trialNov. 24, 202101:05Dunikoski, a senior assistant district attorney in the Cobb County District Attorney's Office, was assigned the case last year by the state attorney general's office after local prosecutors and law enforcement faced scrutiny over their handling of the case.Prosecutor Jackie Johnson, the Brunswick-area district attorney, recused herself from the case shortly after the shooting, saying that Gregory McMichael had been an investigator in her office for more than 30 years as a former Glynn County police officer.She was later indicted by a grand jury on charges of violation of oath of public officer and obstruction of a police officer. Johnson was accused of “showing favor and affection to Greg McMichael during the investigation,” according to the indictment document released in September. She also was alleged to have hindered two police officers “by directing that Travis McMichael should not be placed under arrest.”The second prosecutor, George Barnhill, recused himself in April 2020 and defended the actions of the McMichaels and Bryan. In the letter recusing himself, Barnhill said the three had “solid first hand probable cause” to pursue Arbery, a “burglary suspect,” and stop him.The case was transferred that same month to Thomas Durden, the district attorney for Georgia’s Atlantic Judicial Circuit. Durden, who eventually asked to be removed from the case because of a lack of resources, asked the Georgia Bureau of Investigation to investigate after the leaked cellphone footage prompted widespread outrage.The McMichaels were arrested two days later on May 7, 2020, more than two months after the shooting. Bryan was arrested later that month, days after the Cobb County Judicial Circuit was tapped to handle the case.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Mindy Kaling’s new series and the significance of sex-positive South Asian women. This article contains spoilers for the first two episodes of "The Sex Lives of College Girls."Bela Malhotra says goodbye to her parents as they prepare to leave her at the gates of her prestigious Vermont university. She’s reinvented herself in preparation for this moment, shedding the sweaty, awkward “Indian loser” persona she carried through high school. College Bela (Amrit Kaur) knows what she wants, and she isn’t afraid to go after her two basic desires: to be a comedy writer and to have a lot of sex. She asks her mom to take her childhood teddy bear away, and kisses it goodbye before entering her new life. “I’m super sex positive,” Bela tells her new roommates, the other main characters of Mindy Kaling’s new HBO show, “The Sex Lives of College Girls.”Sex has long been either a defining or alienating feature for South Asian women in Western cinema. Colonial era films invented the exotic seductress and the foreign woman in distress, and modern movies and TV shows have ushered in the undesirable nerd, experts say. But missing even in more inclusive portrayals is a South Asian girl who is purely confident and clear about what she wants, viewers said. With “The Sex Lives of College Girls,” Kaling brought a version of that to life. “What I really appreciated about Bela was the lack of soul-searching and hand-wringing,” said Harleen Singh, associate professor of women’s studies and South Asian literature at Brandeis University. “She’s unapologetic.” Confidence doesn’t mean flawlessness, she said, and there’s realness in a character that makes bold mistakes. In the first episode of the series, Bela uses sex to get a highly-coveted position on a comedy magazine. In the process, she unintentionally fools around with someone’s boyfriend and makes enemies of the only two women on the staff. Amrit Kaur in "The Sex Lives of College Girls" on HBO Max.HBO“We’re all messy,” Singh said. “A messy character is a true reflection of life.” Bela’s nerve is something Trisha Sakhuja-Walia, CEO and co-founder of Brown Girl Magazine, finds refreshing. A “180 degree shift” from other portrayals, Bela simply asks for what she wants. She runs up to strangers to introduce herself and unashamedly tells boys they’re attractive. Her self-assuredness even rubs off on her roommates, whom she drags out of the dorms to party on the weekends. “I think that Bela is a lot more brave and outgoing than many of us were,” Sakhuja-Walia said. “But I think that almost every brown girl can see a little bit of herself in Bela. Even if they weren’t her, maybe they wanted to be like her.” Bela is in constant pursuit of new experiences, and Singh says her hypersexuality is portrayed to a bit of an extreme. The show represents sex as novel, not normal, and normalization is a big part of true sex positivity, she said. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials say“It’s simply the acceptance that sex and sexuality are a part of all our lives,” she said. “I want sex positivity to start with making sex not extraordinary, but ordinary. And in that ordinariness, I think there is something special.” Sakhuja-Walia, however, sees Bela’s desire to go wild in college as a cultural touchstone. While the character’s Indian background isn’t the center of her college experience, she says South Asian women can pick up on the story behind her motivations. “I feel like so many brown folks go to college and suddenly have this crazy freedom they’ve never seen before,” she said. “She’s unleashing all this power within herself. I think that almost does tie back to her identity in a very subtle manner.”   South Asians have a complex experience exploring sexuality, Sakhuja-Walia said. And it’s one that’s not often reflected in media. But with a generation of first-generation South Asian Americans becoming adults, characters like Bela might represent a turning point in how communities treat sexuality. “I’m pretty in awe that we’re making this shift in just one generation,” she said. Movies and shows in which South Asian characters are normal and desirable are slowly beginning to emerge, but it’s an area in which Hollywood has historically had a problem. Singh points to movies like "Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom,"  in which the only nonwhite women are oppressed under the violence of evil, monkey-brain-eating Indians, and “the only woman that’s allowed to be beautiful is the white woman.”In the Harry Potter movies, coy and irritating Parvati and Padma slink in the vicinity of the main characters, hoping to be noticed by them but ultimately being cast aside and ignored. Kaling’s last project, “Never Have I Ever,” marked a change — an open door for South Asian American main characters, Singh said. The similarities between Bela and Devi (Maitreyi Ramakrishnan) are rooted in their fearlessness. Devi is also a teen unashamed in wanting to have sexual experiences. “She makes her mistakes but she makes them with agency,” Singh said.While Bela sets herself apart by pushing sexuality to the extreme, there’s complexity to her. Singh calls back to when she kissed her teddy bear at the beginning of the show. “She can be all of those things,” she said. “You can be naive and tender and delicate and warm and be clearheaded about the fact that you need sex. The absurd allows us to realize that things can be many different ways.”Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
John Cho on Netflix's ‘Cowboy Bebop’ remake, his ‘most intense job’ yet. He's the star of Netflix’s “Cowboy Bebop” remake, but John Cho would be the first to admit that he hadn’t been aware of the original anime television series before his agent sent him the script for the reboot. But when he read it, he was hooked. “This is the most intense job I’ve ever had, for sure, in what it required of me,” he tells NBC Asian America.“Cowboy Bebop,” based on the anime series of the same name from  Japan's Sunrise animation studio, is available to stream on Netflix. It takes place in the future where the Earth is uninhabitable and mankind has created colonies on other planets. The hero of the show is space cowboy Spike Spiegel (played by Cho), a bounty hunter who captures criminals with his partners, Jet Black (Mustafa Shakir) and Faye Valentine (Daniella Pineda), aboard the spaceship Bebop.“The show is such a mixture of disparate genres,” Cho says. “And that was the attraction of it: I can do a Western, a screwball comedy, a buddy-cop movie, noir and an action film all in one.”Mustafa Shakir as Black Jet and John Cho as Spike Spiegel in "Cowboy Bebop."Geoffrey Short / NetflixCho is no stranger to space narratives (he did play Sulu in the “Star Trek” reboot, after all). But “Cowboy Bebop” has allowed him to stretch himself as an actor in ways he hasn’t before. In the 10 episodes of the first season of the show, he does everything from hand-to-hand combat and gun slinging, to cracking jokes and being a romantic lead — it’s equal parts drama, action, and comedy. “It’s definitely fun to do all of the above at once,” he says.The original “Cowboy Bebop,” which premiered in Japan in 1998 and in the United States in 2001, is considered an anime classic, with legions of fans attracted to its stylish imagery, jazz-infused score, sense of listlessness and ennui. So there were high expectations for the live action remark. Cho was aware of all of this, which made the project all that more intimidating.“As soon as I saw [the anime], I was a fan,” he said. Cho says that a key challenge in making a live action “Cowboy Bebop” was that, “it has to be recognizable as ‘Cowboy Bebop,’ but ... you want to do what you can to make it feel creative. And you want to feel free and like you’re having fun.”The first thing that he did was figure out who his version of Spike Spiegel was. Though he wears the same iconic blue suit as the anime character, and even grew out his hair to mimic Spike’s hair, he is older than the character, who is 27. Cho is 49.He admits he wasn’t sure if he was able to tackle the role: “It’s a different medium. And he was painted. So how do I make him a person that I have to walk around in,” he explains. “I wasn’t assured that I was going to be able to find it. In “Cowboy Bebop,” Spike is a character with a dark and tragic past he is trying to run away from. He is playful, with a cool swagger. He is also reserved and keeps his feelings, and his past, close to his chest.To Cho, Spike is “trying to erase the past and become a new person,” and the show asks, “Is that possible?” To him, this notion of reinvention was relatable. He is an immigrant and came to the U.S. when he was 6 years old. Spike wants to chart a new path for himself. Cho saw parallels between Spike’s journey and “the immigrant journey,” he says. “I could definitely relate to Spike wanting the freedom to declare who he is.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials sayAs a kid, after moving to the U.S. from Seoul, his family moved around frequently, living in Houston, Seattle, then hopping around California to Daly City, San Jose and Monterey Park, before settling in Glendale. Likewise, the characters of “Cowboy Bebop” don’t have a home and they float adrift, in space, on the Bebop. They are tied together by a sense of loss: either of family, loved ones, or even their memories. To him, the new show expands on the anime by exploring more of the characters’ personal histories.“[It’s like the] Israelites before they were in Canaan, they’re wandering,” he says. “I definitely felt like that as a kid. [The characters are] adrift and, to some extent, purposeless; their purpose is survival. And I think part of our season one is them finding some purpose, be it passively or actively.”Though there are certain shots and story beats that are inspired by the original anime, the live action show also charts its own narrative path. The characters have expanded backstories: Jet Black is a father with a daughter, Faye Valentine is now bisexual, Spike’s love interest Julia is more fully developed and appears more frequently. And a pivotal fight between Spike and his nemesis, Vicious, begins in the same way that it does in the anime. But how it ends is markedly different.In describing the new show, Cho compares it to covers of Bob Dylan’s music. “Why do people record his songs? There’s already a recording,” he posits. “Because it’s a really good song. And they want to try it on for size and see what their interpretation does to the song, and expand the meaning of the song—give it another flavor.” He then adds, “What we’re doing is adding, not replacing.”Overall, it’s been an eventful two years for Cho. “Cowboy Bebop” began filming in New Zealand in 2019, where Cho relocated with his family temporarily. He then tore his ACL while filming, which set production back by eight months. The pandemic then created further delays. Last April, he wrote an op-ed for the Los Angeles Times about the surge in violent attacks against Asian Americans. In the piece, he wrote, “The pandemic is reminding us that our belonging is conditional. One moment we are Americans, the next we are all foreigners, who ‘brought’ the virus here. Like fame, the ‘model minority’ myth can provide the illusion of ‘raceless-ness.’” When talking about the op-ed, Cho becomes more chagrined, admitting that he has been very discouraged about the current discourse around race, and the fervor against critical race theory. “Clearly, we have a race problem in America, but zero people declare themselves racist,” he says. “Maybe we have to replace that word with something else. It has to be a word that allows people to examine themselves. How do we discuss racism, if no one is willing to examine themselves, including people of color?”He admits that growing up, he was encouraged by his parents to assimilate, so that his race would not be a liability. But in his estimation, the events of the past year have shown Asian Americans that living a “raceless” life is impossible. “[Race is] sort of too built into the fabric of this country. And what’s reasonable is coming to a place of respect, in coexistence, and love. And maybe we can get there. Maybe that’s possible.”Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Simu Liu and Bowen Yang jokingly vie for the most ‘First Asian’ titles on 'SNL' . Simu Liu and Bowen Yang are often hailed as trailblazers in the Asian American community — for being the first Marvel Asian superhero and for being the first Asian cast member on "Saturday Night Live." So when the pair teamed up for an "SNL" sketch over the weekend, they poked fun at the idea by competing over increasingly ridiculous “firsts,” from the “First Gay Asian Cast Member to Mispronounce ‘Boutique’” to the “First Asian Man to Deadpan on Splash Mountain.”In the taped segment, Chinese Canadian actors Yang and Liu meet in a dressing room before the episode. “This has never happened before, right? Asian male host, Asian male cast member,” Yang said. The two congratulate each other on their respective milestones before admitting how tiring these historical titles can be in a predominantly white space. “I just think it’s weird that people keep track of this stuff,” Yang says. Liu then pulled out a medal he had tucked in his shirt for being the “1st Asian Man to Move from Canada to America Named Simu.” “I have one that says Bowen,” Yang says, pulling a similar medal out of his shirt. The conversation quickly delves into a competition about their “First Asian” accolades.“Don’t you think these titles are kind of ridiculous?” Liu asks, to which Yang agrees. A montage then shows Yang and Liu accepting awards for “Good Job (Asian),” “First Asian Man to Beat StarCraft II” and the “First Asian Man to ‘You pick 2’ at Panera.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials sayNBCUniversal is the parent company of NBC News and "SNL."Yang’s work on "SNL" earned him an Emmy nomination this year, making him the show’s first featured player to be nominated for an acting award. He has previously spoken about his Asian American identity, and amid the rise of anti-Asian violence during the pandemic, he urged people to “do more” to stop the violence. Liu, meanwhile, made headlines this year after criticizing the TV show “Kim’s Convenience,” which he starred in, for its lack of diversity in the writer’s room. He has also credited the diverse production crew of “Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings” for ensuring the authenticity of the film. Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Series on Vincent Chin taps Chloé Zhao as executive producer. Chloé Zhao, the Academy Award-winning director of “Nomadland” and “Eternals,” will be the executive producer for a limited scripted series about the murder of Vincent Chin and the civil rights movement that arose in the aftermath, according to Deadline.The upcoming series by the media company Participant will tell the story of Chin, a 27-year-old Chinese American engineer who was beaten to death in Detroit in 1982 by two white auto workers who blamed Japanese car manufacturers for taking their jobs. His murder is widely considered the most infamous hate crime in Asian American history. Vincent Chin was 27 when he was beaten with a baseball bat in Detroit. He would later die from his injuries.Courtesy American Citizens of JuThe men were initially charged with second-degree murder but later pleaded to manslaughter and received probation and a $3,000 fine. The punishment sparked widespread protests and united Asian Americans from different ethnic backgrounds, galvanizing what would become the contemporary Asian American movement. Through an exclusive agreement with the Chin estate and executor Helen Zia, a former auto worker, activist, journalist and spokesperson for the Justice for Vincent Chin Campaign, Zhao’s will be the only authorized series about Chin’s murder.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials sayThe project will “reveal the definitive account of a civil rights movement that matters today more than ever, when a community discovered its voice,” according to Participant.“I was deeply moved by Helen’s personal connection to Vincent’s story as well as her incredibly insightful and nuanced perspective on this difficult yet inspiring story,” Zhao told Deadline.The project was initially announced in December. The news comes after a dramatized podcast about Chin, “Hold Still, Vincent,” was removed from audio platforms in June after it was revealed that the producers hadn’t consult with Chin’s estate or Zia about the project. The star-studded podcast included Gemma Chan of “Eternals” and “Crazy Rich Asians” as a producer, and Kelly Marie Tran of “Raya and the Last Dragon” as a voice actor. The team behind the podcast later issued an apology on Instagram.“Vincent Chin, his legacy, and the communities that came together to fight for justice have been a part of my life for nearly 39 years," Zia previously told NBC Asian America. "In today’s climate of hate towards our Asian American and Pacific Islander communities, this story shows how many diverse people in America came together in solidarity, to stand together for the full humanity of all.” Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Food banks in California brace for the holidays as food prices surge. ANAHEIM, California — Two food banks in California have been gearing up for a busy holiday season: One is spending tens of thousands amid rising food prices, and the other has been serving triple the number of people since the coronavirus pandemic began.The Alameda County Community Food Bank in Oakland is dealing with the toll of rising food prices and supply chain issues as it serves families grappling with food insecurity.“They’re depending on us,” said Elizabeth Gomez, director of client services at the food bank.Food banks face harsh economic reality ahead of the holiday seasonNov. 21, 202103:38Over the past year, food prices have increased 5.3 percent, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.Because of food price increases, the food bank is spending an additional $60,000 on food per month.“We need to be ahead of the game as much as we can,” said Gomez, 48, who’s been working with the organization for 24 years.She said the food bank has seen price increases across the board for seven core items, with oatmeal and frozen chicken seeing the highest increases at 17.1 percent and 13 percent respectively. In total, it is spending more than $1 million on food per month — compared to $250,000 each month before the pandemic. “Part of the increase is because we’re willing to spend more on food to ensure that we actually secure it,” Gomez said. The backlog of shipments along the California coast has created supply chain issues and has contributed to less inventory and increased transportation costs for the food bank. The food bank has had to turn to alternatives such as single serve cereal bowls to replace oatmeal, and turned to Costco to get a variety of canned meats for canned tuna that has been running late.“We are expecting more than 400,000 Alameda County residents,” Gomez said. “We’re bracing for what is to be the busiest month and a half ahead for us.”In 2020, rough estimates indicate 45 million people, or 1 in 7, experienced food insecurity as the pandemic forced tens of millions to suffer from unemployment or saw their hours decline, according to an analysis by Feeding America, a nationwide nonprofit network aiming to ensure equitable access to food in the United States.With a recovering economy and increasing vaccination records, the organization projects improved food insecurity conditions in the holiday season but still higher than pre-pandemic numbers. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials sayFeeding America predicts that 42 million people — about 1 in 8 — may experience food insecurity, compared to about 1 in 9 in 2019, the lowest point reached then since food insecurity began being measured in the 1990s, according to the report.The Los Angeles Regional Food Bank has been serving triple the number of people it usually saw before the pandemic — from 300,000 to 900,000 each month, according to Olivia Cervantes, 33, its marketing content manager.Volunteers load food into vehicles at a "Let's Feed L.A. County" drive-thru food distribution event by the Los Angeles Regional Food Bank and the office of Supervisor Hilda Solis in Rosemead, Calif., on April 23.Ringo Chiu via AP fileIt’s a number that aligns with a recent University of Southern California study detailing that 1 in 10 Los Angeles County residents  experienced food insecurity in the first half of 2021 — and 59 percent of them were Latino. “It was time to give back to my community as an Angeleno,” Cervantes said, explaining she felt compelled to help after witnessing the pandemic’s impact on the city's Hispanic community. “Even if we were to return back to normal or even if this lingers on, the issue is still there, hunger is a year-round issue.”California is home to the nation’s largest Latino population. In Los Angeles County, Hispanics or Latinos account for almost half (48.6 percent) of the population.The Los Angeles food bank has been minimally impacted by the surge in food prices and supply chain issues because the majority of its food is donated and sourced locally.However, it has had to grapple with other issues: The number of volunteers declined from 30,000 to 15,000 because of Covid-19 safety protocols. The organization has turned to AmeriCorps for help with distribution."The food bank really does stretch the dollar to help as many people as possible," Cervantes said.Organizers say those who want to volunteer or donate can contact  the Los Angeles Regional Food Bank's website or call 323-234-3030 or the Alameda County Community Food Bank's website or call 510-635-3663.Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'Encanto': The music, joy and superpower of a multigenerational Latino family. In an age of big-screen superhero families like those of Marvel’s “Fantastic Four,” Pixar’s “The Incredibles” and DC’s “Shazam!” Disney wants to flip the script on viewers and put the spotlight on an ordinary 15-year-old Colombian girl, Mirabel, who struggles to keep her extended superhero family together as they lose their powers. “Encanto,” which means “charm” in Spanish, is Disney’s 60th animated feature film. It tells the story of the Madrigals, a multigenerational family who live in the mountains of Colombia. Stars of Disney's 'Encanto' discuss film’s personal relation to Latino rootsNov. 23, 202103:36Two generations of Madrigal children get magical powers on their fifth birthdays, which define them both at home and in the village. They can make plants grow and flowers bloom, control the weather with their emotions, heal people with food, speak with animals and even see the future. The Madrigal family tree.DisneyOne child doesn't get superpowers — and that is Mirabel. In the end, however, she will know what to do to save her extraordinary family.Beyond the characters' super abilities and magical gifts, the animated musical — with songs and music by "Hamilton" composer Lin-Manuel Miranda — aims to show viewers the power of knowing who they and their families are. For the Latina actor Stephanie Beatriz, who voices Mirabel, the film's emphasis on extended family, including the powerful abuela (grandmother) Alma, brought back memories “When I think about my childhood, it’s a lot of people talking all at once, animatedly, over each other — there’s, like, 10 conversations happening in one room, and as a kid you’re just trying to follow everything that’s going on,” said Beatriz, whose parents are Colombian and Bolivian. “It’s very loud and super rhythmic. I think that the flavor of that, the sensibility of that, is really captured within the music of this animated musical, which I think is very special.” The family name “Madrigal” is also a musical term that can refer to a song with two or more voice parts — which amply describes the mix of sounds and voices in the film. “One of the things I loved in the writing of the script is that there are these conversations that happen between cousins or an aunt and a niece,” Beatriz said. “It’s those extended family relationships that I think are really, really important, particularly in Latino culture, where you might not be able to talk to your mom ... but you could talk to your tía,” or aunt. Miranda, who wrote and co-produced eight original songs for “Encanto,” said he's so close to his cousins from Puerto Rico that they once got matching tattoos — to the chagrin of his aunt on the island. The Madrigals, he said, remind him of his own relatives."Encanto."Disney "That was the most matriarchal family," he said about his dad's family in Puerto Rico. "Everyone still lived in the house, and everyone brought their checks to Abuela, and she reallocated the funds as she saw fit." Many U.S. families resemble the Madrigals: A report this year by the advocacy group Generations United found that more than 1 in 4 Americans ages 18 and older — about 67 million adults — live in multigenerational households with three or more generations.Creating the sounds of Colombia — and homeMiranda said music has the power to unlock exciting stories about different places, cultures and people. “Every time we leaned into the specificities of Colombian music, that always unlocks story, it always unlocks character for us. The specificities are the thing that make it relatable,” he said.Miranda traveled to Colombia with other people from the film for research in 2018, which he said was invaluable. The details the movie got right, he said, will excite Latino viewers, such as when they see a character wearing their father’s hat or hear an accordion. People working on the film also brought their own memories and stories of home to the music. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials say“There’s certainly musical phrases that I can point to that are ripped from family conversations that happened in my house,” Miranda said. “I think that’s what people recognize on screen when they see the film. They see slivers of their own experience.” When Miranda reflects on the music that evokes his own childhood memories, he thinks of his family's mix of cast albums and Latin music. “It was sort of constant Gran Combo, Celia Cruz, Joe Arroyo from Colombia, Carlos Vives, Juan Luis Guerra — that would be the party music,” he said. “And then, when we would clean up after the party, it was ‘Man of La Mancha,’ it was ‘Camelot,’ it was the ‘Little Mermaid’ soundtrack and the ‘Dirty Dancing’ soundtrack. My parents loved show tunes and Latin music.”‘The way that I grew up’ For Colombian American actor Diane Guerrero, voicing Mirabel’s cousin Isabela has been a great source of pride. “Disney is such a huge entity. To not be included in Disney almost feels like you don’t exist a little bit,” she said. “So to be a part of that is a long time coming and such a special moment for us.” For Guerrero, “Encanto” evokes memories of the generations of strong women that are part of her own heritage. “I see women being very powerful heads of the household, but what has been portrayed in mainstream media has been quite the opposite,” Guerrero said. “There’s still machismo — obviously men have a very strong hold on the world — but I feel that the way that I grew up I really saw this in the film. My grandmother and my mother are everything to me.” Reflecting on the significance of "Encanto," Guerrero said there are many Latino stories. “Latin America is so huge. This is just like a little sliver of what we are. It’s a little sliver of Colombia. There’s so much to tell,” she said. Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'The court owes it to women': Groups decry Colombia's abortion ruling delay. Women's groups that sued to decriminalize abortion in Colombia are pushing for a decision after a much-anticipated ruling from the country's top court was postponed last week. “The court owes it to women," Catalina Martínez Coral, the Latin America and Caribbean director of the Center for Reproductive Rights, told Noticias Telemundo. The Constitutional Court has not yet decided whether to eliminate abortion as a crime from the country's penal code. The ruling had been expected last week, but the debate was interrupted at the request of one of its judges, Alejandro Linares, to recuse himself from voting because he had spoken about the case in a news interview. If another judge decides there is no need for Linares to recuse himself, the court could rule this year. A recusal would start a process to bring in a new judge, which would delay the ruling to next year. The women’s rights groups that filed the lawsuit, grouped under the umbrella movement Just Cause, say the delay harms women and girls in Colombia, where nearly 70 women die every year from complications from abortions, according to figures from Doctors Without Borders.“Every day that passes there are more unprotected people because they cannot access reproductive health services. They are persecuted, and they have open cases against them,” Martínez Coral said. “It's a punishment for women and girls in Colombia.” Since 2006, the Colombian penal code has allowed legal abortion under three circumstances: in cases of rape, incest or nonconsensual insemination; in cases of serious fetal malformation that makes life unviable; or when the medical team certifies that a pregnant woman’s health or life is at risk.Any woman who otherwise undergoes the procedure — or the health personnel involved — can be liable for a penalty of 16 to 54 months in prison. According to official figures, 400 women are prosecuted every year.“It is a very unfair situation, because, on the one hand, exceptions give you a right, but it is also a serious crime that generates social and institutional stigma," said Ximena Casas Isaza, a researcher for Human Rights Watch. "All this creates many barriers for women and girls in situations of greater vulnerability who, in the end, do not have access to an essential health service such as the legal interruption of pregnancy.”An estimated 400,000 women and girls undergo induced abortions in Colombia every year, about a third of whom suffer some complication. Unsafe abortions are the country’s fourth-leading cause of maternal mortality.Several studies have determined that girls and adolescents suffer the most sexual abuse resulting in unwanted pregnancies. In many cases, their lives are at risk.According to a report by Just Cause, the victims in 73 percent of the 26,158 cases prosecuted for allegations of sexual violence were girls or adolescents up to age 17. They are also the ones who suffer the most from harassment by the penal system, the report said.‘What we want is more support’ Cindy, a Colombian woman whose last name is being withheld to protect her identify, said she was in no condition to raise a child but was afraid she would suffer recriminations from her family for terminating her pregnancy. She decided to talk to her partner and a good friend, who accompanied her throughout the abortion process.“Those of us who made this decision, what we want is more support — let them understand that, for some reason, that was the decision we made,” she said.Abortion rights activists protest Thursday outside the Constitutional Court in Bogota, Colombia, as judges review a lawsuit that seeks to decriminalize abortion. Fernando Vergara / APCindy and hundreds of other Colombian women have participated in awareness campaigns like We Are All One, speaking out with dozens of nongovernmental organizations and women’s rights groups to demand the decriminalization of abortion.The movement has been driven by the recent wave of reforms and demonstrations for women’s rights in various Latin American countries, such as Argentina and Mexico.Girls and adolescents are the most affectedThe Just Cause report found that for most of the girls and adolescents who get pregnant through rape and sexual abuse, “the aggressors correspond to people from their social or family circle,” adding, “These heartbreaking figures only correspond to those cases that are reported.”The health care system uses the current law as an excuse to deny services, said Paula Ávila-Guillén, the executive director of the U.S.-based Women’s Equality Center, who directs the group’s Latin America initiatives. "That is why we have so many cases of pregnant girls as a result of rape who cannot access abortion, because there are many bureaucratic barriers." According to the group Mesa por la Vida y la Salud de Mujeres, minors account for 12.5 percent ​​of abortion investigations — almost a quarter, 24 percent, are convicted. While the crime may not lead to jail time in many cases, it still has a serious impact on young women's lives, who are left with criminal histories that prevent them from getting work and progressing, said Martínez Coral of the Center for Reproductive Rights.The persecution of health personnel“There is a lot of fear on the part of medical professionals, because first the burden of certifying the conditions for abortion falls on them and, when you are faced with the possibility of having legal problems, it is obviously much easier to turn your back on the problem," said Dr. Laura Gil, a gynecologist and a member of the Medical Group for the Right to Decide. An investigation by the Life and Health of Women Roundtable, a women's health advocacy group, found that, from 1998 to 2018, the prosecutor’s office processed 5,580 complaints of abortion and that in 75 percent of the cases, it was doctors and other health care operators who filed complaints about women who went to hospitals feeling ill from having abortions.That, Gil said, has a chilling effect on other health care personnel.“Many doctors begin to ask for a number of evaluations, examinations and requirements — the only thing they do is create barriers. It is an obstacle to the free exercise of our profession," Gil said. What would total decriminalization change?The first effect would be that no one could be prosecuted for the crime of abortion. In addition, women, adolescents and girls would be able to terminate pregnancies without barriers.“Women who were not protected by the exceptions that existed in the country will be able to access abortion the day after the decision is made,” Martínez Coral said.Lawyers for women who are prosecuted or detained could also “directly introduce an appeal to initiate their release,” she said. Catholics who support abortion rightsGroups that oppose abortion, including conservative political movements and the Roman Catholic Church, have spoken out against the proposal.The group Catholics for the Right to Decide stands out, because it supports the lawsuit. “We consider that supporting abortion as a right is not incompatible with having beliefs or a spiritual life," said Aura Carolina Cuasapud, a lawyer for the organization. "Quite the contrary: We know that women are the majority of the people who form the foundations of religion and the church, so we must have a voice, and we have the right to make free decisions."Members of the movement are called false Catholics or hypocrites on social media, where opponents link some of them to satanic sects and threaten them with excommunication from the Catholic Church. Cuasapud laughed when she was asked about the attacks.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials say“At worst, excommunication does not inhibit you from being a Catholic. If you were baptized, they can no longer remove that condition, they cannot remove your beliefs," she said, adding that she believes that "the truth is that neither the Bible nor the Church nor God condemn abortion as a sin, and many people do not know that."An earlier version of this story was first published in Noticias Telemundo. Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'Historic': White House pitches Build Back Better's help for Latino families . The White House on Monday promoted what the Biden administration sees as the benefits for Latino families of the $1.7 trillion safety net and climate change package Democrats passed last week. In a White House-organized call with reporters, Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra and Rep. Raul Ruiz, D-Calif., the chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, called the legislation "historic" and said it was a "tremendous investment" in American families as they struggle to recover from the coronavirus-wracked economy.Becerra said the funding in the Build Back Better Act would help families pay for child care and preschool education funding, provide child tax credits and help families pay for Obamacare health insurance plans.It would cut costs for three of the most expensive items in families’ budgets: health care, housing and child care, Ruiz said. Ruiz and Becerra said the child care provision — which would cap child care costs for six years at 7 percent for families earning up to 250 percent of their states’ median incomes — would help Latinas “who had to bear the brunt of cuts in wages and unemployment” because of the pandemic. Extending the child tax credit would be like money in your pocket, Ruiz said.Also in the bill is money to pay for universal pre-K for 3- and 4-year-old children for two years. The money is said to be enough to pay for free preschool for more than 6 million children.Becerra said the bill offers older Americans the kind of help that his late father, a laborer, and his mother, who did clerical work, never had. “I’m from a migrant family, and I understand the importance of being able to say anyone who has worked very hard, helping to lift this country, helping to build it, now this country is going to invest in you," Becerra said in Spanish.Potential changes Senate could make to pass Build Back Better BillNov. 22, 202102:07Ruiz said that while the country is rounding the corner on the pandemic, Covid-19 has disproportionately affected essential workers and Hispanic communities. "Working families and parents are continuing to feel the lingering effects of the pandemic," he said.The legislation, which was crafted by Democrats, was approved Friday by the House and is now before the Senate, where leaders are working with centrist Democrats to get the necessary votes. ‘A blockbuster’ investmentThe House bill would provide the money for pre-K for all children, regardless of families’ incomes, with states eventually having to add money to cover some of the costs. Before the pandemic, about 27 percent of children in public school were Hispanic. In 2019-20, only about 4 in 10 (43 percent) of 3- to 5-year-olds were enrolled in school, according to the National Center for Education Statistics. The pre-K provisions would help not only groups that haven’t had access to quality pre-K, but also middle-class and upper-income families that often don’t qualify for subsidized preschool programs, said former San Antonio Mayor Julián Castro, who was housing secretary in the Obama administration. Castro, the only major Latino presidential candidate last year, said the universal pre-K part of the bill would be “a godsend” for many families and a “blockbuster” investment to celebrate.Early education varies among states, six of which had no state-funded pre-K program in the 2019-20 school year, according to the National Institute for Early Education Research at Rutgers University. Early data this school year show a 3 percent drop in all public school enrollment. The drop was higher among children in preschool and kindergarten than in later grades.Build Back Better’s success depends on states’ doing their part, Castro said. As mayor, Castro got San Antonio voters to support a half-cent sales tax in 2012 to create quality preschool for low-income children. The program is considered highly successful.Build Back Better’s provision would allow school districts or nonprofit organizations to help with costs for their areas even if their states don’t participate.“I’m hopeful that even conservative states like Texas and other places that don’t have universal pre-K will meet the challenge,” Castro said. “But if they don’t, then I encourage local communities to go ahead and universalize pre-K.”Better times ahead?Delivering a message of economic better times to the Latino community is critical for Democrats. The 2022 midterm election season will ramp up after the holidays, and Democrats need to be able blunt GOP arguments about inflation and the effects of climate change provisions on fossil fuels. President Donald Trump and other Republicans expanded their support on those issues last year among Latino voters, particularly in Texas. They also succeeded in framing Democratic programs as socialism, largely in Florida, where Cuban and Latin American voters connect the word with regimes from which they fled or in which have roots. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials sayin a statement after the House vote Friday, Macarena Martinez, the Republican National Committee spokeswoman for Texas, previewed more of what to expect. She said one African American and three Latino members of Congress, all Texas Democrats, "went all in for Biden's socialist agenda: 'Build Back Broke' at a time when Texas families already are being hit with skyrocketing inflation, record high gas prices, and an unmitigated border crisis."Latino unemployment began dropping in 2010 during the Obama administration and fell to about 4 percent early in the Trump administration. Latinos also had begun to experience a comeback from the Great Recession. The pandemic reversed that.The uncontrolled virus has put the Latino economic recovery at risk and cost some Latinos some of the wealth they had rebuilt.Latinos are 2.1 times more likely to die from Covid-19 compared to white Americans and 2.5 times more likely to be hospitalized, according to the latest data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Cases of Covid-19 are 1.6 times more likely among Latinos than whites, the CDC data show.   As of April, only 1 in 6 Hispanic workers were able to work from home during the pandemic, according to the Economic Policy Institute.In addition, Democrats need to buffer themselves from backlash they could face over immigration provisions in the bill. Immigrants advocates and many Democrats had hoped to include a pathway to citizenship in the legislation. But it would now provide only five-year work permits that could be renewed for five more years for about 7 million undocumented immigrants already in the county. If that is jettisoned to get the bill through the Senate, Democrats may feel the backlash from their base of support.Democrats are using a process to get the bill through the Senate that allows them to sidestep Republicans, most of whom oppose the immigration measures. But they also have to get the OK to have the immigration language in the bill from the Senate parliamentarian, and at least two Senate Democrats are lukewarm about the immigration provision, as well. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus has urged the Senate to keep the provision.The White House and Democrats put the focus Monday on legislation that they believe would have a direct impact on Latino households. Ruiz said the legislation would be a “rocket booster for the economy that will launch families across the country towards success by putting money in pockets.” Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
