Laser-focused on 2020, Trump seeks a Michigan Legislature that could help him in 2024. Jon Rocha was settling in to watch the new “Ghostbusters” with his young daughter at the movies last week when he got the news: Former President Donald Trump had endorsed his bid for state representative in Michigan.“I was checking my phone to make sure it was on silent, and all of a sudden I got a notification that I was tagged in a tweet” about the endorsement, Rocha said. He was unaware that Trump’s backing was coming. “Imagine going through an entire movie with your phone blowing up.”It’s unusual for a former president to endorse in races so deep down the ballot, especially nearly nine months before the Republican primary. But Trump has backed seven candidates for state House or Senate seats in Michigan, an electoral battleground that he lost narrowly to Joe Biden last year — more than anywhere else. Most of the endorsements, including Rocha’s, were announced in recent weeks. All of the candidates have one thing in common: They’ve made election administration and investigating last year’s vote central to their platforms.Trump’s focus on the state illuminates just how driven he is to exact revenge on those who haven’t supported his baseless claim that the last election was stolen from him. It’s also a play to install allies who could be helpful should he run for president again in 2024 and find himself locked in another close race. The Republican-controlled Legislature spent eight months investigating the results of the 2020 presidential election and found no reason to doubt their legitimacy. GOP leaders have also refused to accede to Trump’s demands for a ballot review like the one Republicans authorized in Arizona, which found no proof of fraud and concluded that Biden defeated Trump in the state by even more votes than the certified tally showed.“Michigan needs a new legislature,” Trump wrote in his Nov. 15 endorsement of Rachelle Smit for state representative. “The cowards there now are too spineless to investigate Election Fraud.”Jonathan Karl: Barr’s refusal to back false election fraud claims ‘infuriated Donald Trump’Nov. 23, 202106:51Trump also has endorsed candidates for attorney general and secretary of state, a key position in charge of election administration, as well as GOP primary challengers to two Michigan members of Congress who voted to impeach him in January after his supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol in an effort to block Biden’s victory. All of his picks have questioned the legitimacy of the 2020 election results.He hasn’t yet endorsed in Michigan’s crowded Republican primary for governor, but he has met with contenders eager for his blessing.“President Trump is committed to saving America and saving Michigan by endorsing and supporting candidates up and down the ballot who will fight for his America First agenda,” Taylor Budowich, a Trump spokesperson, said in a statement to NBC News.But Trump has made it clear that denying the results of the 2020 presidential election is central to his support, if not his agenda.“There are so many great Trump people in Michigan,” he wrote in his endorsement of Rocha. “I love Michigan. It has some of the best people, and some of the worst elected officials.”Trump’s attempt to undermine the last presidential election has met with heavy resistance from some Republicans in Michigan.Jason Roe, then the executive director of the Michigan GOP, told Politico last year that there was no fraud and that Trump had no one but himself to blame for his loss. State Senate Majority Leader Mike Shirkey and then-House Speaker Lee Chatfield, who met with Trump at the White House after the election, ultimately declined to interfere. State Sen. Ed McBroom investigated Trump’s claims before declaring he had found no evidence of widespread fraud.But there also have been signs of enduring loyalty to Trump. Meshawn Maddock, who later became a co-chair of the state party, helped organize buses to Washington in January and spoke briefly at a rally there before the riot at the Capitol. Her husband, state Rep. Matt Maddock, scored Trump’s endorsement for his re-election bid this month.“The Trump train is coming and I wouldn’t want to be in the way,” Maddock said in an email, adding two arm-flexing emojis to underscore his message.Jeff Timmer, a former Michigan GOP chair who has soured on the party and backed Biden last year, said Trump’s focus on the state is the result of his going “so far down this rabbit hole” about 2020.“What started off as talking points about the election being rigged has become the sole gospel in his mind,” Timmer said. “He actually believes the election was stolen from him in Detroit and that he actually did win Michigan. That might be propelling a lot of this attention.”RecommendedHealth newsHealth newsFBI acknowledges for first time that some employees may have Havana Syndrome symptomsPolitics NewsPolitics News'Game of chicken': Debt ceiling standoff threatens state spendingBiden’s 3-point victory over Trump in Michigan — a 154,000-vote win — has been affirmed by court rulings, state canvassers and risk-limiting audits, which examine samples of the overall vote to confirm whether the outcome is correct. A number of claims that had circulated about the vote were debunked in the McBroom report, outraging Trump, who issued multiple statements.The report, supported by every Republican on the state Senate Oversight Committee, was the product of an eight-month inquiry, and it concluded that there was no basis or evidence to support the Trump campaign's repeated claims that the election results failed to reflect the will of the voters.Mike Detmer, a state Senate candidate backed by Trump, is challenging incumbent Lana Theis, who signed off on the report. Detmer said he believes that if the Trump-backed candidates win seats next fall, “we're going to at least have a coalition of people that are working for the same goal.”“I just want to find out the truth,” Detmer said of 2020. “Was it the ‘Big Lie’? Or is there something more to it?”Detmer, who fell short in a U.S. House primary last year, made local headlines then for defending the neo-fascist Proud Boys on Facebook and separately suggesting on Twitter that people should face “firing squads” if they are deemed to have engaged in “fixing” or “election fraud.”Trump’s candidates for the Legislature have appeared at a number of election fraud rallies throughout Michigan over the past year. Rocha, who initially was running for a U.S. House seat this cycle until Trump backed one of his opponents, was at the Capitol on Jan. 6, although he said that he “never got close to the actual steps” and that he was unaware of the severity of the riot inside until he left at 3:30 p.m. and regained a cell signal.“We need to restore the faith in the election, because people are not moving on,” he said. “They are just as angry today, a year later, as they were a year ago.”Rocha is the only candidate who is running in a Democratic-leaning district, while Detmer is the only candidate taking on a GOP incumbent. Still, much about the races is subject to change when redistricting is completed and Michigan’s new electoral maps are finalized.Lavora Barnes, the chair of the state Democratic Party, said Trump’s endorsements “reflect his out-of-touch and unfounded wild conspiracy theories.”“Michigan voters,” she said, “will not be fooled by his support of fringe candidates that are attempting to keep the ‘Big Lie’ alive.”Tudor Dixon, a Republican candidate for governor who has met with Trump to seek his endorsement, sees his interest in Michigan as being more about the future — specifically 2024, when he could run again for president.“Michigan was a huge state for him in 2016, and he sees that, as Michigan goes, sometimes goes the nation,” said Dixon, a conservative commentator. “So for him, whether it is Donald Trump running in 2024 or he is supporting another candidate in 2024, he is looking forward to the future.”Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Best Buy stores in Minnesota latest targets of large 'grab and run' thefts. Two different Best Buy stores in Minnesota became the latest targets of "grab and run" thefts amid ongoing "Black Friday" sales by large groups of people, according to police.Between 20 to 30 people entered a Best Buy store in Burnsville while it was still open to customers on Friday night and stole an "unclear" number of electronics, Carissa Larsen, a spokesperson for the city of Burnsville, told NBC News in an email on Saturday.No weapons were used during the robbery and no one was injured, Larsen said.On the same night, another group of about a dozen adults and juveniles stormed into a Best Buy store in Maplewood, nearly 30 miles northeast of Burnsville. According to Maplewood police, the group was "working together to steal multiple high value items" such as televisions, tablets, and hoverboards.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMass shooting leaves 3 dead, 4 injured in Nashville apartment U.S. newsU.S. newsSome states dropping ‘dehumanizing’ terms for immigrantsIn both instances, robbers left before police arrived at the scene, authorities said. As they continue investigating, it remains unclear whether both thefts are connected.As of Saturday morning, no arrests have been made in connection to these thefts, NBC's affiliate in Minneapolis, KARE, reported.Best Buy released a statement, saying, "Retailers across the country are seeing spikes in crime. These incidents have been, by and large, non-violent though often traumatic for those who witnessed them. As an industry, we are working with local law enforcement and taking additional security precautions where it makes sense," KARE reported.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Black Friday shopping in stores drops 28 percent from pre-pandemic levels. Traffic at retail stores on Black Friday dropped 28.3 percent compared with 2019 levels, as shoppers shifted more of their spending online and kicked off their shopping earlier in the year, according to preliminary data from Sensormatic Solutions.Traffic was up 47.5 percent compared with year-ago levels, Sensormatic said. This time in 2020, many shoppers stayed at home due to fears around the coronavirus pandemic and as retailers operated on somewhat reduced hours.“It’s clear shoppers are shopping earlier this season, just as they did last season,” said Brian Field, senior director of global retail consulting at Sensormatic. He added that the two main reasons shoppers are spreading out their holiday purchases are ongoing concerns about Covid and worries about the supply chain.The peak time for Black Friday shopping in stores was 1 p.m. to 3 p.m., similar to trends in past years, Sensormatic said. Black Friday is still predicted to be the busiest in-store shopping day of the season, according to Sensormatic.On Thanksgiving day, visits to brick-and-mortar stores cratered 90.4 percent from 2019 levels, Sensormatic found. Retailers including Target, Walmart and Best Buy opted to keep their doors closed to customers on the holiday. Target has said it will be a permanent shift.Field said that shopper traffic on Black Friday was closest to returning to 2019 levels in the South, followed by the Midwest and then the West and Northeast. He doesn’t believe mounting fears around the new Covid variant, omicron, had any impact on consumers’ behavior on the day.“If you start seeing outbreaks in the U.S., the thing that I think would drive [traffic down] would be if governments and communities start locking down again,” Field said. “Otherwise, I think the trends will be very similar to what we expect them to be.”Black Friday online spending falls from 2020 levelsOnline, retailers rang up $8.9 billion in sales on Black Friday, down from the record of about $9 billion spent on the Friday after Thanksgiving a year earlier, according to data from Adobe Analytics. It marked the first time ever that growth reversed from the prior year, Adobe said. Adobe analyzes more than one trillion visits to U.S. retail sites, with over 100 million items in 18 different product categories.On Thanksgiving day, consumers spent $5.1 billion on the internet, flat from year-ago levels, Adobe said.The numbers provide even greater evidence that the holiday season has been stretched out as more people began their shopping as early as October. Retailers have been spreading out their promotional offers, too. According to a survey from the National Retail Federation, the retail industry’s leading trade group, 61% of consumers had already started purchasing holiday gifts before Thanksgiving.RecommendedCoronavirusCoronavirusDow closes down more than 900 points as new Covid variant sparks market sell-offCoronavirusCoronavirusStores kick off Black Friday but pandemic concerns linger“Shoppers are being strategic in their gift shopping, buying much earlier in the season and being flexible about when they shop to make sure they get the best deals,” said Vivek Pandya, a lead analyst at Adobe Digital Insights.Adobe is forecasting e-commerce sales on Cyber Monday, the biggest online shopping day of the year, to be in between $10.2 billion and $11.3 billion.Shoppers can expect to find a variety of items out of stock, however, as supply chain complications have snarled inventory levels for some companies.According to Adobe, out-of-stock messages on retailers’ websites are up 124 percent through Friday versus pre-pandemic levels. Appliances, electronics, housekeeping supplies and home and garden items have the largest stock-out rates, Adobe said.NRF expects holiday sales during November and December to rise between 8.5 and 10.5 percent, for a total of between $843.4 billion and $859 billion of sales, which would set a record for year-over-year growth.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Retired officer shot while guarding TV crew in California dies. A retired police officer who was working as a security guard for a television news crew when he was shot Wednesday in Oakland, California, died from his injuries Saturday morning, authorities said."This unfortunate loss of life marks the City of Oakland’s 126th life lost to violence," the city's police department said in a statement.His former departments, including San Jose police, identified the victim as Kevin Nishita. "He was a crime fighter, even in retirement," the San Jose department tweeted Saturday.The coroner’s office in Alameda County, which serves Oakland, said it was unable to provide information, including Nishita’s age. “Today, we escorted his body from the hospital with full law enforcement honors,” the Alameda County Sheriff’s Office tweeted.Oakland police said Nishita was shot during an attempted robbery Wednesday afternoon in downtown. Detectives are looking for a white 2000s Acura TL sedan seen in security video in the area of the shooting, which is being investigated as a homicide.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMass shooting leaves 3 dead, 4 injured in Nashville apartment U.S. newsU.S. newsSome states dropping ‘dehumanizing’ terms for immigrantsNo arrests have been announced. "This is heartbreaking," U.S. Rep. Eric Swalwell, D-California, tweeted. "Retired Officer Kevin Nishita was murdered while protecting a @kron4news crew from an armed robbery." Bay Area television station KRON said Nishita was working with a reporter at the location of a recent smash-and-grab theft when someone tried unsuccessfully to take the crew's video camera and opened fire.No other injuries were reported. The station said Nishita, who regularly guarded KRON crews, was armed and working for Oakland-based Star Protection Agency. "Kevin Nishita honorably and bravely protected Bay Area TV reporters for years," KRON reporter Amy Larson tweeted. "This morning we are heartbroken."Police in Colma, south of San Francisco, said Nishita had been a sergeant and detective there before retiring in 2018. The department said he'd also worked for the police department in Hayward. San Jose police said Nishita served as an officer in their community from 2001 to 2012. KRON reported that Nishita had also worked for the Oakland Housing Authority, which has a police force.The station said he is survived by his wife, two children and three grandchildren.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Stowaway found in plane's landing gear compartment at Miami airport. A man was being examined at a hospital after he was found in a plane's landing gear compartment at Miami International Airport Saturday morning, authorities said.The 26-year-old was apprehended by U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers after he "attempted to evade detection in the landing gear compartment of an aircraft arriving from Guatemala," the agency said in a statement.He was initially checked out by emergency medical services workers before being sent to a hospital for evaluation, the agency said. His condition was not released.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMass shooting leaves 3 dead, 4 injured in Nashville apartment U.S. newsU.S. newsSome states dropping ‘dehumanizing’ terms for immigrantsAmerican Airlines said in a statement the incident happened on flight 1182 from Guatemala City to Miami. The flight lasted 2 hours and 37 minutes, according to flight tracker site Flight Aware, which noted the aircraft was a Boeing 737-800.The plane arrived in Miami at 10:06 a.m. and was met by law enforcement, the airline said. "Persons are taking extreme risks when they try to conceal themselves in confined spaces such as an aircraft," CBP said. "This incident remains under investigation."On June 7, after arriving in Guatemala City the previous night, Vice President Kamala Harris warned potential migrants, "Do not come. The United States will continue to enforce our laws and secure our border."She was quickly criticized for dissuading migrants after President Joe Biden promised a more humanitarian border policy in the wake of President Donald Trump's hard line."It’s impossible to have it both ways — one cannot exclude and be welcoming at the same time," Katie Adams, domestic policy advocate for the United Church of Christ, said the next day.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Hundreds of FedEx packages are found in Alabama woods. HAYDEN, Ala. — An Alabama sheriff is trying to figure out how hundreds of FedEx packages ended up dumped in the woods.An estimated 300 to 400 packages of various sizes were found in a ravine near the small town of Hayden on Wednesday, the Blount County Sheriff’s Office said in a statement.An estimated 300 to 400 FedEx packages were found in a ravine near the small town of Hayden, Ala.Blount County Sheriff's OfficeDeputies were sent to guard the scene until FedEx workers could arrive to pick up the packages, Sheriff Mark Moon said. FedEx sent multiple trucks and drivers from across the South to load up the packages, Moon said.Photos posted on the sheriff’s Facebook page show the packages strewn about the forest and piled at the bottom of a wooded hillside.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMass shooting leaves 3 dead, 4 injured in Nashville apartment U.S. newsU.S. newsSome states dropping ‘dehumanizing’ terms for immigrantsNatasha Abney told WBMA-TV that her neighbor found the boxes on his property.“I mean it was just a river of boxes,” Abney said. “Some busted open, some not.”It wasn’t clear why the packages were in the ravine, the sheriff said, but he hoped to have some answers soon.FedEx packages in a ravine near Hayden, Ala.Blount County Sheriff's Office“The security of our customers’ shipments is a top priority and we are committed to treating our customers’ packages with the utmost care,” Memphis, Tennessee-based FedEx said in a statement provided Friday.“We are taking steps to recover and transport the affected packages as quickly as possible,” the company said. “In addition to cooperating with law enforcement, we are conducting a review of this situation and will take the appropriate action.”The site where the packages were found is about 30 miles (48 kilometers) north of Birmingham.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'Gaydar' or 'wishdar'? The danger in obsessing over Shawn Mendes' sexuality. Pop stars Shawn Mendes and Camila Cabello announced last week that they are ending their two-year relationship, sending a meteorite crashing through the LGBTQ universe — or at least gay Twitter. Mendes identifies as straight, but rumors have swirled about his sexuality for years. The topic is one of long-standing fascination within the queer community, and his breakup did little to quell gossipers and defenders alike. Hundreds of users posted memes on social media in the past week, many of them joking about how gay men will be flocking to the heartthrob's home now that he’s single. Google searches for “Shawn Mendes gay” hit a three-year peak last week as news of the couple’s split broke, dwarfing searches for Transgender Awareness Week, which landed at the same time.“The gays rejoice,” a user wrote on Twitter.But others said the rumors and the jokes were “gross.”“are some of the shawn mendes gay jokes funny? yes. do they also remind me of that unspeakably awful, gut-punch feeling i’d get when i was closeted and someone TOLD me i was gay because i let the mask slip and acted feminine for one whole second? also yes,” gay social media influencer Matt Bernstein wrote on Twitter, garnering over 6,000 likes.Mendes has not addressed the latest hearsay and did not reply to a request for comment. He has previously said the gossip is “frustrating.”“You want to say, ‘I’m not gay but it’d be fine if I was gay — but also there’s nothing wrong with being gay but I’m not.’ You don’t really know how to respond to the situation,” he said in an interview on Dax Shepard’s podcast, “Armchair Expert,” last year.Mendes is not the only celebrity who has been subjected to the rumor mill. Oprah Winfrey, Tom Cruise, Hillary Clinton and Hugh Jackman — all self-identified heterosexuals — are just some of the public figures who have had their turns. Gayle King and Oprah Winfrey attend The Robin Hood Foundation's 2016 Benefit at Jacob Javitz Center on May 9, 2016 in New York City. Kevin Mazur / Getty Images fileFor years, the close friendship between Winfrey and CBS host Gayle King sparked rumors that the two were a couple. In 2010, Winfrey told ABC News’ Barbara Walters, “I’m not a lesbian … I’m not even kind of a lesbian.” “The reason why it irritates me is because it means that somebody must think I’m lying. That’s number one,” she said. “Number two … Why would you want to hide it? That is not the way I run my life.” But while speculation about sexuality among gay friends has existed as long as gay people have, when the speculation moves to a public forum, it can be damaging, some experts say. Dr. Jack Drescher, a clinical professor of psychiatry at Columbia University and the author of “Psychoanalytic Therapy and the Gay Man,” said such speculation can be particularly damaging if the subject is actually gay and is not ready to come out on their own terms. “If it actually is true that they might be gay and people are speculating about it, you’re going to sort of make them feel threatened and endangered,” Drescher said, stressing that he was speaking hypothetically and not about a specific public figure. “Even though he may like getting his name in the newspaper and people talking about him, there would be a part of him that would be very, very anxious by all the talk. There would be no way a person wouldn’t be made anxious by all of this talk if they didn’t want people to know this about themselves.”‘Gaydar’ vs. ‘wishdar’LGBTQ sex-columnist and podcaster Dan Savage sees it a bit differently from Drescher. “Sometimes it’s hard for gay men to separate their ‘gaydar’ from their ‘wishdar,’” Savage said. “There’s not a lot of speculation in the gay community that Louis C.K. must be gay. When I was growing up, Tom Cruise was who everyone speculated about, and now it’s Shawn Mendes, because we all wish he would be.”Savage said that harmful or not, such speculation is inevitable. “You can slap the ‘this is potentially harmful’ label on it and people are still going to do it,” he said. “We’re all assumed to be straight, and there’s a time in all of our lives when we’re saying we’re straight when we’re not because we were forced to say that. So we look at other people who are currently saying that, and we know that there is a significant percentage of them who are lying like we did when we were kids.” Collateral damageHigh-profile speculation and outings — particularly if they are of the unkind variety — could harm more than just the subjects of the rumors. Kevin Wong, the vice president of communications for the Trevor Project, an LGBTQ youth suicide prevention and crisis intervention organization, said it could be “incredibly invalidating” for LGBTQ youths in particular.“If you were thinking about coming out and you see something occurring on a world stage where people are being mean-spirited about somebody else’s potential sexual orientation or speculating about somebody’s gender identity, you’re going to internalize that,” Wong said. “That will make you feel ashamed. That will ascribe stigma to how you feel about yourself and your identities.”RecommendedOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureFrom 'Eternals' to 'Dickinson,' our list of must-watch films and showsOUT NewsOUT NewsSanta Claus gets a boyfriend in Norwegian Christmas commercialWong pointed to the disproportionate rates of bullying, harassment, mental health issues and suicidal thoughts plaguing LGBTQ youths. A study this year by the Trevor Project found that more than 52 percent of LGBTQ middle and high schoolers reported having been bullied in person or online. In a separate survey this year, the Trevor Project found that 42 percent of LGBTQ youths have seriously considered suicide within the last year. Over 34,000 LGBTQ youths were surveyed for both studies.“Anyone who is using their platform or their language to bully or harass someone around sexual orientation or gender identity, they’re contributing to that,” Wong said.Clinton Anderson, the American Psychological Association's acting chief of psychology in the public interest, compared the high-profile speculation around celebrities and politicians to the media coverage of Rutgers University freshman Tyler Clementi’s suicide in 2010. Clementi, who was out to only a small circle of family and friends, died by suicide after he learned that his roommate had secretly recorded him having a romantic encounter with a man.“Kids reading about that associate being exposed with killing yourself,” Anderson said. “That’s not a good association or message for a young person who is himself struggling with the kind of situation that that young man was in.”Is outing ever justified?Not all speculation or outing in public forums is created equally, said Mike Rogers, who made a career outing elected officials in his former blog, BlogActive. Rogers’ reporting, which focused on outing elected officials who actively worked against LGBTQ rights, was the subject of the Oscar-nominated documentary “Outrage.”Rogers recalled seeing firsthand a man perform a sex act on another man “the same day that his boss, George W. Bush, introduced the Federal Marriage Amendment,” Rogers said, referring to a proposed amendment to the Constitution in 2004 that would have banned same-sex marriage.“That’s just unacceptable to me,” he said. As for the speculation surrounding Mendes, Rogers said: “My first question would be, ‘What has he done that is anti-gay?’ And if you can’t give me anything, I’m not interested in the story.”Anti-gay lawmakers aside, Savage said he empathizes with LGBTQ people who are angered by public figures who are, in fact, lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender or queer and are not out. “We’re not all 14 and in high school. If you’re in your 20s, 30s, 40s and you’re safe — emotionally, you can’t be retaliated against by your family, professionally — and you’re not out, I think that’s a moral failing,” Savage said. “But still, we all hated this when people speculated about us before we were out. And then once we’re out, we all do it. What is up with that?”Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Indigenous groups say Big Oil’s pollution threatens their existence in Canadian forest. This article was published in partnership with Inside Climate News, a nonprofit, independent news outlet that covers climate, energy and the environment. It is part of “The Fifth Crime,” a series on ecocide.FORT McMURRAY, Alberta — The land around Jean L’Hommecourt’s cabin was once miles away from the noise of the world. On long summer days, she would come with her mother to gather berries from the forest and to hunt moose when the leaves turned yellow and the air crisp.But over the last two decades, the cabin has been surrounded by the expanding mines of Alberta’s tar sands, where oil companies have dug vast open pits to extract a heavy form of crude called bitumen. L’Hommecourt and her Indigenous community of Fort McKay, about 35 miles north of Fort McMurray, have watched as the companies have replaced their traditional lands with a 40-mile string of mines, stripping away subarctic boreal forest and wetlands and rerouting waterways.“It’s an invasion of our territory, invasion of us trying to be out on the land,” L’Hommecourt said. Over the years, more and more workers have shown up in the area, stopping her along the road to tell her that she couldn’t hunt moose or that she was trespassing.“‘You’re the trespasser,’” she tells them. “‘I shouldn’t have to be answering your questions — you answer mine.’”Jean L'Hommecourt warms at the fire outside the cabin she has built near the Fort McKay First Nation's village, about an hour's drive north of Fort McMurray in Alberta.Michael KodasOil and gas companies like ExxonMobil and the Canadian giant Suncor have transformed the tar sands — also called oil sands — into one of the world’s largest industrial developments, covering an area larger than New York City. They have built sprawling waste pits that leach heavy metals into groundwater and processing plants that spew pollutants into the air, sending a sour stench for miles.The mines’ ecological impacts are so vast and so deep that L’Hommecourt and other Indigenous people here — mostly from the Dene and Cree First Nations — say the industry has challenged their very existence, even as it has provided jobs and revenue to Native businesses and communities. People in this region have long suspected that the tar sands mines were poisoning the land and everything it feeds.The economic benefits of the development are immense: Oil is Canada’s top export, and the mining and energy sector as a whole accounts for nearly a quarter of Alberta’s provincial economy. The sands pump out more than 3 million barrels of oil per day, helping make Canada the world’s fourth-largest oil producer and the top exporter of crude to the U.S. But the companies’ energy-hungry extraction has also made the oil and gas sector Canada’s largest source of greenhouse gas emissions, according to a government report. The largest oil sands companies have pledged to reduce their emissions, saying they will rely largely on government-subsidized carbon capture projects. Yet oil companies and the government expect output will climb well into the 2030s. Even a new proposal by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to cap emissions in the oil sector does not include any plan to lower production.Some lawyers and advocates have pointed to the tar sands as a prime example of the widespread environmental destruction they call “ecocide.” They are pushing the International Criminal Court to outlaw ecocide as a crime, on par with genocide or war crimes. While the campaign for a new international law is likely to last years, with no assurance that it will succeed, it has drawn attention to the inability of countries’ laws to contain industrial development like the tar sands, which will pollute the land for decades or centuries.Mike Mercredi, who is Dene and lives in Fort Chipewyan, about 100 miles north of Fort McKay, noted that the name of his people translates as “people of the land.”“It’s in our name of who we call ourselves,” he said. “We are the land. So when you’re destroying that land, when you’re committing ecocide, you’re committing genocide.”Julie King, an Exxon spokeswoman, said, “ExxonMobil is committed to operating our businesses in a responsible and sustainable manner, working to minimize environmental impacts and supporting the communities where we live and work.”Leithan Slade, a spokesman for Suncor, pointed to agreements the company has signed with First Nations, adding that “Suncor sees partnering with Indigenous communities as foundational to successful energy development.”L’Hommecourt is intimately familiar with the partnerships through her work as an environmental coordinator and researcher for the Fort McKay First Nation, of which she is a member, and in that position she has fought to protect whatever shreds of land she could. Her cabin is only 20 miles from town as the crow flies, but the drive takes more than an hour, because the road has to loop around several mines. The land, she said, is where she can think in her language, Dene, “where in the outside world it’s all English.”“You get that sense of belonging here,” she said, “and that’s what I want for our peoples, to have their land back.” She added, “If you have your land back, you have everything.”The tar sandsThe only way to fully appreciate the scope of the tar sands is to see the mines from the air. Flying across the region from the north, the twisting channels of the Peace-Athabasca Delta dominate the landscape, snaking through forest and marshlands with not a road or a power line in sight.The terrain gives way to a mixture of forest, muskeg and drylands, where the sandy soil rises to the surface. Out of nowhere, straight lines emerge — a wide, unpaved highway and paths leading to squares carved out of the forest, where companies have explored for oil.Then the mines come into view. Billowing plumes of smoke fill the sky. Flames shoot out of flare stacks. The forest’s green is replaced by vast black holes pockmarked with giant puddles. From the air, the dump trucks and the shovels look like toys, hauling mounds of bitumen from newly dug pits. As the plane nears its descent, the cabin fills with a tarry stench.“It’s just the most completely ludicrous approach to industrial and energy development that is possible, given everything we know about the impact on ecosystems, the impact on climate,” said Dale Marshall, the national program manager for Environmental Defence, a Canadian advocacy group.To extract bitumen from the sand, oil companies heat it and then treat it in a slurry of water and solvents. In other parts of Alberta, where the sands are too deep to mine, the bitumen is melted in place and extracted through wells by pumping high-pressure steam underground. The deeper deposits cover a much larger area than the mines, more than 50,000 square miles.The Syncrude Operation north of Fort McMurray, Alberta.Michael KodasThe extraction requires enormous amounts of energy: In 2018, the latest year for which figures are available, oil sands producers consumed 30 percent of all the natural gas burned in Canada. Collectively, the mines’ and deep-extraction projects’ greenhouse gas emissions about equal those of 21 coal-fired power plants, and that’s just to get the crude out of the ground.The operations also pump out nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, traces of which have been detected by scientists in soils and snowpack dozens of miles away.The mines guzzle vast quantities of water, with nearly 58 billion gallons drawn from the region’s rivers, lakes and aquifers in 2019, according to government figures. Much of that ends up as toxic liquid waste laced with hydrocarbons, naphthenic acids and carcinogenic heavy metals. Oil companies have been collecting the “tailings” in waste ponds, which have grown exponentially in size and now cover more than 100 square miles. Regulatory filings show that the ponds are expected to continue to expand well into the 2030s. While companies are required by law to eventually reclaim them, only a fraction have been reclaimed so far.Next to one pond, a coal-black mountain of debris towers over the water. High-voltage lines buzz overhead. Air cannons ring the pond and blast several times every minute, creating a constant explosive din. Industrial iron scarecrows are dressed with safety vests and helmets. The noise and the display are meant to scare off the millions of migratory birds that arrive in northern Alberta every year.North of Fort McMurray, scarecrows dressed like workers and devices that produce loud explosions that sound like gunshots are spread out around a Syncrude tailings pond, which has toxic water that could kill birds that land on it.Michael KodasSometimes even those defenses fail, however, or the birds ignore them and land anyway — tens of thousands every year, according to a 2016 report to provincial regulators, obtained this year by The Narwhal, a nonprofit Canadian news organization.Ottilie Coldbeck, a spokeswoman for the Alberta Energy Regulator, which oversees the industry, said the research in the report “was not considered complete.”The history	 White explorers set their sights on the tar sands as soon as they arrived. In 1789, Sir Alexander Mackenzie reported seeing veins of “bituminous quality” exposed along the Athabasca River. Within a century, prospectors and geologists had identified “almost inexhaustible supplies” of petroleum in the area. The only obstacle seemed to be the people living above it.In 1891, the superintendent general of Indian affairs recommended drafting a treaty “with a view to the extinguishment of the Indians’ title” to open access to petroleum and other minerals. Within eight years, First Nations leaders had signed Treaty 8, in which they surrendered title of 325,000 square miles of land to the British crown while retaining the right to hunt, fish and trap freely throughout the area.The tar sands remained largely beyond reach for decades, however, until Americans, driven by nationalistic ambitions, invested vast sums of capital.When J. Howard Pew, of Sun Oil Co., opened the first commercial mine in 1967, the people of Fort McKay were not happy, said Jim Boucher, who led the First Nation as chief for three decades, until 2019. Sun Oil, now Suncor, took over an important summer hunting ground called Tar Island, he said. “There was no discussion, no consultation,” Boucher said.The fur trade had provided the nation’s members with one of their few sources of income. But it collapsed just as the oil industry was taking hold, and they had few alternatives but to turn to the oil companies’ rapidly expanding mines.“We had no choice,” Boucher said.After he became chief in 1986, Boucher formed the Fort McKay Group of Companies to work with the oil industry, and over the following decades he oversaw partnerships with energy companies that would eventually net hundreds of millions of dollars for the community.The income has allowed Fort McKay to build subsidized housing and to pay for education and elder care, achievements that Boucher rattles off proudly. Enrolled members receive quarterly dividends.Jim Boucher was the chief of the Fort McKay First Nation from 1986 until 1994 and again from 1996 until 2019.Michael KodasSome First Nations have fought the development with lawsuits. The Beaver Lake Cree Nation, to the south, sued the federal and provincial governments in 2008, saying its treaty rights had been violated by the cumulative effects of development. Even though it got a ruling five years later allowing the case to proceed, the case is still awaiting trial, with a court date scheduled for 2024.Each of the area’s First Nations has signed “impact benefit agreements” with the oil companies that can include limits on certain practices, like water withdrawals, quotas for hiring Indigenous people and direct payments to the nations. But even as the impact agreements have secured benefits, they have deepened reliance on an industry that is consuming the land that was once the base of the Indigenous economy and culture.​​L’Hommecourt, who is Boucher’s cousin, said she holds no resentment toward him for tying their people’s fate to the industry.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMass shooting leaves 3 dead, 4 injured in Nashville apartment U.S. newsU.S. newsSome states dropping ‘dehumanizing’ terms for immigrants“He did what he had to do, and as a chief I commend him,” L’Hommecourt said. “They call us the richest little First Nation in Canada.”Boucher lost his grandfather’s cabin, where he learned to hunt and trap as a boy, to a mine dug by Syncrude, a consortium of oil companies. A cabin Boucher later built for his father, to the north, now sits on a postage stamp of land, he said, surrounded by newer mines.“It’s empty. That’s how the cabin is to me,” Boucher said. “So I don’t go there anymore. No joy.” The effects	 While the mines cover an expansive area, their impact on the environment reaches much farther.The town of Fort Chipewyan sits where the Peace and Athabasca rivers empty into Lake Athabasca, about 90 miles north of the closest mine, and the land here offers a glimpse of what existed before. The mostly Indigenous residents can still hunt and trap in unbroken stretches of boreal forest.But while the nights are quiet and the air smells clean, the industry’s presence is strong. Kids zoom around town on ATVs, while the supermarket displays boxes of 87-inch flat-screen TVs —  ”toys,” as some residents call them, that only those who work in the industry can afford.And despite the lake’s distance from the development, the flesh of some animals that drink from it is laced with some of the same heavy metals that collect in the waste pits.In 2010, a paper published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences found elevated levels of mercury, lead, nickel and other heavy metals in the river downstream of oil sands development, as well as in Lake Athabasca. Three years later, another study in the same journal examined lake sediments surrounding Fort McMurray and found that a group of chemicals that include cancer-causing compounds started rising in the 1960s and ʼ70s, when oil sands development began.The Athabasca Chipewyan and Mikisew Cree First Nations commissioned Stéphane McLachlan, an environmental scientist at the University of Manitoba, to test the tissues of animals, and in 2014 he released a report finding elevated levels of toxic pollutants — including arsenic, mercury and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons — in the flesh of moose, ducks and muskrats in the region.Provincial officials acknowledge that the mines’ waste ponds leak into groundwater. To “limit the risk” that the seepage will spread farther, the Alberta Energy Regulator requires companies to install drains, wells, sumps and underground walls to capture and contain the contamination, said Coldbeck, the agency spokeswoman.An oil sands mine in Alberta adjacent to boreal forest outside of Fort McMurray.Michael KodasFederal and provincial officials have disputed research that has linked groundwater contamination to the waste pits, citing other studies that indicate that the compounds may be naturally occurring in groundwater because they are contained in bitumen.But last year, the Commission for Environmental Cooperation, an environmental body created alongside the North American Free Trade Agreement, assessed all the published studies of water contamination and concluded that there was “scientifically valid evidence” that the waste pits were leaching contaminants into groundwater. The analysis noted that some research has concluded that the contamination reached the Athabasca River but that scientists were still debating the findings.Asked about the report, Coldbeck said her agency “does not have any evidence” that contaminated groundwater has reached the Athabasca River. In response to a question about health concerns, she said the agency “is committed to ensuring that Alberta’s oil sands are developed in a safe and responsible manner” and referred questions to Alberta Health, the province’s public health agency.A spokesperson for Alberta Health did not reply to requests for comment.A spokeswoman for the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers declined to comment, pointing instead to reports the group has issued about engagement with Indigenous communities and about greenhouse gas emissions.Meanwhile, published surveys of cancer cases in Fort Chipewyan carried out in 2009 and 2014 came up with mixed results. Both showed higher-than-normal rates of certain cancers, including biliary tract cancers. One study determined that overall cancer rates were elevated. The other did not.Alice Rigney, an elder with the Athabasca Chipewyan First Nation, blames the oil development for her nephew’s death from bile duct cancer, even as she acknowledges that there is nothing to prove the connection.“They took it all away,” she said of the oil companies, speaking not just about her nephew but also about the broader environmental impacts. “What else is there to take?”The futureThe global oil industry is increasingly under assault, and Canada’s tar sands, because of the developments’ high greenhouse gas emissions, are a prime target of climate activists. Because new tar sands projects require billions of dollars of investment up front, many financial analysts say the era of opening new mines is over.		But even if production from the mines holds steady or declines gradually, their massive footprints are likely to expand for decades, because companies must continue to clear land to keep up production.And whenever the mines do decline, the industry will face the challenge of what to do with the waste it has produced. The provincial government has secured $730 million from companies as collateral for a cleanup, but that will not even begin to cover the costs. While regulators’ official estimate of the liability for Alberta’s mining industry is $27 billion, an internal report obtained in 2018 by Canadian journalists estimated cleanup costs of more than $100 billion. Jean L'Hommecourt visits a river near the Fort McKay First Nation's village about an hour's drive north of Fort McMurray in Alberta.Michael KodasL’Hommecourt said she is torn about whether she will remain here. “My heart is in the boreal forest,” she said. But her kids want to move away, and if they do, she might, too. The mines are coming closer to the cabin, and more roads are being blocked off.Regulatory filings show that Imperial Oil plans eventually to reroute the creek that runs past her cabin to make way for its Kearl mine. If it does so, the land where the cabin sits would be buried by land cleared from elsewhere within the mine.A spokeswoman for Imperial, Exxon’s Canadian affiliate, declined to comment specifically on the filings but said the company “has collaborative and unique relationship agreements with these local communities that provide mutual benefits.”The cabin itself has been a symbol of L’Hommecourt’s resistance. It sits on an old trappers’ trail that Imperial’s workers began using about 10 years ago as an unpaved access road for exploration, marking it off with a “No Trespassing” sign. L’Hommecourt built her cabin in the middle of that road.“I just said, ‘I don’t care,’” L’Hommecourt said. “I’m going to put my house right here, and this is where it’s going to be.” When company workers come by, she said, “I just tell them, ‘Turn around and go back, and if you have a problem with it, get your VP or whoever it is that you report to and then tell them to come and see me.’”So far, no one has shown up.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Desperate for cash, Afghan families are selling young daughters into marriage. SHAIDAI, Afghanistan — Bashful, with long locks of rust-colored hair dyed with henna, Benazir fidgets with a handful of gravel when the topic of her marriage comes up.She looks down at the ground and buries her head in her knees when she is asked whether she knows she has been promised to another family to marry one of their sons.Her father says he will receive the equivalent of $2,000 for Benazir, but he hasn’t explained the details to her or what’s expected of her. She’s too young to understand, he says.Benazir is 8 years old.It is traditional for families here to pay dowries to brides’ families for marriages, but it is extreme to arrange a marriage for a child so young. And the economic collapse after the Taliban’s takeover in August has forced already poor families to make desperate choices. Benazir, 8, second right, walks with a group in Herat, Afghanistan. NBC NewsThe days are filled with hardships for children here in Shaidai, a desert community on the mountainous edge of Herat in western Afghanistan.Children like Benazir and her siblings beg on the streets or collect garbage to heat their simple mud homes because they don’t have enough money for wood.Her father, Murad Khan, a day laborer who hasn’t found work in months and has eight children to feed, looks much older than his 55 years — his face is worn with worry. His decision to sell Benazir to marriage at such a young age comes down to a cold calculation.“We are 10 people in the family. I’m trying to keep 10 alive by sacrificing one,” he said in Pashto. Khan said the arrangement is for Benazir to be married to a boy from a family in Iran when she reaches puberty. He hasn’t received the money yet for her dowry, and he said that as soon as he does, Benazir will be taken away by the man who bought her.“I’ve been telling the shopkeepers I’ve sold my daughter and I will be paying them back, so they have given me some food as a loan.” A father of a 7-year-old Girl“He will just take her hand and take her away from me,” he said. “He will take her away and say, ‘She’s ours now.’”A combination of a severe drought that decreased livestock and farmers’ yields and the freezing of foreign aid by governments that don’t recognize the new Taliban government has pushed poor Afghans over the edge.Promising their daughters early for marriage in exchange for cash is seen as a lifeline for families that barely have a scrap of bread to eat.Benazir, right, lights a fire with discarded paper to cook bread with a group of children in Herat.NBC NewsThe U.N. Population Fund has warned that it is “deeply concerned” by reports that child marriage is on the rise in Afghanistan. Henrietta Fore, the executive director of UNICEF, said in a statement: “We have received credible reports of families offering daughters as young as 20 days old up for future marriage in return for a dowry.”‘A piece of your heart’Benazir’s best friend, Saliha, who is just 7, has been sold for marriage for the same price, $2,000, to someone in the family of her father-in-law in Faryab province in the north.Benazir and Saliha already have responsibilities in the community. They go to a local mosque together to collect water, a scarcity in the desert, and haul the hefty jugs together back to their homes.Like her older neighbors, Saliha also spins yarn — pulling at a matted cloud of wool brought by traders and twisting it into neat spools of string. It takes four days to refine 8 pounds of the material, which earns her a dollar. But the family is in debt. Saliha’s father, Muhammed Khan, says he took out loans from store owners in town.Farzana is 8 months old but weighs just 6½  pounds.NBC News“I’ve been telling the shopkeepers I’ve sold my daughter and I will be paying them back, so they have given me some food as a loan,” he said.The money he makes from selling Saliha will help pay it all back and feed her four siblings.It was a soul-wrenching decision, he says. “Your children are a piece of your heart. If I wasn’t forced to do this, why would I do it?” he says.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMass shooting leaves 3 dead, 4 injured in Nashville apartment U.S. newsU.S. newsSome states dropping ‘dehumanizing’ terms for immigrantsAfghanistan was a poor country before the Taliban took over, propped up by foreign aid. According to the World Bank, about 75 percent of public finances were supplied by grants from the U.S. and other countries.When the  U.S. military withdrew and the hard-line Islamist Taliban government took over, a lot of that aid money was frozen. Salaries dried up and the flow of cash came to an abrupt halt, creating a humanitarian crisis.And things look likely to get worse as the crisis spirals, with more than half the population facing hunger and 3.2 million children suffering from malnutrition, according to the U.N. World Food Program. The agency said it has never seen so many people facing emergency levels of food insecurity in Afghanistan, where all 34 provinces are affected.In the relatively wealthy province of Herat in western Afghanistan, an emergency feeding center is running out of beds. The Doctors Without Borders-run facility at Herat Regional Hospital treats the most severely malnourished babies, like tiny Farzana, who at 8 months old weighs just 6 ½ pounds. She is one of 75 babies being cared for here.Her father is a butcher. His business has collapsed so badly that he couldn’t keep feeding his family.Farzana lies without making a sound, a tiny, pale, bone-thin arm sticking out, and her wide eyes don’t blink.“What we are seeing is very small kids, which are not well breastfed by the mothers because the mothers are all so malnourished they can’t produce enough breast milk to feed them,” said Gaia Giletta, Doctors Without Borders’ head nurse for pediatrics at the feeding center.Because of disruptions to health care and aid agencies across the region, Giletta said, many kids get no primary care. For many who arrive, it is already too late — a child dies nearly every day here.Another baby at the center, Ali, is small and pale, barely mustering up energy to cry. His mother, Smita Umar, was herself malnourished, so Ali was born too weak to suckle. At 4 months old, he has already spent three months at the center.“My husband is a house painter,” Umar said. “But he sold his tools so we could feed the baby. Things have  got worse since the Taliban came. What little we had went to zero.”Richard Engel, Gabe Joselow and Ahmed Mengli reported from Herat. Yuliya Talmazan reported from London.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Unlike Kyle Rittenhouse, Travis McMichael 'didn't come off as credible,' experts say. Travis McMichael sealed his fate when he took the stand in his own defense in the murder trial related to the death of Ahmaud Arbery, a 25-year-old Black man who was chased down and killed by three white men in what prosecutors called a "modern-day lynching," legal experts said.A nearly all-white jury convicted McMichael of malice murder, felony murder, aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony. His father, Gregory McMichael, and their neighbor William “Roddie” Bryan were acquitted of the top charge and convicted of others, including felony murder.The defendants had argued self-defense, as well as acting within their rights under Georgia’s citizen’s arrest law, which was legal at the time but changed after the shooting.Once self-defense was claimed, the burden fell on prosecutors to disprove the defense’s argument beyond a reasonable doubt. But Travis McMichael “really didn’t come off as credible,” criminal defense attorney Bernarda Villalona said on NBC News. “From Travis McMichael’s own mouth, he knew Ahmaud Arbery was not armed; he knew Ahmaud Arbery didn’t threaten him; he knew Ahmaud Arbery didn’t have anything in his pants,” she said. “The only threat here was two pickup trucks chasing an unarmed African American male.”Three men found guilty of murdering Ahmaud ArberyNov. 24, 202102:36Wednesday's verdict came just five days after the acquittal of Kyle Rittenhouse, who was accused of shooting three men, two of them fatally, during protests last year in Kenosha, Wisconsin. Rittenhouse’s defense attorneys argued that their client was the one facing danger after being threatened with a skateboard and chased down the street during his encounters with the men.That argument and Rittenhouse's own testimony, plus a grainy video played in the courtroom showing chaos in the streets, appeared to support his claim of self-defense. That wasn't the case during the trial over Arbery's killing."Travis McMichael was a horrible witness," said former federal prosecutor Glenn Kirschner, a legal analyst for NBC News and MSNBC. "Rarely have I seen a defendant who's put on the stand by his defense team really perform so poorly."On the stand last week, Travis McMichael shared his version of what happened on Feb. 23, 2020, when the McMichaels and Bryan chased Arbery in their trucks after they spotted him in their neighborhood outside Brunswick, Georgia.Travis McMichael shot Arbery with a shotgun at close range. Bryan filmed the fatal encounter on his cellphone. Video evidence appeared to support the prosecution’s narrative that it was Arbery, not the defendants, who was running for his life and then fought back in his final moments."While we can celebrate that justice was done here, if there hadn't been a video, these men probably would have gotten away with it," said former federal prosecutor Cynthia Alksne, a legal analyst for MSNBC. "I don’t think without this video we’d have a conviction."Travis McMichael said that on the day of the shooting, he was trying to get his young son to take a nap when his father came into the house “in an almost frantic state” and said the person they believed was responsible for crimes in the neighborhood had just run by.Travis McMichael said he grabbed his shotgun and got into the driver’s side of his truck. Gregory McMichael was in the passenger seat. The two men drove in the direction they believed Arbery had run and eventually caught up with him."If you are the first aggressor, then you really have an uphill battle convincing a jury that you have a right to take the life of another," Kirschner said. "Travis McMichael was the first aggressor, the third aggressor, the fourth aggressor, and, ultimately, these three men anointed themselves judge, jury and executioner of a young man who was doing nothing but running in a part of town that apparently offended the McMichaels and Mr. Bryan."Travis McMichael's testimony was a "train wreck for him," Kirschner added. "He should have been convicted."Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
3 men found guilty of felony murder and other crimes in fatal shooting of Ahmaud Arbery. Three white men were found guilty Wednesday of felony murder in the shooting death of Ahmaud Arbery, a Black man who was running in their neighborhood when they confronted him last year.The nearly all-white jury convicted Travis McMichael of malice murder, felony murder, aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony.His father, Gregory McMichael, and their neighbor William "Roddie" Bryan were acquitted of the top charge. All now face up to life in prison.“Even though this is not a celebration, it is a reflection to acknowledge that the spirit of Ahmaud defeated the lynch mob,” civil rights attorney Benjamin Crump, who is representing Arbery's father, Marcus Arbery, said outside the courthouse Wednesday afternoon.Wanda Cooper-Jones, Arbery’s mother, said that her son “will now rest in peace.”“It's been a long fight. It's been a hard fight,” she said. “I never saw this day back in 2020. I never thought this day would come. But God is good,” she said.The McMichaels and Bryan chased Arbery in pickup trucks after they spotted him in their neighborhood outside Brunswick, Georgia, on Feb. 23, 2020. Travis McMichael shot Arbery, 25, who was Black, with a shotgun at close range. Bryan filmed the fatal encounter on his cellphone.'It's been a long fight': Ahmaud Arbery's parents react to guilty verdictNov. 24, 202102:38The three men were arrested months later after the leaked video brought the world’s attention to the case.Arbery’s family and civil rights leaders have likened his death to a modern-day lynching. The men also face federal hate crime charges.The jury deliberated for about 11 hours before reaching its decision.Each man faced a total of nine counts: one count of malice murder, four counts of felony murder, two counts of aggravated assault, and one count each of false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony.Travis McMichael was convicted on all counts. His father, Gregory McMichael, was found guilty on all charges except the most serious, malice murder. Bryan was also acquitted of malice murder. He was convicted on three of the four counts of felony murder, one of the two counts of aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony.Superior Court Judge Timothy Walmsley had instructed jurors that they could consider simple assault, reckless conduct and reckless driving as lesser charges to aggravated assault for Bryan.About an hour into the second day of deliberations Wednesday, the jurors asked to review footage of the fatal encounter and a 911 call that Gregory McMichael made on the day of the shooting. The jury viewed two videos — one the original cellphone video and the other a “high contrast” version of the same video — three times each while seated in the courtroom.Arbery's father was removed from the courtroom as the verdict was being read after he audibly celebrated the announcement that Travis McMichael was guilty of malice murder."He could not contain it any further. Think about how long he and Wanda have been enduring all the innuendo, all the allegations, all the character assassinations," Crump said when speaking outside the courthouse after the verdict. "Just imagine all they went through."Analyzing closing arguments in Ahmaud Arbery murder trial as jury deliberations beginNov. 23, 202103:33The defense had argued that the men suspected Arbery was a burglar and that residents in the Satilla Shores subdivision were "on edge." Arbery was recorded on security camera video visiting a partially built home in the neighborhood several times. The videos did not show Arbery taking anything from the property. The last video was recorded the afternoon he was killed. Arbery could be seen visiting the home minutes before he was chased by Gregory McMichael and Travis McMichael and Bryan, who had separate defense teams.The defense had sought to convince the jury that their clients were trying to execute a citizen's arrest, which was legal at the time. Travis McMichael's attorneys have said he opened fire in self-defense.During the trial, Travis McMichael testified that he shot Arbery after he was "struck."RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMass shooting leaves 3 dead, 4 injured in Nashville apartment U.S. newsU.S. newsSome states dropping ‘dehumanizing’ terms for immigrants"We were face to face. And being struck, that’s when I shot," he testified. He said he believed he was in "a life-or-death situation."Under cross-examination by lead prosecutor Linda Dunikoski on his second day of testimony, Travis McMichael said that Arbery hadn't shown a weapon or spoken to him at all before he raised his shotgun. Gregory McMichael and Bryan did not testify.Attorneys for Travis McMichael said they intend to appeal the verdict, describing it as “very disappointing and sad.""This is a very difficult day for Travis McMichael and Greg McMichael,” Jason Sheffield, an attorney for Travis McMichael said. “These are two men who honestly believed that what they were doing was the right thing to do. However, a Glynn County jury has spoken. They have found them guilty. They will be sentenced.”Kevin Gough, an attorney for Bryan, told NBC affiliate WLTV that he would also appeal and said that while he respects the jury’s verdict, he believes his client should have been found not guilty.In her closing argument, Dunikoski told the jury that the defendants made a series of "assumptions and driveway decisions" that led to Arbery's death and that the three men had no "immediate knowledge" that a crime had occurred. She said immediate knowledge of a crime is necessary to claim citizen's arrest. Without the claim of citizen's arrest, Dunikoski told the jurors during closing, the men cannot claim that they acted in self-defense.“If you determine that this was not a citizen's arrest, this was not legitimate, he had no probable cause, he can’t do this based on the law, then guess what?” Dunikoski said. "They’re not justified in killing him. They are not justified in any of the felonies they committed against him.”Dunikoski was cheered outside the courthouse after the verdict.“The verdict today was a verdict based on the facts. Based on the evidence," Dunikoski said. "That was our goal, to bring that to that jury so that they could do the right thing."Arbery verdict 'based on the facts' says prosecutor in trialNov. 24, 202101:05Dunikoski, a senior assistant district attorney in the Cobb County District Attorney's Office, was assigned the case last year by the state attorney general's office after local prosecutors and law enforcement faced scrutiny over their handling of the case.Prosecutor Jackie Johnson, the Brunswick-area district attorney, recused herself from the case shortly after the shooting, saying that Gregory McMichael had been an investigator in her office for more than 30 years as a former Glynn County police officer.She was later indicted by a grand jury on charges of violation of oath of public officer and obstruction of a police officer. Johnson was accused of “showing favor and affection to Greg McMichael during the investigation,” according to the indictment document released in September. She also was alleged to have hindered two police officers “by directing that Travis McMichael should not be placed under arrest.”The second prosecutor, George Barnhill, recused himself in April 2020 and defended the actions of the McMichaels and Bryan. In the letter recusing himself, Barnhill said the three had “solid first hand probable cause” to pursue Arbery, a “burglary suspect,” and stop him.The case was transferred that same month to Thomas Durden, the district attorney for Georgia’s Atlantic Judicial Circuit. Durden, who eventually asked to be removed from the case because of a lack of resources, asked the Georgia Bureau of Investigation to investigate after the leaked cellphone footage prompted widespread outrage.The McMichaels were arrested two days later on May 7, 2020, more than two months after the shooting. Bryan was arrested later that month, days after the Cobb County Judicial Circuit was tapped to handle the case.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Doorbell video appears to show arrest of Waukesha parade suspect . The suspect accused of mowing down a crowd of holiday revelers in Wisconsin was captured in a doorbell camera before his arrest pleading for help and telling a resident he was waiting for an Uber, according to video obtained Monday by NBC News.The Nov. 21 video also shows authorities arriving at the Waukesha home and telling the suspect, Darrell Brooks, 39, to put his hands up.It isn’t clear whether the house, roughly a half-mile from the Waukesha Christmas parade route that Brooks is accused of plowing into, is where police placed him under arrest.Doorbell camera image appears to show Waukesha suspect, Darrell Brooks, standing on a porch before being apprehended.Courtesy / Daniel RiderThe Waukesha Police Department did not respond to requests for comment Monday. In videos shared with by NBC News by resident Daniel Rider, Brooks — wearing a T-shirt and shivering on Rider's front porch — can be seen knocking on the home's front door. A timestamp on the video shows that it was recorded just after 5 p.m. local time, about 20 minutes after Brooks allegedly tore through parade route barricades, killing five people and injuring dozens more."I called an Uber and I'm supposed to be waiting for it over here, but I don't know when it's coming," he can be heard saying. "Can you call it for me please? I'm homeless."In an interview, Rider, who'd been away on a hunting trip and was watching football when the crash occurred, said he had no idea about what had just happened blocks away. He said he invited Brooks inside and gave him a jacket, made him a sandwich and let him use his phone."All of a sudden, I look outside my street and I see a few cop cars drive by and I'm getting extra nervous," he said.Rider said he asked Brooks to leave, and he did. After Rider's neighbor called police, Brooks began "pounding" on Rider's front door, saying he'd left his ID, Rider recalled.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMass shooting leaves 3 dead, 4 injured in Nashville apartment U.S. newsU.S. newsSome states dropping ‘dehumanizing’ terms for immigrants"Then the next thing you know, you see the cops with lights on him saying, 'hands in the air, hands in the air.'"The encounter, part of which was captured on video, showed Brooks walking around Rider's front porch. Police officers can be seen arriving at the house and ordering Brooks to put his hands up."Whoa, whoa, whoa," he can be heard saying while appearing to comply.Authorities have said that Brooks fled the scene of a domestic disturbance just before the crash. Responding officers were redirected to the parade route, which observers compared to a war zone.Brooks, who has a lengthy criminal history that includes sexual abuse and battery, was charged Nov. 5 in a separate domestic violence case. He posted $1,000 cash bond was released six days later.His lawyer in that case has declined to comment to NBC News. It isn't clear if he has another lawyer for the charges related to Sunday's crash. Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Dozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store  . Dozens of looters descended on a Nordstrom store and stole merchandise Saturday night in a raid that was over within a minute, police in Walnut Creek, California, said. About 80 people rushed into the store in the city’s Broadway Plaza, a police spokesperson said. The spokesperson said that an employee was pepper-sprayed and that two others were punched and kicked. All three sustained minor injuries and were treated and released at the scene, the spokesperson said.     The suspects were in and out of the store, which was open at the time, within a minute, the spokesperson said, adding that an undetermined amount of merchandise was taken.  Jodi Hernandez, a reporter for NBC Bay Area, was near the store when the raid took place. She tweeted that about 25 cars blocked the street. People in the cars rushed into the store and jumped back into their cars before they sped away with goods, she said. Hernandez said it appeared that most looters got away. A video she took showed police officers arresting and handcuffing some people. An officer can also be seen pointing a weapon at one of the drivers. Nordstrom did not immediately respond to a request for comment. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMass shooting leaves 3 dead, 4 injured in Nashville apartment U.S. newsU.S. newsSome states dropping ‘dehumanizing’ terms for immigrantsBrett Barrett, who works at a nearby restaurant in Walnut Creek, northeast of Oakland, told NBC Bay Area that he saw 50 to 80 people in ski masks carrying crowbars. “I had to start locking the front door, the back door,” he said. “You never know, they could have come right in here.”Download the NBC News app for breaking news and politics Three people have been arrested so far, police said. Two were arrested immediately on suspicion of robbery, conspiracy, burglary and possession of stolen property. One of the two had a firearm and faces a weapons charge, police said. A third person was found not long after the incident and also faced charges. Walnut Creek police also confirmed that the incident was not linked to a series of protests that have taken place across the country over the non-guilty verdict in the trial of Kyle Rittenhouse. Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Groveland Four, the Black men accused in a 1949 rape, get case dismissed. In the summer of 1949, a 17-year-old lodged an accusation that would thrust the rural Florida community of Groveland into decadeslong turmoil: The white teenager told police she and her husband were driving home from a dance when they were attacked by four young Black men who abducted and raped her at gunpoint.The claims made by Norma Padgett, who is now in her 80s, set off a manhunt that spurred an onslaught of violence against Black residents of Groveland, near Orlando, mobilizing the National Guard and prompting Thurgood Marshall, then a lead attorney for the NAACP, to take up the cause of the men who would come to be known as the Groveland Four.It took seven decades before the state of Florida formally recognized how the four accused — Charles Greenlee, Walter Irvin, Samuel Shepherd and Ernest Thomas — were failed by the criminal justice system. Thomas was gunned down by a mob in the wake of Padgett's allegations, and the others have also since died. In 2019, Gov. Ron DeSantis issued the Groveland Four a posthumous pardon.But Monday morning, a circuit court judge in Lake County went further, clearing the charges against the men and issuing a ruling that effectively exonerated them of the crime. Bill Gladson, a local prosecutor, set the extraordinary move into motion last month when he filed paperwork to toss Thomas' and Shepherd's indictments and set aside the sentences and judgments imposed on Greenlee and Irvin."We followed the evidence to see where it led us, and it led us to this moment," Gladson said at a news conference following the judge's decision.Carol Greenlee, the daughter of Charles Greenlee, who at 16 was the youngest of the suspects, wept and fell into the arms of those next to her as a judge formally dismissed the charges."If you know something is right, stand up for it," she said later of the lessons she learned. "Be persistent."In an earlier statement, Carol Greenlee said that despite proclamations from the governor and the state Legislature and a monument dedicated in honor of the Groveland Four, the families were awaiting "full justice" from the judicial branch to feel vindicated.How the lynching of a 14-year-old boy sparked a movementMarch 24, 201812:26Among those who traveled to Florida to witness the court's decision was Marshall's son, Thurgood Marshall Jr."There are countless people we need to remember who suffered similar fates who have been lost to history," Marshall Jr. said at the news conference. "Perhaps of all the cases my father worked on, this one haunted him for many, many years. And he believed there were better days ahead."The Groveland Four became a disturbing example of racial injustice from the Jim Crow-era, and preceded the high-profile killing of Emmett Till, a Black 14-year-old who was lynched in Mississippi in 1955 by white men after he was accused of whistling at a white woman.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMass shooting leaves 3 dead, 4 injured in Nashville apartment U.S. newsU.S. newsSome states dropping ‘dehumanizing’ terms for immigrantsSuch incidents show how the desire to protect white women was used to justify racism and the oppression of Black people's rights, said author Gilbert King, whose book "Devil in the Grove," which investigated the Groveland Four case and won the Pulitzer Prize for nonfiction in 2013.Gladson's appeal to ask a judge to dismiss charges against the Groveland Four was not based on whether Padgett may be lying, King said, but rather on the prosecutorial misconduct and the fabrication of evidence at the time.Padgett had said the couple’s car had stalled as they drove home from the dance when they were confronted by the four Black men who attacked her husband before abducting and raping her. Following her accusations, a mob of hundreds of white men led by Lake County Sheriff Willis McCall tracked Thomas to a swamp, where they found him asleep and shot him more than 400 times. Meanwhile, Greenlee, Irvin and Shepherd were arrested and later convicted by all-white juries. Marshall, who years later would become the first Black justice of the Supreme Court, had helped Irvin and Shepherd win appeals to have their case retried. In 1951, while Irvin and Shepherd were being transported, McCall shot the men, claiming they tried to escape. Shepherd, a World War II veteran, was killed, but Irvin survived and was convicted even though an FBI agent testified that prosecutors manufactured evidence against the men.Relatives of the Groveland Four, including Carol Greenlee, right, gather at a  monument that was unveiled in front of the Old Lake County Courthouse in Tavares, Fla., on Feb. 21, 2020. Joe Burbank / TNS via Getty Images fileIrvin, also a World War II veteran, received the death penalty. His sentence was later commuted to life in prison, and he was eventually paroled in 1968. He died the following year.Greenlee was paroled in 1962 and died in 2012.Padgett has rarely spoken publicly about the case, and her family did not return a message seeking comment. She last appeared before the state clemency board in January 2019 to ask them not to pardon the men."Y'all just don't know what kind of horror I've been through for all these many years," she told the board at the time. "I don't want them pardoned, no I do not, and you wouldn't neither."As part of his investigation, Gladson spoke with a grandson of the prosecutor in the case, now deceased, who said his grandfather and a judge believed no rape occurred. Gladson also had Irvin's pants tested at a crime lab, and the results showed no evidence of semen even though jurors at his trial were made to believe it existed.Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, Lake County Sheriff Peyton C. Grinnell, state Rep. Geraldine Thompson and other elected officials and family members unveil the Groveland Four monument in front of the Old Lake County Courthouse in Tavares, Fla., on Feb. 21, 2020.  Joe Burbank / TNS via Getty Images file"Officials, disguised as keepers of the peace and masquerading as ministers of justice, disregarded their oaths, and set in motion a series of events that forever destroyed these men, their families, and a community," Gladson wrote in his motion. "I have not witnessed a more complete breakdown of the criminal justice system."The dismissal of the Groveland Four's case is a rarity, particularly when none of the accused are still living, and prosecutors are generally reluctant or unable to revisit older cases because witnesses are no longer alive or documents and evidence are destroyed or missing.Other states this month moved to recognize people arrested for crimes in such historic cases. A state board in Louisiana unanimously granted a posthumous pardon to Homer Plessy, a Creole man who refused to leave a whites-only train car in the 1890s, which led to the Supreme Court's "separate but equal" ruling. In New York, two men who served decades in prison despite proclaiming their innocence in the 1965 assassination of civil rights icon Malcolm X had their convictions formally thrown out Thursday. Only one of the two men is still alive.A reopening of civil rights-era cases — and a reckoning with the past  — are essential, King said."Sometimes, by going back into the past and correcting a gross injustice, it adds more integrity to the court system today," he said.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
The most entertaining and binge-worthy queer content arriving in November. As the cool weather sets in, hot new releases with queer themes and characters are hitting theaters and streaming platforms. From a Marvel superheroes feature to a Princess Diana biopic, commercial and indie films highlight LGBTQ romances, while reality shows stir up controversy on the small screen. And, across the board, fraught period pieces reign supreme.Here is a list of upcoming and recently released queer-inclusive shows and films to cozy up to as the year draws to a close — before Christmas content takes over.'Eternals'Brian Tyree Henry as Phastos in "Eternals." Marvel StudiosThe Marvel Cinematic Universe is getting a new band of superheroes. A team of ancient aliens, who have been secretly living on Earth for thousands of years, is forced out of the shadows by an unexpected tragedy following the events of “Avengers: Endgame.” “Eternals,” directed by Chloé Zhao (“Nomadland”), features Marvel’s first openly gay hero, couple and kiss, involving Phastos (Brian Tyree Henry) and his mortal husband, Ben (Haaz Sleiman). As if saving the world wasn’t hard enough on a relationship, the couple is also raising a son in the suburbs. “Eternals” opens in theaters Friday.'Dickinson'Ella Hunt, left, and Hailee Steinfeld in "Dickinson."Apple TV+The Peabody Award-winning series about the early life of great American poet Emily Dickinson is back for its third and final season. In the last chapter, which takes place during the Civil War, Emily (Hailee Steinfeld) grapples with life in a divided, traumatized country and the demands of her complicated romance with longtime friend Sue. Despite the solemn backdrop, audiences can expect the series’ usual campy, stylized take on mid-19th-century living, along with a new host of comedic favorites playing historical characters: Ziwe as Sojourner Truth, Billy Eichner as Walt Whitman and Chloe Fineman as Sylvia Plath. “Dickinson” season three premieres on Apple TV+ on Friday. 'Spencer'Kristen Stewart as Princess Diana in "Spencer."Pablo Larrain / NEONDirector Pablo Larraín’s Princess Diana biopic, starring Kristen Stewart in the title role, portrays three eventful days during the royal’s 1991 Christmas holiday. In the film — which is reminiscent of Larraín’s Jacqueline Kennedy biopic, “Jackie” — arguments over bulimia and infidelity lead to the eventual separation between the Princess of Wales and her then-husband, Prince Charles. How much of the film is actually based in reality — including an unexplored romance between Diana and a member of her inner circle — is sure to intrigue audiences and ruffle royal feathers.“Spencer” opens in theaters Friday. 'Tampa Baes'Mel and Jordan in "Tampa Baes."Lindsey Byrnes / Amazon A young group of lesbians takes on the queer dating scene in Tampa Bay, Florida, in a new docuseries from Amazon Studios. “Tampa Baes” isn’t the first lesbian-centered unscripted show of its kind — the most notable being Ilene Chaiken’s 2010-2012 Showtime series, “The Real L Word” — though it is a rarity in the larger landscape dominated by mainly heteronormative franchises like “The Real Housewives.” Whether that will be enough for audiences to tune in remains to be seen. The show attracted some early, and presumably unwanted, attention in the form of accusations about colorism and a lack of inclusivity based on promotional materials of the cast. “Tampa Baes” season one premieres on Amazon Prime Video on Friday. 'Gentefied'Karrie Martin in "Gentefied."NetflixAfter fighting to save their family’s taco shop from gentrification in the first season, the Morales clan now faces the terrifying prospect of their grandfather’s deportation. Actor Karrie Martin returns as Ana Morales, a young queer artist who raises complex questions about the intersection of love, activism and identity. Last season, Ana’s relationship with her childhood friend Yessika hit a speed bump when the two faced the realities of being young, brown activists in a changing world. Will the love birds iron out their differences, or will Ana move on to someone new?“Gentefied” season two premieres on Netflix on Nov. 10.'Passing'Ruth Negga, left, and Tessa Thompson in "Passing." Edu Grau / NetflixInspired by Nella Larsen’s 1929 novel, the black-and-white film follows two childhood friends who choose two very different paths. After 12 years apart, Clare (Ruth Negga) and Irene (Tessa Thompson) reunite in 1920s New York at the height of the Harlem Renaissance. The two Black women find themselves living on opposite sides of the color line: Irene moves in the upper echelon of Black society, and Clare, playing with fire, passes for white in her marriage to a wealthy racist. As the film dives into issues around race and identity, the two women see their love for each other grow in new ways. “Passing” will be available on Netflix on Nov. 10. 'Mayor Pete'Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg does a television interview with CNBC outside the White House on Oct. 13.Drew Angerer / Getty Images fileDirected by Jesse Moss, “Mayor Pete” shadows former South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg during his presidential bid and later appointment as the first openly gay presidential Cabinet member. From his victory in the Iowa caucus to his relationship with his husband, Chasten, the documentary explores the intimate and powerful moments that have led Buttigieg to where he is now. “Mayor Pete” will be available on Amazon Prime Video on Nov. 12.'The Power of the Dog'Benedict Cumberbatch in "The Power of the Dog."Kirsty Griffin  / NetflixBenedict Cumberbatch and Kirsten Dunst star in this new Western drama from Jane Campion (“The Piano”). In “The Power of the Dog,” a domineering rancher, Phil Burbank, played by Cumberbatch, faces a crisis of self amid the toxic masculinity and repressed sexuality of Montana in 1925. Phil’s brother brings home a new wife and her son, which spurs the hyper-masculine lead character down a path of cruelty and desire.“The Power of the Dog” opens in theaters Nov. 17.'Tiger King'Joe Exotic in "Tiger King."Courtesy of NetflixThe eccentric world of big cats in captivity is returning for its sophomore season. Joe Exotic — the gay, polygamist zookeeper who became a cultural sensation when the show premiered during the early days of the pandemic — is still in prison after being found guilty in a murder-for-hire plot targeting fellow “Tiger King” star Carole Baskin. But that’s not keeping Exotic from the limelight, if the show’s trailer is any indication. It’s unclear if Exotic, Baskin or yet-to-be-introduced characters will be the focus of the new season, but Netflix has promised it will bring the same chaotic energy to the table.“Tiger King” season two premieres on Netflix on Nov. 17.'Star Trek: Discovery'Wilson Cruz as Dr. Hugh Culber, Ian Alexander as Gray and Blu del Barrio as Adira in "Star Trek: Discovery."Michael Gibson / CBSIn the next installment of this historically diverse iteration of the cult classic series, the crew faces a massive, invisible anomaly that threatens life across the galaxy. Last season, the show introduced new fan favorites Adira (Blu del Barrio) and Gray (Ian Alexander), the franchise’s first nonbinary and transgender characters, respectively. While the particulars of the new season have remained shrouded in mystery, producers and co-showrunners Alex Kurtzman and Michelle Paradise have said Adira and Gray will continue to figure prominently in the “Discovery” universe.“Star Trek: Discovery” season four premieres on Paramount+ on Nov. 18.'The Humans'"The Humans."Linda Kallerus / A24Writer-director Stephen Karam has adapted his Tony-winning play into an unnerving film about existential dread, perfectly timed for the holidays. In “The Humans,” the Blake family reunites on Thanksgiving Day in the run-down basement apartment that Brigid Blake (Beanie Feldstein) shares with her boyfriend, Richard (Steven Yeun), in New York’s Chinatown neighborhood. From crushing breakups to balancing the costs and responsibility of elder care, the family unpacks relatable traumas while trapped in the claustrophobic world of Karam’s chamber drama. The star-studded ensemble also includes June Squibb, Richard Jenkins and Amy Schumer, who plays Brigid’s older sister, Aimee Blake, a sarcastic lesbian who is processing the end of her long-term relationship.“The Humans” opens in theaters Nov. 24.In case you missed it ...'The Eyes of Tammy Faye'Based on the RuPaul-narrated 2000 cult documentary of the same name, the film stars Jessica Chastain as televangelist Tammy Faye Bakker. In it, Bakker’s groundbreaking 1985 interview with a gay Christian pastor living with AIDS takes center stage. "The Eyes of Tammy Faye" is in theaters and available for purchase on Amazon Prime Video and iTunes.'Nuclear Family'The three-part docuseries looks back on filmmaker Ry Russo-Young’s childhood during the late ‘70s and early ‘80s, and her lesbian moms’ historic lawsuit, which played a crucial role in validating the legal existence of LGBTQ families. "Nuclear Family" is available on HBO Max. 'The Morning Show'“The Morning Show,” starring Jennifer Aniston and Reese Witherspoon, dramatizes the lives of newsmakers who wake up with America every day. Julianna Margulies joins the latest season as Witherspoon’s love interest — an A-list television anchor who climbed back to the top of her field after being fired for being a lesbian in the late ‘90s. "The Morning Show" season two is available on Apple TV+.'Titane'The lead character in this unabashedly violent film, which won the top prize at this year’s Cannes Film Festival, is a gender-bending psychopath with a dangerous attraction to motor vehicles and an apathetic view on human life. "Titane" is in theaters and available for purchase on Amazon Prime Video and iTunes (if you have the stomach for it).'RuPaul's Drag Race U.K.'The influential drag competition series is back in the United Kingdom, with 12 new queens vying to make herstory — including the franchise’s first-ever cisgender woman contestant. “Drag Race U.K.” always delivers on British humor and campy, mid-tier looks, which have made it one of the most successful international versions of the show. "RuPaul's Drag Race U.K." season three is available on WOW Presents Plus. 'The House'The new talk show centers on the voices and experiences of Black and brown queer people."The House" is available on Fox Soul. 'We're Here'The reality show led by “RuPaul’s Drag Race” alums Bob the Drag Queen, Eureka O’Hara and Shangela is back on the road recruiting for one-night-only drag shows across the country. "We're Here" season two is available on HBO Max.'Cured'The new documentary, which was released Oct. 11, National Coming Out Day, details gay activists’ yearslong battle to get the American Psychiatric Association to remove homosexuality from its list of mental disorders. "Cured" is available on PBS. 'Hightown' Monica Raymund (“Chicago Fire,” “The Good Wife”) stars as Jackie Quiñones, a hedonistic federal agent whose life is thrown into disarray when she discovers the body of a murdered woman. Quiñones’ identity as a queer Latina is notable in the crime genre, in which leads are typically played by white straight men. "Hightown" season two is available on Starz.Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Santa Claus gets a boyfriend in Norwegian Christmas commercial. Norway’s 375-year-old postal service, Posten Norge, this week has released a festive commercial ahead of the holiday season with Santa Claus getting a boyfriend.The popular image of Mrs. Claus helping out at the North Pole has been dropped to show a more inclusive perspective this year. The four-minute clip titled "When Harry met Santa" — a light-hearted reference to the 1989 movie "When Harry Met Sally" — has well-known Scandinavian actors Johan Ehn and Terje Stromdahl, respectively, playing the lead roles.The couple meet when Harry spots Father Christmas delivering presents to his home. They gaze across to each other before Santa disappears up the chimney. The clip continues to show the annual meetings between the pair as Santa delivers more gifts. Before each fleeting visit Harry carefully selects his outfits and sprays himself with cologne. Eventually Harry is seen writing a letter to Santa saying, “All I want for Christmas is you.” In the final scene, the couple kiss in a loving embrace.The ad has been produced to mark 50 years since the decriminalization of homosexuality in Norway. The country has some of Europe’s most progressive LGBTQ legislation, with the Gay Travel Index consistently ranking Norway as one of the most gay-friendly places in the world. Civil partnerships have been legal since 1993 and LGBTQ people able to serve openly in the military since 1979. The clip has quickly garnered international attention with Canadian Member of Parliament, Randall Garrison, tweeting he was breaking his “no Christmas before December rule” to thank Norwegian Post for their “strong and moving message of inclusion.” The ad on YouTube has been viewed more than 600,000 times in just three days.Norwegian Post tell NBC News their aim was to “show love has no limits” and reaction within Norway so far has been “overwhelming.” No decision has yet been made on if there will be a follow up to Santa’s love story next year.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
12 LGBTQ milestones we’re thankful for this year. As many LGBTQ Americans plan to gather with their families — or "chosen families" —  for the holidays, Thanksgiving might look more normal this year. But whether you are celebrating over a Zoom call or laughing with loved ones over “RuPaul’s Drag Race” reruns and turkey, there is always a reason to be thankful.From a record number of LGBTQ athletes competing in the Olympics to JoJo Siwa’s historic run on ABC’s “Dancing With The Stars,” here are a dozen queer milestones we’re thankful for this year. JoJo Siwa on 'Dancing With the Stars' Jojo Siwa and her dance partner, Jenna Johnson, finished in 2nd place. Eric McCandless / ABC via Getty ImagesReality star and YouTube sensation JoJo Siwa, 18, made history on ABC's "Dancing With the Stars" as the first competitor in the the show's 30 seasons to dance with a same-sex partner. Siwa and her dance partner, Jenna Johnson, finished in second place after their groundbreaking run. Following this season's finale on Monday, Siwa shared an Instagram post  expressing her gratitude for the production crew, the judges, her loved ones and — of course — her dance partner. “I’m so beyond proud of you and I’m so proud of us!!! We did it. I’m so proud of every dance we did. I’m so proud of the stories that we told. And I am MORE than proud of the message that we spread,” Siwa, who came out as part of the LGBTQ community earlier this year, wrote. “I’m so thankful that kids today have moments in history like this to look to and realize that LOVE IS LOVE and being who you are is beautiful. Celebrate being born the way you are everyday no matter what!”A record number of LGBTQ Olympians Canada's Quinn with their gold medal on August 6, 2021, in Yokohama, Japan. Naomi Baker / Getty ImagesThis year's Tokyo Summer Games was dubbed by some as the "Rainbow Olympics” for its record number of LGBTQ competitors. At least 186 out athletes from around the world were present at this year’s competition, more than triple the number at the 2016 Rio Summer Games, according to LGBTQ sports site Outsports. Perhaps even more impressive is that these queer Olympians earned earned 32 individual and team medals in Tokyo. Outsports founder Cyd Zeigler noted that these athletes "didn't just show up — they also performed at a very high level." British diver Tom Daley was among the medalists, earning his first gold medal, along with his synchronized diving partner, Matty Lee. Daley, who is married to American screenwriter Dustin Lance Black, has appeared in four Olympic competitions and has won a total of four medals: one gold and three bronze.Canadian soccer star Quinn made history at the Tokyo Summer Games as the first out transgender athlete to ever compete in the Olympics. Quinn, a midfielder, helped Canada's women's soccer team defeat Sweden in the final game to win the country's first-ever gold in the event. These adorable 'Old Gays'(L-R) Bill Lyons, Jessay Martin, Robert Reeves and Mick PetersonJon Premosch for TODAYTikTok stars Robert Reeves, Mick Peterson, Bill Lyons and Jessay Martin — known collectively as the “Old Gays” — achieved fame this year for their viral videos showing everything from their hilarious reactions to Cardi B’s “WAP” music video to sharing their coming-out journeys to a look back on the loves of their lives.The foursome of gay men, who range in age from the mid-60s to late 70s, have more than 3.2 million followers and 320 million views across their social media platforms.“I’m still having a hard time wrapping my head around that, truly,” Lyons, 77, told NBC’s TODAY.com in June. “I mean, at 77 years old, I never had any idea that this would happen to me. It’s totally surreal. I feel like a dinosaur, but the way that people are reacting to me and to the others, I can’t believe it.”In November, the quartet signed with Brian Graden Media (BGM) to develop a docuseries about their personal and professional social media lives, all while living together in Cathedral City, California.Heartwarming stories of queer loveThis Valentine’s Day, we turned to the NBC Out community, asking longtime LGBTQ couples to give us guidance on what it means — and what it takes — to thrive together.Marianne and Vicki Oakes were among the couples that shared their story. Four years after they met, when they were both 19, Marianne came out to Vicki as transgender. “I sat down with her and said, ‘This is how it is for me. I’ve got these feelings.’ I didn’t know where it was going to go,” Marianne told NBC News in February. “I was on my own with this. Back then there was no education.”A year later, they were married and have been together for more than four decades. Marianne said sharing her love story is part of her mission in the world as a counselor for trans people. “There’s a narrative that trans people can’t find love,” Marianne said. “That narrative and that myth keeps us frightened and from being seen. We can find love. Perpetuating the myth must stop.”Celebrities who came out in 2021JoJo Siwa, Carl Nassib and Demi Lovato.NBC News; Getty Images; ReutersActor and singer Demi Lovato came out as nonbinary in May and said they would be changing their pronouns to they/them.“Not only has my life been a journey for myself, I was also living for those on the other side of the cameras,” Lovato, who got their start on “Barney & Friends” and has had roles on shows like “Grey’s Anatomy” and “Prison Break,” wrote on Twitter.“Today is a day I’m so happy to share more of my life with you all — I am proud to let you know that I identify as nonbinary & will officially be changing my pronouns to they/them moving forward,” Lovato, 29, told fans at the time.Other celebrities and public figures to come out this year include NFL player Carl Nassib, Brothers Osborne singer-guitarist TJ Osborne and actor Cassandra "Elvira" Peterson.First-time gay parentsChasten and Pete Buttigieg shared this image of their newborns, Penelope Rose and Joseph August, on Sept. 4, 2021.Pete Buttigieg / via TwitterTransportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg announced in September that he and his husband, Chasten, officially became parents of two children.“Chasten and I are beyond thankful for all the kind wishes since first sharing the news that we’re becoming parents,” Buttigieg tweeted alongside a photo of him and his husband holding their newborn son and daughter. “We are delighted to welcome Penelope Rose and Joseph August Buttigieg to our family.”Being a first-time parent is the “most demanding thing I think I’ve ever done,” Buttigieg, a former Navy intelligence officer and 2020 presidential candidate, said in October.Former boy band star Lance Bass and husband Michael Turchin also welcomed their two newborn babies, via surrogate, in October.“Haven’t slept much in 5 days and I’m covered in ick but I’ve never been so happy!” he captioned a quartet of photos of daughter Violet Betty and son Alexander James shortly after their birth. “Now there are four of us in this house that wear diapers (hint: it’s not me or @michaelturchinart).”Newly out queer superheroes Batman's Urban Legends series featuring Robin.DC ComicsQueer representation in comic books exploded this year, with comics reinventing character fan favorites — including Robin, Batwoman and the Flash — as part of the LGBTQ community.Most notably, the internet exploded when DC Comics announced that the next-generation Superman Jonathan Kent, the son of Clark Kent and Lois Lane, is bisexual. DC made the announcement on National Coming Out Day in October.“When I was offered this job, I thought, ‘Well, if we’re going to have a new Superman for the DC Universe, it feels like a missed opportunity to have another straight white savior,’” series writer Tom Taylor told Reuters in an October interview.When Marvels’ “Eternals” hit theaters earlier this month, superhero fans got to see the first openly queer superhero in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, Phastos. Played by “Atlanta” star Brian Tyree Henry, Phastos is part of a tribe of alien immortals with fantastic powers and is married to a human husband, played by actor Haaz Sleiman.A transgender winner on 'RuPaul’s Drag Race'Kylie Sonique Love during the finale of 'RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars 6.'VH1 / Paramount +For the first time in the history of the U.S. “RuPaul’s Drag Race” franchise, a transgender contestant was crowned the winner of the hit competition show. Kylie Sonique Love snagged the crown of the sixth season of “RuPaul’s Drag Race All Stars,” which streamed on Paramount+.“I couldn’t have done this without thanking the universe every single day, for all my blessings and all the people around me that believed in my dreams,” Love said following her win in September. “I’m so grateful to Paramount+, World of Wonder and RuPaul for taking everything she’s learned in the business and for giving people like me an opportunity. Not just drag queens but trans people, and I’m so grateful to be the first trans representation with the crown.”Lil Nas X’s cover of Dolly Parton’s 'Jolene'Lil Nas X performs on Jan. 23, 2020 in Los Angeles.Emma McIntyre / Getty Images for Spotify fileRapper Lil Nas X released a cover performance of Dolly Parton’s 1974 hit “Jolene” in September, garnering more than 3.8 million views on YouTube.Parton said in a tweet that she “was so excited” when someone told her that Lil Nas X had covered “Jolene.”“I had to find it and listen to it immediately … and it’s really good,” she wrote, adding, “I was surprised and I’m honored and flattered.”The 22-year-old rapper appeared awestruck in his Twitter response to the music legend.Historic queer cover modelsBretman Rock has become the first gay man to grace the cover of Playboy.PlayboySporting the iconic Playboy bunny outfit — heels, black tights, a bow-tie and lingerie topped with bunny ears — makeup guru Bretman Rock  made queer cover model history in October, becoming the first gay man to grace the digital cover of Playboy magazine.“For Playboy to have a male on the cover is a huge deal for the LGBT community, for my brown people community and it’s all so surreal,”  Rock, who is Filipino American, said at the time on Twitter.Model Ariel Nicholson also made history, as the first transgender person to be featured on the cover of U.S. Vogue.Nicholson was one of eight models to grace the cover of the fashion magazine’s “Generation America”-themed September issue.“To have the opportunity to participate in the shifting landscape of fashion is a dream come true,” she wrote in the caption of an Instagram post celebrating the milestone. Pulse nightclub designated a national memorialMourners lay flowers at the Pulse memorial in Orlando, Fla., on June 12, 2021.DeFodi / via Getty ImagesIn a rare showing of bipartisanship on LGBTQ issues, the U.S. Senate unanimously passed legislation in June designating the site of Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida, a national memorial.On June 12, 2016, 49 patrons were killed and dozens more wounded in one of the country’s most gruesome massacres. President Joe Biden signed the legislation into law several days after the fifth anniversary of the attack.“The unanimous consent is such welcome news as we are set to mark the five-year remembrance of the Pulse tragedy,” the Pulse nightclub said in a statement at the time. “This recognition from both the House and Senate means so much to the LGBTQ+ community. #WeWillNotLetHateWin”Queer Grammy and Emmy nomineesLil Nas X performs at the MTV Video Music Awards in Brooklyn, N.Y., on Sept. 12.John Shearer / MTV VMAs 2021 / Getty Images for MTV / ViacomCBSRapper Lil Nas X’s hit song about gay sex was nominated for three Grammy Awards, catapulting LGBTQ narratives to the highest echelon of achievement in the music industry.The provocative song — “Montero (Call Me By Your Name)” — is up for song of the year, record of the year and best music video at the 64th annual Grammy Awards, which are being held Jan. 31 in Los Angeles.Its title is a reference to the gay romance novel and 2017 film “Call Me By Your Name.” But its lyrics are less about love and more about lust, with lines including “romantic talking? You don’t even have to try” and “I’m not fazed, only here to sin.”RecommendedOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureFrom 'Eternals' to 'Dickinson,' our list of must-watch films and showsOUT NewsOUT NewsSanta Claus gets a boyfriend in Norwegian Christmas commercialOther LGBTQ artists who received Grammy nominations this year include singer-songwriter Brandi Carlile, pop star Halsey and singer-songwriter Arlo Parks.Although she did not end up wining in September, Mj Rodriguez made history in July for becoming the first transgender performer to pick up an Emmy nomination for a major acting category. Rodriguez was nominated in the lead drama actress category for her role as Blanca Rodriguez on FX’s hit show “Pose.”Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Michigan teachers told to take down Pride flags after 'external challenge'. A middle school teacher in southern Michigan resigned after he and other educators in his district were told to remove LGBTQ Pride flags they had up in their classrooms.Teachers were told to take down the flags after Three Rivers Community Schools in Three Rivers, Michigan, received an “external challenge” about the symbols that had "reached the board level," according to an email obtained by NBC affiliate WOOD of Grand Rapids. “The rumors kind of floating around was that there's one or two parents that complained about the flags being in the classroom,” said Russell Ball, the teacher who resigned.Ball, who said he is part of the LGBTQ community, told WOOD that he is "disheartened and saddened." “To me, the flag represents love and inclusion for everybody, not just whoever is of the LGBTQIA+ community,” he said. “The students losing that representation throughout the classrooms really hurt. Losing my own representation in the classroom really hurt. It was just something I was not prepared to do.”The district's interim superintendent, Nikki Nash, said in a statement that it was “an ongoing situation.”“We continue to work with the district’s legal firm and board of education to ensure we are providing a safe learning environment for all students,” the statement read. RecommendedOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureFrom 'Eternals' to 'Dickinson,' our list of must-watch films and showsOUT NewsOUT NewsSanta Claus gets a boyfriend in Norwegian Christmas commercialFor the full story, visit NBC affiliate WOOD.
'Sad and angry and frustrated': Black moms on the Rittenhouse verdict. Last week a 12-person jury acquitted Kyle Rittenhouse of all charges related to his shooting and killing two people and injuring a third during a Black Lives Matter protest in the summer of 2020. Rittenhouse argued that his actions were self-defense. After deliberating for four days, the jury agreed.Many expressed genuine shock about the verdict on social media, posting tweets detailing their surprise. But for Black mothers and other parents of color who spoke to "TODAY" Parents, the verdict was no surprise at all.Outrage after jury finds Kyle Rittenhouse not guilty on all chargesNov. 20, 202102:41Each of the mothers say that far too frequently, they see just how differently their own children are treated compared to their white counterparts. And while Rittenhouse’s lawyers said the case was about self-defense, these moms say that, based on their experiences, race played a role. Their lack of surprise is also the result of other verdicts involving young Black victims, from Tamir Rice to Trayvon Martin to Michael Brown.“Surprisingly, I felt really sad and angry and frustrated,” said Jehava Brown, 37, a mother of three boys living in Pennsylvania. “And when I say ‘surprisingly,’ it’s because it was very much expected.”Legal experts said Rittenhouse’s taking the stand and crying during his testimony, in addition to his mother’s audibly crying in the gallery during the trial, may have helped his lawyers win the case. After the verdict, Rittenhouse told Fox News’ Tucker Carlson that he supports the Black Lives Matter movement and “is not a racist.”“He was 17 at the time of the offense,” said Steven Wright, a law professor at the University of Wisconsin. “Having someone who looks like a child there might make some jurors see their younger selves in him or their children in him, and they might think, ‘What would my younger self have done or my son or daughter have done in his position?’”The parents who spoke to “TODAY” wonder when their tears and the tears of their children will ever have the same impact.“They don’t care about Black mom tears,” said T’Chani Hill, a California mom who is raising two daughters.“Black moms deal with a lot, and we have to compartmentalize in order to put smiles on our faces and move forward,” Brown said. “Because either people don’t get it or they think it’s ‘too heavy’ or it’s ‘too frustrating’ or it’s ‘too much of a debate.’”Brown said the verdict is a microcosm of what her children face in school, on playgrounds and in public; these experiences exemplify the ways Black children are seen as innately threatening, while white children are viewed as innately innocent.Her children have started to notice in school that, "depending how they dress, their teachers will treat them differently,” Brown said. “If a Black kid is reprimanded unjustly, the reaction is: ‘Well, we don’t know the whole story. It can’t just be what we saw.’ It’s automatic to justify the reasons behind a harsh punishment for a Black kid, while white kids get the benefit of the doubt. And people are less likely to speak up for Black kids because they think maybe they did something to provoke the situation.”Hill, 52, said she sees the system at work when she watches how her two children are treated differently based solely on their skin tone.“I have two beautiful daughters, and one looks white, and she is treated differently. People don’t realize that I’m her mom until she clarifies it,” Hill said. “My other daughter is ... dark ... and I have watched my own children be treated differently, whether it’s at a park or at school, because they’re completely different shades.”Hill said that when she enters a store with her two daughters, people will watch and even follow her and her older daughter, but “no one pays attention” to her younger daughter, who presents as white.“So am I surprised by the verdict? No,” she said. “As a Black person in this country, I am not surprised. And as a Black parent, I worry about my children’s safety.”A study published this year by Elsevier in the Journal of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry found that Black students ages 9 and 10 are 3.5 times more likely to be suspended or put in detention than their white peers are. In another study, conducted by researchers at the Yale University Child Study Center in 2016, scientists fit 132 early education teachers with eye trackers and asked them to watch clips of four children — a Black girl, a Black boy, a white girl and a white boy — and to look for misbehaviors. None of the children actually misbehaved, but the eye trackers found that the teachers spent more time watching the Black boy.“I go to Black and brown schools and find that there’s a perception that these kids have the potential to do something wrong — a potential of violence, a potential of wrongness, the potential to lie,” said Christoper Emdin, the associate director of the Institute of Urban Minority Education at Columbia University. “It’s the belief that the worst is expected of them and they’re treated accordingly.”Emdin said he sees a different situation at play in predominantly white schools.“When I go into white schools there is a freedom — a freedom to question, the freedom to express, the freedom to emote, the freedom to be frustrated and to be angry and not be perceived inherently bad because of that,” said Emdin, the author of the book “Ratchetdemic: Reimagining Academic Success.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMass shooting leaves 3 dead, 4 injured in Nashville apartment U.S. newsU.S. newsSome states dropping ‘dehumanizing’ terms for immigrantsThomishia Booker, 37, a mom of two kids ages 5 and 20 months, said her older child was only 2 when a day care worker treated him differently from his peers.“The teacher was concerned about him making Legos,” Booker said. The teacher said her son "was building a gun,” and “I asked her how she knew, and she said because my son was making an ‘L’ shape and shooting sounds — ‘pew pew pew.’ She made an assumption about the limitation of his creativity, and an assumption about what he was making, which had to be a gun.”Booker added that the teacher also deprived her son of having a childlike creativity, because many of her son’s favorite superheroes have guns or other shooters. “Instead, she saw my son as aggressive and had to have a conversation with me about it.”Research published in 2012 by the American Psychological Association found that Black boys as young as 10 are not viewed in the same light as their white peers and are instead mistaken as older, are perceived guilty instead of innocent and face police violence if they are accused of crimes. Tamir Rice was just 12 when he was shot and killed by a Cleveland police officer for playing with a toy gun in a park. Michael Brown, who was 18 when he was shot and killed by a police officer in Ferguson, Missouri, was described as “crazy,” “aggressive,” “very aggravated” and “hostile.” Trayvon Martin was 17 when he was shot and killed by George Zimmerman, who was acquitted of all charges after a jury found that he acted in self-defense. Before he killed Martin, Zimmerman described him as being “up to no good, on drugs or something” and showing “suspicious behavior.”“I can’t say the Rittenhouse verdict has made me feel hopeless, because the hope has already been lost,” Booker said. “I can only do what I can as a mother and as a parent to protect my children. But it’s difficult to do it alone in a system that’s specifically designed to only protect one group of people.”Studies have shown that Black children are more likely than white children to grow up exposed to frightening or threatening experiences and as a result are more likely to experience “toxic stress” that can impede their behavior, cognitive capacity and emotional and physical health. In addition, studies have shown that Black children are more likely to be physically restrained during emergency room visits and more likely to die after surgery than white children. Many Black moms say their fears about their children’s health and wellness are nearly debilitating.The Rittenhouse verdict "made me feel hurt, knowing the world hasn’t changed and will not change,” said Tammy, 26, who has a 2-year-old and an 8-year-old step-daughter. “My kids are people of color, and there’s no doubt as they get older they will experience some racism and/or notice how people around the world view them.”Tammy, who asked that her last name be withheld to protect her family’s privacy, said her step-daughter is already noticing how others perceive her hair.“She has beautiful big curly hair, and now she wants to straighten it,” she said. “I always tell her no, and I can see that it upsets her. She doesn’t want her curly hair anymore. She says she wants straight hair like the girls at school. And that hurts my heart, because her hair is beautiful.”Sentiments like the ones shared by Tammy’s daughter inspired Emdin, of Columbia University, to enter education. “When I started doing my work, it was to create the conditions that allow Black children to have the freedom to simply be,” he said. “Basic things like the right to be there, the right to be in a school building without someone thinking they’re trying to steal things or cause a problem.”Emdin said children of color need the right to emote without having their emotions be seen as fundamentally nefarious. “If I’m quiet, it’s ‘Why are you so sinister?’” he said. “If I’m laughing, it’s ‘Why are you high?’ If I’m upset at something, it’s ‘You’re out of control.’ Black and brown kids have the right to be and to feel and to express those emotions without being seen as a criminal but as a child.”That’s what Suka Nasrallah, 31, said she wants for her three children, ages 8, 6 and 4. She said the Rittenhouse verdict made her feel sad for her children, who are a visible minority as Muslims living in Canada.“I have been exposed to racism many a time before and continue to on a regular basis. I’ve been living it since I was very young,” Nasrallah said. “But it breaks my heart to know my children will be exposed to such hate through no fault of their own.”A 2017 study found that 42 percent of Muslim children in K–12 schools reported being bullied because of their faith. The study also found that teachers, school officials and other staff members have themselves participated in 1 in 4 bullying incidents that involved Muslim students.“I felt like my hands were and will remain tied and no matter what may happen in the future, my children will not have a fair and fighting chance because the world we live in today has a preference,” Nasrallah said, “and we are not the first, second or third choice, for that matter.”Booker said: “Black women are often reluctant to express their full range of emotions and have to worry about how they will be perceived. We aren’t allowed to be angry and express how we really feel. We are pleading for our children’s lives, but our cries go unheard.”Follow NBCBLK on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.This article originally ran on Today.comGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
How one organization is combating a food crisis worsened by the pandemic. Christopher Bradshaw had already been running his nonprofit Dreaming Out Loud for more than a decade when the pandemic hit. The organization works toward fighting food scarcity in the Washington, D.C., area by partnering with local farmers, caterers, restaurants and other food relief organizations to prepare and distribute free meals. As the pandemic hit the District, Bradshaw knew the organization's work would be vital to helping people survive, like one single mother who came in search of meals for her children.  “She came to us and said, ‘I’m really happy that you all are here and thankful that you all are here, because I have $14 in my bank account, and my father died last week,’ and she was there with two kids,” Bradshaw recalled. “She said, ‘I don’t know how I was going to feed my kids.’ We see and hear those types of things.”Food banks face harsh economic reality ahead of the holiday seasonNov. 21, 202103:38Beyond Washington, Black communities across the country face disproportionately higher rates of food scarcity, which has only been compounded by the Covid-19 pandemic. Food insecurity rates among Black households with children were nearly double compared to white households with children, according to a July 2020 report by the Institute for Policy Research at Northwestern University; food insecurity rates for Black respondents hovered around 41 percent, the report found, while for white respondent food insecurity rates were around 23 percent.In D.C., Dreaming Out Loud saw the need early in the pandemic, and got to work with World Central Kitchen, which provides meals to people around the globe struck by disasters, and Little Sesame, a renowned group of restaurants, to launch Meals for the City, with other Black-owned caterers and businesses. They distributed thousands of meals from a middle school from March 2020 to July. “We knew there were folks who were already working on these issues, that had roots in the community, that had relationships, and that were trusted,” said Nick Wiseman, co-founder of Little Sesame. “So we really leaned on Chris and his team at Dreaming Out Loud to sort of establish that trust in the community we were serving.”Black communities in the D.C. region were among the hardest hit  by the pandemic. According to 2021 research by the Kaiser Family Foundation, 58 percent of people infected with Covid-19 in Washington were Black, although Black people make up only 45 percent of the District’s population. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMass shooting leaves 3 dead, 4 injured in Nashville apartment U.S. newsU.S. newsSome states dropping ‘dehumanizing’ terms for immigrantsDiane Schanzenbach, an economist and the director of the Institute for Policy Research at Northwestern University, said the problem of economic disparity in the Black community is linked to declining wages and wealth gaps. It is also harder for Black and Latino families, along with lower education groups, to recover from recessions.“It is just an economic fact about recessions, that Black people’s unemployment rates spike higher when there’s an economic downturn, and it takes longer for them to come back down to normal,” Schanzenbach said. “It means there’s more suffering. It means there’s more economic uncertainty for Black families.”Bradshaw said he sees the results of these disparities across the communities he serves. Before the pandemic, one of Dreaming Out Loud’s main initiatives was leading a Black farm Community Supported Agriculture program, which sources produce from Black farmers from across the region. Dreaming Out Loud also partners with multiple local organizations to ensure healthy food is accessible in schools, restaurants and small grocers.Dreaming Out Loud’s Black Farm CSA program priority-sources produce from Black farmers in six states.Courtesy Dreaming Out Loud“We would have folks come up and say, literally, ‘I have HIV and sickle cell. So, if this farmer’s market wasn’t here, I wouldn’t be able to afford healthy food to stay alive,’” Bradshaw said. “So those are the things that drove our response, and also kept us going when things were challenging.” While Bradshaw said that large-scale government restitution and economic protection would have a greater impact on these disparities, his organization is attempting to fill the gaps that systemic racism creates. The organization also tries to shape the nutrition of D.C.’s young people through its food and farm hub, which sources fresh produce for its programs, and also provides ingredients for students’ lunches at Kelly Miller Middle School.For Thanksgiving this year, Dreaming Out Loud has already distributed turkeys and other ingredients to help as many families as possible gather around tables. The organization also plans to distribute soup made from recovered pumpkins.Beyond the holidays, through its annual Dream Program, the organization trains more than 30 food entrepreneurs in how to successfully launch their business. By expanding into a new shared location with its partner, D.C. Central Kitchen, Dream Program participants will use the new kitchen space to hone their skills and take advantage of opportunities such as taking on catering jobs and selling their products in stores.“At an organizational level,” Bradshaw said, “it’s important for us to be involved in the work because by being involved in your work, we’re engaged and involved in the struggle, which allows us the platform to talk about these bigger picture issues around reparations and justice, that are integral to being able to build out a decent, honorable, deserved and well-lived life for Black folks in America.”
'They almost got away with it': How a leaked video led to convictions in the Ahmaud Arbery case. Nearly two years before a jury convicted three white men in the shooting death of Ahmaud Arbery, authorities had said there was no need to arrest them.On Wednesday, an almost all-white jury found Travis McMichael, his father, Gregory McMichael, and neighbor William "Roddie" Bryan guilty in the murder of Arbery in Georgia. But the three might never have been indicted in the first place had it not been for a leaked video that prompted calls for attention to his death. “I don’t want to be a spoilsport, but what if that video had not come out several months later?” Michael Irvin, a teacher from the Orlando, Florida, area told NBC News outside the courthouse Wednesday. “A young Black man would have been taken from his family and community with no one held responsible. That part, I can’t ignore. So, I’m happy justice was served.”The McMichaels and Bryan were not arrested until months after they chased Arbery in a pickup truck in Satilla Shores, their neighborhood near Brunswick, on Feb. 23, 2020. Travis McMichael shot Arbery, a 25-year-old Black man, with a shotgun at close range. Bryan filmed the fatal encounter on his cellphone. Only after video footage of the fatal shooting leaked online May 5, 2020, did authorities arrest the trio on felony murder charges. In the video, Arbery jogs down a road as a white pickup truck blocks his path. He is shown running around the vehicle, and a shot is fired. Then, Arbery and another man appear to scuffle and two more shots are fired. After the verdict, social media platforms lit up with comments from users who said the case wouldn’t have gone to trial at all if the video hadn’t thrust the case into the national spotlight and sparked an outcry. “They almost got away with it,” one social media user tweeted. “It’s devastating that these guiltily verdicts feel like a miracle.” Another person tweeted, “I’m happy Ahmaud Arbery’s killers are cooked. But never forget that this is not an example of the justice system working. Police didn’t arrest these men. Prosecutors didn’t want them charged. The video wasn’t released initially. It took outrage and pressure to make this happen.”The defense had argued that the men thought Arbery was a burglar and were attempting to make a citizen’s arrest and they acted in self-defense. However, Travis McMichael admitted during the trial that Arbery hadn’t shown a weapon or threatened him or spoken to him at all before he shot him. Travis McMichael was convicted of malice murder, felony murder, aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony. Gregory McMichael and William Bryan were found not guilty of the malice murder charge. All three face up to life in prison. News of the killing largely remained under wraps in the weeks that followed. Arbery’s mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones, accused Glynn County, Georgia, police and two local prosecutors of conspiring to cover up Arbery’s murder and protect the men involved in his death. A $1 million lawsuit filed earlier this year alleges that the police department and officials with the Brunswick County District Attorney’s Office worked together to paint Arbery as a violent criminal and absolve the McMichaels and Bryan of wrongdoing. The lawsuit has been stalled amid the trial. Just days after the shooting, Jackie Johnson, the Brunswick-area district attorney, recused herself from the case because she had worked with Gregory McMichael, a former Glynn County police officer, for decades. George Barnhill briefly took over the case. He soon recused himself but defended the actions of the McMichaels and Bryan, advising police that “he did not see grounds for the arrest of any of the individuals involved in Mr. Arbery’s death.” Now, in a statement following the verdict, Cooper-Jones admitted that she never believed she’d see the men convicted. “It’s been a long fight. It’s been a hard fight, but God is good,” she told reporters Wednesday. “To tell you the truth, I never saw this day back in 2020. I never thought this day would come.”Follow NBCBLK on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Ahmaud Arbery's Black neighbors and supporters react to the verdict. BRUNSWICK, Ga. — In the seconds after a "guilty" verdict came down — ending the emotional trial of three white men accused of killing Ahmaud Arbery — the anxious throng assembled outside the Glynn County Courthouse erupted. Strangers embraced, tears flowed and people prayed.Mostly, however, was a sense of shared relief.The sheath of impending unrest that hovered over this small coastal town lifted like cloud cover. The specter of an uprising was gone; the hope that justice for Black people can be received was restored — if only momentarily.“Hallelujah,” said Cee Cee Warner, a Brunswick native who said she skipped work in anticipation of a verdict. “We can breathe again. We tried to downplay it, but there was a lot of tension, especially in the Black community. We were scared what could happen with the verdict — the wrong verdict. And that scared me because I think there would have been rioting and everything else. It would have become ugly. Our city could have burned down.”A woman raises a fist Wednesday outside the Glynn County Courthouse in Brunswick, Ga., after Travis McMichael, Gregory McMichael and William "Roddie" Bryan were convicted of murdering Ahmaud Arbery.Marco Bello / ReutersInstead, Black America in general and Brunswick in particular waited for the verdict. The nearly all-white jury convicted Travis McMichael of malice murder, felony murder, aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony. His father, Gregory McMichael, and their neighbor William “Roddie” Bryan were acquitted of the top charge. All now face up to life in prison. The three white men tracked Arbery, who was Black, in a pickup truck and gunned him down in the street on February 23, 2020. The McMichaels toted weapons — the father a handgun; the shooter, Travis McMichael, a shotgun used to blast three shots at close range into Arbery. Bryan followed without a gun, but blocked Arbery’s path, leading to the fatal confrontation in a quiet subdivision. Media from around the world descended upon this nondescript town that has been the center of attention since jury selection began in October. “Maybe everyone will go away now,” Warner said. “Everyone has known the name of our city for the wrong, horrible reasons. This verdict can at least be a positive for the city.”“I’m more relieved than happy,” Michael Irvin, a teacher from the Orlando, Florida, area told NBC News outside the courthouse. He said he drove more than three hours to Brunswick in anticipation of a verdict Wednesday. “I don’t want to be a spoilsport, but what if that video had not come out several months later? A young Black man would have been taken from his family and community with no one held responsible. That part, I can’t ignore. So, I’m happy justice was served. But even in a case that seemed pretty obvious to me and most people, we had to pray and hope and wish and pray some more for justice. It shouldn’t be that way. We shouldn’t have to go through all these emotions just to feel like a Black life matters.”People react Wednesday outside the Glynn County Courthouse in Brunswick, Ga., after the McMichaels and Bryan were convicted in the death of Ahmaud Arbery.Marco Bello / ReutersAt Brunswick High, where Arbery graduated in 2012, students said the discussion around the building on the case was limited. But the tension was pervasive. “If the verdict was not guilty, the city would have been hot,” student Keon Leggett, 17, said. “What they did to him was wrong. And we all felt it. He was one of us.”The jury deliberated for one day to convict the trio of men who had claimed they were making a citizen’s arrest. Because Thanksgiving was approaching and the jury discussed the case for an extended period after it received the case Tuesday, the anticipation of a verdict Wednesday mounted. The crowd doubled in anticipation of the verdict between Tuesday and Wednesday.The atmosphere outside the courthouse was festive after the verdict, with chants of “Justice for Ahmaud” and “Say his name ... Ahmaud Arbery,” a sustained calling. When Arbery’s mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones, and father, Marcus Arbery, exited the courtroom and walked toward the steps of the courthouse, the crowd erupted.“You all know him as Arbery; I know him as ‘Quez.’ He can now rest in peace,” Cooper-Jones said. “I never thought this day would come back in 2020. But God is good.”“In one sense, the jury had no choice — it was evident they hunted down and killed this young man,” Mary Lewis Richards said. She said Brunswick is her hometown, but she lives in Atlanta. “In another sense, we have seen what happens when white people kill Black people — nothing. So I couldn’t be comfortable at all that they would get what they deserve. But I tell you what, I feel so good right now.” People raise their fists Wednesday outside the Glynn County Courthouse in Brunswick, Ga., after the convictions of three men in the killing of Ahmaud Arbery.Octavio Jones / ReutersAt a mural of Arbery a few blocks from the courthouse at G and Albany streets, a small crowd gathered and rejoiced. “Ahmaud didn’t deserve to die, especially like that, hunted in the streets,” Gloria Johnson said, glancing at the large image of him as a high school student. “Look at that beautiful young man. He had so much to live for. It would have been worse if justice had not been done. Thank God it was. He deserved at least that. And with the Minnesota case, let’s hope this means change.” RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMass shooting leaves 3 dead, 4 injured in Nashville apartment U.S. newsU.S. newsSome states dropping ‘dehumanizing’ terms for immigrantsShe referred to the conviction of former Minneapolis Police Officer Derek Chauvin, who murdered George Floyd last year.“We have had a lot of losses in cases like this, where Black people are killed by white people,” Will Bethune said. He drove from Savannah with five friends to wait for the verdict at the courthouse.“We were cramped up in that car, but it was important to be here,” he added. “For the family. For history. For Ahmaud Arbery. In times like these, we have to come together because no one is coming to save us. We’ve seen obvious cases like George Zimmerman get off for killing Trayvon Martin. So we couldn’t take it for granted this would happen.“But now that it has, a lot of stress has been let go. Maybe we can get back to living without everything hanging over us. Maybe.”
'Licorice Pizza' faces criticism for scenes involving fake Asian accent. Director Paul Thomas Anderson's "Licorice Pizza" is being criticized by some on social media for including scenes where a white businessman speaks in a fake Asian accent with his on-screen wife, who is Japanese.The film, which debuts in theaters Friday, is a coming-of-age comedy-drama that stars Alana Haim (of the Haim band) and Cooper Hoffman (son of the late Philip Seymour Hoffman), two young people growing up in the San Fernando Valley in California in the 1970s. It also stars Sean Penn, Bradley Cooper, Tom Waits and others.While reviews so far have been overwhelmingly positive, some on social media who have gone to early screenings have called out a particular part of the film that they describe as racist. In the film, a white male restaurateur, played by John Michael Higgins, speaks to his Japanese wife with a fake Asian accent. He appears again in the film with another Japanese woman, his new wife, and he repeats the attempted gag.In a review from Slate, critic Dana Stevens described the film as a "blast" to watch. But she had one line noting the scene as a miss: "Not every attempt to ground 'Licorice Pizza' in a de-nostalgized past bears fruit. A running gag about a white restaurant owner with a series of interchangeable Japanese wives seems meant as a joke about the character’s racism, but the joke lands gracelessly."Some people on social media echoed similar sentiments."Picture this: You're watching LICORICE PIZZA. It's brilliant," David Chen, host of a podcast called Culturally Relevant, wrote on Twitter. "Then, early on, a buffoonish character drops an Asian caricature. The (mostly white) audience laughs. And now you gotta think about that laughter the rest of the film."Chen didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.Karen Maine, a director and screenwriter, shared a similar perspective."There’s an incredibly racist, seemingly pointless (other than a cheap laugh, which it got at the screening I was at) scene that mocks Asian accents," Maine, who did not immediately respond to a request for comment, wrote in a tweet.In August, a study of Asian American representation in the entertainment industry found that audiences are asked to laugh at nearly half of Asian and Pacific Islander roles. The study — which was conducted by the Geena Davis Institute on Gender in Media, the Coalition of Asian Pacifics in Entertainment and Gold House — reviewed the top 10 grossing films each year from 2010 to 2019. The analysis showed that while less than a quarter of the API characters were comedic themselves, audiences were asked to laugh at almost half of them.Nancy Wang Yuen, a sociologist, said criticism of Higgins’ character appears to be warranted because there is no clear pushback against his character in the film.“It’s irresponsible to use racism against Asians as a running gag,” Yuen said. Though she hasn’t seen the film yet, she noted it’s apparent that the plot is "not even about Asians or race, and what it does is normalize this violence, this casual anti-Asian racism."“Racist stereotypes like the accent are a cheap way of getting laughs because you don’t need to explain anything — even though there is nothing funny about accents,” Yuen said.RecommendedCulture MattersCulture MattersOur big holiday streaming list — all featuring Latino actors and themesOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureFrom 'Eternals' to 'Dickinson,' our list of must-watch films and showsShe explained it was “concerning,” particularly given the rise in anti-Asian hate crimes during the pandemic. Anti-Asian hate crimes increased more than 73 percent in 2020, according to corrected FBI data released last month. That number was a disproportionate uptick compared to hate crimes in general, which rose 13 percent.“This kind of representation gives permission for others to behave this way towards Asians, and it rehashes this trope of Asians as the perpetual foreigner — a trope that has been part of our society since the 1800s,” Yuen said.Both Maine and Chen said on Twitter they liked the film. But those scenes, for them, overshadowed the beauty of the film itself."The whole Haim family and Bradley Cooper were my fave parts," Maine wrote in a follow-up tweet. "But that pointless, racist scene ruined the whole film for me, and more people need to call PT out on it."Chen described the film as "otherwise excellent." "But the heartbreaking thing is me imagining an alternate version of this movie," he wrote, noting that the scenes mocking the Asian accent "added virtually nothing to it."A representative for Higgins did not immediately respond to a request for comment Wednesday. A representative for Anderson also did not respond.However, in a recent interview with The New York Times, Anderson addressed the criticism. In the conversation, the Times journalist said the accent was "so offensive that my audience actually gasped."The filmmaker responded: "I think it would be a mistake to tell a period film through the eyes of 2021. You can’t have a crystal ball, you have to be honest to that time. Not that it wouldn’t happen right now, by the way. My mother-in-law’s Japanese and my father-in-law is white, so seeing people speak English to her with a Japanese accent is something that happens all the time. I don’t think they even know they’re doing it."While Anderson acknowledged it was a "period" piece, Yuen said the scenes still depict racism "unfiltered.""If there are no consequences, scenes like this can almost glorify this behavior," she said. "You're not laughing at [Higgins' character] because he's making fun of someone else; you’re either laughing with him at the expense of Asians, or you're going to be upset as a viewer."
Mindy Kaling’s new series and the significance of sex-positive South Asian women. This article contains spoilers for the first two episodes of "The Sex Lives of College Girls."Bela Malhotra says goodbye to her parents as they prepare to leave her at the gates of her prestigious Vermont university. She’s reinvented herself in preparation for this moment, shedding the sweaty, awkward “Indian loser” persona she carried through high school. College Bela (Amrit Kaur) knows what she wants, and she isn’t afraid to go after her two basic desires: to be a comedy writer and to have a lot of sex. She asks her mom to take her childhood teddy bear away, and kisses it goodbye before entering her new life. “I’m super sex positive,” Bela tells her new roommates, the other main characters of Mindy Kaling’s new HBO show, “The Sex Lives of College Girls.”Sex has long been either a defining or alienating feature for South Asian women in Western cinema. Colonial era films invented the exotic seductress and the foreign woman in distress, and modern movies and TV shows have ushered in the undesirable nerd, experts say. But missing even in more inclusive portrayals is a South Asian girl who is purely confident and clear about what she wants, viewers said. With “The Sex Lives of College Girls,” Kaling brought a version of that to life. “What I really appreciated about Bela was the lack of soul-searching and hand-wringing,” said Harleen Singh, associate professor of women’s studies and South Asian literature at Brandeis University. “She’s unapologetic.” Confidence doesn’t mean flawlessness, she said, and there’s realness in a character that makes bold mistakes. In the first episode of the series, Bela uses sex to get a highly-coveted position on a comedy magazine. In the process, she unintentionally fools around with someone’s boyfriend and makes enemies of the only two women on the staff. Amrit Kaur in "The Sex Lives of College Girls" on HBO Max.HBO“We’re all messy,” Singh said. “A messy character is a true reflection of life.” Bela’s nerve is something Trisha Sakhuja-Walia, CEO and co-founder of Brown Girl Magazine, finds refreshing. A “180 degree shift” from other portrayals, Bela simply asks for what she wants. She runs up to strangers to introduce herself and unashamedly tells boys they’re attractive. Her self-assuredness even rubs off on her roommates, whom she drags out of the dorms to party on the weekends. “I think that Bela is a lot more brave and outgoing than many of us were,” Sakhuja-Walia said. “But I think that almost every brown girl can see a little bit of herself in Bela. Even if they weren’t her, maybe they wanted to be like her.” Bela is in constant pursuit of new experiences, and Singh says her hypersexuality is portrayed to a bit of an extreme. The show represents sex as novel, not normal, and normalization is a big part of true sex positivity, she said. “It’s simply the acceptance that sex and sexuality are a part of all our lives,” she said. “I want sex positivity to start with making sex not extraordinary, but ordinary. And in that ordinariness, I think there is something special.” Sakhuja-Walia, however, sees Bela’s desire to go wild in college as a cultural touchstone. While the character’s Indian background isn’t the center of her college experience, she says South Asian women can pick up on the story behind her motivations. “I feel like so many brown folks go to college and suddenly have this crazy freedom they’ve never seen before,” she said. “She’s unleashing all this power within herself. I think that almost does tie back to her identity in a very subtle manner.”   South Asians have a complex experience exploring sexuality, Sakhuja-Walia said. And it’s one that’s not often reflected in media. But with a generation of first-generation South Asian Americans becoming adults, characters like Bela might represent a turning point in how communities treat sexuality. “I’m pretty in awe that we’re making this shift in just one generation,” she said. Movies and shows in which South Asian characters are normal and desirable are slowly beginning to emerge, but it’s an area in which Hollywood has historically had a problem. Singh points to movies like "Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom,"  in which the only nonwhite women are oppressed under the violence of evil, monkey-brain-eating Indians, and “the only woman that’s allowed to be beautiful is the white woman.”In the Harry Potter movies, coy and irritating Parvati and Padma slink in the vicinity of the main characters, hoping to be noticed by them but ultimately being cast aside and ignored. Kaling’s last project, “Never Have I Ever,” marked a change — an open door for South Asian American main characters, Singh said. The similarities between Bela and Devi (Maitreyi Ramakrishnan) are rooted in their fearlessness. Devi is also a teen unashamed in wanting to have sexual experiences. “She makes her mistakes but she makes them with agency,” Singh said.While Bela sets herself apart by pushing sexuality to the extreme, there’s complexity to her. Singh calls back to when she kissed her teddy bear at the beginning of the show. “She can be all of those things,” she said. “You can be naive and tender and delicate and warm and be clearheaded about the fact that you need sex. The absurd allows us to realize that things can be many different ways.”
John Cho on Netflix's ‘Cowboy Bebop’ remake, his ‘most intense job’ yet. He's the star of Netflix’s “Cowboy Bebop” remake, but John Cho would be the first to admit that he hadn’t been aware of the original anime television series before his agent sent him the script for the reboot. But when he read it, he was hooked. “This is the most intense job I’ve ever had, for sure, in what it required of me,” he tells NBC Asian America.“Cowboy Bebop,” based on the anime series of the same name from  Japan's Sunrise animation studio, is available to stream on Netflix. It takes place in the future where the Earth is uninhabitable and mankind has created colonies on other planets. The hero of the show is space cowboy Spike Spiegel (played by Cho), a bounty hunter who captures criminals with his partners, Jet Black (Mustafa Shakir) and Faye Valentine (Daniella Pineda), aboard the spaceship Bebop.“The show is such a mixture of disparate genres,” Cho says. “And that was the attraction of it: I can do a Western, a screwball comedy, a buddy-cop movie, noir and an action film all in one.”Mustafa Shakir as Black Jet and John Cho as Spike Spiegel in "Cowboy Bebop."Geoffrey Short / NetflixCho is no stranger to space narratives (he did play Sulu in the “Star Trek” reboot, after all). But “Cowboy Bebop” has allowed him to stretch himself as an actor in ways he hasn’t before. In the 10 episodes of the first season of the show, he does everything from hand-to-hand combat and gun slinging, to cracking jokes and being a romantic lead — it’s equal parts drama, action, and comedy. “It’s definitely fun to do all of the above at once,” he says.The original “Cowboy Bebop,” which premiered in Japan in 1998 and in the United States in 2001, is considered an anime classic, with legions of fans attracted to its stylish imagery, jazz-infused score, sense of listlessness and ennui. So there were high expectations for the live action remark. Cho was aware of all of this, which made the project all that more intimidating.“As soon as I saw [the anime], I was a fan,” he said. Cho says that a key challenge in making a live action “Cowboy Bebop” was that, “it has to be recognizable as ‘Cowboy Bebop,’ but ... you want to do what you can to make it feel creative. And you want to feel free and like you’re having fun.”The first thing that he did was figure out who his version of Spike Spiegel was. Though he wears the same iconic blue suit as the anime character, and even grew out his hair to mimic Spike’s hair, he is older than the character, who is 27. Cho is 49.He admits he wasn’t sure if he was able to tackle the role: “It’s a different medium. And he was painted. So how do I make him a person that I have to walk around in,” he explains. “I wasn’t assured that I was going to be able to find it. In “Cowboy Bebop,” Spike is a character with a dark and tragic past he is trying to run away from. He is playful, with a cool swagger. He is also reserved and keeps his feelings, and his past, close to his chest.To Cho, Spike is “trying to erase the past and become a new person,” and the show asks, “Is that possible?” To him, this notion of reinvention was relatable. He is an immigrant and came to the U.S. when he was 6 years old. Spike wants to chart a new path for himself. Cho saw parallels between Spike’s journey and “the immigrant journey,” he says. “I could definitely relate to Spike wanting the freedom to declare who he is.”As a kid, after moving to the U.S. from Seoul, his family moved around frequently, living in Houston, Seattle, then hopping around California to Daly City, San Jose and Monterey Park, before settling in Glendale. Likewise, the characters of “Cowboy Bebop” don’t have a home and they float adrift, in space, on the Bebop. They are tied together by a sense of loss: either of family, loved ones, or even their memories. To him, the new show expands on the anime by exploring more of the characters’ personal histories.“[It’s like the] Israelites before they were in Canaan, they’re wandering,” he says. “I definitely felt like that as a kid. [The characters are] adrift and, to some extent, purposeless; their purpose is survival. And I think part of our season one is them finding some purpose, be it passively or actively.”Though there are certain shots and story beats that are inspired by the original anime, the live action show also charts its own narrative path. The characters have expanded backstories: Jet Black is a father with a daughter, Faye Valentine is now bisexual, Spike’s love interest Julia is more fully developed and appears more frequently. And a pivotal fight between Spike and his nemesis, Vicious, begins in the same way that it does in the anime. But how it ends is markedly different.In describing the new show, Cho compares it to covers of Bob Dylan’s music. “Why do people record his songs? There’s already a recording,” he posits. “Because it’s a really good song. And they want to try it on for size and see what their interpretation does to the song, and expand the meaning of the song—give it another flavor.” He then adds, “What we’re doing is adding, not replacing.”Overall, it’s been an eventful two years for Cho. “Cowboy Bebop” began filming in New Zealand in 2019, where Cho relocated with his family temporarily. He then tore his ACL while filming, which set production back by eight months. The pandemic then created further delays. Last April, he wrote an op-ed for the Los Angeles Times about the surge in violent attacks against Asian Americans. In the piece, he wrote, “The pandemic is reminding us that our belonging is conditional. One moment we are Americans, the next we are all foreigners, who ‘brought’ the virus here. Like fame, the ‘model minority’ myth can provide the illusion of ‘raceless-ness.’” When talking about the op-ed, Cho becomes more chagrined, admitting that he has been very discouraged about the current discourse around race, and the fervor against critical race theory. “Clearly, we have a race problem in America, but zero people declare themselves racist,” he says. “Maybe we have to replace that word with something else. It has to be a word that allows people to examine themselves. How do we discuss racism, if no one is willing to examine themselves, including people of color?”He admits that growing up, he was encouraged by his parents to assimilate, so that his race would not be a liability. But in his estimation, the events of the past year have shown Asian Americans that living a “raceless” life is impossible. “[Race is] sort of too built into the fabric of this country. And what’s reasonable is coming to a place of respect, in coexistence, and love. And maybe we can get there. Maybe that’s possible.”
Simu Liu and Bowen Yang jokingly vie for the most ‘First Asian’ titles on 'SNL' . Simu Liu and Bowen Yang are often hailed as trailblazers in the Asian American community — for being the first Marvel Asian superhero and for being the first Asian cast member on "Saturday Night Live." So when the pair teamed up for an "SNL" sketch over the weekend, they poked fun at the idea by competing over increasingly ridiculous “firsts,” from the “First Gay Asian Cast Member to Mispronounce ‘Boutique’” to the “First Asian Man to Deadpan on Splash Mountain.”In the taped segment, Chinese Canadian actors Yang and Liu meet in a dressing room before the episode. “This has never happened before, right? Asian male host, Asian male cast member,” Yang said. The two congratulate each other on their respective milestones before admitting how tiring these historical titles can be in a predominantly white space. “I just think it’s weird that people keep track of this stuff,” Yang says. Liu then pulled out a medal he had tucked in his shirt for being the “1st Asian Man to Move from Canada to America Named Simu.” “I have one that says Bowen,” Yang says, pulling a similar medal out of his shirt. The conversation quickly delves into a competition about their “First Asian” accolades.“Don’t you think these titles are kind of ridiculous?” Liu asks, to which Yang agrees. A montage then shows Yang and Liu accepting awards for “Good Job (Asian),” “First Asian Man to Beat StarCraft II” and the “First Asian Man to ‘You pick 2’ at Panera.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMass shooting leaves 3 dead, 4 injured in Nashville apartment U.S. newsU.S. newsSome states dropping ‘dehumanizing’ terms for immigrantsNBCUniversal is the parent company of NBC News and "SNL."Yang’s work on "SNL" earned him an Emmy nomination this year, making him the show’s first featured player to be nominated for an acting award. He has previously spoken about his Asian American identity, and amid the rise of anti-Asian violence during the pandemic, he urged people to “do more” to stop the violence. Liu, meanwhile, made headlines this year after criticizing the TV show “Kim’s Convenience,” which he starred in, for its lack of diversity in the writer’s room. He has also credited the diverse production crew of “Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings” for ensuring the authenticity of the film.
Food banks in California brace for the holidays as food prices surge. ANAHEIM, California — Two food banks in California have been gearing up for a busy holiday season: One is spending tens of thousands amid rising food prices, and the other has been serving triple the number of people since the coronavirus pandemic began.The Alameda County Community Food Bank in Oakland is dealing with the toll of rising food prices and supply chain issues as it serves families grappling with food insecurity.“They’re depending on us,” said Elizabeth Gomez, director of client services at the food bank.Food banks face harsh economic reality ahead of the holiday seasonNov. 21, 202103:38Over the past year, food prices have increased 5.3 percent, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.Because of food price increases, the food bank is spending an additional $60,000 on food per month.“We need to be ahead of the game as much as we can,” said Gomez, 48, who’s been working with the organization for 24 years.She said the food bank has seen price increases across the board for seven core items, with oatmeal and frozen chicken seeing the highest increases at 17.1 percent and 13 percent respectively. In total, it is spending more than $1 million on food per month — compared to $250,000 each month before the pandemic. “Part of the increase is because we’re willing to spend more on food to ensure that we actually secure it,” Gomez said. The backlog of shipments along the California coast has created supply chain issues and has contributed to less inventory and increased transportation costs for the food bank. The food bank has had to turn to alternatives such as single serve cereal bowls to replace oatmeal, and turned to Costco to get a variety of canned meats for canned tuna that has been running late.“We are expecting more than 400,000 Alameda County residents,” Gomez said. “We’re bracing for what is to be the busiest month and a half ahead for us.”In 2020, rough estimates indicate 45 million people, or 1 in 7, experienced food insecurity as the pandemic forced tens of millions to suffer from unemployment or saw their hours decline, according to an analysis by Feeding America, a nationwide nonprofit network aiming to ensure equitable access to food in the United States.With a recovering economy and increasing vaccination records, the organization projects improved food insecurity conditions in the holiday season but still higher than pre-pandemic numbers. Feeding America predicts that 42 million people — about 1 in 8 — may experience food insecurity, compared to about 1 in 9 in 2019, the lowest point reached then since food insecurity began being measured in the 1990s, according to the report.The Los Angeles Regional Food Bank has been serving triple the number of people it usually saw before the pandemic — from 300,000 to 900,000 each month, according to Olivia Cervantes, 33, its marketing content manager.Volunteers load food into vehicles at a "Let's Feed L.A. County" drive-thru food distribution event by the Los Angeles Regional Food Bank and the office of Supervisor Hilda Solis in Rosemead, Calif., on April 23.Ringo Chiu via AP fileIt’s a number that aligns with a recent University of Southern California study detailing that 1 in 10 Los Angeles County residents  experienced food insecurity in the first half of 2021 — and 59 percent of them were Latino. “It was time to give back to my community as an Angeleno,” Cervantes said, explaining she felt compelled to help after witnessing the pandemic’s impact on the city's Hispanic community. “Even if we were to return back to normal or even if this lingers on, the issue is still there, hunger is a year-round issue.”California is home to the nation’s largest Latino population. In Los Angeles County, Hispanics or Latinos account for almost half (48.6 percent) of the population.The Los Angeles food bank has been minimally impacted by the surge in food prices and supply chain issues because the majority of its food is donated and sourced locally.However, it has had to grapple with other issues: The number of volunteers declined from 30,000 to 15,000 because of Covid-19 safety protocols. The organization has turned to AmeriCorps for help with distribution."The food bank really does stretch the dollar to help as many people as possible," Cervantes said.Organizers say those who want to volunteer or donate can contact  the Los Angeles Regional Food Bank's website or call 323-234-3030 or the Alameda County Community Food Bank's website or call 510-635-3663.
'Encanto': The music, joy and superpower of a multigenerational Latino family. In an age of big-screen superhero families like those of Marvel’s “Fantastic Four,” Pixar’s “The Incredibles” and DC’s “Shazam!” Disney wants to flip the script on viewers and put the spotlight on an ordinary 15-year-old Colombian girl, Mirabel, who struggles to keep her extended superhero family together as they lose their powers. “Encanto,” which means “charm” in Spanish, is Disney’s 60th animated feature film. It tells the story of the Madrigals, a multigenerational family who live in the mountains of Colombia. Stars of Disney's 'Encanto' discuss film’s personal relation to Latino rootsNov. 23, 202103:36Two generations of Madrigal children get magical powers on their fifth birthdays, which define them both at home and in the village. They can make plants grow and flowers bloom, control the weather with their emotions, heal people with food, speak with animals and even see the future. The Madrigal family tree.DisneyOne child doesn't get superpowers — and that is Mirabel. In the end, however, she will know what to do to save her extraordinary family.Beyond the characters' super abilities and magical gifts, the animated musical — with songs and music by "Hamilton" composer Lin-Manuel Miranda — aims to show viewers the power of knowing who they and their families are. For the Latina actor Stephanie Beatriz, who voices Mirabel, the film's emphasis on extended family, including the powerful abuela (grandmother) Alma, brought back memories “When I think about my childhood, it’s a lot of people talking all at once, animatedly, over each other — there’s, like, 10 conversations happening in one room, and as a kid you’re just trying to follow everything that’s going on,” said Beatriz, whose parents are Colombian and Bolivian. “It’s very loud and super rhythmic. I think that the flavor of that, the sensibility of that, is really captured within the music of this animated musical, which I think is very special.” The family name “Madrigal” is also a musical term that can refer to a song with two or more voice parts — which amply describes the mix of sounds and voices in the film. “One of the things I loved in the writing of the script is that there are these conversations that happen between cousins or an aunt and a niece,” Beatriz said. “It’s those extended family relationships that I think are really, really important, particularly in Latino culture, where you might not be able to talk to your mom ... but you could talk to your tía,” or aunt. Miranda, who wrote and co-produced eight original songs for “Encanto,” said he's so close to his cousins from Puerto Rico that they once got matching tattoos — to the chagrin of his aunt on the island. The Madrigals, he said, remind him of his own relatives."Encanto."Disney "That was the most matriarchal family," he said about his dad's family in Puerto Rico. "Everyone still lived in the house, and everyone brought their checks to Abuela, and she reallocated the funds as she saw fit." Many U.S. families resemble the Madrigals: A report this year by the advocacy group Generations United found that more than 1 in 4 Americans ages 18 and older — about 67 million adults — live in multigenerational households with three or more generations.Creating the sounds of Colombia — and homeMiranda said music has the power to unlock exciting stories about different places, cultures and people. “Every time we leaned into the specificities of Colombian music, that always unlocks story, it always unlocks character for us. The specificities are the thing that make it relatable,” he said.Miranda traveled to Colombia with other people from the film for research in 2018, which he said was invaluable. The details the movie got right, he said, will excite Latino viewers, such as when they see a character wearing their father’s hat or hear an accordion. People working on the film also brought their own memories and stories of home to the music. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMass shooting leaves 3 dead, 4 injured in Nashville apartment U.S. newsU.S. newsSome states dropping ‘dehumanizing’ terms for immigrants“There’s certainly musical phrases that I can point to that are ripped from family conversations that happened in my house,” Miranda said. “I think that’s what people recognize on screen when they see the film. They see slivers of their own experience.” When Miranda reflects on the music that evokes his own childhood memories, he thinks of his family's mix of cast albums and Latin music. “It was sort of constant Gran Combo, Celia Cruz, Joe Arroyo from Colombia, Carlos Vives, Juan Luis Guerra — that would be the party music,” he said. “And then, when we would clean up after the party, it was ‘Man of La Mancha,’ it was ‘Camelot,’ it was the ‘Little Mermaid’ soundtrack and the ‘Dirty Dancing’ soundtrack. My parents loved show tunes and Latin music.”‘The way that I grew up’ For Colombian American actor Diane Guerrero, voicing Mirabel’s cousin Isabela has been a great source of pride. “Disney is such a huge entity. To not be included in Disney almost feels like you don’t exist a little bit,” she said. “So to be a part of that is a long time coming and such a special moment for us.” For Guerrero, “Encanto” evokes memories of the generations of strong women that are part of her own heritage. “I see women being very powerful heads of the household, but what has been portrayed in mainstream media has been quite the opposite,” Guerrero said. “There’s still machismo — obviously men have a very strong hold on the world — but I feel that the way that I grew up I really saw this in the film. My grandmother and my mother are everything to me.” Reflecting on the significance of "Encanto," Guerrero said there are many Latino stories. “Latin America is so huge. This is just like a little sliver of what we are. It’s a little sliver of Colombia. There’s so much to tell,” she said.
'The court owes it to women': Groups decry Colombia's abortion ruling delay. Women's groups that sued to decriminalize abortion in Colombia are pushing for a decision after a much-anticipated ruling from the country's top court was postponed last week. “The court owes it to women," Catalina Martínez Coral, the Latin America and Caribbean director of the Center for Reproductive Rights, told Noticias Telemundo. The Constitutional Court has not yet decided whether to eliminate abortion as a crime from the country's penal code. The ruling had been expected last week, but the debate was interrupted at the request of one of its judges, Alejandro Linares, to recuse himself from voting because he had spoken about the case in a news interview. If another judge decides there is no need for Linares to recuse himself, the court could rule this year. A recusal would start a process to bring in a new judge, which would delay the ruling to next year. The women’s rights groups that filed the lawsuit, grouped under the umbrella movement Just Cause, say the delay harms women and girls in Colombia, where nearly 70 women die every year from complications from abortions, according to figures from Doctors Without Borders.“Every day that passes there are more unprotected people because they cannot access reproductive health services. They are persecuted, and they have open cases against them,” Martínez Coral said. “It's a punishment for women and girls in Colombia.” Since 2006, the Colombian penal code has allowed legal abortion under three circumstances: in cases of rape, incest or nonconsensual insemination; in cases of serious fetal malformation that makes life unviable; or when the medical team certifies that a pregnant woman’s health or life is at risk.Any woman who otherwise undergoes the procedure — or the health personnel involved — can be liable for a penalty of 16 to 54 months in prison. According to official figures, 400 women are prosecuted every year.“It is a very unfair situation, because, on the one hand, exceptions give you a right, but it is also a serious crime that generates social and institutional stigma," said Ximena Casas Isaza, a researcher for Human Rights Watch. "All this creates many barriers for women and girls in situations of greater vulnerability who, in the end, do not have access to an essential health service such as the legal interruption of pregnancy.”An estimated 400,000 women and girls undergo induced abortions in Colombia every year, about a third of whom suffer some complication. Unsafe abortions are the country’s fourth-leading cause of maternal mortality.Several studies have determined that girls and adolescents suffer the most sexual abuse resulting in unwanted pregnancies. In many cases, their lives are at risk.According to a report by Just Cause, the victims in 73 percent of the 26,158 cases prosecuted for allegations of sexual violence were girls or adolescents up to age 17. They are also the ones who suffer the most from harassment by the penal system, the report said.‘What we want is more support’ Cindy, a Colombian woman whose last name is being withheld to protect her identify, said she was in no condition to raise a child but was afraid she would suffer recriminations from her family for terminating her pregnancy. She decided to talk to her partner and a good friend, who accompanied her throughout the abortion process.“Those of us who made this decision, what we want is more support — let them understand that, for some reason, that was the decision we made,” she said.Abortion rights activists protest Thursday outside the Constitutional Court in Bogota, Colombia, as judges review a lawsuit that seeks to decriminalize abortion. Fernando Vergara / APCindy and hundreds of other Colombian women have participated in awareness campaigns like We Are All One, speaking out with dozens of nongovernmental organizations and women’s rights groups to demand the decriminalization of abortion.The movement has been driven by the recent wave of reforms and demonstrations for women’s rights in various Latin American countries, such as Argentina and Mexico.Girls and adolescents are the most affectedThe Just Cause report found that for most of the girls and adolescents who get pregnant through rape and sexual abuse, “the aggressors correspond to people from their social or family circle,” adding, “These heartbreaking figures only correspond to those cases that are reported.”The health care system uses the current law as an excuse to deny services, said Paula Ávila-Guillén, the executive director of the U.S.-based Women’s Equality Center, who directs the group’s Latin America initiatives. "That is why we have so many cases of pregnant girls as a result of rape who cannot access abortion, because there are many bureaucratic barriers." According to the group Mesa por la Vida y la Salud de Mujeres, minors account for 12.5 percent ​​of abortion investigations — almost a quarter, 24 percent, are convicted. While the crime may not lead to jail time in many cases, it still has a serious impact on young women's lives, who are left with criminal histories that prevent them from getting work and progressing, said Martínez Coral of the Center for Reproductive Rights.The persecution of health personnel“There is a lot of fear on the part of medical professionals, because first the burden of certifying the conditions for abortion falls on them and, when you are faced with the possibility of having legal problems, it is obviously much easier to turn your back on the problem," said Dr. Laura Gil, a gynecologist and a member of the Medical Group for the Right to Decide. An investigation by the Life and Health of Women Roundtable, a women's health advocacy group, found that, from 1998 to 2018, the prosecutor’s office processed 5,580 complaints of abortion and that in 75 percent of the cases, it was doctors and other health care operators who filed complaints about women who went to hospitals feeling ill from having abortions.That, Gil said, has a chilling effect on other health care personnel.“Many doctors begin to ask for a number of evaluations, examinations and requirements — the only thing they do is create barriers. It is an obstacle to the free exercise of our profession," Gil said. What would total decriminalization change?The first effect would be that no one could be prosecuted for the crime of abortion. In addition, women, adolescents and girls would be able to terminate pregnancies without barriers.“Women who were not protected by the exceptions that existed in the country will be able to access abortion the day after the decision is made,” Martínez Coral said.Lawyers for women who are prosecuted or detained could also “directly introduce an appeal to initiate their release,” she said. Catholics who support abortion rightsGroups that oppose abortion, including conservative political movements and the Roman Catholic Church, have spoken out against the proposal.The group Catholics for the Right to Decide stands out, because it supports the lawsuit. “We consider that supporting abortion as a right is not incompatible with having beliefs or a spiritual life," said Aura Carolina Cuasapud, a lawyer for the organization. "Quite the contrary: We know that women are the majority of the people who form the foundations of religion and the church, so we must have a voice, and we have the right to make free decisions."Members of the movement are called false Catholics or hypocrites on social media, where opponents link some of them to satanic sects and threaten them with excommunication from the Catholic Church. Cuasapud laughed when she was asked about the attacks.“At worst, excommunication does not inhibit you from being a Catholic. If you were baptized, they can no longer remove that condition, they cannot remove your beliefs," she said, adding that she believes that "the truth is that neither the Bible nor the Church nor God condemn abortion as a sin, and many people do not know that."An earlier version of this story was first published in Noticias Telemundo. Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.
'Historic': White House pitches Build Back Better's help for Latino families . The White House on Monday promoted what the Biden administration sees as the benefits for Latino families of the $1.7 trillion safety net and climate change package Democrats passed last week. In a White House-organized call with reporters, Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra and Rep. Raul Ruiz, D-Calif., the chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, called the legislation "historic" and said it was a "tremendous investment" in American families as they struggle to recover from the coronavirus-wracked economy.Becerra said the funding in the Build Back Better Act would help families pay for child care and preschool education funding, provide child tax credits and help families pay for Obamacare health insurance plans.It would cut costs for three of the most expensive items in families’ budgets: health care, housing and child care, Ruiz said. Ruiz and Becerra said the child care provision — which would cap child care costs for six years at 7 percent for families earning up to 250 percent of their states’ median incomes — would help Latinas “who had to bear the brunt of cuts in wages and unemployment” because of the pandemic. Extending the child tax credit would be like money in your pocket, Ruiz said.Also in the bill is money to pay for universal pre-K for 3- and 4-year-old children for two years. The money is said to be enough to pay for free preschool for more than 6 million children.Becerra said the bill offers older Americans the kind of help that his late father, a laborer, and his mother, who did clerical work, never had. “I’m from a migrant family, and I understand the importance of being able to say anyone who has worked very hard, helping to lift this country, helping to build it, now this country is going to invest in you," Becerra said in Spanish.Potential changes Senate could make to pass Build Back Better BillNov. 22, 202102:07Ruiz said that while the country is rounding the corner on the pandemic, Covid-19 has disproportionately affected essential workers and Hispanic communities. "Working families and parents are continuing to feel the lingering effects of the pandemic," he said.The legislation, which was crafted by Democrats, was approved Friday by the House and is now before the Senate, where leaders are working with centrist Democrats to get the necessary votes. ‘A blockbuster’ investmentThe House bill would provide the money for pre-K for all children, regardless of families’ incomes, with states eventually having to add money to cover some of the costs. Before the pandemic, about 27 percent of children in public school were Hispanic. In 2019-20, only about 4 in 10 (43 percent) of 3- to 5-year-olds were enrolled in school, according to the National Center for Education Statistics. The pre-K provisions would help not only groups that haven’t had access to quality pre-K, but also middle-class and upper-income families that often don’t qualify for subsidized preschool programs, said former San Antonio Mayor Julián Castro, who was housing secretary in the Obama administration. Castro, the only major Latino presidential candidate last year, said the universal pre-K part of the bill would be “a godsend” for many families and a “blockbuster” investment to celebrate.Early education varies among states, six of which had no state-funded pre-K program in the 2019-20 school year, according to the National Institute for Early Education Research at Rutgers University. Early data this school year show a 3 percent drop in all public school enrollment. The drop was higher among children in preschool and kindergarten than in later grades.Build Back Better’s success depends on states’ doing their part, Castro said. As mayor, Castro got San Antonio voters to support a half-cent sales tax in 2012 to create quality preschool for low-income children. The program is considered highly successful.Build Back Better’s provision would allow school districts or nonprofit organizations to help with costs for their areas even if their states don’t participate.“I’m hopeful that even conservative states like Texas and other places that don’t have universal pre-K will meet the challenge,” Castro said. “But if they don’t, then I encourage local communities to go ahead and universalize pre-K.”Better times ahead?Delivering a message of economic better times to the Latino community is critical for Democrats. The 2022 midterm election season will ramp up after the holidays, and Democrats need to be able blunt GOP arguments about inflation and the effects of climate change provisions on fossil fuels. President Donald Trump and other Republicans expanded their support on those issues last year among Latino voters, particularly in Texas. They also succeeded in framing Democratic programs as socialism, largely in Florida, where Cuban and Latin American voters connect the word with regimes from which they fled or in which have roots. in a statement after the House vote Friday, Macarena Martinez, the Republican National Committee spokeswoman for Texas, previewed more of what to expect. She said one African American and three Latino members of Congress, all Texas Democrats, "went all in for Biden's socialist agenda: 'Build Back Broke' at a time when Texas families already are being hit with skyrocketing inflation, record high gas prices, and an unmitigated border crisis."Latino unemployment began dropping in 2010 during the Obama administration and fell to about 4 percent early in the Trump administration. Latinos also had begun to experience a comeback from the Great Recession. The pandemic reversed that.The uncontrolled virus has put the Latino economic recovery at risk and cost some Latinos some of the wealth they had rebuilt.Latinos are 2.1 times more likely to die from Covid-19 compared to white Americans and 2.5 times more likely to be hospitalized, according to the latest data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Cases of Covid-19 are 1.6 times more likely among Latinos than whites, the CDC data show.   As of April, only 1 in 6 Hispanic workers were able to work from home during the pandemic, according to the Economic Policy Institute.In addition, Democrats need to buffer themselves from backlash they could face over immigration provisions in the bill. Immigrants advocates and many Democrats had hoped to include a pathway to citizenship in the legislation. But it would now provide only five-year work permits that could be renewed for five more years for about 7 million undocumented immigrants already in the county. If that is jettisoned to get the bill through the Senate, Democrats may feel the backlash from their base of support.Democrats are using a process to get the bill through the Senate that allows them to sidestep Republicans, most of whom oppose the immigration measures. But they also have to get the OK to have the immigration language in the bill from the Senate parliamentarian, and at least two Senate Democrats are lukewarm about the immigration provision, as well. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus has urged the Senate to keep the provision.The White House and Democrats put the focus Monday on legislation that they believe would have a direct impact on Latino households. Ruiz said the legislation would be a “rocket booster for the economy that will launch families across the country towards success by putting money in pockets.” Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.
