South African scientists detect new virus variant amid spike. JOHANNESBURG — A new coronavirus variant has been detected in South Africa that scientists say is a concern because of its high number of mutations and rapid spread among young people in Gauteng, the country’s most populous province, Health Minister Joe Phaahla announced Thursday.The coronavirus evolves as it spreads and many new variants, including those with worrying mutations, often just die out. Scientists monitor for possible changes that could be more transmissible or deadly, but sorting out whether new variants will have a public health impact can take time.South Africa has seen a dramatic rise in new infections, Phaahla said at an online press briefing.“Over the last four or five days, there has been more of an exponential rise,” he said, adding that the new variant appears to be driving the spike in cases. Scientists in South Africa are working to determine what percentage of the new cases have been caused by the new variant.Currently identified as B.1.1.529, the new variant has also been found in Botswana and Hong Kong in travelers from South Africa, he said.The World Health Organization’s technical working group was set to meet Friday to assess the new variant and may decide whether or not to give it a name from the Greek alphabet.The British government announced that it was banning flights from South Africa and five other southern African countries and that anyone who had recently arrived from those countries would be asked to take a coronavirus test.U.K. Health Secretary Sajid Javid said there were concerns the new variant “may be more transmissible” than the dominant delta strain, and “the vaccines that we currently have may be less effective” against it.The new variant has a “constellation” of new mutations, said Tulio de Oliveira, from the Network for Genomic Surveillance in South Africa, who has tracked the spread of the delta variant in the country.The “very high number of mutations is a concern for predicted immune evasion and transmissibility,” said de Oliveira.“This new variant has many, many more mutations,” including more than 30 to the spike protein that affects transmissibility, he said. “We can see that the variant is potentially spreading very fast. We do expect to start seeing pressure in the healthcare system in the next few days and weeks.”De Oliveira said that a team of scientists from seven South African universities is studying the variant. They have 100 whole genomes of it and expect to have many more in the next few days, he said.“We are concerned by the jump in evolution in this variant,” he said. The one piece of good news is that it can be detected by a PCR test, he said.Angry protests in Europe against Covid measures as Austria re-enters lockdownNov. 22, 202101:22After a period of relatively low transmission in which South Africa recorded just over 200 new confirmed cases per day, in the past week the daily new cases rapidly increased to more than 1,200 on Wednesday. On Thursday they jumped to 2,465.The first surge was in Pretoria and the surrounding Tshwane metropolitan area and appeared to be cluster outbreaks from student gatherings at universities in the area, said health minister Phaahla. Amid the rise in cases, scientists studied the genomic sequencing and discovered the new variant.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsDonors raise more than $950,000 to help Missouri man wrongfully convicted in 1979Racial ReckoningRacial ReckoningWhy juries reacted differently to Rittenhouse's and McMichael's defenses, experts say“This is clearly a variant that we must be very serious about,” said Ravindra Gupta, professor of clinical microbiology at the University of Cambridge. “It has a high number of spike mutations that could affect transmissibility and immune response.”Gupta said scientists in South Africa need time to determine if the surge in new cases is attributable to the new variant. “There is a high probability that this is the case,” he said. “South African scientists have done an incredible job of identifying this quickly and bringing it to the world’s attention.”South African officials had warned that a new resurgence was expected from mid-December to early January and had hoped to prepare for that by getting many more people vaccinated, said Phaahla.About 41% of South Africa’s adults have been vaccinated and the number of shots being given per day is relatively low, at less than 130,000, significantly below the government’s target of 300,000 per day.South Africa currently has about 16.5 million doses of vaccines, by Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson, in the country and is expecting delivery of about 2.5 million more in the next week, according to Nicholas Crisp, acting director-general of the national health department.“We are getting in vaccines faster than we are using them at the moment,” said Crisp. “So for some time now, we have been deferring deliveries, not decreasing orders, but just deferring our deliveries so that we don’t accumulate and stockpile vaccines.”South Africa, with a population of 60 million, has recorded more than 2.9 million COVID-19 cases including more than 89,000 deaths.To date, the delta variant remains by far the most infectious and has crowded out other once-worrying variants including alpha, beta and mu. According to sequences submitted by countries worldwide to the world’s biggest public database, more than 99 percent are delta.
Russian coal mine fire kills at least 52 people. At least 52 people have died from a Siberian coal mine fire that resulted from a gas leak, Russia’s TASS news agency reported Thursday.There were approximately 285 people in the Listvyazhnaya mine in Belovo, Siberia, when a fire erupted Thursday, filling the mine with smoke, the Associated Press reports. Most were evacuated, but dozens became trapped underground in a remote section of the mine. The rescue operation was suspended due to high levels of methane and carbon monoxide, according to the Interfax news agency. The death toll includes six rescue workers.The Russian Investigative Committee in the Kemerovo region said it will conduct a criminal probe into potential violations of industrial safety requirements on dangerous production sites.Rescuers walk at the Listvyazhnaya coal mine out of the Siberian city of Kemerovo, about 1,900 miles east of Moscow on Thursday. APProsecutors believe a methane explosion is the cause of the fire, which then filled a ventilation shaft, Reuters reports, citing state television. The director of the Listvyazhnaya mine and two senior managers were arrested on suspicion of violating industrial safety rules, according to Reuters and the AP.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsDonors raise more than $950,000 to help Missouri man wrongfully convicted in 1979Racial ReckoningRacial ReckoningWhy juries reacted differently to Rittenhouse's and McMichael's defenses, experts sayKemerovo Governor Sergey Tsivilyov declared three days of mourning for the victims, according to the TASS news agency, meaning flags will be flown at half-mast, and all local entertainment events and TV shows will be canceled. Dozens of miners were still being treated at a hospital Thursday evening. Reuters characterized the incident as one of Russia’s worst mining disasters since the Soviet Union era. The coal mine’s owner, holding company SDS, part of the privately held Siberian Business Union, said in a statement to TASS that it will pay the families of those killed 2 million rubles, or about $26,780, with additional compensation on a case-by-case basis.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Thanksgiving travel rush returns: Airport screenings reach pandemic high. Airports are busy again, and air travel is inching closer to pre-pandemic levels. Driven by pre-Thanksgiving travel, 2.3 million people passed through airport screenings Wednesday in what the Transportation Security Administration said was its busiest day since travel plummeted to coronavirus lows in April 2020. That is more than double the 1.1 million people who went through TSA checkpoints a year earlier on the day before Thanksgiving, according to a TSA database. It's also 12 percent below the number of travelers screened on the equivalent day in 2019, when TSA checkpoint workers saw 2.6 million people a few months before the pandemic. The day before Thanksgiving is typically among the busiest travel days of the year, along with the days after the holiday as people return home. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsDonors raise more than $950,000 to help Missouri man wrongfully convicted in 1979Racial ReckoningRacial ReckoningWhy juries reacted differently to Rittenhouse's and McMichael's defenses, experts sayThe TSA has hired 6,000 new officers this year and has enough staff to deal with the increase in passenger volumes, Lorie Dankers, a TSA spokesperson, told Reuters. “So staffing, while we are hiring, will not slow people down this holiday season,” Dankers said.Still, airlines advised passengers to arrive at airports early in case of long security lines. Delta Air Lines suggested two-plus hours early for domestic flights and three-plus hours early for international flights. Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Australia’s dismal climate record comes under COP26 spotlight. LONDON — Days before arriving in Glasgow, Scotland, for what was billed as a pivotal gathering on global climate initiatives, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced his country was adopting a target of net zero carbon emissions by 2050. But he added that he would not legislate the goal and instead would rely on consumers and companies to drive reductions in emissions. It was the kind of half measure that climate activists worried would carry over to the COP26 summit, the recent United Nations climate talks in Glasgow. They said it did.“Australia’s ambition for COP26 was to get away with it. To do as little as possible,” said Richie Merzian, who previously spent a decade as an Australian government COP negotiator and now works as the climate and energy program director at The Australia Institute,  an independent public policy think tank.  Fondly known as the  sunburned country due to its vast stretches of dry and barren terrain, Australia has long been under fire as one of the world’s top producers of coal and gas, and narrowly dodged being labeled the summit’s villain. While the country remains a key U.S. ally amid tensions with China, it has done little in recent years to suggest it will be a leading partner in the fight against climate catastrophe, despite its pride in its abundant native wildlife and numerous environmental treasures. Its actions at the climate conference did little to assuage environmentalists’ concerns.Critics say Australia’s net zero announcement was a hollow promise and that the country’s attendance at the global summit only showed that the current conservative government is more wedded to fossil fuel interests than tackling climate change in any substantive way. “They wanted to neutralize the critique that they aren’t doing anything on climate” by showing up but did little beyond that, Merzian said in a phone interview from Glasgow during the closing days of the summit. David Ritter, CEO of Greenpeace Australia Pacific, was also scathing in his criticism of how Australia fared at the climate summit. Scientists study spectacular Great Barrier Reef spawningNov. 24, 202101:02“The position the Morrison government took to Glasgow was an embarrassment, deeply inadequate, and wildly insufficient as the climate crisis accelerates in front of our eyes,”  he said in an email from Sydney after the summit.NBC News reached out to  Morrison’s office for comment and was referred to public comments by Angus Taylor, the minister for industry, energy and emissions reduction.“Under our Plan to achieve net zero emissions by 2050, we will act in a practical, responsible way to reduce emissions and build on our track record of achievement — reducing emissions while growing our economy, maintaining affordable, reliable energy and ensuring our regions remain strong. That’s the Australian way,” Taylor said in a joint statement with Marise Payne, the minister for foreign affairs, after the climate summit. Caught between the powerful fossil fuel industry and a cascade of natural disasters, climate change has found its way to the heart of Australian politics.Mining has been a major driving force in Australia’s economy since it was a British colony in the early 1800s, but coal production truly expanded after World War II and the industry is still a major employer in many rural communities. The country is one of the world’s largest emitters of greenhouse gases on a per capita basis and ranks as the world’s third largest fossil fuel exporter, behind only Russia and Saudi Arabia. In Glasgow, Australia came under criticism for not signing onto agreements such as the so-called Global Coal to Clean Power Transition Statement promoted by the United Kingdom or the global methane Pledge led by the  United States in an effort to curb methane emissions.A firefighter hoses down trees and flying embers in an effort to secure nearby houses from bushfires near the town of Nowra in the Australian state of New South Wales on Dec. 31, 2021.Saeed Khan / AFP via Getty Images fileCoal power then became a major point of contention in the closing hours of the conference, when delegates from China and India insisted on watering down the final language of the COP26 deal and replacing a commitment to “phase out” coal with the term “phase down.” And despite British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s assertion that Glasgow had effectively sounded “the death knell for coal power,” Morrison reiterated his country’s commitment in the wake of the summit, saying the coal industry will be working in Australia for “decades to come.” Australia’s lack of action on the issue sets a bad example for other countries, Merzian said, “instead of driving ambition like the U.S. and the U.K.”“They are giving cover to other laggards like Russia and Turkey because they can look at Australia and say, ‘Look, if a wealthy industrialized country like Australia isn’t doing more in the short term, why should I?’” he said. Morrison has long been caught in a political bind over climate change. Australia's Prime Minister Scott Morrison disappointed climate activists at the COP26 summit.Ian Forsyth / Pool via via Getty ImagesHis government’s coalition partner, the National Party, is a strong supporter of the coal industry and made multiple attempts to block the  net zero target, citing potential risks to the country’s economy. Morrison is a well-known proponent of the industry himself. He famously brought a lump of coal into the Australian Parliament  in 2017 and, with a showman’s flair, praised its value during a debate on renewable energy.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsDonors raise more than $950,000 to help Missouri man wrongfully convicted in 1979Racial ReckoningRacial ReckoningWhy juries reacted differently to Rittenhouse's and McMichael's defenses, experts say“Sadly, historically, Australia’s climate policy, to some extent, has been dictated by the position of incumbent interests in the oil, gas and coal industry” and that is why it has lagged behind it’s global peers, Christian Downie, an associate professor at the Australian National University who specializes in energy and climate politics, said ahead of the conference.At the same time, the country has felt the impact of climate change and that has helped increase pressure from some voters for more decisive action.Sixty percent of respondents said “global warming is a serious and pressing problem” that should be addressed now “even if it involves significant costs,” according to a May 2021 poll by the Lowy Institute, an independent think tank in Australia.Catastrophic wildfires in 2019-20 destroyed more than 44 million acres of land, killed 34 people and resulted in the loss of nearly 3,000 homes.Nearly 3 billion koalas, kangaroos and other native Australian wildlife were killed or displaced by the wildfires, according to the World Wide Fund For Nature Australia. Australia's devastating 2019-20 wildfires were declared among the "worst wildlife disasters in modern history" by the World Wild Fund for Nature.Lisa Maree Williams / Getty Images fileAnd the Great Barrier Reef, the world’s most extensive coral reef ecosystem, has suffered so much from warming sea temperatures that it lost half its corals in just 20 years. Australia reacted angrily when the United Nations threatened to downgrade the reef’s World Heritage status unless the country did more to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions, narrowly avoiding the designation after heavy lobbying. Yet, Australia ranked last out of 60 countries for its policy response to the climate crisis in one assessment released at the COP26 summit. “The country’s lack of domestic ambition and action has made its way to the international stage,” the Climate Change Performance Index report said. “Australia has fallen behind its allies.” A spokesperson for Taylor, the minister for energy and emissions reduction, said that the Australian government “rejects” the report’s “subjective” findings “because it clearly ignores key facts and statistics.”Environmental activists have reacted angrily to the lack of action in Glasgow. Two young climate protesters disrupted operations at the world’s largest coal port in Newcastle, Australia, on Nov. 17 by abseiling off the huge machinery and declaring in a video livestream: “This is us responding to the climate crisis.” To Ritter, from Greenpeace Australia, it’s past time for the country to step up on the world stage. “Australia’s reckless climate obstruction is as brazen as it is appalling,” he said. “A betrayal of our trust and a betrayal of our future."Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Egypt reopens 3,000-year-old Avenue of Sphinxes in grand, glitzy Luxor ceremony. CAIRO — While Americans feasted their eyes on a full-blown Thanksgiving Day parade after a two-year Covid absence, nearly 6,000 miles away Egypt revived a very different cultural tradition that has not been seen for several thousand years. The country opened the 3,000-year-old Avenue of Sphinxes to the public Thursday in an extravagant ceremony in the southern city of Luxor that follows decades of excavation efforts.The ancient walkway, nearly two miles long and about 250 feet wide, was once named “The Path of God.” It connects the Temple of Luxor with the Temple of Karnak, just up the Nile river to the north. Human-headed sphinxes along the 2700-metre-long "Rams Road" leading from the Temple of Luxor in Egypt on Nov. 25, 2021, unveiled in a grandiose night-time ceremony.Khaled Desouki / AFP - Getty ImagesA spectacular parade that began after nightfall in Egypt and around lunchtime ET proceeded along the length of the avenue, which is lined on either side by over 600 ram-headed statues and traditional sphinxes, statues with a lion’s body and a human’s head. The extravagant march included participants in pharaonic dress, a symphony orchestra, lighting effects, professional dancers, boats on the Nile, horse drawn carriages and more. Egyptian President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi attended the city-wide spectacle.The road was buried under sand for centuries until Egyptian archaeologist Zakaria Ghineim discovered the first eight sphinx statues in front of the Luxor Temple in 1949. The effort to excavate and restore the site persisted over the next seven decades and was interrupted numerous times by political upheaval, like the 2011 Arab Spring uprising which overthrew the country's longtime autocratic ruler Hosni Mubarak and led to several years of civil unrest.“Tonight I will be witnessing one of the greatest events that has ever happened in my lifetime,” Ahmed Hammam, a Luxor tour guide, told NBC News ahead of the event.  Hammam, 47, said that witnessing the restoration of the Avenue of Sphinxes after years of effort was “like a dream.”  “Today will be a day we will talk about for a hundred years to come,” said Hammam. “I hope everybody will enjoy it. Not just here in my hometown city, but in the whole of Egypt, and the whole of the world as well.”The road is believed to have been built to celebrate the annual Opet Festival in the ancient city of Thebes, now known as Luxor. The festival promoted fertility and included a procession that carried a statue of ceremonial gods from Karnak Temple to Luxor Temple. Performers take part in the reopening ceremony of the Avenue of Sphinxes on Nov. 25, 2021 in Luxor, Egypt.Mohamed El-Shahed / AP“The Opet festival will be held, as it was in the past at the time of the Pharaohs,” said Ali Abu Dashish, an Egyptian archaeologist and member of the Archaeological Union, ahead of Thursday’s event. Dashish said it should send a message from Egypt to the world that, “we preserve and restore antiquities.” Thursday’s festivities were part of an ongoing push to promote archeological discoveries as Egypt tries to revive its flagging tourism industry. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsDonors raise more than $950,000 to help Missouri man wrongfully convicted in 1979Racial ReckoningRacial ReckoningWhy juries reacted differently to Rittenhouse's and McMichael's defenses, experts sayPart of that effort has included staging spectacular public events like the one set to take place Thursday.In April Cairo held an elaborate procession, dubbed the Golden Parade, to move 22 ancient Egyptian royal mummies across the capital to a new museum. Zahi Hawass, an Egyptian archaeologist, called the Luxor site “the largest open [air] museum, the largest archeological site in the world” that tells the history of Egypt from the 2,000 BC era — known as the Dynasty XI — until the Roman Period. Hawass worked on the restoration of the Avenue of Sphinxes from 2005-2011, when work was stopped by the uprising. He said that Thursday’s festival sends an important message to the world that “Egypt is safe and we invite everyone to come back to Egypt.” El-Sissi, 63, led the military overthrow of Egypt’s first democratically elected president in 2013 and was re-elected to a second, four-year term in 2018. He has sought to restore stability to the key U.S. ally and worked hard to bring tourist dollars back to the country, whose economy has been further hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. Critics say he has muzzled opponents, activists and independent media in doing so. Charlene Gubash reported from Cairo, and Petra Cahill reported from London.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Mother who gave birth on a plane thanks first responders who delivered baby. A mother who gave birth to her first child on an airplane was reunited just days before Thanksgiving with the first responders who helped her safely deliver the baby.Liliana Castañeda and her husband, Edgar Acevedo, were on a Delta Air Lines flight heading home to North Carolina from Mexico on Nov. 14 when Castañeda started having contractions. Her water broke an hour into the flight.A Delta passenger named Liliana Castaneda-Avilia gave birth to a daughter after starting contractions during her descent into Atlanta airport.Atlanta AirportA nurse on board helped Castañeda for more than three hours until the plane landed at the Atlanta International Airport."He was like 'Yeah the baby girl is coming, it's on its way.' And he was like 'Don't try to push, because if you push more the baby will come out.' So I held those contractions for like three hours and 30 minutes on the way here,” Castañeda said in a video posted on social media on Wednesday by the Atlanta Fire Rescue Department, which responded to a 911 call from Delta alerting emergency authorities that Castañeda was in labor.First responders rushed to the airport and waited for the plane to arrive at the gate."The airplane was coming in exceedingly fast, faster than normal, so we knew there was an emergency, we knew people were nervous,” said Juanita Nash, one of the people who greeted the plane.Meet our newest baby on board✈️  On Nov. 14, Liliana began having contractions and baby began her initial descent into the world mid-flight. Once they landed, #ATLAirport’s @AtlantaFireRescue helped deliver Analia. Congrats and welcome to the newest member of our ATL flight club. pic.twitter.com/LWfyXGdwBz— Atlanta Airport (@ATLairport) November 24, 2021 As soon as Nash and other first responders were able to get inside the aircraft, they found Castañeda in the back of the plane, lying on the floor. After assessing the situation, emergency personnel decided to deliver the baby right there."I just pushed once and the baby girl came out crying," Castañeda said.Baby Analia Acevedo Castañeda was born aboard Delta flight 1804, according to the Atlanta Fire Rescue Department.“Once she did deliver, one of the flight attendants got on the microphone and she was able to say, 'Hey we have a baby girl,'" Nash said. "It was a special occasion."Analia Acevedo Castaneda was delivered by ATL fire crews.Atlanta AirportCastañeda was expecting her baby to arrive on Dec. 23, "but she came out early," the mother told WRAL, NBC's affiliate in Raleigh, North Carolina."I was nervous at the same time and worried for her and the baby," Acevedo, Analia's father, told WRAL.On Tuesday, the new parents met with Nash and other first responders who witnessed Analia's birth in Atlanta before the new family was able to return home to North Carolina for the holidays."Thank you to all the people that were in the airplane, like the EMS, the fire department, everybody who helped us," Castañeda added.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Donors raise more than $950,000 to help Missouri man wrongfully convicted in 1979. KANSAS CITY, Mo. — Donations are pouring in to help a man who was freed from a Missouri prison after a judge found that he was wrongfully convicted in 1979 in a triple killing.The GoFundMe fundraiser to benefit Kevin Strickland had surpassed its $430,000 goal by Wednesday afternoon, and donations kept coming. By Thursday evening, it had raised more than $950,000.  Many of the donors expressed outrage that the 62-year-old wouldn’t receive compensation from Missouri. The state only allows wrongful imprisonment payments to people exonerated through DNA evidence, so Strickland doesn’t qualify.RecommendedRacial ReckoningRacial ReckoningWhy juries reacted differently to Rittenhouse's and McMichael's defenses, experts sayU.S. newsU.S. newsThanksgiving travel rush returns: Airport screenings reach pandemic highStrickland has always maintained that he was home watching television and had nothing to do with the killings, which happened when he was 18 years old.Judge James Welsh, a retired Missouri Court of Appeals judge, ordered his release Tuesday, finding that evidence used to convict Strickland had since been recanted or disproven.The Midwest Innocence Project set up the online fundraiser in June as they fought for his release. They said he needed help paying for basic living expenses.Organizers praised donors Tuesday, writing that “All funds go directly to Mr. Strickland, who the state of Missouri won’t provide a dime to for the 43 years they stole from him.”As he left prison, Strickland said, “I can’t begin to say all the things I am thankful for.”On Friday, Strickland will flip the switch to light tge mayor's Christmas tree in Kansas City, Mo., Mayor Quinton Lucas said. Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'Afghan girl' from famous National Geographic cover is given refuge in Italy. Sharbat Gula, famously known as the green-eyed “Afghan Girl” from National Geographic's 1985 magazine cover, has received refuge in Italy amid efforts to evacuate Afghans after the Taliban took over the country three months ago when the U.S. withdrew its remaining troops from Afghanistan.Italy organized Gula's evacuation in response to requests made by nonprofit organizations that have been working in Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover in August and "have supported Sharbat Gula in her plea for help to leave her country," the Italian government said in a statement Thursday.Gula is now in the city of Rome, according to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. The Italian government will help to get her integrated into life in Italy, the statement said.The woman came to international renown after war photographer Steve McCurry photographed her when she was a young girl in a refugee camp nearly four decades ago, capturing her piercing green eyes. McCurry photographed her again in 2002.Former Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, right, meets with National Geographic's famed green-eyed "Afghan Girl" Sharbat Gulla in Kabul, Afghanistan, Nov. 9, 2016.Rahmat Gul / AP file"She went on to symbolize the vicissitudes and conflict of the chapter in history that Afghanistan and its people were going through at the time," the Presidency of the Council of Ministers said in a statement.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsDonors raise more than $950,000 to help Missouri man wrongfully convicted in 1979Racial ReckoningRacial ReckoningWhy juries reacted differently to Rittenhouse's and McMichael's defenses, experts sayIn 2014, Gula surfaced in Pakistan but went into hiding when authorities accused her of buying a fake Pakistani identification card and ordered her deported. She was flown to Kabul where the president hosted a reception for her at the presidential palace and handed her keys to a new apartment.Italy is one of several Western countries that have airlifted hundreds of Afghans out of the country following the departure of U.S. military forces and the Taliban takeover.Gula's travel to Italy is “part of the wider evacuation program in place for Afghan citizens and the government’s plan for their reception and integration,” the European nation added.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Chinese photographer apologizes after backlash over Dior model's 'Western' depiction. HONG KONG — A Chinese fashion photographer has apologized after backlash over work she did for French luxury brand Dior. The picture featured a tan, freckled model of Asian descent wearing traditional Chinese clothing while holding a black Lady Dior bag. It was criticized for perpetuating Western stereotypes of East Asian faces and failing to represent beauty standards in the region, which typically favor fairer skin and large eyes. The photo was removed from display at a Dior fashion exhibition in Shanghai in the wake of the controversy. Chen Man acknowledged the criticism of the photo as well as some of her earlier work.“I have reflected deeply and blamed myself for my naivety and ignorance at the time. I think that I must still formally apologize to everyone,” Chen said as she addressed her followers on social media earlier this week. “I am Chinese, born and raised, and I deeply love our country,” she added in the post, which drew reactions from thousands of users. “"I know that as an artist, I shoulder the responsibility of documenting and showcasing Chinese culture through my work. I will study more history and attend more relevant events to strengthen my ideologies.” Her apology follows fierce criticism from some netizens on Weibo, a social media platform in China similar to Twitter.Many users expressed anger over what they saw as a high-profile visual representation of Chinese women that adopted a different culture’s beauty standards. “Why do you want to maliciously distort and vilify China? It’s because the fashion circle is dominated by Westerners,” said one user, referring to the view that the Western lens promotes a traditional view of Chinese women that differs from local depictions of beauty.Chen, the photographer, is well-regarded. In 2019 the Global Times, an English-language newspaper published by the Communist Party, described her as China’s answer to U.S. photographer Annie Leibovitz, calling her a “shining star” with a unique perspective.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsDonors raise more than $950,000 to help Missouri man wrongfully convicted in 1979Racial ReckoningRacial ReckoningWhy juries reacted differently to Rittenhouse's and McMichael's defenses, experts sayBut she's also no stranger to controversy. She previously made headlines back in 2012, when social media users similarly took issue with her depictions of different Chinese ethnic minorities for British fashion magazine i-D.China offers a huge market for luxury brands and could be set to become the world’s largest luxury market by 2025, according to some estimates. But, while lucrative, it also offers challenges for Western companies.Dior emphasized that Chen’s photography was part of an art project for the company and “not a Dior commercial advertisement.”“Dior always respects the sentiments of Chinese people while complying strictly to Chinese law and regulation,” the French brand said in a statement on its Chinese social media account on Wednesday. “If any mistakes occur, we will receive the feedback and take immediate action to correct it,” it said. “Dior is unwaveringly loyal to Chinese consumers and society.”  NBC News has reached out to Dior for comment.It’s not Dior’s first time in the hot seat in regard to China. In 2019, a staff member at a company recruitment event used a map of the country that did not include Taiwan. China sees the self-governing island as part of its territory, but Taiwan has rejected this notion on multiple occasions.And Dior is not the only Western brand to face such issues. Earlier this year multiple fashion companies including H&M, Nike and Burberry faced social media backlash and even boycotts over their stance on cotton produced in Xinjiang, home to the country’s Uyghur Muslim minority.Meanwhile, in 2018, Dolce & Gabbana provoked outrage with an ad that featured an Asian model instructed to eat Italian food like spaghetti and pizza with a pair of chopsticks. The videos were later removed.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Virginia professor to step down after backlash to research on 'minor-attracted' people. An academic in Virginia whose research on “minor-attracted people” sparked threats and a petition calling for their removal announced their resignation Wednesday, university officials and the scholar said in a joint statement.Allyn Walker will remain on leave until they step down as an assistant professor of criminal justice and sociology at Old Dominion University in May. "We have concluded that this outcome is the best way to move forward," university President Brian Hemphill said in the statement.He added that he hoped the move will help bring "closure" as the school continues efforts "toward healing and civil discourse."  Walker, who said in Wednesday’s statement that their research was intended to prevent child sexual abuse, attributed the backlash to their trans identity and mischaracterizations promoted online and by some media outlets.The petition, signed by nearly 15,000 people, was started after Walker gave an interview about their book, "A Long, Dark Shadow: Minor-Attracted People and Their Pursuit of Dignity," published by University of California Press in June.The publisher described the book, which studies people who are attracted to minors and don't act on the attraction, as "challenging widespread assumptions that persons who are preferentially attracted to minors — often referred to as ‘pedophiles’ — are necessarily also predators and sex offenders.”Walker said in the interview: "I think we have a tendency to want to categorize people with these attractions as evil or morally corrupt. But when we’re talking about non-offending MAPS, these are people who have an attraction that they didn’t ask for. And one that frequently they would do anything to change. But they find that they’re unable to change those attractions. And most importantly, the people in my study did not act on them." (MAPs is short for "minor-attracted people.")RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsDonors raise more than $950,000 to help Missouri man wrongfully convicted in 1979Racial ReckoningRacial ReckoningWhy juries reacted differently to Rittenhouse's and McMichael's defenses, experts sayWalker added: "I want to be extremely clear that child sexual abuse is never ever okay."The petition said West's views were "unacceptable" and would "effect the next generation in a negative way."In an interview with The Washington Post, the student who started the petition said Walker's language is "basically a slap in the face to anybody who has been groomed as a child."Walker said in Wednesday’s statement that multiple threats had been made against them and thanked the school's public safety department for monitoring the threats."I am particularly grateful for the outpouring of support from many among the ODU community, as well as others in my research fields who have publicly affirmed the value of my work in advancing child safety," Walker said.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Freedges, or 'free fridges,' continue to expand nationwide. In the year since Victoria Jayne helped work on four community refrigerators across Philadelphia with free food, she has been amazed at how quickly they empty out. And hungry Philadelphians seem to be picking up food at every fridge they can find: in front of a medical office, by an art space, next to an apartment building and even by a playground.“The fridges, they roll over completely every eight hours,” she said. “You put something in at night. You show up the next morning and it’s gone.”The fridges are just a handful of the vast network of ever-expanding community food hubs that have been started across the country, in cities big and small. During the coronavirus pandemic, as the economy has been upended and demand at food banks has continued to surge in many places, so, too, has local food activists’ desire to create small locations where anyone can pick up a few items at any time with no questions asked. While the concept has existed for many years, the pandemic has inspired the creation of hundreds of new free fridges across dozens of cities over the last 18 months and made them something that is here to stay. Ernst Bertone Oehninger, who runs freedge.org, an online list of free fridges worldwide, estimates conservatively that the U.S. has 400 free fridges and that nearly all of them have been created in the past 18 months.   The fridges only continue to proliferate, and some are breaking out into different business models and offering other products. A fridge project in Chicago is not only providing food for pickup but also preparing free produce boxes for local delivery. Another group, in Washington state, offers not just food but also health-related products. A food bank in suburban Boston has expanded its traditional brick-and-mortar offerings to include a free fridge, set up in front of a dry cleaners. And a fridge project in Los Angeles offers bedding and other camping-related items for homeless communities desperate to stay warm.People gather to get free fresh produce from Dion's Dream fridge in Chicago on Nov. 16. Evan Jenkins for NBC News“It takes a tapestry of programs and approaches to eliminate the multifaceted problem of hunger in the United States, and community refrigerators for sure can play an important role,” said Diane Whitmore Schanzenbach, an economics professor and poverty expert at Northwestern University, who is on the board of the Greater Chicago Food Depository.How they workFree fridges generally operate by some version of a fairly straightforward motto: “Take what you need and leave what you can.”The goal is to provide reliable locations for people to get something to eat, particularly in neighborhoods that experience high rates of poverty.“We have people who go grocery shopping and leave some extras,” Jayne said.Some free fridges around the country, sometimes called “freedges,” run on donated groceries. Others operate more on cash donations, which are used to buy food to give away. The South Philadelphia Community Fridges rely primarily on donations of staples like cooking oil, coffee, cereal and other items from food banks, grocery stores, nonprofit organizations and individuals. In addition, the group takes in thousands of dollars in donations a month.Small but mightyFew people running free fridges have any illusions that they can make a vast, substantive impact on a national scale. But every little bit helps.A report released this year by the Agriculture Department found that over 10 percent of U.S. households, or nearly 14 million people, remain food-insecure. More than 1.3 million people face hunger in Pennsylvania as a whole, according to Feeding America, a nonprofit national food bank organization. Philabundance, Philadelphia’s largest food bank, distributed more than 55 million pounds of food last year, serving more than 135,000 people a week. Food policy experts say that even a four-location network of fridges, like those across south Philadelphia, can have a tiny but positive impact. One of the many benefits is that most free fridges never close, unlike food banks and pantries that have set distribution hours.Jayne said community-building is a critical part of the work she and the dozens of other volunteers do.“People need to eat. That’s really all there is to it,” she said. “It’s important to me that my neighbors’ needs are being met.” Kristin Guerin, who started her first free fridge in Miami over a year ago, recognizes that free fridge organizers’ efforts are minuscule compared to the scope of the problem. But she is proud of the small effort she has made to mitigate hunger.A community fridge in Miami. Chandan Khanna / AFP via Getty Images“A large part of the work that we have to refocus on is to counter that work to make sure that we are working for long-term change,” she said. “Community fridges are a Band-Aid. The ultimate goal is to end food insecurity.”Different modelsWhile the Philadelphia network of always-open fridges is one model, another model operates in the Englewood neighborhood on the South Side of Chicago, where Dion’s Dream Fridge is open seven hours a day, five days a week. The fridge is run by Dion Dawson, 30, who said he began his location across the street from a playground just over a year ago. The organization primarily takes cash donations but not food giveaways, and it prefers to buy food from retailers. Dawson said that unlike most single fridges or networks of fridges, his group is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization that has grown in the past year from a $20,000 budget to a $300,000 budget.“We realized that we would have to fill our fridge with brand new produce so we can stabilize the quality and be sure it’s as impactful as it possibly could be,” he said. “From there, since September 11, 2020, we have stocked our fridge every day. We don’t take donations or mutual aid.”Dion Dawson's Dream Fridge in Chicago.Evan Jenkins for NBC NewsDawson offers a variety of produce, including “bananas, strawberries, fresh cucumbers, baby carrots, red or green grapes, celery, butter lettuce, limes, lemons, apples, tangerines and white potatoes.”He said he personally knows what it’s like to be food insecure because he grew up homeless before he joined the Navy.“It’s about solving the problem and making sure I run my organization with all of the pillars that are important to me and the community. It’s about transparency and quality and consistency,” he said. “We’re focused on the end user’s experience, and we’re focused on problem-solving and not focused on the problem.”In recent months, Dawson has done something nearly all other free fridges have not — set up a free produce delivery system for those who prefer to have produce brought to their doors. He said the program has been so successful that it is on track to expand deliveries from 150 to 250 people by the end of the year.New productsSome free fridges are expanding to offer other items, as well. Karissa Halstrom expanded the free fridge idea in Vancouver, Washington, to include other items at the three locations she has launched since July.Halstrom said other, health-related, items are in the non-fridge pantry areas right next to the refrigerators themselves, like menstrual pads, tampons, condoms and masks.Similarly, Melissa Moulton Church, who works with Los Angeles Community Fridges, said that one location in her network accepts used bedding, like sleeping bags and tents — and that they get snapped up quickly."They get descended upon, and it’s great, and it’s upsetting when you realize how many people are cold in a city like L.A.," she said. "It’s an insatiable need that can’t be filled."Solo Morris holds the fridge door open as Danny Dierich stocks it with more items outside the Little Amsterdam Coffee shop in Los Angeles on July 16, 2020.Frederic J. Brown  / AFP via Getty Images fileNotably, unlike Dawson’s location in Chicago, the Vancouver Free Fridge Project rarely accepts cash donations, and even then, they are used to build shelters around a fridge.“The spirit is more we want people to bring stuff,” Halstrom said. “We’re at least working on prioritizing food rescue. We like the idea of people having an overabundance of something to bring something in.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsDonors raise more than $950,000 to help Missouri man wrongfully convicted in 1979Racial ReckoningRacial ReckoningWhy juries reacted differently to Rittenhouse's and McMichael's defenses, experts sayEarlier in the year, Halstrom said, the group raised over $4,500 on GoFundMe, two-thirds of which was spent on building materials, with just under a third left over.“We have a clothing and food drive that we’re going to be putting together in the winter,” she said. “We’ve also been talking to someone with land to do a community garden. It would be amazing to grow our own food and fill the fridges with fresh produce. My personal goal is to have as many [fridges] as we need in Vancouver. In a year, I would hope that we have more.”CORRECTION (Nov. 24, 2021, 11:53 a.m. ET): A previous version of this article misstated Victoria Jayne’s role at South Philadelphia Community Fridges. She is a volunteer, but she did not place the organization’s fridges in the community.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
The Taliban destroyed Afghanistan's ancient Buddha statues. Now they're welcoming tourists.. BAMIYAN, Afghanistan — The Taliban’s destruction of the Bamiyan Buddha statues in early 2001 shocked the world and highlighted their hard-line regime, toppled soon after in a U.S.-led invasion. Now back in charge of Afghanistan and eager to present a softer image, the militant group is running the site as a tourist attraction.For around $5, curious visitors can wander around and take photos of the giant holes in the cliff face where the ancient Buddha statues once stood. Under a white Taliban flag, soldiers man a booth and write out admission tickets.Sidiq Ullah, who is a supporter of the militant group, came to see the historic site this week with friends from Kandahar, around 350 miles southwest of Bamiyan. Now that the Taliban are in control, he said, he feels free to tour the country.“I was young when these were destroyed, about 7 years old, and since then it has been a dream to come and see what happened here,” he said. “I’m happy it was destroyed. I’m here to see the ruins actually.”The site of the Bamiyan Buddha statues. Wakil Kohsar / AFP via Getty ImagesCarved into the face of a cliff, the two 6th century Buddha statues — one 180 feet tall and the other 124 feet tall — towered over the valley.The area was a holy site for Buddhists on the ancient trading route between China and Europe known as the Silk Road. When the Taliban announced their plan to destroy the statues in 2001, they had come under heavy international pressure to keep them standing. But, labeling them un-Islamic, the group brought the statues down using heavy explosives.Since taking over the country again a few months ago, the Taliban have sought to present a more moderate face to the world despite a brutal crackdown in some areas. As the hard-line Islamic group navigates the economic and security challenges of governing the country after years of insurgency, it is also under pressure from international organizations to protect Afghanistan’s cultural heritage.“Bamiyan has always been a part of Afghanistan that the outside world has focused on,” said Llewelyn Morgan, the author of “The Buddhas of Bamiyan” and a professor of classics at the University of Oxford. “The Taliban know that and that’s why in their slightly inept way they are still trying to paint themselves as a constructive government.”A statue of the Buddha in Bamiyan in 1997, before the Taliban destroyed it. Jean Claude-Chapon / AFP via Getty ImagesCaves on the cliff face were once home to Buddhist monasteries and sanctuaries. Now those around the Buddhas are empty, while other caves farther away are home to families. Clothing flaps on laundry lines, children play in empty caves and some even have glass windows installed. UNESCO, or the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, declared the Bamiyan Valley a World Heritage Site in 2003.It worked with the U.S.-backed Afghan government to conserve what was left of the Buddha statues after the Taliban's destruction of the site. The organization had also backed a cultural center and museum in Bamiyan to “integrate local communities as well as to identify Bamiyan’s rich cultural backgrounds,” according to its website. With the Taliban in charge, its future was unclear. UNESCO didn’t respond to requests for comment. In the days after the militant group swept back to power in the summer, UNESCO issued a statement calling for the preservation of sites like it.“It is crucial for the future of Afghanistan to safeguard and preserve these landmarks,” the agency said.Though scaffolding remains in the niches where the Buddha statues once stood, the preservation work has now ended. Few visitors arrived when NBC News was at the site, despite the Taliban's stated willingness to welcome tourists.Abdullah Sarhadi, the area's governor who spent nearly four years as a prisoner in Guantanamo Bay, said that the Taliban have changed and that they will preserve historic monuments. For now, he is waiting to hear more from the upper levels of the Taliban government before making any changes to the site. “We want to show the world there is peace and security in Afghanistan now,” Sarhadi said.Gabe Joselow reported from Bamiyan, Afghanistan, and Rachel Elbaum reported from London.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Retailers ramp up security, cities reroute traffic to combat organized theft rings. Best Buy shoppers can expect to find more high-value merchandise behind locked shelves and a larger security presence in certain stores.Along Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills, California, a pair of private security companies are patrolling the ritzy shopping district in response to attempted smash-and-grab robberies at Louis Vuitton and Saks Fifth Avenue stores last weekend.Meanwhile, in San Francisco's Union Square, following a spate of thefts and vandalism Friday night at nearly a dozen stores, including Louis Vuitton, Burberry and Bloomingdale's, city officials announced traffic patterns near high-end retailers had been readjusted so that thieves can't easily park, commit a robbery and then speed off."We will do what we need to do to put an end to this madness," San Francisco Police Chief William Scott told reporters.A lingering fear of coordinated large-scale robberies is rattling retailers, not only in cities like San Francisco, Los Angeles and Chicago, where videos of such thefts have gone viral, but in affluent suburbs not normally targeted involving tens of thousands of dollars worth of products.Dozens of looters target California Nordstrom in violent robberyNov. 22, 202101:59Businesses, shopping malls and law enforcement agencies are weighing which protective measures to take as customers begin packing stores during the busiest shopping days ahead, including Black Friday, and in the midst of an economic backdrop of higher prices and shipping delays. A recent survey by the research firm The NPD Group found that online sales are settling back to pre-pandemic levels and brick-and-mortar stores are regaining their share of the retail sales market as shoppers yearn to return to the in-person experience.But the threat of smash-and-grab incidents at already bustling stores can be "a dangerous rodeo," said Read Hayes, a criminologist at the University of Florida and director of the Loss Prevention Research Council, a retail industry trade group.Last Saturday, about 80 people ransacked a Nordstrom store in the San Francisco suburb of Walnut Creek and drove off with merchandise in an audacious flash-mob-style frenzy. Five employees suffered minor injuries, and three people were arrested shortly afterward, police said.Walnut Creek officials have ramped up the town's police presence and closed down a street to cars to deter copycats."If it means that we are going to detour roads, if it means we're going to have more police on the street and more security around, whatever it is, every option is on the table," Walnut Creek Mayor Kevin Wilk told NBC Bay Area.He also told NBC News that investigators are looking at how social media appears to have been used to orchestrate organized retail robbery.In San Francisco, officials have vowed to go after those responsible. District Attorney Chesa Boudin announced nine people were arrested on Tuesday in connection with the Union Square thefts and other cases, charging the suspects with burglary, grand theft, receiving stolen property and looting.Three people were also arrested early Tuesday after a large group attempted to break into a Nordstrom at The Grove mall in Los Angeles after hours. A sledgehammer was found at the scene.Nordstrom said as a result of the incidents in Los Angeles and Walnut Creek, it is "positioning security personnel inside and outside of our stores and working closely with mall security and law enforcement to anticipate and minimize risk."There will also be more response training for employees and the retailer, which has 100 full-service stores across the country, said it is "heightening our in-store security presence and implementing additional protective measures to keep everyone safe.”RecommendedWorldWorldPhotographer apologizes, Dior pulls work after backlash in China over model's 'Western' depictionBusiness NewsBusiness NewsNavajo rebuild traditional foodways as inflation, supply chain woes hit hardCalifornia Gov. Gavin Newsom announced this week that he would direct "substantially more" law enforcement officers in highly trafficked retail corridors, and the California Highway Patrol's Organized Retail Crime Task Force said it was increasing its presence near freeways adjacent to major shopping centers.In August, Newsom, a Democrat, signed a law that funds the task force through the end of 2025, focusing on "ringleaders and conspirators of these criminal networks and not the low-level petty thief." He said he plans to propose more funding in next fiscal year's budget toward combating organized retail thefts statewide.Newsom, who owns a hospitality company that includes wine shops and restaurants, said he knows first-hand how destructive criminal acts can be after his business was broken into three times this year."I have no sympathy, no empathy whatsoever for people smashing and grabbing, stealing people's items, creating havoc and terror on our streets," Newsom told reporters. "We want real accountability, we want people prosecuted and we want people to feel safe this holiday season."To ward off criminals, Hayes said it may take an array of tools at retailers' disposal. Not just increasing security presence, he added, but using technology that can make a stolen item ineffective unless it's activated when purchased, locking or tying up merchandise, positioning products in strategic locations that make them harder to run away with and also training employees to be more vigilant while also engaging in customer service."There's long been a flash rob/flash mob effort," Hayes said, "but this is the boldest I've ever seen it."Authorities and retail experts say these more aggressive actions may be the result, in part, of retailers also taking tougher stances on criminal activity like shoplifting. There's also money to be made by these organized retail rings which can amass millions of dollars worth of products and sell them online or in other countries with the earnings laundered back to the United States.The Coalition of Law Enforcement and Retail, a trade association, estimates organized retail crime leads to about $45 billion in losses for retailers each year, with more then $500 billion in illicit stolen and counterfeit goods getting sold on third-party platforms like Amazon."Back when they hit me, they could sell at flea markets and to friends, but now, it's easier," said Georganne Bender, a retail consultant in Illinois who managed a ladies' boutique in the 1980s along the Magnificent Mile commercial district in Chicago. "There's eBay and Poshmark and a gazillion other places."Bender said smaller retailers may have to consider solutions like locking doors and only allowing a limited number of guests in at a time or requiring appointments, but those options aren't shopper friendly and "one way or another a mob intent on entering the store is going to get in."Best Buy CEO Corie Barry, who on an earnings call this week lamented the string of high-profile robbery incidents across the retail industry, said Tuesday on CNBC that she unsure's what's driving the crimes, but they remain hard to stop."We are finding ways where we can lock up product but still make that a good customer experience," Barry said in the earnings call. "In some instances, we're hiring security. We're working with our vendors on creative ways we can stage the product."As retailers decry the thefts, the wave of incidents has been highlighted by industry groups to call for the strengthening of laws, which they say have been loosened to the detriment of businesses as some cities and states move toward decriminalizing certain low-level offenses.In California, property and violent crime rates have actually fallen in recent years to historic lows. And experts say it remains to be seen what kind of long-term effect factors such as the pandemic and friction between communities and the police will have on organized retail theft and how widespread it may become.Bender, the retail consultant, said stores are just busy concentrating on what's coming: a major shopping weekend. "There's already a lot of land mines for retailers, between how to prevent shoplifters to can we get enough merchandise," she said."This is a huge weekend for these stores who want people to come in and be comfortable and happy," she added, "not thinking in the back of their minds are they going to be hit by a mob of thieves."Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'They almost got away with it': How a leaked video led to convictions in the Ahmaud Arbery case. Nearly two years before a jury convicted three white men in the shooting death of Ahmaud Arbery, authorities had said there was no need to arrest them.On Wednesday, an almost all-white jury found Travis McMichael, his father, Gregory McMichael, and neighbor William "Roddie" Bryan guilty in the murder of Arbery in Georgia. But the three might never have been indicted in the first place had it not been for a leaked video that prompted calls for attention to his death. “I don’t want to be a spoilsport, but what if that video had not come out several months later?” Michael Irvin, a teacher from the Orlando, Florida, area told NBC News outside the courthouse Wednesday. “A young Black man would have been taken from his family and community with no one held responsible. That part, I can’t ignore. So, I’m happy justice was served.”The McMichaels and Bryan were not arrested until months after they chased Arbery in a pickup truck in Satilla Shores, their neighborhood near Brunswick, on Feb. 23, 2020. Travis McMichael shot Arbery, a 25-year-old Black man, with a shotgun at close range. Bryan filmed the fatal encounter on his cellphone. Only after video footage of the fatal shooting leaked online May 5, 2020, did authorities arrest the trio on felony murder charges. In the video, Arbery jogs down a road as a white pickup truck blocks his path. He is shown running around the vehicle, and a shot is fired. Then, Arbery and another man appear to scuffle and two more shots are fired. After the verdict, social media platforms lit up with comments from users who said the case wouldn’t have gone to trial at all if the video hadn’t thrust the case into the national spotlight and sparked an outcry. “They almost got away with it,” one social media user tweeted. “It’s devastating that these guiltily verdicts feel like a miracle.” RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsDonors raise more than $950,000 to help Missouri man wrongfully convicted in 1979Racial ReckoningRacial ReckoningWhy juries reacted differently to Rittenhouse's and McMichael's defenses, experts sayAnother person tweeted, “I’m happy Ahmaud Arbery’s killers are cooked. But never forget that this is not an example of the justice system working. Police didn’t arrest these men. Prosecutors didn’t want them charged. The video wasn’t released initially. It took outrage and pressure to make this happen.”The defense had argued that the men thought Arbery was a burglar and were attempting to make a citizen’s arrest and they acted in self-defense. However, Travis McMichael admitted during the trial that Arbery hadn’t shown a weapon or threatened him or spoken to him at all before he shot him. Travis McMichael was convicted of malice murder, felony murder, aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony. Gregory McMichael and William Bryan were found not guilty of the malice murder charge. All three face up to life in prison. News of the killing largely remained under wraps in the weeks that followed. Arbery’s mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones, accused Glynn County, Georgia, police and two local prosecutors of conspiring to cover up Arbery’s murder and protect the men involved in his death. A $1 million lawsuit filed earlier this year alleges that the police department and officials with the Brunswick County District Attorney’s Office worked together to paint Arbery as a violent criminal and absolve the McMichaels and Bryan of wrongdoing. The lawsuit has been stalled amid the trial. Just days after the shooting, Jackie Johnson, the Brunswick-area district attorney, recused herself from the case because she had worked with Gregory McMichael, a former Glynn County police officer, for decades. George Barnhill briefly took over the case. He soon recused himself but defended the actions of the McMichaels and Bryan, advising police that “he did not see grounds for the arrest of any of the individuals involved in Mr. Arbery’s death.” Now, in a statement following the verdict, Cooper-Jones admitted that she never believed she’d see the men convicted. “It’s been a long fight. It’s been a hard fight, but God is good,” she told reporters Wednesday. “To tell you the truth, I never saw this day back in 2020. I never thought this day would come.”Follow NBCBLK on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Attorney General Garland orders federal prosecutors to make air travel assault cases a priority. WASHINGTON — Attorney General Merrick Garland directed government prosecutors Wednesday to make federal crimes on commercial airliners a priority after a spate of violent outbursts on planes.In a memo to U.S. attorneys and the FBI, Garland said the Justice Department is concerned about the rise in criminal behavior on planes that endangers the safety of passengers, flight crews and flight attendants.“Passengers who assault, intimidate, or threaten violence against flight crews and flight attendants do more than harm those employees. They prevent the performance of critical duties that help ensure safe air travel,” he said.The Justice Department and the Federal Aviation Administration are sharing information more quickly about such cases, and the FBI is looking into dozens of incidents, Garland said. The FAA said it has received 5,338 reports of unruly passengers this year, the vast majority of them originating as disputes over the requirement to wear masks to reduce the spread of the coronavirus.The Transportation Security Administration's mask requirement for passengers on planes, buses and trains is scheduled to expire Jan. 18. But it has been extended twice before.Aviation officials said the number of incidents dropped after the FAA launched its Zero Tolerance campaign and began assessing stiff fines against unruly passengers.In a recent case, a California man was charged with attacking a flight attendant on an American Airlines flight from New York to Orange County, California, forcing the plane to make an emergency landing in Denver. The man, Brian Hsu, 20, of Irvine, was charged with assault and interfering with a flight crew. He was released on $15,000 bail.A woman was fined $24,000 this year after she was alleged to have failed to wear her mask and to have become disruptive on an American Airlines flight from Tampa, Florida, to Miami. On her way off the plane, authorities said, she assaulted a flight attendant by shoving her in the chest.
Trump argues Jan. 6 panel's pursuit of his records could permanently damage the presidency. Attorneys for former President Donald Trump argued Wednesday that the pursuit of his White House records by a congressional committee investigating the Jan. 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol could have long-lasting, harmful effects on the presidency."The [committee’s] clear disdain for President Trump is leading them to a course of action that will result in permanent damage to the institution of the presidency," Trump's attorneys wrote in a brief filed in federal court."In reality, their success would gut the protections afforded presidential communications of any just and uniform standard. An incumbent president would always be able to condemn the actions of a former president from a rival party and permit confidentiality to be broken to further political ends,” they wrote.Lawyers for the bipartisan Jan. 6 committee urged the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for Washington, D.C., this week to quickly release Trump White House records related to the attack on the Capitol. The court is scheduled to hear arguments Tuesday.Court order over Jan. 6 documents could be bad sign for TrumpNov. 24, 202101:23Trump is appealing a ruling this month by U.S. District Judge Tanya Chutkan, who said the House committee's pursuit of his records was valid. Trump has claimed executive privilege over his White House records, but President Joe Biden refused to grant the privilege over the documents, including memos, emails, records of White House conversations and visitor logs.RecommendedPolitics NewsPolitics NewsU.S. lawmakers defy China by meeting with officials in TaiwanElectionsElectionsGeorgia teens become unlikely warriors in redistricting fightTrump’s attorneys have suggested in briefs that partisanship motivated Biden.The appeals court recently granted Trump a short-term reprieve by temporarily blocking the National Archives from turning his White House files over to the Jan. 6 committee.In addition to seeking the records, the House committee has issued batches of subpoenas in recent weeks to dozens of Trump administration officials and allies of the former president. The committee issued a new round of subpoenas Monday targeting high-profile Trump allies like Roger Stone and Alex Jones.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Santa Claus gets a boyfriend in Norwegian Christmas commercial. Norway’s 375-year-old postal service, Posten Norge, this week has released a festive commercial ahead of the holiday season with Santa Claus getting a boyfriend.The popular image of Mrs. Claus helping out at the North Pole has been dropped to show a more inclusive perspective this year. The four-minute clip titled "When Harry met Santa" — a light-hearted reference to the 1989 movie "When Harry Met Sally" — has well-known Scandinavian actors Johan Ehn and Terje Stromdahl, respectively, playing the lead roles.The couple meet when Harry spots Father Christmas delivering presents to his home. They gaze across to each other before Santa disappears up the chimney. The clip continues to show the annual meetings between the pair as Santa delivers more gifts. Before each fleeting visit Harry carefully selects his outfits and sprays himself with cologne. Eventually Harry is seen writing a letter to Santa saying, “All I want for Christmas is you.” In the final scene, the couple kiss in a loving embrace.The ad has been produced to mark 50 years since the decriminalization of homosexuality in Norway. The country has some of Europe’s most progressive LGBTQ legislation, with the Gay Travel Index consistently ranking Norway as one of the most gay-friendly places in the world. Civil partnerships have been legal since 1993 and LGBTQ people able to serve openly in the military since 1979. The clip has quickly garnered international attention with Canadian Member of Parliament, Randall Garrison, tweeting he was breaking his “no Christmas before December rule” to thank Norwegian Post for their “strong and moving message of inclusion.” The ad on YouTube has been viewed more than 600,000 times in just three days.Norwegian Post tell NBC News their aim was to “show love has no limits” and reaction within Norway so far has been “overwhelming.” No decision has yet been made on if there will be a follow up to Santa’s love story next year.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
12 LGBTQ milestones we’re thankful for this year. As many LGBTQ Americans plan to gather with their families — or "chosen families" —  for the holidays, Thanksgiving might look more normal this year. But whether you are celebrating over a Zoom call or laughing with loved ones over “RuPaul’s Drag Race” reruns and turkey, there is always a reason to be thankful.From a record number of LGBTQ athletes competing in the Olympics to JoJo Siwa’s historic run on ABC’s “Dancing With The Stars,” here are a dozen queer milestones we’re thankful for this year. JoJo Siwa on 'Dancing With the Stars' Jojo Siwa and her dance partner, Jenna Johnson, finished in 2nd place. Eric McCandless / ABC via Getty ImagesReality star and YouTube sensation JoJo Siwa, 18, made history on ABC's "Dancing With the Stars" as the first competitor in the the show's 30 seasons to dance with a same-sex partner. Siwa and her dance partner, Jenna Johnson, finished in second place after their groundbreaking run. Following this season's finale on Monday, Siwa shared an Instagram post  expressing her gratitude for the production crew, the judges, her loved ones and — of course — her dance partner. “I’m so beyond proud of you and I’m so proud of us!!! We did it. I’m so proud of every dance we did. I’m so proud of the stories that we told. And I am MORE than proud of the message that we spread,” Siwa, who came out as part of the LGBTQ community earlier this year, wrote. “I’m so thankful that kids today have moments in history like this to look to and realize that LOVE IS LOVE and being who you are is beautiful. Celebrate being born the way you are everyday no matter what!”A record number of LGBTQ Olympians Canada's Quinn with their gold medal on August 6, 2021, in Yokohama, Japan. Naomi Baker / Getty ImagesThis year's Tokyo Summer Games was dubbed by some as the "Rainbow Olympics” for its record number of LGBTQ competitors. At least 186 out athletes from around the world were present at this year’s competition, more than triple the number at the 2016 Rio Summer Games, according to LGBTQ sports site Outsports. Perhaps even more impressive is that these queer Olympians earned earned 32 individual and team medals in Tokyo. Outsports founder Cyd Zeigler noted that these athletes "didn't just show up — they also performed at a very high level." British diver Tom Daley was among the medalists, earning his first gold medal, along with his synchronized diving partner, Matty Lee. Daley, who is married to American screenwriter Dustin Lance Black, has appeared in four Olympic competitions and has won a total of four medals: one gold and three bronze.Canadian soccer star Quinn made history at the Tokyo Summer Games as the first out transgender athlete to ever compete in the Olympics. Quinn, a midfielder, helped Canada's women's soccer team defeat Sweden in the final game to win the country's first-ever gold in the event. These adorable 'Old Gays'(L-R) Bill Lyons, Jessay Martin, Robert Reeves and Mick PetersonJon Premosch for TODAYTikTok stars Robert Reeves, Mick Peterson, Bill Lyons and Jessay Martin — known collectively as the “Old Gays” — achieved fame this year for their viral videos showing everything from their hilarious reactions to Cardi B’s “WAP” music video to sharing their coming-out journeys to a look back on the loves of their lives.The foursome of gay men, who range in age from the mid-60s to late 70s, have more than 3.2 million followers and 320 million views across their social media platforms.“I’m still having a hard time wrapping my head around that, truly,” Lyons, 77, told NBC’s TODAY.com in June. “I mean, at 77 years old, I never had any idea that this would happen to me. It’s totally surreal. I feel like a dinosaur, but the way that people are reacting to me and to the others, I can’t believe it.”In November, the quartet signed with Brian Graden Media (BGM) to develop a docuseries about their personal and professional social media lives, all while living together in Cathedral City, California.Heartwarming stories of queer loveThis Valentine’s Day, we turned to the NBC Out community, asking longtime LGBTQ couples to give us guidance on what it means — and what it takes — to thrive together.Marianne and Vicki Oakes were among the couples that shared their story. Four years after they met, when they were both 19, Marianne came out to Vicki as transgender. “I sat down with her and said, ‘This is how it is for me. I’ve got these feelings.’ I didn’t know where it was going to go,” Marianne told NBC News in February. “I was on my own with this. Back then there was no education.”A year later, they were married and have been together for more than four decades. Marianne said sharing her love story is part of her mission in the world as a counselor for trans people. “There’s a narrative that trans people can’t find love,” Marianne said. “That narrative and that myth keeps us frightened and from being seen. We can find love. Perpetuating the myth must stop.”Celebrities who came out in 2021JoJo Siwa, Carl Nassib and Demi Lovato.NBC News; Getty Images; ReutersActor and singer Demi Lovato came out as nonbinary in May and said they would be changing their pronouns to they/them.“Not only has my life been a journey for myself, I was also living for those on the other side of the cameras,” Lovato, who got their start on “Barney & Friends” and has had roles on shows like “Grey’s Anatomy” and “Prison Break,” wrote on Twitter.“Today is a day I’m so happy to share more of my life with you all — I am proud to let you know that I identify as nonbinary & will officially be changing my pronouns to they/them moving forward,” Lovato, 29, told fans at the time.Other celebrities and public figures to come out this year include NFL player Carl Nassib, Brothers Osborne singer-guitarist TJ Osborne and actor Cassandra "Elvira" Peterson.First-time gay parentsChasten and Pete Buttigieg shared this image of their newborns, Penelope Rose and Joseph August, on Sept. 4, 2021.Pete Buttigieg / via TwitterTransportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg announced in September that he and his husband, Chasten, officially became parents of two children.“Chasten and I are beyond thankful for all the kind wishes since first sharing the news that we’re becoming parents,” Buttigieg tweeted alongside a photo of him and his husband holding their newborn son and daughter. “We are delighted to welcome Penelope Rose and Joseph August Buttigieg to our family.”Being a first-time parent is the “most demanding thing I think I’ve ever done,” Buttigieg, a former Navy intelligence officer and 2020 presidential candidate, said in October.Former boy band star Lance Bass and husband Michael Turchin also welcomed their two newborn babies, via surrogate, in October.“Haven’t slept much in 5 days and I’m covered in ick but I’ve never been so happy!” he captioned a quartet of photos of daughter Violet Betty and son Alexander James shortly after their birth. “Now there are four of us in this house that wear diapers (hint: it’s not me or @michaelturchinart).”Newly out queer superheroes Batman's Urban Legends series featuring Robin.DC ComicsQueer representation in comic books exploded this year, with comics reinventing character fan favorites — including Robin, Batwoman and the Flash — as part of the LGBTQ community.Most notably, the internet exploded when DC Comics announced that the next-generation Superman Jonathan Kent, the son of Clark Kent and Lois Lane, is bisexual. DC made the announcement on National Coming Out Day in October.“When I was offered this job, I thought, ‘Well, if we’re going to have a new Superman for the DC Universe, it feels like a missed opportunity to have another straight white savior,’” series writer Tom Taylor told Reuters in an October interview.When Marvels’ “Eternals” hit theaters earlier this month, superhero fans got to see the first openly queer superhero in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, Phastos. Played by “Atlanta” star Brian Tyree Henry, Phastos is part of a tribe of alien immortals with fantastic powers and is married to a human husband, played by actor Haaz Sleiman.A transgender winner on 'RuPaul’s Drag Race'Kylie Sonique Love during the finale of 'RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars 6.'VH1 / Paramount +For the first time in the history of the U.S. “RuPaul’s Drag Race” franchise, a transgender contestant was crowned the winner of the hit competition show. Kylie Sonique Love snagged the crown of the sixth season of “RuPaul’s Drag Race All Stars,” which streamed on Paramount+.“I couldn’t have done this without thanking the universe every single day, for all my blessings and all the people around me that believed in my dreams,” Love said following her win in September. “I’m so grateful to Paramount+, World of Wonder and RuPaul for taking everything she’s learned in the business and for giving people like me an opportunity. Not just drag queens but trans people, and I’m so grateful to be the first trans representation with the crown.”Lil Nas X’s cover of Dolly Parton’s 'Jolene'Lil Nas X performs on Jan. 23, 2020 in Los Angeles.Emma McIntyre / Getty Images for Spotify fileRapper Lil Nas X released a cover performance of Dolly Parton’s 1974 hit “Jolene” in September, garnering more than 3.8 million views on YouTube.Parton said in a tweet that she “was so excited” when someone told her that Lil Nas X had covered “Jolene.”“I had to find it and listen to it immediately … and it’s really good,” she wrote, adding, “I was surprised and I’m honored and flattered.”The 22-year-old rapper appeared awestruck in his Twitter response to the music legend.Historic queer cover modelsBretman Rock has become the first gay man to grace the cover of Playboy.PlayboySporting the iconic Playboy bunny outfit — heels, black tights, a bow-tie and lingerie topped with bunny ears — makeup guru Bretman Rock  made queer cover model history in October, becoming the first gay man to grace the digital cover of Playboy magazine.“For Playboy to have a male on the cover is a huge deal for the LGBT community, for my brown people community and it’s all so surreal,”  Rock, who is Filipino American, said at the time on Twitter.Model Ariel Nicholson also made history, as the first transgender person to be featured on the cover of U.S. Vogue.Nicholson was one of eight models to grace the cover of the fashion magazine’s “Generation America”-themed September issue.“To have the opportunity to participate in the shifting landscape of fashion is a dream come true,” she wrote in the caption of an Instagram post celebrating the milestone. Pulse nightclub designated a national memorialMourners lay flowers at the Pulse memorial in Orlando, Fla., on June 12, 2021.DeFodi / via Getty ImagesIn a rare showing of bipartisanship on LGBTQ issues, the U.S. Senate unanimously passed legislation in June designating the site of Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida, a national memorial.On June 12, 2016, 49 patrons were killed and dozens more wounded in one of the country’s most gruesome massacres. President Joe Biden signed the legislation into law several days after the fifth anniversary of the attack.“The unanimous consent is such welcome news as we are set to mark the five-year remembrance of the Pulse tragedy,” the Pulse nightclub said in a statement at the time. “This recognition from both the House and Senate means so much to the LGBTQ+ community. #WeWillNotLetHateWin”Queer Grammy and Emmy nomineesLil Nas X performs at the MTV Video Music Awards in Brooklyn, N.Y., on Sept. 12.John Shearer / MTV VMAs 2021 / Getty Images for MTV / ViacomCBSRapper Lil Nas X’s hit song about gay sex was nominated for three Grammy Awards, catapulting LGBTQ narratives to the highest echelon of achievement in the music industry.The provocative song — “Montero (Call Me By Your Name)” — is up for song of the year, record of the year and best music video at the 64th annual Grammy Awards, which are being held Jan. 31 in Los Angeles.Its title is a reference to the gay romance novel and 2017 film “Call Me By Your Name.” But its lyrics are less about love and more about lust, with lines including “romantic talking? You don’t even have to try” and “I’m not fazed, only here to sin.”Other LGBTQ artists who received Grammy nominations this year include singer-songwriter Brandi Carlile, pop star Halsey and singer-songwriter Arlo Parks.Although she did not end up wining in September, Mj Rodriguez made history in July for becoming the first transgender performer to pick up an Emmy nomination for a major acting category. Rodriguez was nominated in the lead drama actress category for her role as Blanca Rodriguez on FX’s hit show “Pose.”Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Michigan teachers told to take down Pride flags after 'external challenge'. A middle school teacher in southern Michigan resigned after he and other educators in his district were told to remove LGBTQ Pride flags they had up in their classrooms.Teachers were told to take down the flags after Three Rivers Community Schools in Three Rivers, Michigan, received an “external challenge” about the symbols that had "reached the board level," according to an email obtained by NBC affiliate WOOD of Grand Rapids. “The rumors kind of floating around was that there's one or two parents that complained about the flags being in the classroom,” said Russell Ball, the teacher who resigned.Ball, who said he is part of the LGBTQ community, told WOOD that he is "disheartened and saddened." “To me, the flag represents love and inclusion for everybody, not just whoever is of the LGBTQIA+ community,” he said. “The students losing that representation throughout the classrooms really hurt. Losing my own representation in the classroom really hurt. It was just something I was not prepared to do.”The district's interim superintendent, Nikki Nash, said in a statement that it was “an ongoing situation.”“We continue to work with the district’s legal firm and board of education to ensure we are providing a safe learning environment for all students,” the statement read. RecommendedOUT NewsOUT NewsSanta Claus gets a boyfriend in Norwegian Christmas commercialOUT Life and StyleOUT Life and Style12 LGBTQ milestones we’re thankful for this yearFor the full story, visit NBC affiliate WOOD. Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Lil Nas X's song about gay sex earns 3 Grammy nominations. Rapper Lil Nas X's hit song about gay sex was nominated Tuesday for three Grammy Awards, catapulting LGBTQ narratives to the highest echelon of achievement in the music industry.The provocative song  — “Montero (Call Me By Your Name)” — is up for song of the year, record of the year and best music video at the 64th annual Grammy Awards, which are being held Jan. 31 in Los Angeles. Its title is a reference to the gay romance novel and 2017 film “Call Me By Your Name.” But its lyrics are less about love and more about lust, with lines including “romantic talking? You don’t even have to try” and "I’m not fazed, only here to sin." Grammy awards announce nominees for 64th annual ceremonyNov. 23, 202100:26In the music video for the song, Lil Nas X is seduced out of what appears to be the Garden of Eden, falls into hell and gives the devil a lap dance.Lil Nas X, whose real name is Montero Lamar Hill, celebrated his nominations and thanked his fans in a string of Twitter posts."don’t have to win a single award, truly thankful for all the insight this year has brought me. and thankful for the journey. love u guys," the 22-year-old rapper wrote.In total, he was nominated for five of the major music awards, including for album of the year for his debut studio album, “Montero,” which opened at No. 2 on the Billboard 200 albums chart. Last year, he won two out of the six Grammy Awards he was nominated for, including for best music video for his hit song "Old Town Road (Remix)."LGBTQ advocates applauded the groundbreaking nature of the rapper's nominations."Lil Nas X continues to open doors for greater LGBTQ inclusion in rap and hip-hop, which will undoubtedly inspire and empower a new generation of artists to embrace their authenticity and individuality," GLAAD President & CEO Sarah Kate Ellis said in a statement Tuesday. Other LGBTQ artists who received Grammy nominations Tuesday include singer-songwriter Brandi Carlile, pop star Halsey and singer-songwriter Arlo Parks. Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
How one organization is combating a food crisis worsened by the pandemic. Christopher Bradshaw had already been running his nonprofit Dreaming Out Loud for more than a decade when the pandemic hit. The organization works toward fighting food scarcity in the Washington, D.C., area by partnering with local farmers, caterers, restaurants and other food relief organizations to prepare and distribute free meals. As the pandemic hit the District, Bradshaw knew the organization's work would be vital to helping people survive, like one single mother who came in search of meals for her children.  “She came to us and said, ‘I’m really happy that you all are here and thankful that you all are here, because I have $14 in my bank account, and my father died last week,’ and she was there with two kids,” Bradshaw recalled. “She said, ‘I don’t know how I was going to feed my kids.’ We see and hear those types of things.”Food banks face harsh economic reality ahead of the holiday seasonNov. 21, 202103:38Beyond Washington, Black communities across the country face disproportionately higher rates of food scarcity, which has only been compounded by the Covid-19 pandemic. Food insecurity rates among Black households with children were nearly double compared to white households with children, according to a July 2020 report by the Institute for Policy Research at Northwestern University; food insecurity rates for Black respondents hovered around 41 percent, the report found, while for white respondent food insecurity rates were around 23 percent.In D.C., Dreaming Out Loud saw the need early in the pandemic, and got to work with World Central Kitchen, which provides meals to people around the globe struck by disasters, and Little Sesame, a renowned group of restaurants, to launch Meals for the City, with other Black-owned caterers and businesses. They distributed thousands of meals from a middle school from March 2020 to July. “We knew there were folks who were already working on these issues, that had roots in the community, that had relationships, and that were trusted,” said Nick Wiseman, co-founder of Little Sesame. “So we really leaned on Chris and his team at Dreaming Out Loud to sort of establish that trust in the community we were serving.”Black communities in the D.C. region were among the hardest hit  by the pandemic. According to 2021 research by the Kaiser Family Foundation, 58 percent of people infected with Covid-19 in Washington were Black, although Black people make up only 45 percent of the District’s population. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsDonors raise more than $950,000 to help Missouri man wrongfully convicted in 1979Racial ReckoningRacial ReckoningWhy juries reacted differently to Rittenhouse's and McMichael's defenses, experts sayDiane Schanzenbach, an economist and the director of the Institute for Policy Research at Northwestern University, said the problem of economic disparity in the Black community is linked to declining wages and wealth gaps. It is also harder for Black and Latino families, along with lower education groups, to recover from recessions.“It is just an economic fact about recessions, that Black people’s unemployment rates spike higher when there’s an economic downturn, and it takes longer for them to come back down to normal,” Schanzenbach said. “It means there’s more suffering. It means there’s more economic uncertainty for Black families.”Bradshaw said he sees the results of these disparities across the communities he serves. Before the pandemic, one of Dreaming Out Loud’s main initiatives was leading a Black farm Community Supported Agriculture program, which sources produce from Black farmers from across the region. Dreaming Out Loud also partners with multiple local organizations to ensure healthy food is accessible in schools, restaurants and small grocers.Dreaming Out Loud’s Black Farm CSA program priority-sources produce from Black farmers in six states.Courtesy Dreaming Out Loud“We would have folks come up and say, literally, ‘I have HIV and sickle cell. So, if this farmer’s market wasn’t here, I wouldn’t be able to afford healthy food to stay alive,’” Bradshaw said. “So those are the things that drove our response, and also kept us going when things were challenging.” While Bradshaw said that large-scale government restitution and economic protection would have a greater impact on these disparities, his organization is attempting to fill the gaps that systemic racism creates. The organization also tries to shape the nutrition of D.C.’s young people through its food and farm hub, which sources fresh produce for its programs, and also provides ingredients for students’ lunches at Kelly Miller Middle School.For Thanksgiving this year, Dreaming Out Loud has already distributed turkeys and other ingredients to help as many families as possible gather around tables. The organization also plans to distribute soup made from recovered pumpkins.Beyond the holidays, through its annual Dream Program, the organization trains more than 30 food entrepreneurs in how to successfully launch their business. By expanding into a new shared location with its partner, D.C. Central Kitchen, Dream Program participants will use the new kitchen space to hone their skills and take advantage of opportunities such as taking on catering jobs and selling their products in stores.“At an organizational level,” Bradshaw said, “it’s important for us to be involved in the work because by being involved in your work, we’re engaged and involved in the struggle, which allows us the platform to talk about these bigger picture issues around reparations and justice, that are integral to being able to build out a decent, honorable, deserved and well-lived life for Black folks in America.”Follow NBCBLK on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Ahmaud Arbery's Black neighbors and supporters react to the verdict. BRUNSWICK, Ga. — In the seconds after a "guilty" verdict came down — ending the emotional trial of three white men accused of killing Ahmaud Arbery — the anxious throng assembled outside the Glynn County Courthouse erupted. Strangers embraced, tears flowed and people prayed.Mostly, however, was a sense of shared relief.The sheath of impending unrest that hovered over this small coastal town lifted like cloud cover. The specter of an uprising was gone; the hope that justice for Black people can be received was restored — if only momentarily.“Hallelujah,” said Cee Cee Warner, a Brunswick native who said she skipped work in anticipation of a verdict. “We can breathe again. We tried to downplay it, but there was a lot of tension, especially in the Black community. We were scared what could happen with the verdict — the wrong verdict. And that scared me because I think there would have been rioting and everything else. It would have become ugly. Our city could have burned down.”A woman raises a fist Wednesday outside the Glynn County Courthouse in Brunswick, Ga., after Travis McMichael, Gregory McMichael and William "Roddie" Bryan were convicted of murdering Ahmaud Arbery.Marco Bello / ReutersInstead, Black America in general and Brunswick in particular waited for the verdict. The nearly all-white jury convicted Travis McMichael of malice murder, felony murder, aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony. His father, Gregory McMichael, and their neighbor William “Roddie” Bryan were acquitted of the top charge. All now face up to life in prison. The three white men tracked Arbery, who was Black, in a pickup truck and gunned him down in the street on February 23, 2020. The McMichaels toted weapons — the father a handgun; the shooter, Travis McMichael, a shotgun used to blast three shots at close range into Arbery. Bryan followed without a gun, but blocked Arbery’s path, leading to the fatal confrontation in a quiet subdivision. Media from around the world descended upon this nondescript town that has been the center of attention since jury selection began in October. “Maybe everyone will go away now,” Warner said. “Everyone has known the name of our city for the wrong, horrible reasons. This verdict can at least be a positive for the city.”“I’m more relieved than happy,” Michael Irvin, a teacher from the Orlando, Florida, area told NBC News outside the courthouse. He said he drove more than three hours to Brunswick in anticipation of a verdict Wednesday. “I don’t want to be a spoilsport, but what if that video had not come out several months later? A young Black man would have been taken from his family and community with no one held responsible. That part, I can’t ignore. So, I’m happy justice was served. But even in a case that seemed pretty obvious to me and most people, we had to pray and hope and wish and pray some more for justice. It shouldn’t be that way. We shouldn’t have to go through all these emotions just to feel like a Black life matters.”People react Wednesday outside the Glynn County Courthouse in Brunswick, Ga., after the McMichaels and Bryan were convicted in the death of Ahmaud Arbery.Marco Bello / ReutersAt Brunswick High, where Arbery graduated in 2012, students said the discussion around the building on the case was limited. But the tension was pervasive. “If the verdict was not guilty, the city would have been hot,” student Keon Leggett, 17, said. “What they did to him was wrong. And we all felt it. He was one of us.”The jury deliberated for one day to convict the trio of men who had claimed they were making a citizen’s arrest. Because Thanksgiving was approaching and the jury discussed the case for an extended period after it received the case Tuesday, the anticipation of a verdict Wednesday mounted. The crowd doubled in anticipation of the verdict between Tuesday and Wednesday.The atmosphere outside the courthouse was festive after the verdict, with chants of “Justice for Ahmaud” and “Say his name ... Ahmaud Arbery,” a sustained calling. When Arbery’s mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones, and father, Marcus Arbery, exited the courtroom and walked toward the steps of the courthouse, the crowd erupted.“You all know him as Arbery; I know him as ‘Quez.’ He can now rest in peace,” Cooper-Jones said. “I never thought this day would come back in 2020. But God is good.”“In one sense, the jury had no choice — it was evident they hunted down and killed this young man,” Mary Lewis Richards said. She said Brunswick is her hometown, but she lives in Atlanta. “In another sense, we have seen what happens when white people kill Black people — nothing. So I couldn’t be comfortable at all that they would get what they deserve. But I tell you what, I feel so good right now.” People raise their fists Wednesday outside the Glynn County Courthouse in Brunswick, Ga., after the convictions of three men in the killing of Ahmaud Arbery.Octavio Jones / ReutersAt a mural of Arbery a few blocks from the courthouse at G and Albany streets, a small crowd gathered and rejoiced. “Ahmaud didn’t deserve to die, especially like that, hunted in the streets,” Gloria Johnson said, glancing at the large image of him as a high school student. “Look at that beautiful young man. He had so much to live for. It would have been worse if justice had not been done. Thank God it was. He deserved at least that. And with the Minnesota case, let’s hope this means change.” RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsDonors raise more than $950,000 to help Missouri man wrongfully convicted in 1979Racial ReckoningRacial ReckoningWhy juries reacted differently to Rittenhouse's and McMichael's defenses, experts sayShe referred to the conviction of former Minneapolis Police Officer Derek Chauvin, who murdered George Floyd last year.“We have had a lot of losses in cases like this, where Black people are killed by white people,” Will Bethune said. He drove from Savannah with five friends to wait for the verdict at the courthouse.“We were cramped up in that car, but it was important to be here,” he added. “For the family. For history. For Ahmaud Arbery. In times like these, we have to come together because no one is coming to save us. We’ve seen obvious cases like George Zimmerman get off for killing Trayvon Martin. So we couldn’t take it for granted this would happen.“But now that it has, a lot of stress has been let go. Maybe we can get back to living without everything hanging over us. Maybe.”Follow NBCBLK on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
3 men found guilty of felony murder and other crimes in fatal shooting of Ahmaud Arbery. Three white men were found guilty Wednesday of felony murder in the shooting death of Ahmaud Arbery, a Black man who was running in their neighborhood when they confronted him last year.The nearly all-white jury convicted Travis McMichael of malice murder, felony murder, aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony.His father, Gregory McMichael, and their neighbor William "Roddie" Bryan were acquitted of the top charge. All now face up to life in prison.“Even though this is not a celebration, it is a reflection to acknowledge that the spirit of Ahmaud defeated the lynch mob,” civil rights attorney Benjamin Crump, who is representing Arbery's father, Marcus Arbery, said outside the courthouse Wednesday afternoon.Wanda Cooper-Jones, Arbery’s mother, said that her son “will now rest in peace.”“It's been a long fight. It's been a hard fight,” she said. “I never saw this day back in 2020. I never thought this day would come. But God is good,” she said.The McMichaels and Bryan chased Arbery in pickup trucks after they spotted him in their neighborhood outside Brunswick, Georgia, on Feb. 23, 2020. Travis McMichael shot Arbery, 25, who was Black, with a shotgun at close range. Bryan filmed the fatal encounter on his cellphone.'It's been a long fight': Ahmaud Arbery's parents react to guilty verdictNov. 24, 202102:38The three men were arrested months later after the leaked video brought the world’s attention to the case.Arbery’s family and civil rights leaders have likened his death to a modern-day lynching. The men also face federal hate crime charges.The jury deliberated for about 11 hours before reaching its decision.Each man faced a total of nine counts: one count of malice murder, four counts of felony murder, two counts of aggravated assault, and one count each of false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony.Travis McMichael was convicted on all counts. His father, Gregory McMichael, was found guilty on all charges except the most serious, malice murder. Bryan was also acquitted of malice murder. He was convicted on three of the four counts of felony murder, one of the two counts of aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony.Superior Court Judge Timothy Walmsley had instructed jurors that they could consider simple assault, reckless conduct and reckless driving as lesser charges to aggravated assault for Bryan.About an hour into the second day of deliberations Wednesday, the jurors asked to review footage of the fatal encounter and a 911 call that Gregory McMichael made on the day of the shooting. The jury viewed two videos — one the original cellphone video and the other a “high contrast” version of the same video — three times each while seated in the courtroom.Arbery's father was removed from the courtroom as the verdict was being read after he audibly celebrated the announcement that Travis McMichael was guilty of malice murder."He could not contain it any further. Think about how long he and Wanda have been enduring all the innuendo, all the allegations, all the character assassinations," Crump said when speaking outside the courthouse after the verdict. "Just imagine all they went through."Analyzing closing arguments in Ahmaud Arbery murder trial as jury deliberations beginNov. 23, 202103:33The defense had argued that the men suspected Arbery was a burglar and that residents in the Satilla Shores subdivision were "on edge." Arbery was recorded on security camera video visiting a partially built home in the neighborhood several times. The videos did not show Arbery taking anything from the property. The last video was recorded the afternoon he was killed. Arbery could be seen visiting the home minutes before he was chased by Gregory McMichael and Travis McMichael and Bryan, who had separate defense teams.The defense had sought to convince the jury that their clients were trying to execute a citizen's arrest, which was legal at the time. Travis McMichael's attorneys have said he opened fire in self-defense.During the trial, Travis McMichael testified that he shot Arbery after he was "struck."RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsDonors raise more than $950,000 to help Missouri man wrongfully convicted in 1979Racial ReckoningRacial ReckoningWhy juries reacted differently to Rittenhouse's and McMichael's defenses, experts say"We were face to face. And being struck, that’s when I shot," he testified. He said he believed he was in "a life-or-death situation."Under cross-examination by lead prosecutor Linda Dunikoski on his second day of testimony, Travis McMichael said that Arbery hadn't shown a weapon or spoken to him at all before he raised his shotgun. Gregory McMichael and Bryan did not testify.Attorneys for Travis McMichael said they intend to appeal the verdict, describing it as “very disappointing and sad.""This is a very difficult day for Travis McMichael and Greg McMichael,” Jason Sheffield, an attorney for Travis McMichael said. “These are two men who honestly believed that what they were doing was the right thing to do. However, a Glynn County jury has spoken. They have found them guilty. They will be sentenced.”Kevin Gough, an attorney for Bryan, told NBC affiliate WLTV that he would also appeal and said that while he respects the jury’s verdict, he believes his client should have been found not guilty.In her closing argument, Dunikoski told the jury that the defendants made a series of "assumptions and driveway decisions" that led to Arbery's death and that the three men had no "immediate knowledge" that a crime had occurred. She said immediate knowledge of a crime is necessary to claim citizen's arrest. Without the claim of citizen's arrest, Dunikoski told the jurors during closing, the men cannot claim that they acted in self-defense.“If you determine that this was not a citizen's arrest, this was not legitimate, he had no probable cause, he can’t do this based on the law, then guess what?” Dunikoski said. "They’re not justified in killing him. They are not justified in any of the felonies they committed against him.”Dunikoski was cheered outside the courthouse after the verdict.“The verdict today was a verdict based on the facts. Based on the evidence," Dunikoski said. "That was our goal, to bring that to that jury so that they could do the right thing."Arbery verdict 'based on the facts' says prosecutor in trialNov. 24, 202101:05Dunikoski, a senior assistant district attorney in the Cobb County District Attorney's Office, was assigned the case last year by the state attorney general's office after local prosecutors and law enforcement faced scrutiny over their handling of the case.Prosecutor Jackie Johnson, the Brunswick-area district attorney, recused herself from the case shortly after the shooting, saying that Gregory McMichael had been an investigator in her office for more than 30 years as a former Glynn County police officer.She was later indicted by a grand jury on charges of violation of oath of public officer and obstruction of a police officer. Johnson was accused of “showing favor and affection to Greg McMichael during the investigation,” according to the indictment document released in September. She also was alleged to have hindered two police officers “by directing that Travis McMichael should not be placed under arrest.”The second prosecutor, George Barnhill, recused himself in April 2020 and defended the actions of the McMichaels and Bryan. In the letter recusing himself, Barnhill said the three had “solid first hand probable cause” to pursue Arbery, a “burglary suspect,” and stop him.The case was transferred that same month to Thomas Durden, the district attorney for Georgia’s Atlantic Judicial Circuit. Durden, who eventually asked to be removed from the case because of a lack of resources, asked the Georgia Bureau of Investigation to investigate after the leaked cellphone footage prompted widespread outrage.The McMichaels were arrested two days later on May 7, 2020, more than two months after the shooting. Bryan was arrested later that month, days after the Cobb County Judicial Circuit was tapped to handle the case.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'Licorice Pizza' faces criticism for scenes involving fake Asian accent. Director Paul Thomas Anderson's "Licorice Pizza" is being criticized by some on social media for including scenes where a white businessman speaks in a fake Asian accent with his on-screen wife, who is Japanese.The film, which debuts in theaters Friday, is a coming-of-age comedy-drama that stars Alana Haim (of the Haim band) and Cooper Hoffman (son of the late Philip Seymour Hoffman), two young people growing up in the San Fernando Valley in California in the 1970s. It also stars Sean Penn, Bradley Cooper, Tom Waits and others.While reviews so far have been overwhelmingly positive, some on social media who have gone to early screenings have called out a particular part of the film that they describe as racist. In the film, a white male restaurateur, played by John Michael Higgins, speaks to his Japanese wife with a fake Asian accent. He appears again in the film with another Japanese woman, his new wife, and he repeats the attempted gag.In a review from Slate, critic Dana Stevens described the film as a "blast" to watch. But she had one line noting the scene as a miss: "Not every attempt to ground 'Licorice Pizza' in a de-nostalgized past bears fruit. A running gag about a white restaurant owner with a series of interchangeable Japanese wives seems meant as a joke about the character’s racism, but the joke lands gracelessly."Some people on social media echoed similar sentiments."Picture this: You're watching LICORICE PIZZA. It's brilliant," David Chen, host of a podcast called Culturally Relevant, wrote on Twitter. "Then, early on, a buffoonish character drops an Asian caricature. The (mostly white) audience laughs. And now you gotta think about that laughter the rest of the film."Chen didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.Karen Maine, a director and screenwriter, shared a similar perspective."There’s an incredibly racist, seemingly pointless (other than a cheap laugh, which it got at the screening I was at) scene that mocks Asian accents," Maine, who did not immediately respond to a request for comment, wrote in a tweet.In August, a study of Asian American representation in the entertainment industry found that audiences are asked to laugh at nearly half of Asian and Pacific Islander roles. The study — which was conducted by the Geena Davis Institute on Gender in Media, the Coalition of Asian Pacifics in Entertainment and Gold House — reviewed the top 10 grossing films each year from 2010 to 2019. The analysis showed that while less than a quarter of the API characters were comedic themselves, audiences were asked to laugh at almost half of them.Nancy Wang Yuen, a sociologist, said criticism of Higgins’ character appears to be warranted because there is no clear pushback against his character in the film.“It’s irresponsible to use racism against Asians as a running gag,” Yuen said. Though she hasn’t seen the film yet, she noted it’s apparent that the plot is "not even about Asians or race, and what it does is normalize this violence, this casual anti-Asian racism."“Racist stereotypes like the accent are a cheap way of getting laughs because you don’t need to explain anything — even though there is nothing funny about accents,” Yuen said.RecommendedPop Culture NewsPop Culture NewsStar of HBO Max’s 'Gossip Girl' reboot shares parallels with her characterMoviesMoviesHarry Potter quiz show may stump even the biggest fansShe explained it was “concerning,” particularly given the rise in anti-Asian hate crimes during the pandemic. Anti-Asian hate crimes increased more than 73 percent in 2020, according to corrected FBI data released last month. That number was a disproportionate uptick compared to hate crimes in general, which rose 13 percent.“This kind of representation gives permission for others to behave this way towards Asians, and it rehashes this trope of Asians as the perpetual foreigner — a trope that has been part of our society since the 1800s,” Yuen said.Both Maine and Chen said on Twitter they liked the film. But those scenes, for them, overshadowed the beauty of the film itself."The whole Haim family and Bradley Cooper were my fave parts," Maine wrote in a follow-up tweet. "But that pointless, racist scene ruined the whole film for me, and more people need to call PT out on it."Chen described the film as "otherwise excellent." "But the heartbreaking thing is me imagining an alternate version of this movie," he wrote, noting that the scenes mocking the Asian accent "added virtually nothing to it."A representative for Higgins did not immediately respond to a request for comment Wednesday. A representative for Anderson also did not respond.However, in a recent interview with The New York Times, Anderson addressed the criticism. In the conversation, the Times journalist said the accent was "so offensive that my audience actually gasped."The filmmaker responded: "I think it would be a mistake to tell a period film through the eyes of 2021. You can’t have a crystal ball, you have to be honest to that time. Not that it wouldn’t happen right now, by the way. My mother-in-law’s Japanese and my father-in-law is white, so seeing people speak English to her with a Japanese accent is something that happens all the time. I don’t think they even know they’re doing it."While Anderson acknowledged it was a "period" piece, Yuen said the scenes still depict racism "unfiltered.""If there are no consequences, scenes like this can almost glorify this behavior," she said. "You're not laughing at [Higgins' character] because he's making fun of someone else; you’re either laughing with him at the expense of Asians, or you're going to be upset as a viewer."Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Mindy Kaling’s new series and the significance of sex-positive South Asian women. This article contains spoilers for the first two episodes of "The Sex Lives of College Girls."Bela Malhotra says goodbye to her parents as they prepare to leave her at the gates of her prestigious Vermont university. She’s reinvented herself in preparation for this moment, shedding the sweaty, awkward “Indian loser” persona she carried through high school. College Bela (Amrit Kaur) knows what she wants, and she isn’t afraid to go after her two basic desires: to be a comedy writer and to have a lot of sex. She asks her mom to take her childhood teddy bear away, and kisses it goodbye before entering her new life. “I’m super sex positive,” Bela tells her new roommates, the other main characters of Mindy Kaling’s new HBO show, “The Sex Lives of College Girls.”Sex has long been either a defining or alienating feature for South Asian women in Western cinema. Colonial era films invented the exotic seductress and the foreign woman in distress, and modern movies and TV shows have ushered in the undesirable nerd, experts say. But missing even in more inclusive portrayals is a South Asian girl who is purely confident and clear about what she wants, viewers said. With “The Sex Lives of College Girls,” Kaling brought a version of that to life. “What I really appreciated about Bela was the lack of soul-searching and hand-wringing,” said Harleen Singh, associate professor of women’s studies and South Asian literature at Brandeis University. “She’s unapologetic.” Confidence doesn’t mean flawlessness, she said, and there’s realness in a character that makes bold mistakes. In the first episode of the series, Bela uses sex to get a highly-coveted position on a comedy magazine. In the process, she unintentionally fools around with someone’s boyfriend and makes enemies of the only two women on the staff. Amrit Kaur in "The Sex Lives of College Girls" on HBO Max.HBO“We’re all messy,” Singh said. “A messy character is a true reflection of life.” Bela’s nerve is something Trisha Sakhuja-Walia, CEO and co-founder of Brown Girl Magazine, finds refreshing. A “180 degree shift” from other portrayals, Bela simply asks for what she wants. She runs up to strangers to introduce herself and unashamedly tells boys they’re attractive. Her self-assuredness even rubs off on her roommates, whom she drags out of the dorms to party on the weekends. “I think that Bela is a lot more brave and outgoing than many of us were,” Sakhuja-Walia said. “But I think that almost every brown girl can see a little bit of herself in Bela. Even if they weren’t her, maybe they wanted to be like her.” Bela is in constant pursuit of new experiences, and Singh says her hypersexuality is portrayed to a bit of an extreme. The show represents sex as novel, not normal, and normalization is a big part of true sex positivity, she said. “It’s simply the acceptance that sex and sexuality are a part of all our lives,” she said. “I want sex positivity to start with making sex not extraordinary, but ordinary. And in that ordinariness, I think there is something special.” Sakhuja-Walia, however, sees Bela’s desire to go wild in college as a cultural touchstone. While the character’s Indian background isn’t the center of her college experience, she says South Asian women can pick up on the story behind her motivations. “I feel like so many brown folks go to college and suddenly have this crazy freedom they’ve never seen before,” she said. “She’s unleashing all this power within herself. I think that almost does tie back to her identity in a very subtle manner.”   South Asians have a complex experience exploring sexuality, Sakhuja-Walia said. And it’s one that’s not often reflected in media. But with a generation of first-generation South Asian Americans becoming adults, characters like Bela might represent a turning point in how communities treat sexuality. “I’m pretty in awe that we’re making this shift in just one generation,” she said. Movies and shows in which South Asian characters are normal and desirable are slowly beginning to emerge, but it’s an area in which Hollywood has historically had a problem. Singh points to movies like "Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom,"  in which the only nonwhite women are oppressed under the violence of evil, monkey-brain-eating Indians, and “the only woman that’s allowed to be beautiful is the white woman.”In the Harry Potter movies, coy and irritating Parvati and Padma slink in the vicinity of the main characters, hoping to be noticed by them but ultimately being cast aside and ignored. Kaling’s last project, “Never Have I Ever,” marked a change — an open door for South Asian American main characters, Singh said. The similarities between Bela and Devi (Maitreyi Ramakrishnan) are rooted in their fearlessness. Devi is also a teen unashamed in wanting to have sexual experiences. “She makes her mistakes but she makes them with agency,” Singh said.While Bela sets herself apart by pushing sexuality to the extreme, there’s complexity to her. Singh calls back to when she kissed her teddy bear at the beginning of the show. “She can be all of those things,” she said. “You can be naive and tender and delicate and warm and be clearheaded about the fact that you need sex. The absurd allows us to realize that things can be many different ways.”Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
John Cho on Netflix's ‘Cowboy Bebop’ remake, his ‘most intense job’ yet. He's the star of Netflix’s “Cowboy Bebop” remake, but John Cho would be the first to admit that he hadn’t been aware of the original anime television series before his agent sent him the script for the reboot. But when he read it, he was hooked. “This is the most intense job I’ve ever had, for sure, in what it required of me,” he tells NBC Asian America.“Cowboy Bebop,” based on the anime series of the same name from  Japan's Sunrise animation studio, is available to stream on Netflix. It takes place in the future where the Earth is uninhabitable and mankind has created colonies on other planets. The hero of the show is space cowboy Spike Spiegel (played by Cho), a bounty hunter who captures criminals with his partners, Jet Black (Mustafa Shakir) and Faye Valentine (Daniella Pineda), aboard the spaceship Bebop.“The show is such a mixture of disparate genres,” Cho says. “And that was the attraction of it: I can do a Western, a screwball comedy, a buddy-cop movie, noir and an action film all in one.”Mustafa Shakir as Black Jet and John Cho as Spike Spiegel in "Cowboy Bebop."Geoffrey Short / NetflixCho is no stranger to space narratives (he did play Sulu in the “Star Trek” reboot, after all). But “Cowboy Bebop” has allowed him to stretch himself as an actor in ways he hasn’t before. In the 10 episodes of the first season of the show, he does everything from hand-to-hand combat and gun slinging, to cracking jokes and being a romantic lead — it’s equal parts drama, action, and comedy. “It’s definitely fun to do all of the above at once,” he says.The original “Cowboy Bebop,” which premiered in Japan in 1998 and in the United States in 2001, is considered an anime classic, with legions of fans attracted to its stylish imagery, jazz-infused score, sense of listlessness and ennui. So there were high expectations for the live action remark. Cho was aware of all of this, which made the project all that more intimidating.“As soon as I saw [the anime], I was a fan,” he said. Cho says that a key challenge in making a live action “Cowboy Bebop” was that, “it has to be recognizable as ‘Cowboy Bebop,’ but ... you want to do what you can to make it feel creative. And you want to feel free and like you’re having fun.”The first thing that he did was figure out who his version of Spike Spiegel was. Though he wears the same iconic blue suit as the anime character, and even grew out his hair to mimic Spike’s hair, he is older than the character, who is 27. Cho is 49.He admits he wasn’t sure if he was able to tackle the role: “It’s a different medium. And he was painted. So how do I make him a person that I have to walk around in,” he explains. “I wasn’t assured that I was going to be able to find it. In “Cowboy Bebop,” Spike is a character with a dark and tragic past he is trying to run away from. He is playful, with a cool swagger. He is also reserved and keeps his feelings, and his past, close to his chest.To Cho, Spike is “trying to erase the past and become a new person,” and the show asks, “Is that possible?” To him, this notion of reinvention was relatable. He is an immigrant and came to the U.S. when he was 6 years old. Spike wants to chart a new path for himself. Cho saw parallels between Spike’s journey and “the immigrant journey,” he says. “I could definitely relate to Spike wanting the freedom to declare who he is.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsDonors raise more than $950,000 to help Missouri man wrongfully convicted in 1979Racial ReckoningRacial ReckoningWhy juries reacted differently to Rittenhouse's and McMichael's defenses, experts sayAs a kid, after moving to the U.S. from Seoul, his family moved around frequently, living in Houston, Seattle, then hopping around California to Daly City, San Jose and Monterey Park, before settling in Glendale. Likewise, the characters of “Cowboy Bebop” don’t have a home and they float adrift, in space, on the Bebop. They are tied together by a sense of loss: either of family, loved ones, or even their memories. To him, the new show expands on the anime by exploring more of the characters’ personal histories.“[It’s like the] Israelites before they were in Canaan, they’re wandering,” he says. “I definitely felt like that as a kid. [The characters are] adrift and, to some extent, purposeless; their purpose is survival. And I think part of our season one is them finding some purpose, be it passively or actively.”Though there are certain shots and story beats that are inspired by the original anime, the live action show also charts its own narrative path. The characters have expanded backstories: Jet Black is a father with a daughter, Faye Valentine is now bisexual, Spike’s love interest Julia is more fully developed and appears more frequently. And a pivotal fight between Spike and his nemesis, Vicious, begins in the same way that it does in the anime. But how it ends is markedly different.In describing the new show, Cho compares it to covers of Bob Dylan’s music. “Why do people record his songs? There’s already a recording,” he posits. “Because it’s a really good song. And they want to try it on for size and see what their interpretation does to the song, and expand the meaning of the song—give it another flavor.” He then adds, “What we’re doing is adding, not replacing.”Overall, it’s been an eventful two years for Cho. “Cowboy Bebop” began filming in New Zealand in 2019, where Cho relocated with his family temporarily. He then tore his ACL while filming, which set production back by eight months. The pandemic then created further delays. Last April, he wrote an op-ed for the Los Angeles Times about the surge in violent attacks against Asian Americans. In the piece, he wrote, “The pandemic is reminding us that our belonging is conditional. One moment we are Americans, the next we are all foreigners, who ‘brought’ the virus here. Like fame, the ‘model minority’ myth can provide the illusion of ‘raceless-ness.’” When talking about the op-ed, Cho becomes more chagrined, admitting that he has been very discouraged about the current discourse around race, and the fervor against critical race theory. “Clearly, we have a race problem in America, but zero people declare themselves racist,” he says. “Maybe we have to replace that word with something else. It has to be a word that allows people to examine themselves. How do we discuss racism, if no one is willing to examine themselves, including people of color?”He admits that growing up, he was encouraged by his parents to assimilate, so that his race would not be a liability. But in his estimation, the events of the past year have shown Asian Americans that living a “raceless” life is impossible. “[Race is] sort of too built into the fabric of this country. And what’s reasonable is coming to a place of respect, in coexistence, and love. And maybe we can get there. Maybe that’s possible.”Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Simu Liu and Bowen Yang jokingly vie for the most ‘First Asian’ titles on 'SNL' . Simu Liu and Bowen Yang are often hailed as trailblazers in the Asian American community — for being the first Marvel Asian superhero and for being the first Asian cast member on "Saturday Night Live." So when the pair teamed up for an "SNL" sketch over the weekend, they poked fun at the idea by competing over increasingly ridiculous “firsts,” from the “First Gay Asian Cast Member to Mispronounce ‘Boutique’” to the “First Asian Man to Deadpan on Splash Mountain.”In the taped segment, Chinese Canadian actors Yang and Liu meet in a dressing room before the episode. “This has never happened before, right? Asian male host, Asian male cast member,” Yang said. The two congratulate each other on their respective milestones before admitting how tiring these historical titles can be in a predominantly white space. “I just think it’s weird that people keep track of this stuff,” Yang says. Liu then pulled out a medal he had tucked in his shirt for being the “1st Asian Man to Move from Canada to America Named Simu.” “I have one that says Bowen,” Yang says, pulling a similar medal out of his shirt. The conversation quickly delves into a competition about their “First Asian” accolades.“Don’t you think these titles are kind of ridiculous?” Liu asks, to which Yang agrees. A montage then shows Yang and Liu accepting awards for “Good Job (Asian),” “First Asian Man to Beat StarCraft II” and the “First Asian Man to ‘You pick 2’ at Panera.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsDonors raise more than $950,000 to help Missouri man wrongfully convicted in 1979Racial ReckoningRacial ReckoningWhy juries reacted differently to Rittenhouse's and McMichael's defenses, experts sayNBCUniversal is the parent company of NBC News and "SNL."Yang’s work on "SNL" earned him an Emmy nomination this year, making him the show’s first featured player to be nominated for an acting award. He has previously spoken about his Asian American identity, and amid the rise of anti-Asian violence during the pandemic, he urged people to “do more” to stop the violence. Liu, meanwhile, made headlines this year after criticizing the TV show “Kim’s Convenience,” which he starred in, for its lack of diversity in the writer’s room. He has also credited the diverse production crew of “Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings” for ensuring the authenticity of the film. Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Food banks in California brace for the holidays as food prices surge. ANAHEIM, California — Two food banks in California have been gearing up for a busy holiday season: One is spending tens of thousands amid rising food prices, and the other has been serving triple the number of people since the coronavirus pandemic began.The Alameda County Community Food Bank in Oakland is dealing with the toll of rising food prices and supply chain issues as it serves families grappling with food insecurity.“They’re depending on us,” said Elizabeth Gomez, director of client services at the food bank.Food banks face harsh economic reality ahead of the holiday seasonNov. 21, 202103:38Over the past year, food prices have increased 5.3 percent, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.Because of food price increases, the food bank is spending an additional $60,000 on food per month.“We need to be ahead of the game as much as we can,” said Gomez, 48, who’s been working with the organization for 24 years.She said the food bank has seen price increases across the board for seven core items, with oatmeal and frozen chicken seeing the highest increases at 17.1 percent and 13 percent respectively. In total, it is spending more than $1 million on food per month — compared to $250,000 each month before the pandemic. “Part of the increase is because we’re willing to spend more on food to ensure that we actually secure it,” Gomez said. The backlog of shipments along the California coast has created supply chain issues and has contributed to less inventory and increased transportation costs for the food bank. The food bank has had to turn to alternatives such as single serve cereal bowls to replace oatmeal, and turned to Costco to get a variety of canned meats for canned tuna that has been running late.“We are expecting more than 400,000 Alameda County residents,” Gomez said. “We’re bracing for what is to be the busiest month and a half ahead for us.”In 2020, rough estimates indicate 45 million people, or 1 in 7, experienced food insecurity as the pandemic forced tens of millions to suffer from unemployment or saw their hours decline, according to an analysis by Feeding America, a nationwide nonprofit network aiming to ensure equitable access to food in the United States.With a recovering economy and increasing vaccination records, the organization projects improved food insecurity conditions in the holiday season but still higher than pre-pandemic numbers. Feeding America predicts that 42 million people — about 1 in 8 — may experience food insecurity, compared to about 1 in 9 in 2019, the lowest point reached then since food insecurity began being measured in the 1990s, according to the report.The Los Angeles Regional Food Bank has been serving triple the number of people it usually saw before the pandemic — from 300,000 to 900,000 each month, according to Olivia Cervantes, 33, its marketing content manager.Volunteers load food into vehicles at a "Let's Feed L.A. County" drive-thru food distribution event by the Los Angeles Regional Food Bank and the office of Supervisor Hilda Solis in Rosemead, Calif., on April 23.Ringo Chiu via AP fileIt’s a number that aligns with a recent University of Southern California study detailing that 1 in 10 Los Angeles County residents  experienced food insecurity in the first half of 2021 — and 59 percent of them were Latino. “It was time to give back to my community as an Angeleno,” Cervantes said, explaining she felt compelled to help after witnessing the pandemic’s impact on the city's Hispanic community. “Even if we were to return back to normal or even if this lingers on, the issue is still there, hunger is a year-round issue.”California is home to the nation’s largest Latino population. In Los Angeles County, Hispanics or Latinos account for almost half (48.6 percent) of the population.The Los Angeles food bank has been minimally impacted by the surge in food prices and supply chain issues because the majority of its food is donated and sourced locally.However, it has had to grapple with other issues: The number of volunteers declined from 30,000 to 15,000 because of Covid-19 safety protocols. The organization has turned to AmeriCorps for help with distribution."The food bank really does stretch the dollar to help as many people as possible," Cervantes said.Organizers say those who want to volunteer or donate can contact  the Los Angeles Regional Food Bank's website or call 323-234-3030 or the Alameda County Community Food Bank's website or call 510-635-3663.Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'Encanto': The music, joy and superpower of a multigenerational Latino family. In an age of big-screen superhero families like those of Marvel’s “Fantastic Four,” Pixar’s “The Incredibles” and DC’s “Shazam!” Disney wants to flip the script on viewers and put the spotlight on an ordinary 15-year-old Colombian girl, Mirabel, who struggles to keep her extended superhero family together as they lose their powers. “Encanto,” which means “charm” in Spanish, is Disney’s 60th animated feature film. It tells the story of the Madrigals, a multigenerational family who live in the mountains of Colombia. Stars of Disney's 'Encanto' discuss film’s personal relation to Latino rootsNov. 23, 202103:36Two generations of Madrigal children get magical powers on their fifth birthdays, which define them both at home and in the village. They can make plants grow and flowers bloom, control the weather with their emotions, heal people with food, speak with animals and even see the future. The Madrigal family tree.DisneyOne child doesn't get superpowers — and that is Mirabel. In the end, however, she will know what to do to save her extraordinary family.Beyond the characters' super abilities and magical gifts, the animated musical — with songs and music by "Hamilton" composer Lin-Manuel Miranda — aims to show viewers the power of knowing who they and their families are. For the Latina actor Stephanie Beatriz, who voices Mirabel, the film's emphasis on extended family, including the powerful abuela (grandmother) Alma, brought back memories “When I think about my childhood, it’s a lot of people talking all at once, animatedly, over each other — there’s, like, 10 conversations happening in one room, and as a kid you’re just trying to follow everything that’s going on,” said Beatriz, whose parents are Colombian and Bolivian. “It’s very loud and super rhythmic. I think that the flavor of that, the sensibility of that, is really captured within the music of this animated musical, which I think is very special.” The family name “Madrigal” is also a musical term that can refer to a song with two or more voice parts — which amply describes the mix of sounds and voices in the film. “One of the things I loved in the writing of the script is that there are these conversations that happen between cousins or an aunt and a niece,” Beatriz said. “It’s those extended family relationships that I think are really, really important, particularly in Latino culture, where you might not be able to talk to your mom ... but you could talk to your tía,” or aunt. Miranda, who wrote and co-produced eight original songs for “Encanto,” said he's so close to his cousins from Puerto Rico that they once got matching tattoos — to the chagrin of his aunt on the island. The Madrigals, he said, remind him of his own relatives."Encanto."Disney "That was the most matriarchal family," he said about his dad's family in Puerto Rico. "Everyone still lived in the house, and everyone brought their checks to Abuela, and she reallocated the funds as she saw fit." Many U.S. families resemble the Madrigals: A report this year by the advocacy group Generations United found that more than 1 in 4 Americans ages 18 and older — about 67 million adults — live in multigenerational households with three or more generations.Creating the sounds of Colombia — and homeMiranda said music has the power to unlock exciting stories about different places, cultures and people. “Every time we leaned into the specificities of Colombian music, that always unlocks story, it always unlocks character for us. The specificities are the thing that make it relatable,” he said.Miranda traveled to Colombia with other people from the film for research in 2018, which he said was invaluable. The details the movie got right, he said, will excite Latino viewers, such as when they see a character wearing their father’s hat or hear an accordion. People working on the film also brought their own memories and stories of home to the music. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsDonors raise more than $950,000 to help Missouri man wrongfully convicted in 1979Racial ReckoningRacial ReckoningWhy juries reacted differently to Rittenhouse's and McMichael's defenses, experts say“There’s certainly musical phrases that I can point to that are ripped from family conversations that happened in my house,” Miranda said. “I think that’s what people recognize on screen when they see the film. They see slivers of their own experience.” When Miranda reflects on the music that evokes his own childhood memories, he thinks of his family's mix of cast albums and Latin music. “It was sort of constant Gran Combo, Celia Cruz, Joe Arroyo from Colombia, Carlos Vives, Juan Luis Guerra — that would be the party music,” he said. “And then, when we would clean up after the party, it was ‘Man of La Mancha,’ it was ‘Camelot,’ it was the ‘Little Mermaid’ soundtrack and the ‘Dirty Dancing’ soundtrack. My parents loved show tunes and Latin music.”‘The way that I grew up’ For Colombian American actor Diane Guerrero, voicing Mirabel’s cousin Isabela has been a great source of pride. “Disney is such a huge entity. To not be included in Disney almost feels like you don’t exist a little bit,” she said. “So to be a part of that is a long time coming and such a special moment for us.” For Guerrero, “Encanto” evokes memories of the generations of strong women that are part of her own heritage. “I see women being very powerful heads of the household, but what has been portrayed in mainstream media has been quite the opposite,” Guerrero said. “There’s still machismo — obviously men have a very strong hold on the world — but I feel that the way that I grew up I really saw this in the film. My grandmother and my mother are everything to me.” Reflecting on the significance of "Encanto," Guerrero said there are many Latino stories. “Latin America is so huge. This is just like a little sliver of what we are. It’s a little sliver of Colombia. There’s so much to tell,” she said. Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'The court owes it to women': Groups decry Colombia's abortion ruling delay. Women's groups that sued to decriminalize abortion in Colombia are pushing for a decision after a much-anticipated ruling from the country's top court was postponed last week. “The court owes it to women," Catalina Martínez Coral, the Latin America and Caribbean director of the Center for Reproductive Rights, told Noticias Telemundo. The Constitutional Court has not yet decided whether to eliminate abortion as a crime from the country's penal code. The ruling had been expected last week, but the debate was interrupted at the request of one of its judges, Alejandro Linares, to recuse himself from voting because he had spoken about the case in a news interview. If another judge decides there is no need for Linares to recuse himself, the court could rule this year. A recusal would start a process to bring in a new judge, which would delay the ruling to next year. The women’s rights groups that filed the lawsuit, grouped under the umbrella movement Just Cause, say the delay harms women and girls in Colombia, where nearly 70 women die every year from complications from abortions, according to figures from Doctors Without Borders.“Every day that passes there are more unprotected people because they cannot access reproductive health services. They are persecuted, and they have open cases against them,” Martínez Coral said. “It's a punishment for women and girls in Colombia.” Since 2006, the Colombian penal code has allowed legal abortion under three circumstances: in cases of rape, incest or nonconsensual insemination; in cases of serious fetal malformation that makes life unviable; or when the medical team certifies that a pregnant woman’s health or life is at risk.Any woman who otherwise undergoes the procedure — or the health personnel involved — can be liable for a penalty of 16 to 54 months in prison. According to official figures, 400 women are prosecuted every year.“It is a very unfair situation, because, on the one hand, exceptions give you a right, but it is also a serious crime that generates social and institutional stigma," said Ximena Casas Isaza, a researcher for Human Rights Watch. "All this creates many barriers for women and girls in situations of greater vulnerability who, in the end, do not have access to an essential health service such as the legal interruption of pregnancy.”An estimated 400,000 women and girls undergo induced abortions in Colombia every year, about a third of whom suffer some complication. Unsafe abortions are the country’s fourth-leading cause of maternal mortality.Several studies have determined that girls and adolescents suffer the most sexual abuse resulting in unwanted pregnancies. In many cases, their lives are at risk.According to a report by Just Cause, the victims in 73 percent of the 26,158 cases prosecuted for allegations of sexual violence were girls or adolescents up to age 17. They are also the ones who suffer the most from harassment by the penal system, the report said.‘What we want is more support’ Cindy, a Colombian woman whose last name is being withheld to protect her identify, said she was in no condition to raise a child but was afraid she would suffer recriminations from her family for terminating her pregnancy. She decided to talk to her partner and a good friend, who accompanied her throughout the abortion process.“Those of us who made this decision, what we want is more support — let them understand that, for some reason, that was the decision we made,” she said.Abortion rights activists protest Thursday outside the Constitutional Court in Bogota, Colombia, as judges review a lawsuit that seeks to decriminalize abortion. Fernando Vergara / APCindy and hundreds of other Colombian women have participated in awareness campaigns like We Are All One, speaking out with dozens of nongovernmental organizations and women’s rights groups to demand the decriminalization of abortion.The movement has been driven by the recent wave of reforms and demonstrations for women’s rights in various Latin American countries, such as Argentina and Mexico.Girls and adolescents are the most affectedThe Just Cause report found that for most of the girls and adolescents who get pregnant through rape and sexual abuse, “the aggressors correspond to people from their social or family circle,” adding, “These heartbreaking figures only correspond to those cases that are reported.”The health care system uses the current law as an excuse to deny services, said Paula Ávila-Guillén, the executive director of the U.S.-based Women’s Equality Center, who directs the group’s Latin America initiatives. "That is why we have so many cases of pregnant girls as a result of rape who cannot access abortion, because there are many bureaucratic barriers." According to the group Mesa por la Vida y la Salud de Mujeres, minors account for 12.5 percent ​​of abortion investigations — almost a quarter, 24 percent, are convicted. While the crime may not lead to jail time in many cases, it still has a serious impact on young women's lives, who are left with criminal histories that prevent them from getting work and progressing, said Martínez Coral of the Center for Reproductive Rights.The persecution of health personnel“There is a lot of fear on the part of medical professionals, because first the burden of certifying the conditions for abortion falls on them and, when you are faced with the possibility of having legal problems, it is obviously much easier to turn your back on the problem," said Dr. Laura Gil, a gynecologist and a member of the Medical Group for the Right to Decide. An investigation by the Life and Health of Women Roundtable, a women's health advocacy group, found that, from 1998 to 2018, the prosecutor’s office processed 5,580 complaints of abortion and that in 75 percent of the cases, it was doctors and other health care operators who filed complaints about women who went to hospitals feeling ill from having abortions.That, Gil said, has a chilling effect on other health care personnel.“Many doctors begin to ask for a number of evaluations, examinations and requirements — the only thing they do is create barriers. It is an obstacle to the free exercise of our profession," Gil said. What would total decriminalization change?The first effect would be that no one could be prosecuted for the crime of abortion. In addition, women, adolescents and girls would be able to terminate pregnancies without barriers.“Women who were not protected by the exceptions that existed in the country will be able to access abortion the day after the decision is made,” Martínez Coral said.Lawyers for women who are prosecuted or detained could also “directly introduce an appeal to initiate their release,” she said. Catholics who support abortion rightsGroups that oppose abortion, including conservative political movements and the Roman Catholic Church, have spoken out against the proposal.The group Catholics for the Right to Decide stands out, because it supports the lawsuit. “We consider that supporting abortion as a right is not incompatible with having beliefs or a spiritual life," said Aura Carolina Cuasapud, a lawyer for the organization. "Quite the contrary: We know that women are the majority of the people who form the foundations of religion and the church, so we must have a voice, and we have the right to make free decisions."Members of the movement are called false Catholics or hypocrites on social media, where opponents link some of them to satanic sects and threaten them with excommunication from the Catholic Church. Cuasapud laughed when she was asked about the attacks.“At worst, excommunication does not inhibit you from being a Catholic. If you were baptized, they can no longer remove that condition, they cannot remove your beliefs," she said, adding that she believes that "the truth is that neither the Bible nor the Church nor God condemn abortion as a sin, and many people do not know that."An earlier version of this story was first published in Noticias Telemundo. Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'Historic': White House pitches Build Back Better's help for Latino families . The White House on Monday promoted what the Biden administration sees as the benefits for Latino families of the $1.7 trillion safety net and climate change package Democrats passed last week. In a White House-organized call with reporters, Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra and Rep. Raul Ruiz, D-Calif., the chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, called the legislation "historic" and said it was a "tremendous investment" in American families as they struggle to recover from the coronavirus-wracked economy.Becerra said the funding in the Build Back Better Act would help families pay for child care and preschool education funding, provide child tax credits and help families pay for Obamacare health insurance plans.It would cut costs for three of the most expensive items in families’ budgets: health care, housing and child care, Ruiz said. Ruiz and Becerra said the child care provision — which would cap child care costs for six years at 7 percent for families earning up to 250 percent of their states’ median incomes — would help Latinas “who had to bear the brunt of cuts in wages and unemployment” because of the pandemic. Extending the child tax credit would be like money in your pocket, Ruiz said.Also in the bill is money to pay for universal pre-K for 3- and 4-year-old children for two years. The money is said to be enough to pay for free preschool for more than 6 million children.Becerra said the bill offers older Americans the kind of help that his late father, a laborer, and his mother, who did clerical work, never had. “I’m from a migrant family, and I understand the importance of being able to say anyone who has worked very hard, helping to lift this country, helping to build it, now this country is going to invest in you," Becerra said in Spanish.Potential changes Senate could make to pass Build Back Better BillNov. 22, 202102:07Ruiz said that while the country is rounding the corner on the pandemic, Covid-19 has disproportionately affected essential workers and Hispanic communities. "Working families and parents are continuing to feel the lingering effects of the pandemic," he said.The legislation, which was crafted by Democrats, was approved Friday by the House and is now before the Senate, where leaders are working with centrist Democrats to get the necessary votes. ‘A blockbuster’ investmentThe House bill would provide the money for pre-K for all children, regardless of families’ incomes, with states eventually having to add money to cover some of the costs. Before the pandemic, about 27 percent of children in public school were Hispanic. In 2019-20, only about 4 in 10 (43 percent) of 3- to 5-year-olds were enrolled in school, according to the National Center for Education Statistics. The pre-K provisions would help not only groups that haven’t had access to quality pre-K, but also middle-class and upper-income families that often don’t qualify for subsidized preschool programs, said former San Antonio Mayor Julián Castro, who was housing secretary in the Obama administration. Castro, the only major Latino presidential candidate last year, said the universal pre-K part of the bill would be “a godsend” for many families and a “blockbuster” investment to celebrate.Early education varies among states, six of which had no state-funded pre-K program in the 2019-20 school year, according to the National Institute for Early Education Research at Rutgers University. Early data this school year show a 3 percent drop in all public school enrollment. The drop was higher among children in preschool and kindergarten than in later grades.Build Back Better’s success depends on states’ doing their part, Castro said. As mayor, Castro got San Antonio voters to support a half-cent sales tax in 2012 to create quality preschool for low-income children. The program is considered highly successful.Build Back Better’s provision would allow school districts or nonprofit organizations to help with costs for their areas even if their states don’t participate.“I’m hopeful that even conservative states like Texas and other places that don’t have universal pre-K will meet the challenge,” Castro said. “But if they don’t, then I encourage local communities to go ahead and universalize pre-K.”Better times ahead?Delivering a message of economic better times to the Latino community is critical for Democrats. The 2022 midterm election season will ramp up after the holidays, and Democrats need to be able blunt GOP arguments about inflation and the effects of climate change provisions on fossil fuels. President Donald Trump and other Republicans expanded their support on those issues last year among Latino voters, particularly in Texas. They also succeeded in framing Democratic programs as socialism, largely in Florida, where Cuban and Latin American voters connect the word with regimes from which they fled or in which have roots. in a statement after the House vote Friday, Macarena Martinez, the Republican National Committee spokeswoman for Texas, previewed more of what to expect. She said one African American and three Latino members of Congress, all Texas Democrats, "went all in for Biden's socialist agenda: 'Build Back Broke' at a time when Texas families already are being hit with skyrocketing inflation, record high gas prices, and an unmitigated border crisis."Latino unemployment began dropping in 2010 during the Obama administration and fell to about 4 percent early in the Trump administration. Latinos also had begun to experience a comeback from the Great Recession. The pandemic reversed that.The uncontrolled virus has put the Latino economic recovery at risk and cost some Latinos some of the wealth they had rebuilt.Latinos are 2.1 times more likely to die from Covid-19 compared to white Americans and 2.5 times more likely to be hospitalized, according to the latest data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Cases of Covid-19 are 1.6 times more likely among Latinos than whites, the CDC data show.   As of April, only 1 in 6 Hispanic workers were able to work from home during the pandemic, according to the Economic Policy Institute.In addition, Democrats need to buffer themselves from backlash they could face over immigration provisions in the bill. Immigrants advocates and many Democrats had hoped to include a pathway to citizenship in the legislation. But it would now provide only five-year work permits that could be renewed for five more years for about 7 million undocumented immigrants already in the county. If that is jettisoned to get the bill through the Senate, Democrats may feel the backlash from their base of support.Democrats are using a process to get the bill through the Senate that allows them to sidestep Republicans, most of whom oppose the immigration measures. But they also have to get the OK to have the immigration language in the bill from the Senate parliamentarian, and at least two Senate Democrats are lukewarm about the immigration provision, as well. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus has urged the Senate to keep the provision.The White House and Democrats put the focus Monday on legislation that they believe would have a direct impact on Latino households. Ruiz said the legislation would be a “rocket booster for the economy that will launch families across the country towards success by putting money in pockets.” Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
