Congress hatches novel plan to lift debt ceiling with only Democratic votes. WASHINGTON — Congressional leaders are hatching a complicated plan to lift the debt limit this month with only Democratic votes in the Senate, three sources told NBC News.The strategy, which remains fluid, is a product of negotiations between Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., that would tie it to a non-controversial Medicare bill."I believe we've reached a solution to the debt ceiling issue that's consistent with Republican views," McConnell told reporters on Tuesday.Schumer said Democrats support this approach as it would not be a "convoluted, risky, lengthy process," and he said it "looks like Republicans will help us facilitate that."The novel approach would tie debt limit provisions to legislation preventing automatic cuts to Medicare in a multi-vote process that would allow the federal government's borrowing authority to be lifted with a simple majority in the 50-50 Senate.The plan shifted on Tuesday after negotiators decided against an earlier idea of tying a debt limit increase to the $778 billion defense authorization bill. Instead, Congress plans to pass that separately.The House passed the Medicare bill, which includes the expedited debt limit process, 222-212. Rep. Adam Kinzinger, R-Ill., was the only Republican to break ranks and vote with all Democrats for the bill.The measure, which would require 60 votes to clear the Senate, would give that chamber one-time authority through mid-January to lift the debt limit with a simple majority vote and would delay automatic Medicare cuts. If passed by Congress and signed into law, it would enable the debt ceiling to be lifted quickly with no filibuster in the Senate — only Democratic votes.It's not a done deal yet as it needs at least 10 Senate Republican votes to move forward.The plan — an attempt to prevent an 11th-hour scramble to avoid what would be the nation's first ever default — would allow Republicans to stay on the sidelines of a debt ceiling hike vote, and let Democrats steer clear of the arcane budget reconciliation process that they've insisted they won't use for raising the debt limit."I leave it to Leader McConnell to find the best way to get the Democrats to raise the debt limit without us participating in that," said Sen. Mitt Romney, R-Utah, predicting the GOP leader would "find a way to make that happen."The scheme would require Congress to raise the debt limit by a specific dollar amount, rather than extend it to a certain date, two sources familiar with the plan said. Democrats would prefer to set an expiration date for the new extension, as Congress has done for years, instead of choosing a new debt limit figure. But Republicans want them to put a number on it so they can weaponize the issue in 2022 midterm election campaign ads.RecommendedLatinoLatinoMexico transfers migrants as it prepares to receive asylum-seekers from U.S.CongressCongressRoger Stone invokes Fifth Amendment in House Jan. 6 probeStill, some Republicans are worried that the approach could set a precedent of one-time rule changes at a time when many Democrats are pushing for changes to the filibuster on issues such as voting rights legislation."It’s a terrible idea. Terrible. It would circumvent the filibuster. This is nuking the filibuster," said Sen. Mike Lee, R-Utah.Time is running short. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen has warned that the U.S. risks breaching the debt limit and triggering a recession if Congress doesn't act by Dec. 15.The new approach to resolving the debt limit comes after an acrimonious battle in October that left both Schumer and McConnell bruised. This time, both leaders have sounded optimistic about lifting the debt ceiling.McConnell said Monday evening at a Wall Street Journal CEO Council Summit that he doesn't expect the U.S. to default.Schumer, meanwhile, has described their talks as positive."We will also work to address the debt limit and preserve the full faith and credit of the United States," he said Monday afternoon on the Senate floor. "And I want to thank Leader McConnell for his cooperation in that regard."In October, 11 Senate Republicans voted to break a filibuster to temporarily lift the debt ceiling after an extended standoff, a process that led to McConnell absorbing criticism from the right wing of the GOP. Democrats then extended the limit on their own. Among those criticizing McConnell was former President Donald Trump, who urged the party to use the debt ceiling as leverage against Democrats. In 2019, Trump insisted the debt limit must not be used as a bargaining chip.Sen. Rick Scott, R-Fla., said he continues to oppose raising the debt ceiling but would look at the overall proposal before making a judgment.And Democrats warned that it's not a done deal."There's no agreement yet," said Sen. Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Roger Stone invokes Fifth Amendment in House Jan. 6 probe . Roger Stone, a longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump, is refusing to be deposed or hand over documents to the House committee investigating the Jan. 6 Capitol riot, his attorney said in a letter dated Monday.The letter, which Stone provided to NBC News on Tuesday, invokes his Fifth Amendment right not to testify.“Given that the Select Committee's demand for documents is overbroad, overreaching, and far too wide-ranging to be deemed anything other than a fishing expedition, Mr. Stone has a constitutional right to decline to respond," his attorney, Grant Smith, wrote. "Indeed, the Select Committee seeks an imprecise and undefined category of 'documents and communications concerning' a broad range of constitutionally protected political activity."Mark Meadows no longer cooperating with Jan. 6 committeeDec. 7, 202100:58Last month, the panel subpoenaed Stone and other Trump allies to testify, arguing that Stone helped spearhead the former GOP president’s crusade to overturn the 2020 election. The committee said Stone was in Washington on Jan. 5 and 6 to "lead a march to the Capitol" and that he "promoted his attendance at the rallies and solicited support to pay for security.”RecommendedLatinoLatinoMexico transfers migrants as it prepares to receive asylum-seekers from U.S.CongressCongressCongress hatches novel plan to lift debt ceiling with only Democratic votesThe committee has issued batches of subpoenas in recent weeks to dozens of Trump administration officials and allies of the former president. Although many of them have embraced Trump's directive to not cooperate with the panel, some have still testified and provided documents, according to the committee.The committee has pursued contempt charges against some subpoenaed witnesses who have refused to comply. Last month, a federal grand jury indicted former Trump adviser Steve Bannon, who has been charged with contempt of Congress for refusing to answer the committee's questions. On Tuesday, a federal judge set a July trial date for Bannon.Steve Bannon due back in court after pleading not guilty to contempt of CongressNov. 18, 202104:00Earlier this month, the panel voted unanimously to refer former Trump Justice Department official Jeffrey Clark to his previous employer for criminal contempt of Congress after he invoked his Fifth Amendment protection against self-incrimination.Former White House chief of staff Mark Meadows, who was also subpoenaed, said Tuesday that he is no longer cooperating with the investigation, prompting the panel to threaten contempt proceedings if he skips his scheduled deposition on Wednesday.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Thousands of service members miss Covid vaccination deadlines. Thousands of active-duty service members have failed to comply with the Biden administration’s Covid-19 vaccine mandate, raising the prospect that they will be forced to leave their positions or the military altogether.The vaccination deadline for active-duty members of the armed services has passed for the Air Force, Navy and the Marine Corps. The Army's deadline is Dec. 15. Despite the Pentagon's vaccine mandate, approximately 27,000 members of the Marines, Air Force, Space Force and the Navy are still considered unvaccinated. About 19,000 of the Army's soldiers have yet to start the protocol with only a week left before that branch's deadline. An Army official with knowledge of the matter emphasized that records continue to be updated and that commanders are engaging their soldiers regarding their vaccination status."From my perspective, it's a discipline issue," said David Barno, a retired Army lieutenant general who led coalition forces in Afghanistan. "You've got thousands of troops who are essentially refusing a legal order to take the vaccine — I've never seen anything like that happen before. It's very unsettling." The mandate has worked. Since Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin required military personnel to receive the vaccine Aug. 25, an additional 21 percent of the active duty military is fully vaccinated, the Defense Department reported. Barno emphasized, however, that even a small number of unvaccinated service members undermines the entire force."This is definitely a negative in terms of overall military readiness," he added. "Even just 3 or 4 percent means tens of thousands of troops that are unvaccinated, which means they are hugely vulnerable to the virus and are pretty much nondeployable to anywhere in the world where the virus is raging."What comes next for these members of the armed services who have not received the vaccine becomes an open question.The Marine Corps has been most explicit regarding consequences for service members who do not receive the vaccine. Its policy states that any active duty Marine "who did not receive a final vaccination dose by Nov. 14 is considered unvaccinated. All unvaccinated Marines without a pending or approved administrative exemption, medical exemption, or religious accommodation, or appeal, will be processed for administrative separation."That kind of separation or discharge could mean that Marines and members of other services may not receive veterans benefits. They may also have to pay back certain bonuses or education benefits they received during their service. Breaking down Covid vaccination exemptions in the militaryNov. 1, 202102:33So far, no Marine has been discharged, but that could soon change. Receiving a permanent exemption in any of the service branches is difficult. The Marine Corps has provided only 15 permanent medical exemptions so far for Covid vaccinations. More than 2,400 Marines applied for religious exemptions, but none of the 2,009 processed as of Monday had been approved.  With 95 percent of the Marine Corps partially or fully vaccinated, however, that leaves around 9,000 Marines who could be headed for "administrative separation."RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor saysWhile the vaccination rates for the Air Force, Space Force and the Navy are higher — all are near 97 percent — thousands of airmen, guardians and seamen who remain unvaccinated could also see their military careers come to an end. "If you are going to refuse to take a vaccine, you are failing your shipmates, you are failing your battle buddies, you are failing your fellow airmen," said James Stavridis, a retired Navy admiral and a  former supreme allied commander for NATO. "I look at this as a necessity. Although we will lose some people who are otherwise good at their jobs, I think we're better off overall for enforcing this mandate."The Army, the military's largest branch, is 96 percent vaccinated as of Dec. 2, when it last reported vaccination data. Lt. Col. Terence Kelley, an Army spokesperson, said the Army and the military's decision to mandate the vaccine was to ensure that soldiers were ready to enter the field at a moment's notice."The Covid-19 vaccine is a readiness issue for the Army: our units and troops must be ready to deploy and fight. Required vaccinations are nothing new to the U.S. military," he said.Unvaccinated soldiers in position of leadership will be relieved of their position, Kelley said, and soldiers who refuse the vaccine without an approved exemption will receive a note of reprimand on their record and be "flagged," which means they cannot receive a promotion or transfer and would be barred from re-enlistment.Soldiers could also face nonjudicial and judicial punishment, and be discharged from the Army, he added. Looming in the distance is another issue: the National Guard and Reserve. Austin ordered that all members of the National Guard and Reserve also receive Covid vaccinations or lose pay and be banned from drills and training. Missing drills can lead to demotion and release from the force. Republican governors, particularly Oklahoma Gov. Kevin Stitt who last week filed a lawsuit against the Department of Defense over vaccine mandates, have threatened to turn these mandates into a political issue.The deadline for the Air National Guard and Reserve has passed, but members of the Army National Guard and Reserve don't have to be fully vaccinated until June 2022. Barno and Stavridis both reflected on the long history of vaccinations in the military. Barno said he had received "a bazillion vaccines in my military career" and Stavridis noted he received nine anthrax vaccine shots just during the Gulf War."Being in the service involves getting a lot of vaccinations that you would never encounter in civilian life, and that's part and parcel being in the military," Barno said. "Everybody pretty much recognizes that."Both agreed that any service members who refused the Covid vaccine should be separated from the military.Stavridis, however, remained optimistic that the military would quickly see a spike in vaccinations once service members realized the stakes of refusal, particularly as anything less than an honorable discharge from the military can drag a career, within and outside the armed forces."I think when people are faced with those kinds of choices, my guess is that in the end, 99 percent of the force will get vaccinated," he said. "Can we deal with a 1 percent loss? Yes, we can. And in the end, we'll be readier force because of it." Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Music and cultural critic Greg Tate dead at 64. Greg Tate, a music and cultural critic who elevated hip-hop as a cultural phenomenon worthy of the kind of respect and admiration jazz has received, has died. He was 64.Laura Sell, a spokeswoman for Duke University Press, which published Tate's "Flyboy 2: The Greg Tate Reader" in 2016, confirmed his death Tuesday. The cause was not immediately available.Tate began impacting popular music and criticism in the 1980s as a staff writer for New York's Village Voice, and he eventually contributed to the New York Times, the Washington Post and Vibe. He was a Louis Armstrong Visiting Professor at Columbia University’s Center for Jazz Studies and lectured at New York's Museum of Contemporary Art. The Source magazine called him "one of the godfathers of hip-hop journalism."Tate praised the Voice's music critic, Robert Christgau, for hiring him in 1981. He's been quoted as saying Christgau "believed Afro-diasporic musics should on occasion be covered by people who weren't strangers to those communities."Early hip-hop, however, was rarely a topic for Rolling Stone. When it  did draw the attention of pop's mostly white critical establishment, it was often seen as a bubble-gum fad responsible for bright, baggy and tasteless fashion. It was rarely taken seriously. Tate rolled it up, smoked it and exhaled dissertation-worthy observations.Today it's hard to find a greatest-emcee list that doesn't feature Rakim near its very top. In 1988, Tate reviewed Eric B. & Rakim's latest single by clearing space for the duo on the top shelf of American musical greats, including Miles Davis."The music on 'Follow the Leader' is spooky, a science-­fiction score that sounds straight out of the Tangerine Dream songbook," he wrote in the Voice. "Rakim’s on an elocutionary speed-trip, a black bullet train slitting through hyperspace." He also wrote about rock 'n' roll, hardcore, jazz, street art, and "the post-nationalist black aesthetic." He played guitar, co-founded the Black Rock writers' coalition and founded Burnt Sugar the Arkestra Chamber, described on its website as "a sprawling band of musicians whose prodigious personnel allows them to freely juggle a wide swath of the experimental soul-jazz-hip hop spectrum."In that 1986 Village Voice essay on the Black American aesthetic, Tate wrote, as a parenthetic aside, "It is our music, especially jazz, which confronts Western culture with its most intimidating and improbable Other: the sui generis black genius."He was born in Dayton, Ohio, grew up in Washington, D.C., and was influenced both by the critics of Rolling Stone and the writing of Amiri Baraka, according to Artforum International Magazine, which first reported the news of his death. He studied film and journalism at Howard University. "I got to New York in ’81, just as hip-hop was blowing up," he told New York magazine in 2016. "Radio wasn’t playing hip-hop. There were no videos. The way I found out about KRS-One, Rakim, Big Daddy Kane and Public Enemy was word-of-mouth. It was very much an underground conversation, but being in New York in the ’80s we were basically at the epicenter of world culture."One of Tate’s earliest feats, New Yorker staff writer Hua Hsu noted in 2016, was to "help to establish jazz and hip-hop as part of the same continuum of expression."RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor saysFor the hip-hop generation, now old enough to feature on the obituary page, Tate's nods could be revelatory. "His form of writing could be as exhilarating as art," Hsu wrote.Tate was celebrated among peers and artists. Hip-hop writer Michael A. Gonzalez wrote in 2007 that the critic's 50th birthday party at the Studio Museum of Harlem was attended by Vernon Reid, Dream Hampton, Kevin Powell, Maureen McMahon and other luminaries.Like a lot of writers who gravitated toward hip-hop, Los Angeles journalist Donnell Alexander, a University of Southern California journalism fellow and author of "Ghetto Celebrity: Searching for My Father in Me," said Tate influenced his career."He was one of the very first writers I wanted to be," he said by email. "I’d be reading the Village Voice music section. I almost literally disbelieved the column inches were real, it was so Black and idiosyncratic." Tate's bibliography includes "Flyboy in the Buttermilk: Essays on Contemporary America" (1992), "Everything But the Burden: What White People Are Taking From Black Culture" (2003), "Midnight Lightning: Jimi Hendrix and the Black Experience" (2003), and "Flyboy 2."On Tuesday, New Yorker magazine staff writer  Jelani Cobb, who's an MSNBC contributor, tweeted that "Flyboy in the Buttermilk" is "a clinic on literary brilliance."Alexander said that one of Tate's impacts was to tease readers with takes on pop music but then take them down a different road."Tate referenced sci-fi," he said. "He’d throw a hip-hop feel onto a piece about rock. He wrote about weird jazz albums with such clued-in passion that I had no idea the form’s relevance was fading. All of this was dazzling in the possibility it presented."His demise is sad, Alexander said, but it will open eyes."It's exciting to think of how many more people are going to read him now," he said.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Rain eases in parts of Hawaii after Kona Low storm lashes state. Flood watches for Honolulu and the rest of Oahu were canceled Tuesday, but not before a slow-moving storm dumped more than a foot of rain on parts of Hawaii, flooding some areas and prompting rescues, officials said.No deaths have been reported from the Kona Low storm, which dumped more than 12 inches on parts of Hawaii’s Big Island and  Maui.But the storm caused flooding, downed trees and power outages.  Gov. David Ige issued an emergency declaration Monday, allowing for aid.A flood watch remained for the islands of Kauai and Niihau, to the west of Oahu, until 6 a.m. Wednesday.“The damage is substantial,” Maui County Mayor Michael Victorino said Monday night, adding that the south part of the island was especially hard hit by flooding.The Honolulu Fire Department on Monday afternoon rescued five boys, all 9 and 10 years old, from a rushing stream, the departments said.Firefighters responded to 90 calls about the weather on Oahu, including 55 flooded houses, three swift-water rescues and two people pulled from vehicles trapped by high waters, the fire department said.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor saysAround 9 inches of rain fell in some parts of Oahu over 24 hours, according to the National Weather Service. Honolulu's airport got almost 8 inches of rain Monday.Roads in Maui County were covered in mud, and a landslide struck a home in Oahu, NBC affiliate KHNL of Honolulu reported.Power was knocked out in much of downtown Honolulu, and full restoration wasn’t likely until Wednesday morning, utility Hawaii Electric said.A substation and undergrounds vaults flooded overnight, and when the water was pumped out, crews discovered around 300 feet of high-voltage cable was damaged, the utility said in a statement.A remaining flood watch for Oahu was canceled Tuesday afternoon, National Weather Service Meteorologist Vanessa Almanza said.The weather system responsible for all that rain is a Kona Low, a seasonal cyclone that pulls deep tropical moisture over Hawaii.It prompted a blizzard warning for Hawaii’s tallest and second-tallest peaks, Mauna Kea and Mauna Loa, both of which are over 13,500 feet.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Defense rests in Jussie Smollett trial; actor blasts attackers as 'liars'. CHICAGO — Actor Jussie Smollett's defense team rested its case Tuesday after he returned to the stand in his criminal trial, sparring with prosecutors over the sequence of events in 2019, when he says he was the victim of a hate crime attack, and blasting the testimony of the two brothers involved in the incident as "liars."After more than a week of witness testimony, the trial of Smollett, the once-rising star of the television show "Empire," is expected to continue with closing arguments Wednesday.Smollett, 39, is charged with six counts of felony disorderly conduct; prosecutors say he made a false police report about the alleged attack. The case hinges on whose narrative the jury determines is more credible: that of Smollett, who denies having masterminded an attack on himself to gain public sympathy and raise his profile, as prosecutors allege, or that of brothers Abimbola and Olabingo Osundairo, who maintain that Smollett paid them to stage the attack.Smollett, who is Black and gay, laid out what he says occurred early Jan. 29, 2019, as he was walking home in downtown Chicago after having gotten food. He testified this week that he heard someone yell "Empire" and "MAGA country," a reference to former President Donald Trump's campaign slogan, "Make America Great Again," as well as racist and homophobic remarks.Smollett said that he turned around and responded using an expletive and that he was punched in his left eye. Smollett, who is 5 feet, 11 inches tall, said he tried to fight back, testifying that the person who attacked him was bigger. He also said he saw a second assailant."It felt like something out of 'Looney Tunes' adventures. It felt like someone massive coming up to me. Not enough time to think," Smollett said. "This person felt significantly larger than me. Dressed in dark clothes. A ski mask."Jussie Smollett testifies in his own defenseDec. 6, 202101:23Under cross-examination, Smollett said he initially refused to give Chicago police his cellphone for their investigation because he wanted his privacy. Asked by special prosecutor Dan Webb whether he was concerned that the phone would show several calls to Abimbola Osundairo, Smollett said no.Smollett testified that he first met Abimbola Osundairo in 2017 at a club, where he learned that Osundairo also worked on the "Empire" set. He said they did drugs together and went to a bathhouse, where  they "made out." He said they later did more drugs and participated in sex acts together.Abimbola Osundairo at the Leighton Criminal Courthouse in Chicago after a lunch break in the trial of actor Jussie Smollett on Dec. 1. Charles Rex Arbogast / APAbimbola Osundairo testified last week that he and Smollett did not have a sexual relationship.Before the staged attack, Osundairo said, Smollett sent him a text message about needing to talk secretly "on the low." He said that during the conversation, Smollett brought up orchestrating a planned assault. Smollett said the text message was in reference to an illegal steroid that Osundairo had told him he could get from Nigeria.Abimbola and Olabingo Osundairo, who are Black, also testified last week that Smollett instructed them to yell "this is MAGA country" during the assault.Smollett reiterated Tuesday: "They're liars. They also said I had something to do with it, and I didn't."RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor saysDefense attorneys have suggested that the Osundairo brothers accused Smollett of staging the hoax because they disliked him and saw an opportunity to make money. They suggested that after police questioned the brothers, they asked Smollett for $1 million each not to testify against him.Smollett's lawyers also have argued that police rushed to judgment when they charged Smollett. He initially faced as many as 16 felony counts involving filing a false police report before prosecutors dropped the charges in March 2019. Webb, the special prosecutor, secured another indictment last year.Smollett said that the twisting saga has been "embarrassing" and that it has caused him to lose out on work."I've lost my livelihood," he told the jury.Smollett could face up to three years in prison if he is convicted, although legal experts say his lack of a criminal record and the fact that no one was seriously hurt might result in probation and community service.Samira Puskar reported from Chicago and Erik Ortiz from New York.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Nick Cannon's 5-month-old son, Zen, dies of brain tumor. Nick Cannon announced Tuesday that his 5-month-old son, Zen, died of a brain tumor over the weekend. The 41-year-old TV host made the tragic announcement on his show, "Nick Cannon."Zen was Cannon’s seventh and youngest child; Alyssa Scott delivered him in June."Over the weekend, I lost my youngest son to a condition called hydrocephalus that is pretty much a malignant, midline brain tumor — brain cancer," Cannon said. Hydrocephalus is characterized by an abnormal increase in the amount of fluid on the brain.Nick Cannon announces death of 5-month-old son from brain tumorDec. 7, 202101:16Cannon broke down in tears as he explained his son's medical condition. “I always noticed he had a cough and so I wanted to check it out,” he said. "He had this real interesting breathing, and by the time he was 2 months old I noticed ... he had this nice-sized head, too. I called it a Cannon head," he said. "We didn’t think anything about it. But I wanted to take him to the doctor for his sinus and breathing. We thought it would be routine."Cannon said he found out the fluid building up on Zen's brain caused it to expand. Doctors discovered the malignant tumor, and Zen underwent surgery to drain the fluid.Zen's condition worsened around Thanksgiving.“The process sped up. Ultimately, it was cancer in the brain. The tumor began to grow a lot faster,” Cannon said."This weekend, I made an effort to spend the most quality time with Zen. We woke up on Sunday ... and went to the ocean with him," Cannon said.Cannon was overcome with emotion as he described holding Zen for the last time. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor says"I was preparing my day as it normally went. I didn’t know what it was going to be. But even by the time I got in the car headed for the airport, I had to turn around," to be with Zen, Cannon said."I turned around and not only did we get to see the sunrise, but we got to see the sunset, too," he said."You can’t heal until you feel," he told his viewers, adding that "this is a special show dedicated to my beautiful son."The actor said he’ll take time off to grieve. Cannon shares 10-year-old twins, Moroccan and Monroe Cannon, with singer Mariah Carey; son Golden, 4, and daughter Powerful Queen Cannon, 11 months, with Brittany Bell; and 5-month-old twins, Zion Mixolydian Cannon and Zillion Heir Cannon, with Abby De La Rosa.CORRECTION (Dec. 7, 2021, 6:03 p.m. ET): A previous version of this article misstated the title of Nick Cannon’s talk show. It is called “Nick Cannon,” not “The Nick Cannon Show,” which aired in the early 2000s.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Brooke Shields calls 1981 Barbara Walters interview 'practically criminal'. Brooke Shields slammed Barbara Walters over a 1981 interview she did about her famous Calvin Klein ad, describing Walters' questions about her sexual history as "practically criminal."In 1980, Shields, who was then 15, starred in a Calvin Klein TV commercial that featured the famous slogan “You want to know what comes between me and my Calvins? Nothing.”The commercial sparked a public and media outcry, prompting Shields to address the controversy in a series of interviews — most of which were characterized by invasive questions about her personal life.On Monday's episode of Dax Shepard's podcast Armchair Expert, Shields said the interviewers she spoke to in the wake of the Calvin Klein ad "never wanted my answer — they just wanted their point of view."Shepard said the 1981 interview with Walters after the release of the Calvin Klein commercial was particularly "maddening." Shields agreed, saying: "It's practically criminal. It's not journalism."Brooke Shields and her mother, Teri Shields, in New York City around 1980. Bettina Cirone / Images/Getty Images fileWalters asked Shields about her measurements, whether she wanted to be like her mother and whether she kept any secrets from her. Shields, who appeared to be visibly uncomfortable, defended her mother throughout the interview and said she was still growing up as a teen.RecommendedPop Culture NewsPop Culture NewsPeople are blasting Chanel's $825 Advent calendar on TikTokPop Culture NewsPop Culture NewsA TikTok star shared his weight loss with his followers. He was called 'fatphobic.'It isn't the first time Shields has addressed the outcry.In a video for Vogue in October, Shields, 56, said she didn't realize the ad was overtly sexual at the time.“They take the one commercial, which is a rhetorical question. I was naive. I didn’t think anything of it. I didn’t think it had to do with underwear. I didn’t think it was sexual in nature," she said in the Vogue video. "I would say it about my sister: ‘Nobody can come between me and my sister.’”Brooke Shields around 1980. Archive Photos / Getty Images fileShields added that the backlash "backfired," saying the campaign made the brand a household name.“The campaign was extremely successful. And then, I think, the underwear sort of overtook the jeans, and they understood what sells and how to push the envelope," she told Vogue.“There’s an appeal to it that is so undeniable, and they tapped right into it,” she said. “They knew exactly what they were doing, and I think it did set the tone for decades.”
Mississippi inmate revealed location of sister-in-law's body before he was executed for another murder, officials say. Three weeks before he was executed for killing his estranged wife, authorities say, a death row inmate in Mississippi revealed the location of the body of his sister-in-law, who disappeared in 2007.Attorneys for the man, David Neal Cox, told prosecutors about the purported confession of his involvement in a second homicide in “hand-delivered writings” on Nov. 19, First Circuit District Attorney John Weddle said in a statement.The notes were provided two days after he was killed by lethal injection at the Mississippi State Penitentiary at Parchman, Weddle said.Mississippi executes first inmate in 9 yearsNov. 17, 202102:00Cox's writings, which were provided by attorneys with the Office of Capital Post-Conviction Counsel, revealed “the alleged location of the body of Felicia Cox; missing since July of 2007,” said the statement, which added, “Cox has been a longtime suspect in her disappearance.” “The Pontotoc County Sheriff’s Department and the District Attorney’s Office were in contact with Cox ... prior to the execution urging the disclosure,” it said.David Neal Cox.Mississippi Department of Corrections via APCox shared an admission of guilt and details about his sister in-law’s whereabouts on or about Oct. 26, prosecutors said.Weddle said Tuesday by telephone that he is hopeful that authorities will find the body of Felicia Cox, who was 40 years old when she vanished.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor says“The case has been open for a long time, 14½ years. We’ve never had the evidence that we needed to prosecute this,” Weddle said. “He’s always been a suspect because he was one of the last people to see her alive. But he never confessed to it. We didn’t have a body.”Officials are working on the logistics of searching for Felicia Cox’s remains, and her relatives are optimistic that she will be found, Weddle said. He said the body will be looked for in Pontotoc County.Authorities have contacted experts in archaeology and anthropology at Mississippi State University to help in the search and recovery if Felicia Cox is found, officials said.David Cox, 50, last month became the first inmate to have been executed in Mississippi in nine years. He had pleaded guilty to killing his estranged wife and sexually assaulting her young daughter as her mother lay dying more than a decade ago.Cox exhausted his appeals and filed court papers saying he was “worthy of death.” He appeared calm as he received a lethal injection on Nov. 17. A coroner pronounced him dead at 6:12 p.m.“I want my children to know that I love them very much and that I was a good man at one time,” Cox said just before the injection started. “Don’t ever read anything but the King James Bible.”Cox was sentenced to death for the fatal shooting in 2010 of Kim Kirk Cox. He pleaded guilty in 2012 to capital murder and multiple other charges, including sexual assault. A jury handed down the death sentence.Prosecutors said Cox shot his wife and let her bleed to death over several hours while he sexually assaulted his stepdaughter three times in front of her dying mother.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Statue of KKK leader Nathan Bedford Forrest taken down on land near Nashville. A statue of an early Ku Klux Klan leader and Confederate general that long raised the ire of motorists along Interstate 65 in Tennessee was removed Tuesday morning from the private property where it had sat for decades.The owner of the land where the statue of Nathan Bedford Forrest stood died recently, NBC affiliate WSMV of Nashville reported. The man, Bill Dorris, left the property to the Battle of Nashville Trust, and the group had the statue removed. The statue of Forrest “is ugly” and even he would think so, the trust said in a statement. Forrest “was not present at the Battle of Nashville,” and the property “has no historical significance,” it said.Democratic state Sen. Heidi Campbell said the statue's removal was "great news.""As Oak Hill Mayor I implored the state to allow vegetation to grow in front of it (they kept that particular stretch trimmed in a way that was inconsistent with the rest of the roadside)," she tweeted.A statue of Nathan Bedford Forrest, a Confederate Army general and the first grand wizard of the Ku Klux Klan, is splattered with pink paint in Nashville, Tenn., on Dec. 28, 2017.Mark Humphrey / AP fileDorris is said to have placed the statue alongside the highway to showcase the "area's history," WSMV reported.As news of the statue's removal spread online, social media users noted the peculiarly poor rendering of Forrest's face, with his jaw hanging open."It’s a very strange looking statue at best. I’d like to know what the artist was thinking," a Twitter user said. Other monuments to Forrest have sparked controversy for decades. In July, a bust was moved from the Tennessee Capitol to a nearby museum after years of debate, one of a long stream of Confederate memorabilia and monuments that have fallen in recent years. The roadside statue was vandalized with pink paint in 2017, which Dorris vowed to leave, according to the newspaper the Tennessean: "They’ve been trying to figure out how to cover it up," he said. "I do think they’ve chosen a real good color."Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Mexican nationals accused of kidnapping 9, murdering 6, including 3 U.S. citizens. Six Mexican nationals are accused of kidnapping nine people and murdering six of them, including three American citizens, authorities said Tuesday.The group, based in Tijuana, Mexico, was in the custody of Mexican authorities and faces charges there, the U.S. Attorney's Office for California’s central district said in a news release.It wasn’t immediately clear where they are being held or what they are accused of in Mexico. A spokesman for the federal prosecutors’ office in California declined to say if they’ll be brought to the United States.In the United States, the group is accused of operating a kidnapping gang for four months last year that often lured victims to meetings under false pretenses, then held them at gunpoint and brutally beat them, the release said. After victims were assaulted, the group called relatives and demanded money or cars in exchange for their release. Victims were killed if the ransom wasn’t paid, the release said.The group is also accused of killing victims despite receiving a ransom payment in order to protect their alleged "conspiracy," authorities said.A federal grand jury indicted the group on charges of conspiracy to commit hostage taking resulting in death, conspiracy to commit extortion and other crimes.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor saysIn one case, after a U.S. citizen from Southern California was allegedly kidnapped while visiting a relative in Tijuana on April 11, the gang demanded $25,000 for his release, the release said. After his mother offered $1,000 and her son's car, the group allegedly murdered him. His body was found in Mexico the next day, according to the release.None of the victims were identified.In another case in April, a Pasadena woman told authorities that the group demanded $20,000 in exchange for the release of a relative. Mexican authorities found the victim alive at a Tijuana hotel. It was unclear if the ransom was paid. Authorities identified the gang's alleged ringleader as German Garcia Yera Hernandez, 37. Others indicted include Gilberto Omar Avila Lopez, 27; Aylin Estrada Reyes, 24; Joel Eduardo Mascorro Delgado, 22; Victoria Camila Espinoza Ballardo, 22; and Oscar Bautista Valencia, 30.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
People are blasting Chanel's $825 Advent calendar on TikTok. TikTok users unboxing Chanel’s $825 Advent calendar are complaining about the quality of items in the holiday package. The calendar, which starts on Dec. 5 instead of the first day of the month as a nod to the iconic perfume Chanel No. 5, features such items as a keychain, a Chanel-stamped wax seal and a perfume bottle-shaped paperweight. The package itself is shaped like a massive bottle of perfume. “This has to be a joke,” TikTok creator Elise Harmon says in a video she posted Sunday, in which she unwraps the calendar. The first box she opens, labeled 9, reveals a sheet of branded stickers. “This is a joke! Stickers?” In follow-up videos, she unboxes a "baby"-size body cream, a flip book, mini lipsticks, temporary tattoos, a money clip and a magnet. "I'm pretty sure this is enough cream for my left arm, but it's very cute," Harmon jokes. Although Harmon said she was pleasantly surprised by the nail polish and a larger bottle of Chanel No. 5, which were the only two full-size items in the calendar, she said she was disappointed by the product overall.“When you’re buying from a brand like Chanel that is coveted and known for quality and luxury and you receive things that [are], like, gumball status and free things that they had given away months prior, it’s questionable,” she says in one of her videos.Harmon did not immediately respond to a request for comment. "When you're buying from a brand like Chanel that is coveted and known for quality and luxury and you receive things that [are], like, gumball status and free things that they had given away months prior, it's questionable."tiktok creator elise harmonA spokesperson for Chanel also did not immediately respond to a request for comment. In a statement to People magazine, Gregoire Audidier, the international communication and client experience strategy director for Chanel Fragrance & Beauty, pointed to the brand's website, noting that customers can see everything in the calendar if they buy it online. “The advent calendar was a limited edition item specially created by CHANEL to celebrate the 100 years of N°5. Directly inspired by the mythical silhouette of the N°5 bottle, the collector’s item and the contents included are detailed on our website, chanel.com," he told the publication.The description for the product on Chanel’s website reads: "To celebrate the holiday season and mark 100 years of the legendary fragrance, CHANEL presents a first-of-its-kind calendar crafted in the timeless silhouette of the N°5 flacon. Count down to the holidays with this collector’s item featuring 27 boxes numbered from 5 to 31, filled with mysterious delights and surprises. A piece to treasure for years to come." It goes on to list every single item. The product is sold out.Harmon said she bought her calendar in a store to be more surprised by its contents. Other creators who posted unboxing videos were similarly baffled. TikTok creator Emily McCart paired a video unwrapping the box of Chanel stickers with audio of Wendy Williams saying, "What was that?"Another video, posted by TikTok user ideservecouture, shows a woman ranting in Cantonese as she unboxes each item. One of the Advent boxes reveals a Chanel dust bag. "While I do not speak the same language, I understood every word," a commenter said. "SMH Chanel."Another replied, "The fact it's an advent calendar is funny. So you can be disappointed every day for a month." TikTok creator chuacookie began posting videos featuring the calendar Sunday. The first box to be opened, labeled 5, was the tiny bottle of Chanel No. 5. Chuacookie placed it next to a measuring tape and tucked it into the crook of a Barbie doll's arm to show just how small the bottle was.  Harmon claims Chanel blocked her on TikTok. Other TikTok users say Chanel deleted its account following the backlash. The account @Chanel on TikTok has no followers, and it is set to private.Audidier told People that the account is "not an active account and no content has ever been published."RecommendedPop Culture NewsPop Culture NewsA TikTok star shared his weight loss with his followers. He was called 'fatphobic.'MusicMusicOlivia Rodrigo performs 'Drivers License' at a California DMV (yes, really)"The page therefore appears empty to anyone who visits it," Audidier said. “We are committed to sharing our creations with our followers on all social networks we are active on. Our pages are open to everyone, and our followers are free to express their feelings and opinions, whether they are enthusiastic or critical.”On Instagram, where Chanel has a verified account, the brand faced a barrage of complaints. "They should make a outfit with all the stickers," a user commented on Chanel's Instagram post Tuesday."I can't afford $825 just for stickers," another wrote. In an interview with Women’s Wear Daily, Audidier said the controversy was “a bit of a shame.”"Because it was not what Chanel intended," he said. "Chanel thought it would please some of its customers by offering this type of product. Evidently, we see that you have to be careful, and therefore, in future, we will certainly be much more cautious."
A white man shot his Black neighbor in Missouri, claiming self-defense. Neighbors tell a different story.. The fatal shooting of a Black man in a trailer park is rocking a rural community in Missouri as neighbors who say they witnessed the killing dispute the police narrative of events.Justin King, a 28-year-old Black and Filipino man, was shot Nov. 3 at 11:45 a.m. in the small town of Bourbon, located about 73 miles southwest of St. Louis.Police say he was shot by the owner of a home he was trying to break into, but witnesses and family members say he was shot in "cold blood" by a man he called his friend.King succumbed to his wounds at the scene. The 42-year-old white neighbor who shot him was taken into custody and later released. Justin King and his daughter.Courtesy John KingThe Crawford County Sheriff's Department said King was shot "after forcing entry into a neighboring residence where an altercation took place." The homeowner "feared for his life" and shot King, the department said in a news release.The department said evidence, video surveillance and statements "preliminarily corroborate the homeowner's account of the events."But family members of King and five people who live in the trailer park told NBC News they doubt that narrative.Three neighbors told NBC News the shooter was a man who had expressed a desire to kill someone, has a history of violence and was known to use racial epithets. Several neighbors said King and the shooter were friends. Nimrod Chapel Jr., the president of the Missouri NAACP, who is representing the King family, said Justin King was shot outside the neighbor's home and had not entered it, contrary to the sheriff's account."The only person that says it's a home invasion is the guy that shot my son," King's father, John King, told NBC News. "And all the neighbors are saying, 'No, you shot him in cold blood outside.'""He had no shirt on, only pajama bottoms. So how was he a threat?" John King said. "Justin was shot in cold blood outside in broad daylight."Under Missouri's "castle doctrine" law, individuals are allowed to use deadly force against intruders without the duty to retreat, based on the notion that their home is "their castle."The shooter, whose name has not been made public and who is not facing charges, did not reply to NBC News' request for comment. What happened on Nov. 3Neighbors described King as a happy-go-lucky man who always offered a helping hand. He had moved to Bourbon from St. Louis recently to be close to his 9-year-old daughter, Harlee. Lesa Stiller, the manager of the trailer park, said she saw King outside heading toward the neighbor's trailer moments before the shooting. All of a sudden, she heard a "pop, pop, pop.""And right at that last pop, I saw Justin slowly stagger backwards real slow with his hands up in the air," near the outdoor front steps of the shooter's trailer, Stiller recalled. She noted that she didn't see King enter the trailer itself and that King and the shooter lived across from each other."I heard him say, 'I thought we were friends.' And [the neighbor] said, 'We were!' and he just slowly walked back," she said. Another neighbor, Katie Bosek, described King as "a gentle man who helped everybody." She said he helped her search for her dogs that went missing the same day as the shooting. Later that day, King and the neighbor who shot him worked together to fix her car, she said."They both got under the hood together. They're just cutting it up laughing as they're doing it," she said. She claimed she saw King and the neighbor walk off together. She said she heard three gunshots about 15 minutes later and rushed to the window to see King lying on the ground. Trina Willson, who lives several trailers behind the shooter, said: "He knew Justin. You would think that if your friend was coming into your house, you'd be like, 'Hey, man, what are you doing?' Why do you automatically resort to pulling out a gun and shooting him? How can this even possibly go down as self-defense?"Chapel noted that the neighbor and King had cameras at their homes. Police have not released any video footage from the incident to the public or the family but said they have "viewed all videos at our disposal." The Crawford County Sheriff's Department said it intends to share the footage "upon the final case review by the county prosecutor."King's death has torn apart the close-knit community in the small town of Bourbon, home to 1,600 residents."It's been crazy here since that. We've never had nothing like that in this little small town since I've been here in 20 years," Earl McCoy, another neighbor, said. "We take care of each other in here. It's been eerily quiet here. It was like a ghost town."A history of threatening violence and racist languageThree people who live in the park said the neighbor who shot King had threatened violence before.Stiller said the neighbor was known to show off his gun — including once at a party she threw on Oct. 30."He never went anywhere without that .32 in his belt," she said.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor saysBosek recalled that King told her months before the shooting that the neighbor had threatened to shoot him. "Justin came over about two months prior to all this happening. He was like, 'You know he threatened to shoot me? Yeah, that dude threatened to shoot me,'" she said. "Justin was such a good guy. He would always forgive people and keep going back."McCoy said the shooter "had guns all over his house.""The last time I talked to [the neighbor] was at a party on Halloween when he showed everybody his little pistol," McCoy said. "He said, 'I don't fight no more; I shoot motherf------.'"King's father believes the shooting was an act of "racially motivated hate" and said his son was the only Black person in that trailer community.Two neighbors also said the shooter was known to use racial slurs."He was always open with the N-word. He never said 'Black man,'" Stiller said."He would blurt [racial epithets] out. He wouldn't call it to Justin if he was standing around me and Justin because he knows I'd knock his a-- off," McCoy said.The neighbor who shot King has a criminal record involving violence. He was arrested in June 2017 and charged with second-degree assault and unlawful use of a weapon while intoxicated, both felonies, according to court records. Court records do not show if those charges were dismissed. The Crawford County court clerk declined to comment, and the Crawford County prosecutor's office did not respond to NBC News' request for comment on those charges.  Federal law generally prohibits people from possessing firearms if they have been convicted of a felony, according to Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. Further, Missouri also prohibits possession of a firearm by any person convicted of a felony under Missouri law.Outrage over the handling of the case John King said he was outraged to see sheriff's deputies escorting the shooter back to his trailer the day after his son's death. The family, along with local activists, are calling out the sheriff's department and demanding a thorough investigation."I feel, like, betrayed by all the police," King’s mother, Eva Bruns, said. "They're not being fair. I don't know if it's because of color or because of the way the killer is." "In the investigation, nothing has been done," she said. "Twenty-four hours later and he's out of jail. I don't know what kind of justice that is."Crawford County Sheriff Darin Layman said in a statement that all the information shared thus far in the case is "accurate in relation to our investigation and findings.""Our office has not uncovered any evidence to support the idea that this was a racially motivated incident," he said. "We have contacted the FBI regarding this investigation and requested their assistance in processing a portion of the evidence collected."The FBI in Missouri declined to comment on the case.Now the family is focusing on getting answers on what happened in the build-up to King's death.  "The family wants to make sure that whoever is responsible for the death of their son is held accountable," Chapel, the King family’s lawyer, said. "But right now we just settle for the disclosure of the truth."So far, no lawsuit has been filed in the case, but Chapel said, "I wouldn't rule anything out at this point."A statewide issue of failing to investigate the deaths of Black menChapel said the lack of action in King's case is part of a statewide problem when it comes to investigating the deaths of African Americans, pointing to the cases of Tory Sanders and Derontae Martin.Sanders, 28, a Black inmate at a rural jail, died in May 2017 under similar circumstances to George Floyd, after a white law enforcement officer pressed his knee on his neck, according to a wrongful death suit filed by his family. Missouri Attorney General Eric Schmitt declined to file charges in his death. Martin, 19, was found dead from a gunshot wound to the head on April 25 at the home of a white man who had posted racist memes on social media. Authorities concluded that he died by suicide, but in July, a jury of six people ruled during a coroner's inquest hearing that Martin was killed by violence. "That's Jim Crow justice," Chapel said. "This is a statewide issue. In Justin's case, they allege that there's an investigation, but then they produce the results of the investigation before the investigation is complete. What kind of police work is that?"Missouri's NAACP chapter issued a travel advisory in 2017 that remains in effect today warning people to travel with caution in the state because "race, gender and color-based crimes have a long history in Missouri.""What Missouri needs is to have some federal oversight to ensure that law enforcement is trying to treat people in the way that the Constitution demands, whether you're the alleged perpetrator of a crime or victim of a crime — that you have the same rights regardless of skin color," Chapel said. On Nov. 16, the Crawford County Sheriff's Department said the investigation into King's death is still open and evidence is being processed and sent off for lab analysis. The department also said an informal case review was conducted with the Crawford County prosecutor's office, and there will be follow-ups with witnesses and evidence collection.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Éric Zemmour been called racist and dangerous, and he's running for president of France . PARIS — Éric Zemmour does not mind comparisons to Donald Trump. “We are not the same but we have points in common,” the far-right TV pundit, who Tuesday declared his candidacy for French president, told NBC News at a recent book signing outside Lyon. “He is very American and I am very French, almost to the point of being a caricature.” In fact, a central plank of his political vision echoes Trump’s “Make America Great Again” message: “I want a French France,” he has said. A woman walks past a poster of Éric Zemmour, a political pundit who has emerged as a new leader of the country’s formidable far right.Rafael Yaghobzadeh for NBC NewsSlight and charismatic Zemmour, whose parents were French Algerian Jews, may be very French, but the media frenzy surrounding him and his background as an outspoken star of the small screen is drawing parallels to the former American president’s meteoric rise. A recent video of Zemmour pointing a sniper rifle at journalists in Paris has been watched by millions. His controversial opinions on women and France’s role in World War II have shocked many.  But his leitmotif is immigration and Islam. “We will not let ourselves be dominated, subjugated, conquered, colonized,” he said in a video announcing his candidacy Tuesday.“We will not let ourselves be replaced,” he added, a nod to the “great replacement,” a conspiracy theory which posits that European, white and Christian populations are being supplanted by nonwhite immigrants from Africa and the Middle East, particularly Muslims. It has been adopted by white supremacists, and linked to mass shootings in the United States and New Zealand. Seemingly out of nowhere, Zemmour, 63, has electrified France’s presidential race. The neatly-dressed firebrand has hammered home warnings of a country in decline and exploited sentiments thriving well beyond its shores to emerge as a new leader of the country’s formidable far right, while still appealing to more mainstream conservative voters. More than one poll has predicted he could overtake Marine Le Pen, the doyen of the hard right, to reach the final round of the election in April and go head-to-head with President Emmanuel Macron.“I think people are not enough afraid of him — they don’t think he can make it,” said Gaspard Gantzer, a former strategy and communications adviser to the last Socialist president of France, François Hollande. “Nobody thought that Trump could win.”Modest beginningsZemmour spent much of his early childhood in Drancy, a modest Parisian suburb whose high-rise social housing and private apartment blocks dwarf the small detached properties set back behind iron railings below. Éric Zemmour grew up in the culturally and ethnically diverse Parisian suburb of Drancy. Rafael Yaghobzadeh for NBC NewsThe population of this sprawling suburb reflects the waves of immigration over the years, including those who arrived from southern Europe and former African colonies like Algeria. His parents, widely reported to be named Roger, an ambulance driver, and Lucette, a housewife, moved to France from Algeria in 1952. Storefronts tout everything from French patisserie to kebabs, the streets are clean if not beautiful, and the houses neatly kept. In one central bar, men congregate around a television checking the numbers they’ve drawn in a lotto-style game against those on the screen.The extent of Drancy’s diversity is difficult to grasp exactly because France’s commitment to universalism, which subsumes other identities into Frenchness and encourages immigrants to integrate, largely prohibits the government census from counting people by race or religion.It is this Frenchness that Zemmour wants to preserve, and what has led him to label Islam as “incompatible with France.” On a recent visit to his home suburb televised by TV channel CNews, he confronted a woman who was wearing a headscarf. “You’re not doing as the French do,” he told the woman, who was introduced as Rachida, a naturalized French citizen, and who had just insisted that she is French. “I work, I pay my taxes, I raise my children,” she responded. “See the woman that I am, not the piece of fabric on my head.” “I see only the fabric on your head, because you only show that … you say to everyone, ‘I’m Muslim,’” Zemmour responded.  “If he wins, the risk is civil war,” said Hamid Chabani, a deputy mayor of Drancy. Rafael Yaghobzadeh for NBC NewsHamid Chabani, a deputy mayor of Drancy and the founder of a Franco-Berber cultural center in the suburb, said Zemmour’s rhetoric was dangerous and risked emboldening the most extreme members of the Muslim community in France. The Berbers are an indigenous people of North Africa.“It’s Islamism that’s not compatible with France, it’s the terrorists who aren’t compatible with France,” he said in his office in Drancy’s municipal building, which is framed by a neat square complete with bright bedding plants and a fountain. “We have the right to have a religion.”“If he wins, the risk is civil war,” Chabani said, adding that he doubted Zemmour would win.France has one of the largest Muslim populations in Europe, a legacy of its colonial domination of large parts of Africa and the Middle East. In recent years, it has also been bloodied by deadly terrorist attacks, many of which were carried out by homegrown radical Islamists. Zemmour says he makes a distinction between Islam and Muslims and says everyone has the right to practice their religion. He says he has nothing against foreigners, but prefers French people, and asks that immigrants assimilate. He wants to oblige parents to give their children “French” names rather than foreign ones such as Kevin or Mohammed. He has warned repeatedly of the “great replacement,” an idea popularized by the French writer Renaud Camus.Asked by NBC News whether the “great replacement” was in fact a conspiracy theory, Zemmour demurred, describing it as an “unstoppable” demographic process. Some in Drancy believe he speaks cold hard truths even if they say he sometimes goes too far. Michelle Ardinge, a French citizen born in Madagascar who now runs a funeral home in the suburb, said she agreed with most of what Zemmour said on immigration.“We’re a cosmopolitan country, but still at home you shouldn’t feel invaded by foreigners who don’t respect anything,” she said.“It is necessary to refuse the language that the media imposes,” said Zemmour, seen here shaking hands with supporters as he arrives at a promotional event for his new book "France hasn't said its last word."Chesnot / Getty ImagesBut Zemmour’s controversial opinions have also landed him in hot water. Last month, he went on trial for inciting racial hatred for calling unaccompanied child migrants “thieves,” “killers” and “rapists” on TV last year.Zemmour said in a statement that the proceedings were nothing more than a further “intimidation attempt” and that he would not attend the trial because he believes political debate should not take place in courtrooms.His lawyer, Olivier Pardo, told RMC radio that the charges don’t hold up: “He’s wanted for ‘racial hatred,’ for inciting racial discrimination with regards to unaccompanied minors, but as far as I know, unaccompanied minors are neither a race, nor a nation, nor an ethnicity.”‘Immeasurable good luck’ While espousing Frenchness, Zemmour’s own roots come from further afield. He was born in Montreuil in the eastern suburbs of Paris; his parents had moved to metropolitan France from Algeria — a colony that gained its independence in 1962 after 132 years of French rule. Zemmour has said his parents “idolized” France and that he and his family, whose surname means olive tree in Berber, successfully assimilated to the French way of life. In his most recent book,  he writes that he always thought it “immeasurable good luck” to be able to become the compatriot of the likes of René Descartes and Gustave Flaubert. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor saysHe has spoken about how growing up, he wore a skullcap in the synagogue but not on the street, and how his name was Éric outside and Moses inside the place of worship.As for his own beliefs, Zemmour has said he’s doubtful about the existence of God but that he goes to the synagogue when he wants to re-immerse himself in the rites of his childhood and to remember his parents. He has shocked many with his claims that France’s wartime Vichy regime, which teamed up with the country’s Nazi occupiers, “protected” French Jews while handing over foreign ones. Around 76,000 Jews are estimated to have been deported from France to the death camps during World War II. The majority went through a camp in Drancy, situated less than a mile from the modest apartment block where Zemmour grew up. Protesters hold a banner that reads "Marseille Anti-Fascist" during a visit to the city by French far-right media pundit Eric Zemmour.Christophe Simon / AFP via Getty ImagesToday, a somber sculpture of figures lying across one another, a symbolic rail carriage and a museum mark the site of what was then an antechamber to Auschwitz concentration camp. But it took time for France to reckon with this dark chapter in its history. In 1995, then-President Jacques Chirac acknowledged that France had “handed over those under its protection to their executioners,” finally owning up to the country’s role in the Vel d’Hiv round-up, a mass arrest of Jews by French police in 1942. France’s chief rabbi, Haïm Korsia, has described Zemmour as anti-Semitic and racist. In response, Zemmour accused Korsia of being a “court Jew” who wanted to deliver his scalp to Macron.  For Serge Klarsfeld, a historian and Nazi hunter, it is what Zemmour says about Muslims that is most alarming. “He speaks like Hitler,” Klarsfeld said. “He has a beastly vision of society and what he says is either it’s them or us.” Some blame the media for giving oxygen to Zemmour’s ideas. A recent poll found that 2 in 3 French people are concerned that a “great replacement” could happen in France. But Zemmour’s supporters say efforts to protect the French people and their interests do not make Zemmour  — or them — racist. As for the charge of anti-Semitism, they point to the fact that he is Jewish and say he will protect Jews against insults and attacks by Islamists. Press contacts around Zemmour did not respond or declined to field requests for comment regarding allegations that the TV pundit’s speech is racist, sexist, Islamophobic and anti-Semitic, as well as clarification about his run-ins with the French justice system.Among his most vocal supporters is a group of young people, Génération Z, who have a strong online presence and are led by a cherub-faced president, Stanislas Rigault. Sitting on the terrasse of a Parisian cafe, the 22-year-old former law student described Zemmour as “the brains” of the French right and said he was the only person capable of synthesizing the working-class electorate of Le Pen, with those who usually vote for the conservative Les Republicains. “It’s those two electorates that could lead to victory in the end,” he added.Stanislas Rigault, President of Zemmour support group "Generation Z".Joel Saget / AFP via Getty ImagesRecent polls consistently put Macron ahead of right-wing candidates, but that hasn’t stopped supporters from throwing their weight behind Zemmour.    Other fans include a group of teachers who recently wrote an Op-Ed in a conservative daily in which they lamented the influence of “progressive propaganda” on schools and called for reform founded on “merit, excellence and authority” — a transformation they say only Zemmour has the courage to pull off. The authors believe standards in French schools are in decline, children are no longer taught to love their country, teachers no longer have enough authority, and ideology is seeping its way into the classroom, a spokesman for the teachers, Guillaume Bessières, said recently over coffee. “He wants to keep ideology away from the classroom,” Bessières said of Zemmour, adding that Zemmour differentiates between teaching and raising children. It’s up to parents to orientate children morally and politically, Bessières said. “When schools take charge of raising children, and even the ideology of children, for us it’s a danger,” he added. But for others, it is Zemmour himself who poses a threat. A recent poll found that he is the most rejected political personality in France, with 70 percent of eligible voters considering him “racist,” 66 percent “misogynist” and 67 percent considering him “dangerous.” Zemmour has denied being a misogynist or racist. Recent polls have also shown Le Pen to be Macron’s principal rival once again, overtaking Zemmour. Separately, on Friday, lawyers announced that Zemmour and one of his political aides, Sarah Knafo, would launch legal proceedings after Closer magazine claimed they were expecting a baby. But the polemicist won’t give up without a fight — and like Trump, one place that starts is by pushing back against the media. “It is necessary to refuse the language that the media imposes,” Zemmour said recently. “Trump does that in his own way and I do it in mine.”Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'Magic dirt': How the internet fueled, and defeated, the pandemic's weirdest MLM. The social media posts started in May: photos and videos of smiling people, mostly women, drinking Mason jars of black liquid, slathering black paste on their faces and feet, or dipping babies and dogs in tubs of the black water. They tagged the posts #BOO and linked to a website that sold a product called Black Oxygen Organics.Black Oxygen Organics, or “BOO” for short, is difficult to classify. It was marketed as fulvic acid, a compound derived from decayed plants, that was dug up from an Ontario peat bog. The website of the Canadian company that sold it billed it as “the end product and smallest particle of the decomposition of ancient, organic matter.” Put more simply, the product is dirt — four-and-a-half ounces of it, sealed in a sleek black plastic baggie and sold for $110 plus shipping. Visitors to the Black Oxygen Organics website, recently taken offline, were greeted with a pair of white hands cradling cups of dirt like an offering. “A gift from the Ground,” it reads. “Drink it. Wear it. Bathe in it.” BOO, which “can be taken by anyone at any age, as well as animals,” according to the company, claims many benefits and uses, including improved brain function and heart health, and ridding the body of so-called toxins that include heavy metals, pesticides and parasites. By the end of the summer, online ads for BOO had made their way to millions of people within the internet subcultures that embrace fringe supplements, including the mixed martial arts community, anti-vaccine and Covid-denier groups, and finally more general alternative health and fake cure spaces. And people seemed to be buying; parts of TikTok and Instagram were flooded with #BOO posts. The businessman behind Black Oxygen Organics has been selling mud in various forms for 25 years now, but BOO sold in amounts that surprised even its own executives, according to videos of company meetings viewed by NBC News. The stars appeared aligned for it. A pandemic marked by unprecedented and politicized misinformation has spurred a revival in wonder cures. Well-connected Facebook groups of alternative health seekers and vaccine skeptics provided an audience and eager customer base for a new kind of medicine show. And the too-good-to-be-true testimonials posted to social media attracted a wave of direct sellers, many of them women dipping their toes into the often unprofitable world of multilevel marketing for the first time. But success came at a price. Canadian and U.S. health regulators have cracked down on BOO in recent months, initiating recalls and product holds at the border, respectively. And just as an online army of fans powered BOO’s success, an oppositional force of online skeptics threatened to shut it down. Just before Thanksgiving, the company announced in an email it was closing up shop for good. Sellers packed video calls mourning the death of their miracle cure, railing against executives who had taken their money and seemingly run, and wondering how they might recoup the thousands of dollars they paid for BOO that never arrived.The announcement was the apparent end of one of the most haltingly successful companies to ride a wave of interest in online and directly sold alternative medicines — immunity-boosting oils, supplements, herbs, elixirs and so-called superfoods that, despite widespread concerns over their efficacy and safety, make up a lightly regulated, multibillion-dollar industry. In a world where consumers flock to alternative health products, BOO seemed to provide an answer to the question: Just how far are people willing to dig to find their miracle cure? A social post from Black Oxygen Organics and a Facebook post from a fan of the "magic dirt."Obtained by NBC NewsWhat is BOO?Monica Wong first learned about BOO in May. The 39-year-old was scrolling Facebook from her home in Brentwood, California, and saw a Facebook ad that caught her eye: A woman in a bright green shirt emblazoned with a marijuana leaf holding a sign that read, “F--- Big Pharma!” alongside a kind of treatment that promised to “detox heavy metals.” Wong had been looking for such a product, for her boyfriend and herself, and while the price was steep, a little internet research convinced her that the health effects would be worth it. Wong clicked on the ad and bought some BOO. Wong said that for two months she dissolved a half-teaspoon of the black stuff in a glass of water and drank it every day. But unlike people in her new BOO Facebook group who posted miraculous testimonials of cured diseases, weight loss, clearer skin, whiter teeth, regrown hair, reclaimed energy, expelled worms and even changes in eye color (from brown to blue), Wong didn’t feel like any toxins were leaving her body. In fact, she started having stomach pains. “I can’t say it was the BOO for sure,” Wong said she remembers wondering as she went to the hospital for tests, “but wasn’t it supposed to heal my gut?”How the internet defeated multi-level marketing fad that sold bags of dirt for $110Dec. 3, 202103:29Wong quit taking BOO and told the head of her Facebook group, a higher-ranked seller who earned commission off Wong’s participation, about her new pains. When asked why she didn’t alert others, Wong said the group administrators, BOO sellers themselves, censored the comments to weed out anything negative. “They’d never let me post that,” she said. These online groups are filled with true believers, acolytes who call it “magic dirt.” (That’s not to be confused with the same trademark name of an unrelated brand of potting soil.) They post that they are drinking, cooking, soaking, snorting and slathering BOO on their bodies and giving it to their families, children and pets. “Who would have thought drinking dirt would make me feel so so good?” one person in a 27,000-member private Facebook group posted, her face nuzzling a jar of black liquid. Another user posted a photo of a baby sitting in a bathtub of water colored a deep caramel. In the caption, she shared that the baby had contracted hand, foot and mouth disease — a virus that mainly affects children and causes painful sores. “Tiny is enjoying his Boo bath!” she wrote. “We’re happy to say our bottom feels happier and we’re in a better mood!”  Many such posts are dedicated to tactics for getting kids and loved ones to take BOO. “Boo brownies for the picky family,” one poster offered. Testimonials like these make up the majority of posts in dozens of Facebook groups, set up and overseen by BOO sellers, with hundreds of thousands of collective members, where BOO is heralded as a miracle drug. Teams of sellers in these private Facebook groups claim that, beyond cosmetic applications, BOO can cure everything from autism to cancer to Alzheimer’s disease. Conveniently in these times, BOO proponents say it also protects against and treats Covid-19, and can be used to “detox” the newly vaccinated, according to posts viewed by NBC News. None of the posters contacted by NBC News returned a request for comment. But there may be an incentive for the hyperbole. The MLM boomBlack Oxygen Organics products can’t be bought in stores. Instead, the pills and powders are sold by individuals, who theoretically profit not only off their sales but off those of others they recruit. It’s the type of top-down and widening profit-modeled business, known as multilevel marketing or MLM, that has led critics to label BOO and products like it pyramid schemes. Participation in MLMs boomed during the pandemic with 7.7 million Americans working for one in 2020, a 13 percent increase over the previous year, according to the Direct Selling Association, the trade and lobbying group for the MLM industry. Wellness products make up the majority of MLM products, and, as the Federal Trade Commission noted, some direct sellers took advantage of a rush toward so-called natural remedies during the pandemic to boost sales. More than 99 percent of MLM sellers lose money, according to the Consumer Awareness Institute, an industry watchdog group. But according to social media posts, BOO’s business was booming. In selfies and videos posted to Facebook, Instagram and TikTok, women lather BOO on their faces and soak their feet in sludge-filled pasta pots while, they claim, the money rolls in. Black Oxygen Organics’ compensation plan, like most MLMs, is convoluted. According to their company handbook, sellers, called “brand partners,” can earn income in two distinct ways: through retail commissions on bags of BOO they sell, and through recruiting other sellers, from which they earn additional commission and bonuses. The more recruits a seller brings in, the more quickly the seller rises in the ranks — there are 10 titles in the company, from brand partner to director to CEO, with compensation packages growing along the way.A common strategy for MLM participants, including BOO sellers, is to create Facebook groups to collaborate and attract new customers.“I earned $21,000 in bonuses in my first 5 weeks!” one post read. “I am a single mom, 1 income family, this business was the best decision!!!”Black Oxygen Organics’ vice president of business development, Ron Montaruli, described the craze in September, telling distributors on a Zoom call viewed by NBC News that the company had attracted 21,000 sellers and 38,000 new customers. Within the last six months, sales had rocketed from $200,000 a month to nearly $4 million, Montaruli said, referring to a chart that showed the same. (Attempts to reach Montaruli were unsuccessful.)Facts around the company’s actual income are as hazy as the mud it sells, but the secret to dealing dirt seems to be Facebook, where sellers have created dozens of individual groups that have attracted a hodgepodge of hundreds of thousands of members. The largest BOO Facebook groups, including one with over 97,000 members, are led mostly by MLM jumpers, the term for people who sell a range of MLM products. The groups have also attracted more general alternative health consumers, as well as people seemingly suffering from delusional parasitosis, a condition characterized by the misguided belief that one’s body is being overrun by parasites. Users in these groups mimic activity in anti-parasite internet groups by dosing according to phases of the moon and posting photos of dirty water from foot baths or human waste from toilets asking others to identify a mystery worm. Facebook did not respond to requests for comment on the BOO groups or whether their claims violated the company’s content policies.User testimonials about the Black Oxygen Organic dirt posted to social media.Obtained by NBC NewsIn the last several months, the groups have seen a rise in members from anti-vaccine and Covid-denial communities, including prominent activists who sell the product to raise funds for anti-vaccine efforts.A profile of one top seller featured in BOO’s semiregular glossy magazine, “The Bog,” noted that Covid had drawn more people to the industry. “It’s been kind of a blessing,” the seller said. While it undoubtedly attracted sales and built teams, Facebook also created a unique problem for Black Oxygen Organics: Those testimonials might have violated federal law that requires efficacy claims be substantiated by “competent and reliable scientific evidence.” They also attracted attention, not only from customers, but from health professionals, regulatory agencies and a group BOO executives have dubbed “the haters.” After a summer of unbridled success, the internet backlash began. The rise of MLMs online prompted criticism from some people who have created informal activist groups to bring awareness to what they say are the predatory practices of MLM companies and organized campaigns to disrupt specific businesses. Many of the groups use the same social media techniques to organize their responses.Online activists who oppose MLMs formed Facebook groups targeting BOO for its claims. Members of these groups infiltrated the BOO community, signing up as sellers, joining pro-BOO groups, and attending BOO sales meetings, then reporting back what they had seen to the group. They posted videos of the company meetings and screenshots from the private BOO sales groups and urged members to file official complaints with the Federal Trade Commission and the Food and Drug Administration. YouTube creators made videos debunking BOO peddlers’ most outrageous claims, ridiculing BOO executives and making public recordings of the private company meetings. Ceara Manchester.Courtesy of Ceara ManchesterCeara Manchester, a stay-at-home mother in Pompano Beach, Florida, helps run one of the largest anti-BOO Facebook groups, “Boo is Woo.” Manchester, 34, has spent the last four years monitoring predatory MLMs — or “cults,” in her view — and posting to multiple social media accounts and groups dedicated to “exposing” Black Oxygen Organics.“The health claims, I had never seen them that bad,” Manchester said. “Just the sheer amount. Every single post was like, ‘cancer, Covid, diabetes, autism.’”“I don’t feel like people are stupid,” Manchester said of the people who purchased and even sold BOO. “I think that they’re desperate or vulnerable, or they’ve been preyed upon, and you get somebody to say, ‘Hey, I’ve got this product that cures everything.’ You know when you’re desperate like that you might listen.”The mudmanBlack Oxygen Organics is the brainchild of Marc Saint-Onge, a 59-year-old entrepreneur from Casselman, Ontario. Saint-Onge, BOO’s founder and CEO, did not respond to calls, texts, emails or direct messages.But decades of interviews in local press and more recently on social media offer some details about Saint-Onge, or, as he likes to be called, “the mudman.” Saint-Onge describes himself as an orthotherapist, naturopath, kinesitherapist, reiki master, holistic practitioner, herbalist and aromatherapist. As he said in a video posted to YouTube that has since been made private, his love of mud began as a child, chasing bullfrogs around Ontario bogs. Years later, he went on to practice orthotherapy, a kind of advanced massage technique, to treat pain. He said he packaged dirt from a local bog, branches and leaves included, in zip-lock baggies and gave them to his “patients,” who demanded the mud faster than he could scoop it. Saint-Onge said he was charged by Canadian authorities with practicing medicine without a license in 1989 and fined $20,000. “Then my clinic went underground,” he said on a recent podcast. He has sold mud in some form since the early 1990s. Health Canada, the government regulator responsible for public health, forced him to pull an early version of his mud product, then called the “Anti-Rheuma Bath,” according to a 1996 article in The Calgary Herald, because Saint-Onge marketed it to treat arthritis and rheumatism without any proof to substantiate the claims. Saint-Onge also claimed his mud could heal wounds, telling an Ottawa Citizen reporter in 2012 that his mud compress healed the leg of a man who had suffered an accident with a power saw, saving it from amputation. “The doctor said it was the antibiotics,” he said. “But we believe it was the mud.”In the ‘90s Saint-Onge began selling his mud bath under the “Golden Moor” label, which he did until he realized a dream, “a way to do a secret little extraction,” in his words, that would make the dirt dissolve in water. In 2015, with the founding of his company NuWTR, which would later turn into Black Oxygen Organics, Saint-Onge said he finally invented a dirt people could drink.In 2016, he began selling himself as a business coach, and his personal website boasted of his worth: “I sell mud in a bottle,” he wrote. “Let me teach you to sell anything.” The troublesIn September, Montaruli, BOO’s vice president, led a corporate call to address the Facebook groups and what he called “the compliance situation.” “Right now, it’s scary,” Montaruli said in a Zoom call posted publicly, referring to the outlandish claims made by some of BOO’s sellers. “In 21 years, I have never seen anything like this. Never.” “These outrageous claims, and I’m not even sure if outrageous is bad enough, are obviously attracting the haters, giving them more fuel for the fire, and potential government officials.” Montaruli called for “a reset,” telling BOO sellers to delete the pages and groups and start over again. One slide suggested alternatives for 14 popular BOO uses, including switching terms like ADHD to “trouble concentrating,” and “prevents heart attack” to “maintain a healthy cardiovascular system.”A common strategy for MLM participants, including BOO sellers, is to create Facebook groups to collaborate and attract new customers.Obtained by NBC NewsAnd so in September, the Facebook groups evolved — many went private, most changed their names from BOO to “fulvic acid,” and the pinned testimonials from customers claiming miracle cures were wiped clean, tweaked or edited to add a disclaimer absolving the company from any liability. But that wasn’t the end of the company’s troubles. While individual sellers navigated their new compliance waters, regulatory agencies cracked down. Days after Montaruli’s call, Health Canada announced a recall of Black Oxygen Organics tablets and powders, citing “potential health risks which may be higher for children, adolescents, and pregnant or breastfeeding women.” Further, the regulatory agency noted, “The products are being promoted in ways and for uses that have not been evaluated and authorized by Health Canada.”“Stop taking these products,” the announcement advised. Inventory for U.S. customers had already been hard to come by. In private groups, sellers claimed the product had sold out, but in the company-wide call, Montaruli confirmed that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration was holding its products at the border.Jeremy Kahn, an FDA spokesperson, declined to comment. A day after the publication of this article, the FDA issued an advisory against taking BOO. In the public notice, the FDA said it had been pursuing a recall when the company closed.Saint-Onge did not respond to requests for comment from NBC News. Phone messages and emails sent by a reporter to the company, its executives and its legal counsel were not returned. What’s in BOO?BOO is not the only dirt-like health supplement on the market. Consumers have the option of dozens of products — in drops, tablets, powders and pastes — that claim to provide the healing power of fulvic and humic acid.Fulvic and humic acids have been used in traditional and folk medicines for centuries, and do exhibit antibacterial qualities in large quantities. But there is little scientific evidence to support the kinds of claims made by BOO sellers, according to Brian Bennett, a professor of physics at Marquette University who has studied fulvic and humic acids as a biochemist.“I would say it’s snake oil,” Bennett said. “There is a lot of circumstantial evidence that a pharmaceutical based on the characteristics of this material might actually work, but I think eating handfuls of soil probably doesn’t.” Beyond the questions of the health benefits of fulvic acid, there’s the question of just what is in Black Oxygen Organics’ product. The company’s most recent certificate of analysis, a document meant to show what a product is made of and in what amounts, was posted by sellers this year. Reporting the product makeup as mostly fulvic acid and Vitamin C, the report comes from 2017 and doesn’t list a lab, or even a specific test. NBC News spoke to six environmental scientists, each of whom expressed skepticism at the quality of BOO’s certificate. Assuming the company-provided analysis was correct, two of the scientists confirmed that just two servings of BOO exceeded Health Canada’s daily limits for lead, and three servings — a dose recommended on the package — approached daily arsenic limits. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has no comparable daily guidelines.In an effort to verify BOO’s analysis, NBC News procured a bag and sent it to Nicholas Basta, a professor of soil and environmental science at Ohio State University.The BOO product was analyzed for the presence of heavy metals at Ohio State’s Trace Element Research Laboratory. Results from that test were similar to the company’s 2017 certificate, finding two doses per day exceeded Health Canada’s limit for lead, and three doses for daily arsenic amounts. Growing concern among BOO sellers about the product — precipitated by an anti-MLM activist who noticed on Google Earth that the bog that sourced BOO’s peat appeared to share a border with a landfill — pushed several to take matters into their own hands, sending bags of BOO to labs for testing.The results of three of these tests, viewed by NBC News and confirmed as seemingly reliable by two soil scientists at U.S. universities, again showed elevated levels of lead and arsenic. Those results are the backbone of a federal lawsuit seeking class action status filed in November in Georgia’s Northern District court. The complaint, filed on behalf of four Georgia residents who purchased BOO, claims that the company negligently sold a product with “dangerously high levels of toxic heavy metals,” which led to physical and economic harm. Black Oxygen Organics did not respond to requests for comment concerning the complaint. “The doctor said it was the antibiotics,” said Marc Saint-Onge, BOO’s founder and CEO. “But we believe it was the mud.”Obtained by NBC News‘A heavy heart’The lawsuit hit at an inopportune time, just as the company had “reformulated” its products and added a new label on the powder that now specifies the product is “not for human consumption.” “Things are starting to settle a little bit,” BOO executive Montaruli said in a video meeting explaining a change from tablet to capsules and a relabeling of the powder. The powder is “strictly for cosmetics,” Saint-Onge said on the call, a recording of which was shared with NBC News by an attendee. In the BOO groups, the company’s sellers were undeterred. “You can continue to use the powder as you choose in your own home,” the admin of one Facebook group wrote to members announcing the product update. “Know that it is the same powder.” “We cannot TECHNICALLY tell customers to use the product internally,” Adam Ringham, a “Royal Diamond CEO” (BOO’s highest seller title), told his group. “WE CAN HOWEVER — tell them that the powder is THE EXACT SAME as before … ”Ringham did not return requests for comment.Just as the BOO sellers were planning their Black Friday sales, the rug was pulled out from them again, this time, seemingly, for good. Two days before Thanksgiving, an email landed in the inboxes of BOO customers and sellers. “It is with a heavy heart that we must announce the immediate closing of Black Oxygen Organics,” it read. Details in the note were sparse, but Black Oxygen executives and employees offered an explanation in company Zoom meetings that afternoon. According to BOO President Carlo Garibaldi, they had weathered the FTC complaints, the FDA seizures, the Health Canada recalls and the online mob. But the “fatal blow” came when their online merchant dropped them as clients. With no actual product in stock for the last two months, sellers had been urging customers to “preorder” BOO. Now, the throng of customers responding to the nonconsumable “reformulation” by asking for their money back had spooked their payment processor.“This is our baby,” Garibaldi said, flashing his Black Oxygen elbow tattoo to the screen. “We needed this to go on forever.” Saint-Onge appeared briefly, holding his head in his hands. “This was my limit,” he said. Members of anti-BOO groups celebrated. “WE DID IT!!!!!!” Manchester, the group administrator, posted to the “Boo is Woo” Facebook group. “I hope this is proof positive that if the anti-MLM community bans together we can take these companies down. We won’t stop with just BOO. A new age of anti-MLM activism has just begun.”In a separate Zoom meeting unattended by executives and shared with NBC News, lower-rung sellers grappled with the sudden closure and the reality that they were out hundreds or thousands of dollars. “I am three weeks to a month away from having a baby and I’ve been depending on this money to arrive in my bank account,” one seller said through tears. “It’s the only income we have.”The future of BOO is uncertain. Tens of thousands of bags remain in warehouses, according to Black Oxygen executives. Sellers are unlikely to receive orders, refunds or commissions. The federal lawsuit will continue, Matt Wetherington, the Georgia lawyer behind the proposed class action lawsuit, said. But in the land of MLMs, failure is just another opportunity. Saint-Onge may have walked away from this cohort of customers, but for those who sold it, BOO was more than just a product; it was a way of believing. Now, the thousands of BOO acolytes still convening in BOO Facebook groups are funneling into a new Facebook group, named “The Solution,” and turning their outstretched hands toward a new direct-sales company, one that BOO’s top sellers claim offers an even purer fulvic acid product and a colloidal silver as well.“Thanks for all your continued support,” The Solution’s admins wrote in a welcome post. “Moving forward is all we can do.”Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Strip searches, trauma, isolation: Trans men describe life behind bars. By the time he ended up in the custody of the Texas Department of Criminal Justice on insurance and theft charges, Tahj Graham was 33 and had been living as a man for nearly half his life. Born in 1985 as the youngest of three kids, Graham soon realized he was not like other children who had been assigned female at birth. “As early as 5 years old, I knew that something was different,” Graham, 36, said in a phone call from his home in Mansfield, a suburb between Dallas and Fort Worth.He came out as a teenager, started taking hormones at 17 and had his breasts removed when he was 20 in a procedure known as “top surgery.” Once he had undergone a medical transition, Graham said, he passed completely as a man. “Unless it was someone that I was dating, I never disclosed being trans,” he said. As he was transitioning, Graham’s life also moved forward in other ways. He started working toward a college degree, taking classes at other schools before enrolling in the University of Texas at Austin in 2006. After he tried out a couple of other majors, he finally settled on religion. “I was given a Bible at age 7,” he said, and faith was “just something I always felt.”Tahj Graham with the Bible he kept with him at the Texas Department of Criminal Justice women's prison in Gatesville.Allison V. Smith for NBC NewsHe had dreams of starting his own ministry and distributing Bibles around the world. However, in 2016, Graham was arrested for insurance fraud and was also under investigation for wiring himself about $90,000 from an ex-girlfriend’s bank account without her permission. In 2018, he pleaded guilty to both charges and was sentenced to three years in prison.First, he was sent to a men’s prison — until, he alleges, guards started to perform invasive strip and cavity searches and he raised the alarm. “I was then transferred to a women’s unit, where the big nightmares occurred,” he wrote in an email. Over the next few months, he endured “voyeuristic strip searches by female staff,” was forced to grow out his hair and was sexually harassed by other prisoners, he said. “So many incidents occurred at the female unit I nearly lost count.”Currently and formerly incarcerated transgender people, like Graham, are increasingly coming forward to discuss their difficult experiences behind bars, and over the past few years, news outlets have devoted considerably more space to their stories. The reporting, however, has focused primarily on trans women, who are incarcerated at a higher rate than any other segment of the LGBTQ community. Transgender men are also incarcerated at disproportionate rates: According to the 2011 National Transgender Discrimination Survey by the National Center for Transgender Equality and the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, about 10 percent of trans men have spent time in jail or prison — approximately twice the rate of U.S. adults overall.Assault, retaliation and abuse: Life as a transgender woman in a men's prisonFeb. 26, 202006:20Incarcerated transgender men encounter many of the same issues as their transfeminine peers — including high rates of solitary confinement and sexual assault and denial of gender-affirming care and gender-appropriate clothing. But they also face “unique issues that are separate from what trans women experience,” said Aaron El Sabrout, the advocacy manager of Black and Pink, a nonprofit group based in Nebraska that supports LGBTQ people in prison. “Trans women have hypervisibility,” he said, whereas “trans men, most people think we don’t exist.”Trans men’s experiences, however, are not uniform. Every city, county and state, as well as the federal government, has broad authority to establish its own policies about the treatment of trans prisoners. For that reason, the conditions experienced by these men vary significantly across the country. Individual prison environments and leadership also affect what someone may experience behind bars.Verbal and physical harassmentIn March 2018, Graham turned himself in to the Texas Department of Criminal Justice to begin serving his sentence. Although he had transitioned medically years before and “passed” as a man in his daily life, Graham did not fit neatly into the binary categories of “male” or “female,” and for that, he said, he paid. On his first day in custody at the men’s prison where he was first sent, two correctional officers began to strip search him inappropriately, he said. “The officer asked me to lie down on a table, then told me to spread my legs and hold them open,” Graham said, adding that he was then instructed to pull his genitalia back so the officer could “get a better look.” He said he could see that the officer was getting an erection. When the search was over, Graham said, he told a counselor at the facility what had happened. After an invasive exam at the nurse’s office, “they moved as fast as they could to get me out of there,” he said. Graham also filed a sexual abuse complaint about the incident, which, he said, was never pursued by the Texas Department of Criminal Justice. (With Graham’s permission, NBC News requested a copy of Graham’s medical file and complaint history. The department denied the request; Graham was able to provide copies of several records he had.)After having spent several weeks at an Austin jail, Graham was transferred to a women’s prison run by the Texas Department of Criminal Justice. But rather than offer him greater safety and security, the women’s prison “was a million times worse,” he said. Upon his arrival, Graham said, he underwent a strip search in view of a large group of incarcerated women. “They forced me to bend over and open up my legs to make sure I didn’t have a hidden penis,” he said. Graham recalled experiencing near-constant verbal abuse from staff members from then on. In a grievance form he filed while he was incarcerated, Graham described an incident in which an officer became enraged at him, screaming, “You were born a f------ girl, you’re at a woman unit.”  “I do not expect an officer to berate me and argue with me and declare as if they’re God in front of other offenders,” Graham wrote in the May 2019 complaint, according to a copy provided by Graham and reviewed by NBC News. Tahj Graham holds the Texas offender card he used for identification at the Texas Department of Criminal Justice women's prison in Gatesville.Allison V. Smith for NBC NewsIn its response, the Texas Department of Criminal Justice said there was “no evidence to support” Graham’s allegations and concluded, “No further action is warranted.” The department said it is unable to comment on Graham’s grievances because they are not public.Robert Hurst, a spokesman for the department, also declined to comment on Graham’s account of the strip search and directed NBC News to the department’s written policy regarding the Health Appraisal of Incoming Inmates. According to additional policy documents provided by Hurst, Texas Department of Criminal Justice officers are not required to refer to transgender people by their preferred pronouns.  Giovanni Gonzales, 31, is incarcerated at the Central California Women’s Facility in Chowchilla, just north of Fresno. He said in a phone interview that he has dealt with transphobic harassment from prison staff members. In spring 2021, when Gonzales was working at the prison’s clothing exchange, his supervisor on the site — an employee of the facility — consistently made discriminatory remarks, he said. “He makes comments to me that are inappropriate. He always refers to me as a she. He refuses not to,” he said. In July, Gonzales said by email that he had been barred from going to work. He filed an official complaint, but his boss denied Gonzales’ account, and prison officials ultimately determined that his complaint was unsubstantiated, he said. “The cameras have no audio — how convenient for them — so all he had to say was no he didn’t disrespect me,” Gonzales wrote in an email.Terry Thornton, the deputy press secretary for the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, said that the department has a policy mandating respectful communication and that it has developed training specifically to help staff members better engage with incarcerated people who are transgender or nonbinary. “Repeatedly or intentionally using inappropriate pronouns or any other type of derogatory comments about a person’s gender is a violation under PREA, constitutes staff-on-offender sexual harassment, and subjects the staff member to discipline,” she said in an email, using the acronym for the federal Prison Rape Elimination Act.Gonzales, who grew up in San Jose, California, said his childhood was not easy. He knew he was different but did not have the language or the framework to pinpoint why. “I didn’t understand. I didn’t know about gender dysphoria,” he said.It was only once he was in prison that he started taking testosterone. “I had to wait a whole year to get on the shots, because I got in trouble a lot,” he said. “I wanted this so bad I got [myself] together.” Gonzales has now been on testosterone, also known simply as “T,” for five years.'Forced to be someone we are not'In addition to what he said was routine verbal and physical harassment from prison staff members, Graham also said he was prevented from dressing and grooming himself in a way that aligns with his gender. Correctional officers told Graham he would get written up unless he grew out his hair, and they forced him to shave his beard, which he had permission to maintain on religious grounds, he said. He also alleged that they told him he was required to wear women’s underwear and a bra, even though he had had his breasts removed.Tahj Graham at home in Mansfield, Texas, on Sunday.Allison V. Smith for NBC NewsSeveral other trans men incarcerated in Texas and contacted by NBC News said they had encountered officers who required them to wear sports bras and women’s underwear, as well as to grow out their hair to longer than 2½ inches or risk “catching a case” — getting written up for breaking the rules. According to advocates and currently and formerly incarcerated people, trans men in the state have no routine access to boxer shorts and are unable to buy chest binders, which are used by those who have not yet had top surgery to flatten their breasts. “I’ve tried to request boxers and chest binders and was denied, which made my depression worse,” Angel Ochoa, 49, another incarcerated trans man in the state, said in a letter. Asked to clarify the state’s position on clothing for transgender people, Hurst, the Texas Department of Criminal Justice spokesperson, said, “Inmates are to dress according to the sex assigned to them at birth.”Ochoa said he was a tomboy growing up and started dressing as a boy when he was 12. His family supported his transition from the start, he said. “I was loved by my mom and grandmother and accepted as a boy.” Ochoa, who has been incarcerated since the 1990s, said he has faced humiliating and degrading treatment in the prison system. “The most pressing issue is us being forced to be someone we are not,” he said, adding that he was made to grow out his hair, which was shaved bald when he entered prison. “They say it’s a ‘security precaution.’ ... It’s just a way to hurt us.” According to data recently obtained through a public information request, 980 transgender women and 113 transgender men were in Texas Department of Criminal Justice custody in 2019. A policy document provided by the department states that “inmates are housed according to their genital status.”Nell Gaither is the president of the Trans Pride Initiative, a Texas-based nonprofit group founded in 2011 that has communicated with over a thousand transgender people incarcerated in the state. Gaither said it is her impression that in recent years the Texas Department of Criminal Justice has been less aggressive in forcing trans men to wear sports bras or grow out their hair but that it reflects a shift in priorities and culture rather than a change in policy. Facial hair continues to be a problem, she said, because trans men “can’t get enough razors to keep cleanshaven, then ‘get cases’ for having beards.” She also said that one significant impact of Covid-19 on trans prisoners has been the delay or lack of access to gender-affirming hormones.But the situation can vary significantly from state to state and even city to city. In California state prisons, for example, trans men in women’s prisons can buy the same hygiene items available to people in men’s prisons and are provided with male clothing. They can also purchase chest binders, though the $40 or $50 price tag puts the option out of reach for many individuals. In Georgia state prisons, trans men in women’s facilities can shave their heads and grow out their beards, but, except for boxers, they are only able to obtain clothing from the female order form.Ronnie Fuller, 42, is incarcerated at Georgia’s Arrendale State Prison in Alto, about an hour northeast of Atlanta. He said he has identified as male since he was a kid but did not always know what those feelings meant.“I didn’t know what ‘transgender’ was until I came to prison, and that was years within my sentence,” he said. Ronnie Fuller said he has identified as male since he was a kid but did not always know what those feelings meant.Courtesy Ronnie FullerFuller has been incarcerated since 2004, and for his first decade behind bars, the state refused to provide hormones to trans people who had not been prescribed them before they entered the prison system. In 2015, the policy changed. “When the option became available here in the prison, I jumped on the opportunity,” Fuller said of obtaining hormones.Since then, the prison administration has made other small concessions, including allowing trans men to buy boxers, he said. However, he and others are still unable to get chest binders, and he said the prison turned down an offer from a volunteer who was willing to donate them. Prison staff members “give us male hormones, boxers and believe that is enough,” he said, adding that being unable to obtain a chest binder and get gender-affirming surgery has affected him “emotionally, mentally and physically.”Fuller said that with so many barriers to obtaining gender-affirming care, he believes prison is the worst place to begin a medical transition. “I have experienced more judgment and discrimination behind these walls than I have ever experienced on the outside,” he said in a letter. The Georgia Corrections Department did not respond to requests for comment made by phone and email.'It should not be so hard to get normal treatment'As a result of lawsuits successfully litigated across the country, most transgender prisoners in the U.S. now have the right to obtain gender-affirming hormones, regardless of whether they had been prescribed them before they were incarcerated. However, according to advocates, prisoners rights attorneys and currently and formerly incarcerated people, while the policies may exist on paper, hormones are often difficult to obtain in practice. Trans people behind bars said it can take months or even years for them to obtain gender dysphoria diagnoses and be evaluated by endocrinologists or other specialists, resulting in delays in treatment that are distressing and perplexing to those seeking care. Graham was in custody of the Texas Department of Criminal Justice for about six months before he was given access to the gender-affirming hormone treatments he had been receiving before his incarceration, according to Graham and prison records he provided. Fuller similarly said that while he was approved to be evaluated for hormone treatment in April 2017, it took well over a year for him to get his first endocrinologist appointment. “It should not be so hard to get normal treatment, whatever that may be,” Fuller wrote in a letter.Furthermore, while the U.S. has taken steps to ensure that trans prisoners have access to gender-affirming hormones, the vast majority of jurisdictions still do not allow incarcerated people meaningful access to gender-affirming surgery, said Danny Waxwing, an attorney at Disability Rights Washington, who has represented many trans prisoners in the state. For trans men, that means not being able to undergo top surgery for the duration of their sentences.Jason Yoakam is suing the Virginia Department of Corrections.Courtesy / Lambda LegalIn August, the LGBTQ civil rights group Lambda Legal sued the Virginia Corrections Department on behalf of an incarcerated transgender man, Jason Yoakam. The organization said the suit is among the first filed on behalf of an incarcerated trans man for the denial of treatment for gender dysphoria. “Under the Eighth Amendment, prison systems are required to provide adequate medical care,” said Richard Saenz, a senior attorney and criminal justice and police misconduct strategist at Lambda Legal. “This lawsuit is necessary because for a number of trans people behind bars, even those who are provided some care, [they] are often not provided adequate medical and mental health care.”“All medically necessary treatment is available,” a Corrections Department spokesperson told the Washington Post in August. “Treatment decisions are made on a case-by-case basis. In addition to medical treatment, individual and group therapy is also available. We follow the community standard of care.” The case is currently scheduled for mediation.A handful of states, including California and Washington, have policies that make it possible for trans people to obtain gender-affirming surgery while incarcerated. However, according to prisoners interviewed by NBC News, the process for evaluating who qualifies for the procedure is flawed and inadequate. Giovanni Gonzales, the California prisoner, said neither he nor his doctor has played a key role in determining whether he qualifies for top surgery on the grounds that it is medically necessary. Instead, the decision is made by a committee responsible for evaluating trans prisoners across the state, he said. Under Corrections Department policy, primary care providers on the institutional level are tasked with passing along requests for surgery to a statewide body known as the Gender Affirming Surgery Review Committee. The committee, which is made up of medical and mental health experts who have not treated the prisoner, then votes on whether to approve or deny the request. Gonzales and others interviewed by NBC News expressed frustration that the committee exists at all, since no parallel committee exists for individuals seeking to obtain treatment deemed medically necessary by their physicians — for example, people who need to have their breasts removed due to a cancer diagnosis. “My doctors don’t have a say in my surgery. It’s these doctors that go on this committee that don’t have nothing to do with me,” Gonzales said. With the support of his psychologist, Gonzales initially made a request to obtain surgery in November 2018. He was issued a denial several months later and filed a lawsuit afterwards alleging that the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation was violating his constitutional rights. In February, more than two years after he filed suit, his request for surgery was finally approved. No 'simple' housing solutionIn addition to facing barriers in obtaining their preferred clothing, as well as gender-affirming health care, incarcerated trans men also say they struggle when it comes to housing. As NBC News documented in an investigation last year, the vast majority of trans people in the U.S. are incarcerated in prisons that match their birth sexes or genitalia, rather than their gender identities, even though doing so without considering safety concerns or prisoners’ preferences is illegal under the Prison Rape Elimination Act. That reality has put many trans women in danger of sexual assault, violence and harassment.El Sabrout of Black and Pink said that transgender men would not necessarily be safer if they were housed in men’s facilities, as opposed to being housed according to their sex assigned at birth. However, he added, that does not mean they do not experience physical or sexual violence in women’s prisons. Graham said women on his unit would undress and climb into his bed at night saying they were going to have sex with him or would try to look at his body while he was showering, even though he was supposed to be permitted to shower alone. Prison staff members did not take steps to keep him safe, he said. After staff members were alerted to one particular incident, he spent about 10 days in “safekeeping,” a form of isolation also known as protective custody. Incarcerated trans people often end up in protective custody for their purported protection, because they are uniquely vulnerable to sexual and physical assault when they are in the general population. But the conditions in protective custody generally mirror the conditions faced by those in disciplinary isolation. When he was in safekeeping, Graham said, he was fed through a door and had very limited access to showers or his property. After a third time in safekeeping, Graham said, he was fed up and vowed never to end up there again.Tahj Graham at home in Mansfield, Texas, on Sunday.Allison V. Smith for NBC NewsTrans men may also be unfairly identified as threats to other inmates and punished, said El Sabrout, who said others “perceive them as threatening” and “dangerously sexual,” particularly when they begin taking testosterone. Ochoa said he was once placed in solitary confinement after he was accused of having a sexual relationship with a correctional officer.“Anyone can say anything about you and it’s believed, especially if you’re a trans guy,” said Ochoa, whose prison records were not independently reviewed by NBC News.When they were interviewed, most incarcerated trans men said they would not want to be transferred to a men’s prison. Some, including Graham, said they would prefer to be placed in transgender-specific housing units, an approach that was previously used by Immigration and Customs Enforcement and some city jails to house trans women, while others said they would not feel comfortable in those environments. “Special units can cause you to feel isolated,” Ronnie Fuller, the trans man incarcerated in Georgia, wrote in a letter, adding that he “would feel like I am not being treated as a human but as an outcast.”El Sabrout said trans women and trans men may end up behind bars at disproportionate rates for broadly the same reasons — including discrimination, a heightened risk of interpersonal violence, homelessness and reliance on the survival economy. Yet because the issues they face on the inside are somewhat different, the solutions to improve their conditions may be different, too. In recent years, some advocates and legislators across the country have focused on passing legislation or changing prison rules to allow trans people to be housed according to their gender identities or in the facilities where they feel safest. Battles to enact such policies have been won in some states, including California and New Jersey, enabling trans women in all stages of transition to be transferred from men’s to women’s prisons. According to data provided by the California Corrections Department, 315 people housed in male institutions have requested to be housed in female institutions since the state began implementing its new policy, and 10 people housed in female institutions have requested to be housed in male institutions. None of the requests to transfer to men’s facilities has thus far been approved. “Some trans women have been successful at getting transferred to women’s prisons, and that improves their health outcomes,” said El Sabrout. “But there’s not quite so simple a solution for transmasculine people.”Minimizing harm, maximizing safetyWhile research on transgender men in prison is limited, currently and formerly incarcerated trans men and their advocates cite many of the same potential solutions to improve the experience of transmasculine people behind bars — whether they are in men’s or women’s prisons. The solutions include access to the same clothing, hygiene products and grooming standards as cisgender men; the availability of gender-affirming items, including chest binders; expanded access to gender-affirming health care, including hormones, surgery and mental health services. Relatively simple interventions, such as allowing trans people to participate in peer support groups, can also make a significant difference in their wellbeing, sources said. Waxwing, the attorney who works for Disability Rights Washington, said prison systems must ensure access to mental health and medical providers who are experienced and competent in caring for transgender people. If the expertise is not in-house, he said, prison administrators need to bring in providers from the community.   “Oftentimes working with community-based providers can be an important transitional step for agencies and minimize harm to trans patients as policy changes and training are implemented over time,” he said.  Waxwing also said not enough is being done to understand and implement changes that would enable trans men to be housed in men’s facilities.  “At the present moment, many trans men will be safer, and would prefer to remain, in facilities designated for women,” he said in an email. “What systems rarely, if ever, ask of trans individuals, though, is what they could be doing differently to address their safety and other needs such that being housed according to their gender identity could be a viable option.”Another important step, El Sabrout said, would be to make the Prison Rape Elimination Act substantively enforceable. Currently, states that fail to comply with the law risk forfeiting 5 percent of prison-related federal grants, a sum so small that its impact on corrections budgets is negligible. In addition to provisions regarding how to house trans people, the law also requires facilities to allow trans prisoners to shower privately and to limit when cavity and strip searches can be conducted and by whom. “Actually making PREA regulations and standards meaningful is really important,” he said.For Richard Saenz, the Lambda Legal attorney, keeping trans prisoners safe is not just about where they are housed but how they are housed. Prisons “have a constitutional duty to keep everyone in their custody safe and should implement policies that actually do that,” he said. “They shouldn’t rely on the use of ‘protective housing,’ where those restrictions are the same as solitary confinement and could cause additional harm to the person seeking help.”In addition, simply enacting official policies mandating that corrections staff members use transgender inmates’ preferred pronouns would improve their lives, he added. That is what he said his client, Jason Yoakam, is being denied at Virginia’s Fluvanna Correctional Center.“Departmental staff, with the exception of mental health staff providing treatment, are trained to refrain from using pronouns altogether,” Benjamin Jarvela, the Virginia Corrections Department’s deputy director of communications, said in an email. Asked about the Yoakam lawsuit, he said, “All inmates are provided access to the community standards of medical and mental health care, in keeping with the constitutional mandate to provide the necessary care.”'I won’t give up'For many incarcerated trans men, the battle to improve their conditions of confinement is ongoing.“I won’t give up and encourage others not to either,” Ochoa wrote in a letter. Other trans men have taken the fight for justice to a national stage. In the last national election cycle, Ronnie Fuller, who is serving a life sentence, launched a campaign to run for president. “I never thought about politics as a kid and nor did I ever hear my family talk about it,” he said. “It was not until I was in prison that I witnessed and experienced injustices and saw the turmoil in society that I started to speak out.”Since he was released in late 2019, Graham has been rebuilding his life. He is back in school, working toward completing his college degree, and he was recently promoted in his customer service role at a high-end retail company. But he said the 19 months he spent in prison is not quite behind him. Hearing the sound of keys jangling, he said, drives him into a panic. Tahj Graham with his girlfriend, Isha Williams, at home in Mansfield, Texas, on Sunday.Allison V. Smith for NBC News“I went into that prison sentence knowing I’d done something wrong,” he said. “My punishment was that sentence, and they inflicted a whole other level of trauma that wasn’t ordered.”Graham is also not as optimistic as some of the other currently and formerly incarcerated trans men about the possibility of change in the prison system — at least not in Texas. “It’s going to take time and attention and somebody giving a damn for the transgender population to be properly handled,” he said. “And that’s nobody” at the Texas Department of Criminal Justice.Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
6 states account for more than half of the country’s recent Covid hospitalizations. Covid-19 hospitalizations are once again rising in the United States. Among the 30-plus states that have seen increases in Covid-19 hospitalizations over the last two weeks, six stand out. Michigan, Ohio, Indiana, Pennsylvania, New York and Illinois have accounted for the majority of the country’s increase in hospital beds filled, according to an NBC News analysis of U.S. Department of Health and Human Services data.Full coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicWhile these states make up 35 percent of the population among states with increasing Covid hospitalizations, they make up 60 percent of the added beds, the analysis showed. The nationwide increase began in early November, when the U.S. was averaging about 45,000 hospitalizations per day. It has since ticked up to nearly 58,000 per day, according to the analysis. Health experts say they fear hospitalizations could continue to surge this winter as more Americans head indoors and the fast-moving delta variant continues to spread.Since HHS began tracking Covid hospitalizations in early 2020, the U.S. has crossed the 50,000 mark five times. Delta’s first hospitalization surge this summer saw a peak of more than 100,000 hospitalizations, on average, and last winter’s surge peaked at more than 137,000 hospitalizations, on average.While much of the world is focused on the new omicron variant, first identified in South Africa, delta is still a threat, as "over 99 percent of sequenced cases in the United States continue to be from" that strain, Dr. Rochelle Walensky, the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said Tuesday at a White House Covid-19 Response Team briefing.Hospitalizations in Michigan, which has the highest share of new hospitalizations when adjusted for population, are up 70 percent since Nov. 10. In the neighboring states of Indiana and Illinois, hospitalizations have almost doubled.In Michigan, 3 of 4 Covid patients are unvaccinated, according to Chelsea Wuth, an associate public information officer at the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services.Unvaccinated people make up 87 percent of Covid patients who are in an intensive care unit in the state, she said, and 88 percent of Covid patients who are on a ventilator are unvaccinated. More than 70 percent Michiganders age 16 and older have had at least one shot of a Covid vaccine, she said.Dr. Matthew Sims, a physician and director of infectious disease research at Beaumont Health, the state's largest health care system, said "almost all" the Covid patients coming in are unvaccinated. Roughly 600 patients are sickened with Covid across the system as of Tuesday, he said, noting the staff is exhausted."We've been doing this for so long," he said. "It does get tiring to the nurses, the doctors, everybody when we see this huge number of patients that are all coming in that are not vaccinated."Demand for Covid vaccines increases as omicron variant spreads across U.S.&nbsp;Dec. 7, 202103:47He said the system's network of hospitals and outpatient sites is prepared for a potential surge in patients this winter; they've gathered enough personal protective equipment and have mandated Covid vaccinations for the entire staff.It’s still unclear whether the heavily mutated omicron variant will exacerbate the situation seen at hospitals over the colder months, experts say, though early reports suggest the new strain may cause milder symptoms.Sims said he is concerned about omicron "and whether it is going to take over and make things worse." It's some 50 mutations "is scary," he said, but he added that scientists and the public still need to wait for more data.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor saysCoronavirusCoronavirusPfizer vaccine may be less effective against omicron, early lab data indicateDownload the NBC News app for full coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIn Ohio, the state with the second highest share of new hospitalizations, health officials warned last week that the state is approaching the record admissions seen in January, when there were about 4,000 patients hospitalized with Covid statewide.Dr. Bruce Vanderhoff, director of Ohio's Department of Health, said during a news conference that cases aren’t occurring evenly among age groups. Young people, particularly those between the ages of 23 and 49, have a case rate that's 25 percent higher than the statewide average, he said.As in Michigan, the vast majority of hospitalized patients in Ohio are unvaccinated, Vanderhoff said. Covid cases spike back up as Americans set to gather for the holidaysNov. 22, 202101:44State officials continue to urge people to get vaccinated. Doing so would help hospitals in the state as they face staffing challenges."Almost every hospital really doesn't have the elasticity that maybe we had this time last year to really expand capacity on a short-term notice when there's a flood or surge in local patients," Dr. Andy Thomas, with Ohio State University’s Wexner Medical Center, said at the same briefing. "If these trends continue through the month of December into January, we will be at a point where the hospitals in Ohio will not be able to take care of all the patients we need to take care of." Last week, in the state of New York, home to the fifth largest share of new hospitalizations, Gov. Kathy Hochul announced that hospitals with less than 10 percent capacity must stop doing elective surgeries until at least Jan. 15, 2020. There are around 50 hospitals that meet that criteria, the vast majority of which are upstate, Hochul said during a press conference last Thursday.Dr. Celine Gounder, an infectious disease specialist at NYU Langone Health in New York City, said people may be getting tired as the country approaches two years into the pandemic.People "think in terms of personal action, personal responsibility, personal freedom, and unfortunately that's not how viruses transmit and infect," she said.Follow NBC HEALTH on Twitter & Facebook.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Pastor who performed in drag on HBO's 'We're Here' leaves church. An Indiana pastor has been forced to leave his job after being criticized for performing in drag on the HBO show "We're Here." The show follows three drag queens — Bob the Drag Queen, Eureka O'Hara and Shangela Laquifa Wadley — as they travel to small towns to put on drag shows. In each town, they pick out local community members — whom they dub their "drag daughters" — and teach them how to perform in drag. The show tackles issues of self-love and finding LGBTQ community in small towns and conservative areas.Craig Duke, a pastor at the Newburgh United Methodist Church in Newburgh, Indiana, a small town near the Kentucky border, performed alongside "drag mother" O'Hara in an episode that aired on Nov. 8. The duo performed to Kesha's "We Are Who We Are," with Duke wearing a bright pink wig and a white robe."You can't do a drag show like this in southern Indiana and not offend someone," he said in the episode, noting that the community is conservative. "I'm hoping it's a bridge for my daughter, for the church I serve, for the denomination I love and for me. And I'm hoping that my voice will become stronger."Duke has not responded to a request for comment regarding his separation from the church, but he told the Religion News Service that he started receiving emails from congregants shortly after the episode aired. Enough of them were negative that his church's Staff-Parish Relations Committee insisted that he request a new assignment from Bishop Julius C. Trimble of the Indiana Conference of the United Methodist Church.While he awaited that appointment, he had planned to lead a Bible study about sexuality in the church, but he received another “negative, bullying, attacking email from a church person” that "flipped the tide" for him about a week after the episode aired.“It just got to the point where the conflict, the anger grew too much, and so for my mental health, too, I started to back away, and I told my district superintendent that the conflict was so much, it was at such a level from some, that I was unable to be an effective leader,” he told Religion News Service.Craig Duke talks to his "drag mother," Eureka O'Hara, left, while having a wig fitted for his performance on "We're Here."Jakes Giles Netter / HBOIn an email to NBC News, Mark Dicken, the interim pastor at Newburgh United Methodist Church, shared a letter regarding Duke's departure that he said was sent to the church members. The letter is signed by Mitch Gieselman, superintendent of the south and southwest district of the Indiana United Methodist Church."No single resolution will be satisfactory to all," the letter states. "I’ve received numerous calls and emails that are highly critical of Craig’s actions, and I’ve received numerous messages of support for him. In such a polarized climate, our main intent is to foster an environment in which both NUMC and the Duke family can move forward in grace."According to the letter, Duke was "relieved from pastoral duties" effective Dec. 1 and will receive a reduced salary until Feb. 28. It clarifies that he has not resigned nor has he been fired. "While there is a diversity of opinion regarding the moral implications of Rev. Duke’s actions, he has not been found to have committed any chargeable offense or other violation of the United Methodist Book of Discipline," the letter states. "In short, Craig has reached a place where he feels unable to continue to serve in parish ministry at present." Last week, friends of Duke created a "Craig and Linda Duke Assistance Fund" on GoFundMe.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news$2.2 million settlement for family of transgender woman who died in Georgia men's prisonOUT NewsOUT NewsChile legalizes same-sex marriage in historic vote"Unfortunately, Craig’s participation in this show caused much turmoil in the church that he was serving at the time and ultimately lead to him being 'relieved of pastoral duties' at that church," a statement on the GoFundMe page stated, adding that Craig's salary was "significantly" reduced. "Obviously, this poses a major challenge to Craig and his family as they determine their next steps."The fundraiser has since surpassed its $30,000 goal, raising more than $40,000 as of Tuesday. Duke's family will use the money for living expenses, the description says, and "any donations above the goal amount will be put towards the most effective and inclusive ministry going forward."O'Hara, Duke's drag mother on the show, shared the GoFundMe on Twitter and encouraged people to support it.The LGBTQ media advocacy organization GLAAD called Duke's departure from the church a "disservice" to the community. “Pastor Craig Duke stepped into a community that has experienced disproportionate church-based trauma to proclaim a message of God’s love for all of creation," Ross Murray, senior director of education and training at the GLAAD Media Institute, said in a statement. "Pastor Craig is emulating the example of Jesus, who also spent time with those who were rejected by the pious. That his own church members bully him and the church hierarchy into removing him from his ministry is a disservice to the congregation, to the Evansville community, and to the ministry of the United Methodist Church."Duke said during the episode that he wanted to perform to show the local LGBTQ community that it is welcome in the church and have an ally there. His daughter also came out to him as pansexual two years ago, and he wanted to show support for her. He told Religion News Service in November, when the episode aired, that being on the show was an “incredibly wonderful, refreshing, deepening, powerful spiritual experience.”“I was surrounded and immersed in a culture that I’ve never been immersed in, and one of the things in ministry, if you want to involve people different than yourself in your ministry, you have to go to where people different than you are,” he said. “The invitation to be part of the show allowed me that.”Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
$2.2 million settlement for family of transgender woman who died in Georgia men's prison. Georgia's prison system agreed Monday to pay $2.2 million to the parents of a transgender inmate who died by suicide in her cell in 2017. The settlement, first reported by CNN, came four years to the day after the inmate, Jenna Mitchell, 25, died after having been in a coma for two days before life support was withdrawn. Mitchell's parents said in a lawsuit filed in 2019 that she had been approved for gender reassignment surgery but was being held at Valdosta State Prison, a men's prison. Valdosta State Prison in Georgia.Google MapsShe had been in and out of solitary confinement at the prison for months. Before she hanged herself on Dec. 4, 2017, she had been housed in solitary confinement for more than two weeks, according to the lawsuit. When Mitchell was placed in solitary confinement, the prison staff told her she was "being moved to the compound for transgender inmates," the suit says.Mitchell's mother had called the prison on Dec. 2 after she received a letter from her daughter saying she was going to pull a “suicide stunt.” She took the threat seriously because Mitchell "had a history of mental illness, was suffering from gender identity issues, and had engaged in a pattern of suicidal and self-harming behavior," the suit says. Mitchell's mother told the woman who answered the phone at the prison about the threat and asked that her daughter be put on suicide watch. The woman said that Mitchell was already "in medical" for attempting suicide and that she was "okay," the suit says.The warden was made aware of the call, according to the lawsuit.But Mitchell was placed back in solitary confinement, and on Dec. 4 she told a corrections officer that she was about to hang herself. The officer didn't wait with Mitchell or try to prevent her from hanging herself but rather left to alert others about the threat, the suit says. Mitchell hanged herself while she was alone. The suit says it took too long to cut her down because officers couldn't find a cutting tool nearby and had to travel to and from the medical unit for scissors. After Mitchell died, according to the suit, the supervisor of the corrections officer who left Mitchell alone "prepared a false incident report to cover up" the officer's conduct so he and other staff members would avoid discipline, an investigation or a lawsuit. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor saysThe warden approved the report, even though he knew it wasn't true, the suit says.In 2016, the state Corrections Department was the subject of the first U.S. Justice Department investigation into the treatment of gay and transgender inmates. And in September, the Justice Department announced that it was once more investigating Georgia prisons after an increase in homicides. The inquiry is focusing on inmates who harm one another, and it will continue to investigate cases of sexual violence against LGBTQ inmates carried out by fellow prisoners and prison staff members. Mitchell's parents' attorney, David B. Shanies, said in a statement that the family is calling on the state attorney general and the Justice Department to investigate her death and hold wrongdoers accountable. "There is no question that they should," he said. "Even a record-setting civil recovery cannot begin to repair the damage caused by this horrific event."The Corrections Department didn't respond to a request for comment Tuesday. Lawyers for the three prison employees named in the suit also didn't respond. If you or someone you know is in crisis, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 800-273-8255 or text HOME to 741741 to reach a trained counselor at the Crisis Text Line. You can also visit SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources for a list of additional support networks.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Chile legalizes same-sex marriage in historic vote. SANTIAGO — Chile’s Congress passed a law to legalize same-sex marriage on Tuesday, in a milestone for the conservative South American nation after a decade-long legal battle and with the country delicately poised ahead of a crossroads election this month.“Today is a historic day, our country has approved same-sex marriage, one more step forward in terms of justice, in terms of equality, recognizing that love is love,” Minister of Social Development Karla Rubilar said after the vote.Chile’s Senate and lower house of parliament both voted heavily in favor of the bill on Tuesday, which had previously been partially approved in November before the Senate sent it back to a committee to clarify ambiguities.Current President Sebastian Pinera, who will leave office in March, has backed the bill and is expected to sign it into law.A couple holds hands outside Congress as the Senate votes to approve a same-sex marriage bill in Valparaiso, Chile, on Dec. 7, 2021. Rodrigo Garrido / ReutersThe vote culminates a process that began in 2007, when then-President Michelle Bachelet pushed Congress to pass a same-sex law. Chile is now poised to join 30 other countries where same-sex marriage is legal — including Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica and Uruguay in Latin America — according to the Human Rights Campaign. “It is hard to believe that today we are taking this step,” said Rolando Jimenez from LGBTQ rights group Movilh, one of the major backers of the bill and which helped spearhead Chile’s push to legalize same sex marriage for more than a decade.Chile will elect a new president on Dec. 19, choosing between progressive Gabriel Boric and social conservative Jose Antonio Kast, a practicing Catholic. The two offer wildly different visions for the country’s future.While Kast disagrees with same-sex marriage, he had said he would have signed the bill into law anyway had it been passed by Congress during a potential presidency of his.Chile has long had a conservative reputation even compared with its deeply Catholic Latin American peers. Still, a strong majority of Chileans now support same-sex marriage and Chileans have shown signs of moving left on social and cultural issues in recent years.Civil unions have been permitted in Chile since 2015, which affords same-sex partners many but not all the benefits of married couples, like the right to adoption.Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'West Side Story' banned in parts of Mideast over transgender character. Some audiences in the Middle East won’t get to experience the epic love story between Maria and Tony.Disney and 20th Century’s “West Side Story,” director Steven Spielberg’s adaptation of the classic musical, has been banned in Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Bahrain, Oman and Kuwait. In some cases, like Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, the film wasn’t granted a release certificate. In other countries, such as Qatar and Oman, Disney refused to comply with cuts requested by censors.The move isn’t entirely surprising because Middle Eastern countries have strict censorship mandates regarding sexuality, swearing, and other aspects that don’t comply with the nation’s cultural views. “West Side Story” isn’t profane, but it’s understood that censors weren’t on board with Anybodys, a character who is transgender and portrayed by nonbinary actor Iris Menas. Films with LGBTQ references have been regularly targeted by censors in the Middle East, as well as China. Most recently, Disney’s comic book epic “Eternals” was pulled from release across the same region due to the inclusion of Marvel’s first openly same-sex couple. In the movie, Brian Tyree Henry’s otherworldly character Phastos shares a kiss with his mortal husband Ben (Haaz Sleiman).“West Side Story” releases elsewhere in theaters on Friday. The new version comes 60 years after the original movie (itself adapted from the 1957 Broadway show) and features Rachel Zegler and Ansel Elgort as star-crossed lovers. Their new romance fuels the rivalry between warring street gangs, the Jets and the Sharks. The cast also includes Ariana DeBose as Anita, David Alvarez as Bernardo, Mike Faist as Riff, and Rita Moreno (who won an Oscar for portraying Anita in the 1961 adaptation) as Valentina.RecommendedOUT NewsOUT NewsPastor who performed in drag on HBO's 'We're Here' leaves churchU.S. newsU.S. news$2.2 million settlement for family of transgender woman who died in Georgia men's prisonVariety’s chief film critic Owen Gleiberman praised Spielberg’s take on the well-known tale, saying the director made the movie his own while staying true to what audiences love about the story’s central Romeo and Juliet-esque romance.“There are scenes in Spielberg’s version that will melt you, scenes that will make your pulse race, and scenes where you simply sit back and revel in the big-spirited grandeur of it all,” he wrote.Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Inspired by the social justice movement, Black entrepreneurship rises. Sisters-in-law Ashley Billings and Zoe Baker both knew they could be strong business partners. After talking all summer last year, Baker took their discussions to another level in an email. “The email was the incorporation of our company and the application for our business license,” Billings recalled. “It was the moment when I thought, ‘We’re actually going to do this. We’re going to make this happen.’ And it was exciting because, coming off the social justice movement, we had been conscientious about buying Black and supporting small businesses. And now we were going to jump into the fray.”Six months later, in May, she and Baker launched A+Z Collections, an online apparel boutique that provides affordable luxury vacation wear that can be worn on the beach or at dinner.“We love fashion and we love to travel,” Baker said, “so it’s two passions coming together as a business. Also, the social justice movement inspired a buy Black movement and it inspired independence and doing for self. So, it all came together for us.”Ashley Billings, left, and Zoe Baker wearing A+Z Collection items. A+Z CollectionsTheir journey to business ownership reflects a surge in Black entrepreneurship after the first month of the pandemic. Businesses were initially crushed by the shelter-in-place orders. But out of necessity and inspired by the Black Lives Matter-led social justice movement after George Floyd’s murder in Minneapolis, more Black workers became business owners compared to workers of other races, according to Robert Fairlie, a researcher and professor at the University of California, Santa Cruz.Fairlie’s data, based on an analysis of data from the U.S. Census Bureau, shows there was a 38 percent increase in new Black business owners across the country from February 2020 to August 2021. Latino business owners increased by 15 percent in the same period, while white entrepreneurs fell by 3 percent and Asian entrepreneurs by 2 percent, according to Fairlie. This follows his report last year that showed Black business ownership had fallen 41 percent in the first month of the pandemic. That initial report earned Fairlie the Bradford-Osborne Research Award for research in support of entrepreneurs of color.  Black people were hit hard economically by the pandemic, which shut down many industries and led to mass layoffs and job losses. Women, more broadly, and Black women in particular, were forced out of work to fill the caregiving gaps in their families. Essential workers, who were disproportionately Black, were vulnerable to the coronavirus.Those are a few reasons for the dramatic increase after the initial fall, Fairlie said. Black people, especially Black women, left or were fired from their jobs at a disproportionate rate and instead of seeking new employment, started anew by becoming business owners. Also, many seized the opportunity of the call to buy Black, believing the support exists to make an upstart business a success.In Billings’ case, she resigned from her position as a marketing director for a tanning salon in Atlanta to start A+Z Collection with Baker, a digital designer. The pull to step into business ownership was strong. “It was extremely hard to quit my job. It’s nice to get that direct deposit every two weeks,” said Billings, a wife and mother of a young son. "It’s scary to step out on faith. But I’m blessed to have a husband who supports this and is allowing me to pursue my dream.”Becoming business owners was not a dream of sisters Sheylon Haywood and Sandy Reid, from Fresno, California. They happened upon it after Reid experienced severe digestive issues, nausea and a weakened immune system while pregnant with her second child.Reid earned a degree in biological sciences from the University of California, Riverside; Haywood has a degree in kinesiology. “Research was our thing,” Reid, the younger of the two, said.Haywood also was a certified mixologist and well-versed in combining ingredients, so she created a beverage with Peruvian ginger for her sister. Reid quickly felt better, and it was not long before she suggested they make the drinks to help others.Within months, relying on intense research, they invested their savings and were in business as the owners of Ginsation, an organic drink featuring the Peruvian ginger, which is considered the most natural on earth, grown in the Amazon Basin, rarely touched by man.Haywood crafted four holistic versions of their drink: Citrus Mist, Sunshine Burst, Cherry Delight and Fresh Zest, an unsweetened vegan option. “The summer of 2020 was challenging,” Reid said. “But the social justice movement inspired us in a number of ways, including to take a leap into business. There’s always risk involved, but we believe in our product and we were empowered to do our own thing.”Added Haywood: “And the pandemic showed us that there is no point in waiting. Life is too short and not one day is promised to us.”This mindset was similar to Erinn Cottman’s, a veteran teacher and assistant principal who, during the pandemic, quit her job and started her company, Erinn Cottman Teacher Development. She trains educators across the country — in person and virtually — on how to cultivate an anti-racist environment that champions all students; how to build long-standing relationships with students, leadership for administrators and other staff; and how to increase influence by working with school partners, among many other areas.Teacher consultant Erinn Cottman.Kelley RayeShe had been contemplating her business for some time. “In my head,” she said. “Finally, because we were teaching virtually, it allowed me time to really put all I had thought about on paper.”In May, after six months of research and developing her curriculum, she bypassed a new job offer to launch her business. “A big but gratifying step,” she said.All her career, she made a conscious decision to teach Black kids from underserved communities. As a consultant, she continues to reach them through the principals and teachers she instructs. She has clients in Atlanta, New Orleans, New Jersey and Texas.“I probably shouldn’t have been so shocked at how well I am received,” Cottman said, “but I am. A little. Still, it’s gratifying because all of my clients are Black principals. Their staffs are diverse, but they are teaching the same kinds of kids I taught. And that’s important to me.”For Trevor Lawrence, it was important that the business he launched this year focuses on Black empowerment. He worked for decades in the health care industry in Oakland, California. But when the state legalized cannabis, he began researching and learning of the myriad health properties found in the plant.So, he applied for a license through the city program that was designed to attract people of color to the industry. For three years, he completed the seemingly endless requirements to finally earn his manufacturing and distribution license.Trevor Lawrence, owner of Kamnisha Wellness.Kamnisha WellnessDuring the pandemic, he made his venture, Kamnisha Wellness, his only job. “When you consider how criminalized marijuana was — and still is in too many places — and how Black people have been incarcerated for it, it’s devastating to individuals and communities,” Lawrence said. “Now, people are finally learning that the cannabis plant is an amazing healer. And that’s what drives me in business — informing our community that cannabis is the avenue to greater health. It can heal our community naturally.”Kamnisha Wellness is a manufacturer of custom topical, organic CBD oils that deal with pain management, incontinence and at least 55 other ailments. “It’s time our community understand there is a viable, safe, plant-based option for us,” Lawrence said. “But there remains a stigma attached to it that we have to get over. It’s a multibillion-dollar industry because people are acknowledging its power. We, as a community, have to get there, too. That’s a driving force for me.”The new entrepreneurs, while enthused about their ventures, understand the work is intense.“In many cases,” Billings said, “it’s not that hard to start a business, especially an online retail boutique. But it takes a lot to maintain it. And that’s where the excitement of owning a business meets the reality of making it successful. We believe in buying Black, and we are counting on that mindset from everyone to help all these new businesses thrive. We have the buying power to do that.”Follow NBCBLK on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Racial pay gaps are an issue in every industry. Nowhere is it worse than in influencer marketing, a new study says. . A study published Monday suggests that Black content creators make significantly less money than their white counterparts.The report, titled “Time to Face the Influencer Pay Gap,” looked at issues of annual income, size of followings, the amounts influencers were offered for deals and more. It was published by the public relations firm MSL U.S. in partnership with The Influencer League, an influencer education organization. The research tapped into more than 400 U.S.-based influencers on a wide range of platforms, according to a news release. Participants were ask to report their follower counts, race and income from brands.“Issues of systematic injustice have plagued Influencer marketing for years — and been largely ignored for far too long,” Diana Littman, the CEO of MSL U.S., said in a statement. “Our research shines a spotlight on the present state of influencer marketing and charts the path forward for both the agency and our industry."Influencing is still the Wild West of the marketing world, where regulations are almost nonexistent and algorithms, sometimes created with inherent biases that engineers might be blind to, can make or break a career.Even after platforms acknowledged that their algorithms had inherent biases and worked to fix them, Black creators say they still feel they have to work twice as hard as their white counterparts.The study found that the pay gap between white influencers and influencers who are Black, Indigenous or other people of color is 29 percent. When the research focused specifically on white and Black influencers, the margin widened to 35 percent. About 77 percent of Black influencers fall into the "nano" or "micro" influencers category because their followings are less than 50,000, the study said. About 59 percent of white influencers fall into that category.The average annual compensation for nano and micro influencers is about $27,000, the study found. While Black influencers make up a significant proportion of the micro and nano influencer tier, only 23 percent are considered part of the "macro" influencer sphere, meaning they have more than 50,000 followers, the study reported. Forty-one percent of white influencers were found to be in the macro category.Average annual earnings for macro influencer are upward of $100,000, the study reported. Nearly half of Black influencers in the survey said their race contributes to marketing offers that are below market value. Fifty-nine percent of Black influencers said talking about issues of race negatively affected their incomes, but only 14 percent of white creators said the same. "The gap this study uncovered in influencer marketing vastly overshadows the gaps in any other industry," D’Anthony Jackson, a digital and influencer strategist at MSL, said in a statement. "The gap this study uncovered in influencer marketing vastly overshadows the gaps in any other industry.”At the close of the study, researchers offered three suggestions to make the influencer marketing industry more equitable: bridging the pay gap through initiatives like sponsorship and education; boosting pay transparency, to which end MSL U.S. said it commits to develop and release an influencer pay index; and advocating for creators of color to help restructure marketing.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Lewis Hamilton could make history in riveting F1 season finale. Grand Prix racing, the world's pre-eminent motorsport, is potentially headed for an extraordinary moment: The last Formula 1 race of 2021 could firmly establish Lewis Hamilton as the greatest competitive driver of all time.On Sunday, Hamilton, the British star of team Mercedes-AMG Petronas, won the Saudi Arabian Grand Prix, tying Red Bull Racing Honda's Max Verstappen in championship points for the season and setting up a tiebreaker for the ages at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix on Sunday, Dec. 12.Formula 1 said that, even though the two are tied on points, Verstappen "technically maintains the lead" because he has one more victory this season than Hamilton. Nonetheless, the driver who finishes faster next week will in all likelihood take the 2021 championship.With a victory, Hamilton would surpass Michael Schumacher, the retired German legend, when it comes to world titles. Both have seven. Verstappen has never won the title.Hamilton has also made headlines off-track in the last few years, speaking out about human rights, gender inequality, racism and homophobia. He received a knighthood as part of Queen Elizabeth II's New Year's honors list for 2021.However, his presence in Saudi Arabia has sparked criticism, with the human rights group Amnesty International accusing the country of using the Grand Prix as a "PR stunt" to "deflect attention from its brutal crackdown on activists and human rights defenders.”For his part, Hamilton said at a news conference ahead of Sunday’s race that he felt “duty-bound” to raise concerns about Saudi Arabia’s record on human rights. “The sport has taken a choice to be here,” he said. “And whether it’s right or wrong, while we are here, it’s important we do try to raise awareness.”In the days ahead of November’s Qatar Grand Prix, Hamilton also announced that he would wear an LGBTQ flag on his helmet to highlight human rights in a country where homosexuality is illegal.Jean Todt, president of the Fédération Internationale de l’Automobile, Formula 1’s governing body, told CNBC in remarks that aired Friday that it isn’t FIA’s role to “get involved with political issues." He said he believed that being in Saudi Arabia, despite its record, encourages dialogue. Bahrain protests ahead of Formula One raceApril 17, 201300:44 Hamilton won Sunday despite facing sometimes chaotic race conditions. His car and Verstappen's made contact during the race, and Verstappen was later penalized."I’ve been racing a long time, but that was definitely, that was incredibly tough," Hamilton said after the race.It was Hamilton's third win in a row, a streak that has given him momentum despite Verstappen's tying the Formula 1 record for most podium (first-, second- or third-place) finishes in a season. Verstappen took the championship points lead in May with a win in Monaco. On Sunday he finished second.Red Bull has also fallen behind Mercedes, by 28 points, for the annual constructors' title, given to the top team.Hamilton told trackside reporters Sunday that he planned to keep his head down and focus on winning in Abu Dhabi. Lewis Hamilton prepares to drive at the F1 Grand Prix on Sunday in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.Lars Baron / Getty ImagesYet two drivers being tied for the world title with only one race to go in the season has happened only once before in Formula 1 history, when Emerson Fittipaldi emerged victorious over Clay Regazzoni after the last flag of 1974 dropped.Hamilton already has the most Grand Prix wins, 103 to Schumacher's 91, as recognized by Guinness World Records. But at 36, Hamilton, from Stevenage, England, is more than 10 years older than the sport's freshman drivers. When Hamilton started in the 2000s, he competed against Schumacher. Today he races against the German's son, Mick, who drives for Haas.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor saysIt seems clear Hamilton has been thinking about his legacy, particularly because when he became the youngest driver to win a world championship, in 2008, he was Formula 1's first and only Black driver.Today he still is.After taking note of the sport's lack of diversity, particularly among drivers, Hamilton launched the Hamilton Commission in 2020 to address barriers to motorsport for people of color.That year, amid global protests over the murder of George Floyd by police, he became an outspoken supporter of Black Lives Matter. At the Austrian Grand Prix that year he took a knee in a Black Lives Matter T-shirt. Most of his fellow drivers joined him.As part of his contract with the Mercedes team, Hamilton ensured the organization would invest in his support of diversity and inclusion for motorsport.His concerns are coming from a personal place. There were times when he was a child, competing in karting, when he and his father faced racial epithets at tracks.Lewis Hamilton during the F1 Grand Prix of Saudi Arabia at Jeddah on Sunday. Lars Baron / Getty ImagesGo-cart startWhen he was a 10-year-old karting champ, Hamilton, whose father got him a go-cart and helped him hone his skills at an early age after recognizing his passion for the sport, met Ron Dennis, a top Formula 1 team boss at the time. Three years later Dennis pledged to support Hamilton's racing career so long as he continued to go to school in earnest.It's that kind of support that Hamilton wants to create for others."Being the first Black anything is a proud and lonely walk," he told Gayle King of CBS "This Morning" in late 2020. "We were always the only Black family on the scene."At the height of his career, Hamilton said, "I realized that that has barely shifted" as he vowed to focus on creating new opportunities in a sport that has historically developed its talent with the help of households that could afford constant travel, expensive gear and personal trainers. "There's been an awakening and an opportunity to use your voice," he told King.On Friday the Hollywood Reporter said a bidding war had erupted over a motorsport-related project involving some of the industry's biggest names as well as, possibly, Hamilton's.Asked last year by King if he's pondered retirement, the racer said, "I love doing what I’m doing, and honestly winning this seventh world title is an incredible thing, but I think we’ve still not won this fight for racial equality."The athlete with a global fan base and a highly ranked income has become the face of a sport that is trying to rekindle its relationship with American motorsport fans while also expanding its fan base in the Middle East.Lewis Hamilton has used his status as Formula 1's lone black driver to raise awareness on the need to diversity the sport.Bryn Lennon  / Formula 1 via Getty ImagesFormula 1 returned to the United States in 2012 after a five year absence by launching the U.S. Grand Prix at the Circuit of the Americas in Austin, Texas.In the last two years, Formula 1 has allowed Netflix viewers inside some of those racing teams that each spend hundreds of millions of dollars a year on drivers, engineering, equipment, and marketing.The show, "Formula 1: Drive to Survive," has been popular with racing fans, and The New York Times said it has "ignited" the sport. Sports business guru Joe Pompliano tweeted Sunday that it's got nothing on the Grand Prix season's spectacular ending."Netflix is great … ," he said. "But Lewis Hamilton and Max Verstappen being tied for the World Drivers Championship with just one race to go is the best marketing for Formula 1 in years."Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
A 'Shang-Chi' sequel is officially in the works. A sequel to “Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings” is officially on the way with Destin Daniel Cretton returning to direct and write. He’s also in development on a Marvel series for Disney Plus.Cretton has signed an exclusive multi-year overall deal with Marvel Studios and Hulu’s Onyx Collective. The new deal will allow Cretton to develop TV projects for both Marvel Studios on Disney Plus and the Onyx Collective for Hulu and other platforms.“Shang-Chi” released over Labor Day weekend and currently is the highest-grossing film at the domestic box office with $224.5 million. The film made history for the Marvel Cinematic Universe as the first to feature an Asian lead and mostly Asian cast, which included Simu Liu, Michelle Yeoh, Awkwafina and Tony Leung. At the worldwide box office, the film has made $431.9 million so far and stands as the eighth highest-grossing film.“Destin is an amazing collaborator who brought a unique perspective and skill to ‘Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings.’ We had a fantastic time working together on the film and he has so many intriguing ideas for stories to bring to life on Disney Plus, so we’re thrilled to expand our relationship with him and can’t wait to get started,” said Marvel Studios president Kevin Feige in a statement.Not much is known about Cretton’s Marvel series on Disney Plus, but sources tell Variety it is a comedy.“Destin is a powerhouse storyteller with impeccable taste in material. As we continue to expand our roster, Destin’s unique voice will help usher in an exciting slate of content for our global audience,” said Tara Duncan, president of Freeform and Hulu’s Onyx Collective, in a statement.“Working on ‘Shang-Chi’ with Kevin and the Marvel Studios team was one of the highlights of my life, and I couldn’t be more excited about Tara’s vision for Onyx Collective. I can’t wait to explore new stories & build new worlds with this community,” said Cretton.He is repped by WME, Pangea Media and Goodman Genow Schenkman Smelkinson & Christopher LLP.Deadline was first to report the newsGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Kal Penn to produce, star in biopic of beloved NBA Hall of Fame ‘superfan’. Actor Kal Penn announced he’ll produce and star in a biopic about Toronto Raptors superfan Nav Bhatia.“Superfan,” the upcoming film by Stampede Ventures, will chronicle the story of Bhatia, played by Penn, who began going to Raptors games in 1995 and went to every single home game until the coronavirus pandemic in 2020. “His story of perseverance & unity is incredible, & I’m super excited to bring his super fan story to the (super?) big screen,” Penn tweeted. Kal Penn talks engagement to partner of 11 years, new bookNov. 1, 202106:08Bhatia, a local celebrity in Toronto, became the first fan to be inducted into the NBA Hall Of Fame this year and the first fan to be awarded a championship ring. “I went to every game. I cheered the most. Everyone noticed this turbaned guy,” he said in a 2014 TEDtalk.“I’m speechless. To have the opportunity to continue to tell my story with such esteemed producers is a dream. Then to find out Kal Penn has been brought on to play me is even more surreal,” Bhatia told Deadline.Bhatia, who is Sikh, grew up in India and later immigrated to Canada. Despite his mechanical engineering degree, Bhatia told CTV News he “couldn’t get a job because of the turban and beard.”He eventually found work as a car salesman, going on to become one of the most successful salesmen and dealership owners in Canada. During his TEDtalk, Bhatia said he endured racial slurs and even had employees resign when he entered management.Basketball became a passion for him and he now spends more than $300,000 a year to allow underprivileged children from across Canada to attend Raptors games. “I want these kids to integrate with each other during the young age so they don’t have to go through what I went through 30 years ago and it’s working,” he said during the TEDtalk.He also funds and organizes two Raptors home games each season to “change the perception of Sikhs in the mainstream” — one that celebrates Diwali and another that celebrates Vaisakhi (the Sikh New Year), giving many Canadians an opportunity to celebrate together. “I’ve been researching and following Nav’s incredible story ever since I saw him at a Raptors game the year we started filming "Designated Survivor" in Toronto,” Penn told Deadline. “The crowd loves him — to see what a source of pride he is for Canadians — and all basketball fans, really — makes me smile. His story is one of unity, which I’m especially excited and proud to bring to life.”Penn is an actor known for his roles in the “Harold & Kumar” franchise, “How I Met Your Mother” and “House.” He recently published his memoir, “You Can’t Be Serious,” in which he detailed his life and announced his engagement with his partner of 11 years. He was also a former White House staff member in the Obama administration for two years.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Dictionary.com anoints allyship word of the year for 2021. Allyship, an old noun made new again, is Dictionary.com’s word of the year.The look up site with 70 million monthly users took the unusual step of anointing a word it added just last month, though “allyship” first surfaced in the mid-1800s, said one of the company’s content overseers, John Kelly.“It might be a surprising choice for some,” he told The Associated Press ahead of Tuesday’s unveiling. “In the past few decades, the term has evolved to take on a more nuanced and specific meaning. It is continuing to evolve and we saw that in many ways.”The site offers two definitions for allyship: The role of a person who advocates for inclusion of a “marginalized or politicized group” in solidarity but not as a member, and the more traditional relationship of “persons, groups or nations associating and cooperating with one another for a common cause or purpose.”The word is set apart from “alliance,” which Dictionary.com defines in one sense as a “merging of efforts or interests by persons, families, states or organizations.”It’s the first definition that took off most recently in the mid-2000s and has continued to churn. Following the summer of 2020 and the death of George Floyd, white allies — and the word allyship — proliferated as racial justice demonstrations spread. Before that, straight allies joined the causes of LGBTQ oppression, discrimination and marginalization.“This year, we saw a lot of businesses and organizations very prominently, publicly, beginning efforts to promote diversity, equity and inclusion. Allyship is tied to that. In the classroom, there is a flashpoint around the term critical race theory. Allyship connects with this as well,” Kelly said.In addition, teachers, frontline workers and mothers who juggled jobs, home duties and child care in lockdown gained allies as the pandemic took hold last year.Without an entry for “allyship,” Kelly said the site saw a steep rise in lookups for “ally” in 2020 and large spikes in 2021. It was in the top 850 searches out of thousands and thousands of words this year. Dictionary.com broadened the definition of “ally” to include the more nuanced meaning. The terms “DEI” and “critical race theory” made their debuts as entries on the site with “allyship” this year.What it means to be an authentic ally has taken on fresh significance as buzz around the word has grown louder. One of the aspects of allyship, as it has emerged, is how badly it can go.Among the example’s of how to use the word in a sentence cited by Merriam-Webster is this one written by Native activist Hallie Sebastian: “Poor allyship is speaking over marginalized people by taking credit and receiving recognition for arguments that the unprivileged have been making for their entire lives.”As global diversity, equity and inclusion executive Sheree Atcheson wrote in Forbes, allyship is a “lifelong process of building relationships based on trust, consistency and accountability with marginalized individuals and/or groups of people.” It’s not, she said, “self-defined — work and efforts must be recognized by those you are seeking to ally with.”Allyship should be an “opportunity to grow and learn about ourselves, whilst building confidence in others,” Atcheson added.Among the earliest evidence of the word “allyship,” in its original sense of “alliance,” is the 1849, two-volume work, “The Lord of the Manor, or, Lights and Shades of Country Life” by British novelist Thomas Hall: “Under these considerations, it is possible, he might have heard of Miss Clough’s allyship with the Lady Bourgoin.”Kelly did some additional digging into the history of allyship in its social justice sense. While the Oxford English Dictionary dates that use of the word to the 1970s, Kelly found a text, “The Allies of the Negro” by Albert W. Hamilton, published in 1943. It discusses extensively the potential allies of Black people in the struggle for racial equality:“What some white liberals are beginning to realize is that they better begin to seek the Negro as an ally,” he wrote. “The new way of life sought by the liberal will be a sham without the racial equality the Negro seeks. And the inclusion of the Negro in the day-to-day work, in the organization, the leadership and the rallying of the support necessary to win a better world, can only be done on the basis of equality.”On the other side of allyship, Kelly said, “is a feeling of division, of polarization. That was Jan. 6.” Allyship, he said, became a powerful prism in terms of the dichotomy at a chaotic cultural time during the last two years.Other dictionary companies in the word of the year game focused on the pandemic and its fallout for their picks. Oxford Languages, which oversees the Oxford English Dictionary, went for “vax” and Merriam-Webster chose “vaccine.” The Glasgow, Scotland-based Collins Dictionary, meanwhile, plucked “NFT,” the digital tokens that sell for millions.While Merriam-Webster relies solely on site search data to choose a word of the year, Dictionary.com takes a broader approach. It scours search engines, a broad range of text and taps into cultural influences to choose its word of the year.Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & Instagram Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Harvard adds caste bias protections for graduate student workers . Harvard University is the latest U.S. school to add measures protecting caste-oppressed students following a push from graduate workers and a national organization. Since March, South Asian graduate student organizers have tried to point out to the university's administration what they say is a real problem on campuses across the U.S.: discrimination based on the Hindu caste system. Those born into lower castes, known as Dalits in India's deeply rooted hierarchies, have faced violence and oppression on the subcontinent for thousands of years. Though the system is now illegal in India, its impact is still far-reaching and can manifest themselves in a lack of social and economic mobility. With the increase in South Asian immigration to the U.S. since the 1980s and '90s, the hierarchies have been carried overseas. Twenty-five percent of Dalits in the U.S. report having faced verbal or physical assault, according to research by Equality Labs, an organization dedicated to ending white supremacy and casteism. One in 3 Dalit students also reported experiencing prejudice that affected their education, the study found. Students trying to combat this on their campuses say they run into barriers in the process, particularly a sheer lack of knowledge among administrators.Aparna Gopalan, a South Indian doctoral student at Harvard and a member of the Graduate Student Union, has been part of negotiations since March to add more protected classes to the union’s contract. She says she found herself in board rooms filled with white administrators who had no foundational grasp of the caste system. “They had no idea what caste was,” Gopalan said. “I don’t think they really understood. At one point, they asked, ‘Why isn’t caste just protected under nationality?’ and I was flabbergasted. We were operating on a very basic level.”But after months of talks between the union and the administration, as well support from Equality Labs, the Graduate Student Union's contract was ratified this week and caste was added as the only new protected category.Harvard declined to comment other than confirming the contract has been ratified. Gopalan said that after the provision was approved, Dalit students began to come forward with their own experiences of discrimination, including by South Asian supervisors and instructors who would give their work less attention than that of upper caste students. Slurs and microaggressions from other students were also common. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor says“We need for every student covered under this contract to be aware that this is even in there,” Gopalan said. “No one can come forward if they aren’t explicitly aware that this is protected.” Slurs are just the beginning of what Dalit students across the country have experienced on campus, said Thenmozhi Soundararajan, executive director of Equality Labs. The longtime Dalit rights activist has advocated for young people facing sexual harassment, housing discrimination, diminished opportunities and physical assaults. "This important step recognizes first that we, too, exist at Harvard and that our experiences matter," said Raj Muthu, a Dalit Harvard alum and a member of Equality Labs' coalition. "As an alumni, I have certainly witnessed expressions of disdain and hostility directed towards members of oppressed castes, students and faculty."Dalits on campus might also feel like they don't belong in South Asian circles that are heavily pervaded with casteism or dominated by upper caste students. "Overall as a student from a caste-oppressed community, there is a deep sense of alienation and not belonging in South Asian settings," he said. "It’s a very isolating experience because as immigrants we try to seek refuge in our own ethnic communities."But progress may be on the horizon. Through Equality Labs, Soundararajan has supported student bodies as they push their administrations to protect the caste-oppressed among them. Harvard is only the latest to add a measure, with the University of California, Davis, and Colby College both taking similar steps in the last few months. “These aren’t overnight wins,” she said. “These are the results of many leaders going through the administrative process and building power toward caste equity.”She’s sure that there are more to come. “I see the change,” she said. “There hasn’t been a university that hasn’t wanted to do this.” After Black Lives Matter protests in the summer of 2020, Soundararajan said schools became much more open to inclusive language. With high profile institutions beginning to adopt caste protection into official documents, she thinks others will soon follow suit. For Gopalan, Harvard’s new contract with the union is the beginning of change, not the end. “This is just the Grad Student Union,” she said. “We would like every union to have it at Harvard. We would like the university itself, outside of just workers, to put it in their handbooks.”Those affected by caste oppression know it’s a struggle that has long been invisible to non-South Asians in the U.S. Soundararajan hopes these university-level changes can be the first steps in a broader conversation. “It makes sure that our civil rights are being respected,” she said. Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'Latinx' can be 'counterproductive' among Hispanic voters, poll finds. A new poll of Hispanic voters finds the term “Latinx” does not resonate among them and 40 percent say use of the word bothers or offends them.The poll was conducted in mid-November by Bendixen & Amandi International, a Democratic firm focusing on Latino outreach. It found that 30 percent of Hispanic voters  — 24 percent of Democrats and 43 percent of Republicans — are less likely to support a politician or political organization using the word.“The numbers strongly suggest that the use of this term may actually be counterproductive, as opposed to productive, because only 2 percent of Hispanic voters nationally embrace the term,” said Fernand Amandi, the firm's principal, who's worked on a number of national and presidential campaigns.  The term Latinx was created as a gender-neutral alternative to Latino or Latina. It has gained some traction during the past several years among politicians, academics and corporations and is more common among younger and progressive Latinos, but it's not used widely in the community, according to Pew Research.Around 57 percent of the voters surveyed in the new poll said they are not bothered by the word. When broken down by party affiliation, 60 percent of those who identify as Democrats said Latinx does not bother them, while 43 percent of Republicans say they are not bothered.But Amandi said, “up to 40 percent are saying that this term, either bothers or offends them, which in my mind suggests the potential costs outweigh the benefits.”Among political candidates or elected officials, the term is used primarily by Democrats in mailings as well as social media, and even in speeches. The term is also used by more progressive and center-left political organizations.“I think one has to be careful in saying, ‘this is the silver bullet reason for why Republicans are making inroads,’” Amandi said. “But what I think the data makes clear is that this is not helping  Democrats potentially maximize this critical voting bloc for that, and their electoral chances.”A majority of voters — 68 percent — said “Hispanic” is the term that comes closest to describing their ethnic background. Around 21 percent chose the term “Latino” and only 2 percent said “Latinx” is what best describes them.Even when broken down among age groups, the majority of respondents said they prefer “Hispanic.”“Hispanic” was favored more among those born in the U.S. — 71 percent versus 61 percent of those born in another country. Around 33 percent of those polled who are foreign born prefer “Latino.”Other polls in the past have came up with similar findings about the term Latinx; a Pew Research Center poll conduced in August 2020 found that about 1 in 4 Hispanics had heard of the term and 3 percent used it. The new poll was conducted among 800 Latino registered voters in the United States and the interviews were conducted in both English and Spanish. The margin of error is 3.46 percent.Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'The Latin American Cookbook' highlights, celebrates region's vast diversity. Putting together an entire nation’s distinctive dishes is a daunting process for anyone. Then imagine doing it for 22 countries and you get a sense of what went into creating “The Latin American Cookbook.”Just a single dish — say garlic shrimp or grilled street corn — can vary in assembly from neighborhood to neighborhood, region to region and nation to nation.“How to capture this in one dish and say, like, ‘This is the recipe’ has been one of the toughest things I’ve done in my life,” says Virgilio Martínez, a Michelin star-winning chef whose restaurants include Central in Lima, Peru.What Martínez and his collaborators have created is a beautiful and thoroughly researched book with 600 iconic recipes that offer a snapshot of the spirit of Latin American cuisine.There is a dazzling array of dishes, from sea urchins in salsa verde from Chile and a black turkey stew from Belize and Mexico, to a Venezuelan pasta casserole and Ecuadorian potato pancakes. There are recipes for several mole sauces, the classic Pisco Sour, a Dulche de Leche Thousand Layer Cake and the wonderfully named Chilean Disco Fries.The book is broken down not by nation but by ingredients, including vegetables, corn, pork, lamb and goat, roots and tubers, and fish and seafood. It celebrates such regionally distinctive ingredients as the edible flower loroco, the bluish fungus huitlacoche and unripe bananas known as guineos.Martínez and the volume’s co-writer, food and travel writer Nicholas Gill, consulted home chefs, farmers, food journalists, village elders, bakers and restaurant owners across Latin America. Martinez took what he’d learned at his Mater Iniciativa — an interdisciplinary gastronomic and cultural research organization dedicated to conserving and sharing Peru’s biodiversity — and applied it throughout Latin America.“The process was absolutely daunting,” says Gill. “The landscape stretches from the Rio Grande to the tip of Patagonia. That’s a massive swath of the Earth.”But it meant often delicious field work, from sampling hot bowls of beef soup in Bogota to downing a dish of fish and acai berry beside the Amazon River. “The Latin American Cookbook,” from Phaidon Press, is stuffed with fascinating dishes that expand the food vocabulary beyond the continent’s more famous offerings like empanadas, arepas, tamales and caipirinhas.The authors celebrate the diversity of ingredients and what makes one dish different from a sister recipe, often spotlighting its quirks and the stories behind it. While most Latin American countries do embrace common ingredients like corn and beans, the vastness is hard to simplify.“I’m from Peru, and I’m very different to a Brazilian. I mean, we have things in common. I have more in common with a Mexican than a German, right?” said Martínez. “The idea is not to try to push one Latin American identity because there are too many.”Martínez says Latin Americans tend to improvise in the kitchen, perhaps a reflection of many regions going through tough economic times, with some ingredients unavailable and others too expensive. “Improvising them, making what you can with what you have, is part of Latin American culture,” he says.The authors know that home chefs may substitute some of the more hard-to-find ingredients with more common ones and they encourage it. What they wanted to do was codify the most authentic version of the dish.“We tried to specify the ingredients as much as possible. We tried not to dumb them down,” says Gill. “For instance, if there was a special tuber that really gives it a different flavor, we tried to name that specific tuber, even though someone in another part of the world probably isn’t going to find it.”In addition to his restaurants, Martínez is dedicated to documenting Peru’s bountiful produce and experimenting with nature’s gifts to discover culinary uses. In many ways, the new cookbook is also a way to preserve the past.“We need to support our farmers and support people that are producing the food. And we need to promote some ingredients that probably will be forgotten in a few years time,” he says.Gill hopes the book can also be a guide for people — post-pandemic, of course — to visit the continent and embolden them to try new dishes. “We wanted to inspire travel, and for people to go to these places and understand them,” he says.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Bob Dole's standing with Latino voters reflects changing Republican Party. In 1977, a Republican senator from Kansas joined the newly formed Congressional Hispanic Caucus as an “honorary member.” In the 1980s, he voted for amnesty for undocumented immigrants. In the 1990s, he ran for president while embracing anti-immigrant measures.Such was the complicated legacy of Bob Dole — who died Sunday at 98 — with the Latino community. During Dole’s political heyday, the Latino population tripled, and immigration emerged as a hot-button issue among conservatives. While his national campaigns failed to draw strong Latino support, Dole’s passing is an opportunity to reflect on the politics of a Republican from a different era.Former Senator Bob Dole dies at 98Dec. 5, 202102:37“He was a real leader in the Senate, and he was very effective,” said Linda Chavez, a senior fellow at the Niskanen Center, a moderate conservative think tank. She worked with Dole during the Reagan administration, when she was director of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. “He was always willing to reach across party lines, reach out to Democrats. He was the kind of person whose door was always open, and he would listen to you.”Dole, a staunch conservative, is difficult to categorize by the standards of the contemporary Republican Party. In 1982 he played an instrumental role in extending the Voting Rights Act, and in 1983 he was a co-sponsor of the bill to make Martin Luther King Jr. Day a legal holiday. In 1987, he introduced a bill in the Senate proposing a referendum in Puerto Rico on statehood. In 1986, he voted in support of President Ronald Reagan’s landmark amnesty program for undocumented immigrants.As NBC News reported, Dole "did not shy away from a muscular use of government at home and abroad,"  supporting an expansion of  the federal food stamp program, pushing the Americans With Disabilities Act in 1990 and sending U.S. troops to foreign conflicts. Then, in 1996, Dole ran for the Republican nomination for president.At the time, the Republican Party was going through a period when it adopted an anti-immigrant message, said Stephen Nuño-Pérez, an associate professor of politics and international affairs at Northern Arizona University. “It was the aftermath of Proposition 187 passing in California,” Nuño-Pérez said, referring to a measure that would have barred undocumented immigrants from using state services. “Dole was probably the first modern Republican candidate who was subject to that acid test, to show he could be ‘tough’ on immigration. Dole tacked hard to the right on immigration to win over the base of his party.”Dole’s 1996 presidential campaign website warned about “illegal aliens” and “a flood of undocumented immigrants who sap precious American tax dollars and undermine the nation’s security.” As a candidate, he supported Proposition 187’s limits on educating children of undocumented immigrants. He backed making English the official language of the U.S., called for ending most bilingual education and opposed affirmative action. While the approach helped Dole win the nomination, it did not help him with most Latino voters in the general election, Nuño-Pérez said, adding the campaign did not put much emphasis on Hispanic voters. Dole lost the election, getting just 21 percent of the Latino vote. “Latino Republican leaders generally liked and respected Dole,” said Geraldo Cadava, the author of “The Hispanic Republican” and a professor of history at Northwestern University. “But to the average Latino voter in the Southwest or Florida, Dole was not really a known quantity.”Some Latino voters were probably attracted to Dole because of his party affiliation, his military background and his support of the U.S. embargo on Cuba, but that was not enough to overcome what was then a damaged Republican brand among Latinos. Cadava said the Republican Party was then “reckoning with two competing impulses.” The Latino population was rising — it grew from 9.6 million in 1970 to 28.4 million in 1996 — at the same time that the party’s base was coalescing around anti-immigrant sentiment. “Dole was the face of the party at a time of nativist sentiment, and he paid the price for that with Latinos,” he said. In 1996 Dole voted for legislation that overhauled immigration enforcement and made more people eligible for deportation. President Bill Clinton signed the measure into law. In his later years, Dole remained somewhat politically unpredictable. In May 2016, he was one of the few establishment Republicans to endorse Donald Trump. “I’m a Trumper,” Dole told USA Today this year, while adding that there was no doubt that Trump lost the 2020 race. Yet in the same interview, he called President Joe Biden “a great, kind, upstanding, decent person.”“Bob Dole truly had an amazing life,” said Mary Sanchez, a syndicated columnist with the Tribune Content Agency. “He was a member of the ‘Greatest Generation,’ he served in the war, served in Congress, saw so much happen, from the civil rights era to now.” For her, Dole’s legacy is exemplified by the Dole Institute of Politics at the University of Kansas, which is devoted to celebrating public service and promoting civil discourse. The institute hosted Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor in 2011, for example.Sanchez, a former reporter for The Kansas City Star, said, “Dole was in many ways what people wanted a traditional Republican to be.” She added that, among Latinos in Kansas, there is a “generational divide” between those who are old enough to recall his legacy and those who are unfamiliar with it. For some Latinos, Dole’s passing feels like the end of an era. “Probably the only person who I would compare him to is the late John McCain,” Sanchez said. Chavez said: “He was a warm and engaging person, with a real affinity for the Hispanic community. He had a very dry sense of humor. I think a lot of people who did not know him did not realize what a caring person he was.”Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Latinas in trucking are finding their place — in the driver's seats of 18-wheelers. Vanessa Rivas was the girl who found her dolls boring and liked trucks. So, as the coronavirus pandemic fed her anxieties about losing her auto financing job, she learned how to be a truck driver.There was plenty of time to study, because motor vehicle offices were closed by Covid-19. Convincing her parents was the bigger obstacle. Dad said "no," and Mom said "never." But Rivas, 34, of Los Angeles, went for it anyway."My dad had to understand it’s not a man’s world anymore when it comes to trucking," said Rivas, who is training to get her license.Just 6.6 percent of truck drivers are women, but Latinas are increasingly joining the overall workforce in other industries. They number about 12.5 million, about 16 percent of all working women, according to the Labor Department. While many people dispute claims that there’s a shortage of truck drivers, the jobs are billed as good opportunities for Latinas and other women. The reality is much more complicated in an industry in which high turnover is often attributed to poor wages and treatment.  Rivas is working her auto finance job while she continues trying to get her license to drive trucks.Alyson Aliano for NBC News"My dad had to understand it’s not a man’s world anymore when it comes to trucking," said Rivas, who is still training to get her license.Alyson Aliano for NBC NewsWhat might seem like a growth opportunity for someone working at the minimum wage in a service industry job actually comes with hidden costs and risks of assault and harassment. Making $80,000 a year or more is a strong draw, but higher salaries could mean longer hours and days away from family. It could also take years to reach that level of pay.The Latinas who spoke about their experiences said taking up trucking has brought them notable benefits along with challenges.“You can change your life and make great money at this job, and you are going to feel like you have a job with purpose,” said Desiree Wood, the president of Real Women in Trucking, which promotes safety, mentorship and industry transparency for women in trucking.But Wood warned that some companies claim that there is a driver shortage to bring in more women and minorities “who are desperate to get out of fast-food work or other kinds of work where they’re not really making a living wage.”  The unemployment rate for Latinas ages 20 and older at the end of October was 5.5 percent, with about 57.8 percent of all Latinas participating in the workforce, according to Bureau of Labor Statistics data.Latinas’ median weekly earnings were $705 last year, putting them at the bottom of the earnings scale. Median weekly earnings for Asian men — at the top — were $1,447, the BLS reported.Congress is trying to give the industry a push in hiring more women. The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, which President Joe Biden signed Nov. 15, orders the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to create a volunteer advisory board to boost hiring and retention of women in trucking. In the meantime, Rivas is still working her auto finance job while she tries to get her license to drive trucks.  She said she has been told she can make $2,000 to $3,000 a week, depending on how many hours she's willing to work, and $3,000 to $4,000 if she drives out of state. "I didn't know that much money in one week can happen," she said.Skeptical parents, encouraging friendsLatinas who have entered the trucking industry say the new careers have meant better pay and that they have taken them from jobs they found unfulfilling and given them a sense of empowerment and accomplishment. Although some encountered resistance from spouses or other relatives, they said male friends, fellow students (who were overwhelmingly male) and significant others generally encouraged them to get into truck driving, joined them on the road or helped them with training."I didn't know that much money in one week can happen," Rivas said.Alyson Aliano for NBC News / Alyson Aliano for NBC NewsAs Covid lockdowns have eased, employment among Latinas is recovering faster than among Hispanic men, said Mónica García-Pérez, an economics professor at St. Cloud State University in Minnesota, who specializes in labor economics.So far, trucking isn’t attracting Latinas nationwide, but there may be regional increases in areas with concentrations of warehouses and distribution centers, García-Pérez said.Those re-entering the workforce appear to be filling jobs in fields that have been more male-dominated, such as packing and shipping, she said.Antoinette McIntosh, 42, was working as a financial adviser at an East Coast bank when the market crashed in 2008. Her job and her six-figure salary disappeared overnight. Antoinette McIntosh.Courtesy Antoinette McIntoshA good friend, Robert Montgomery, who later became her fiancé, told her to cash in on her love of driving and join him at his company as a truck driver. The company they worked for paid for her transportation to Salt Lake City and training in exchange for the couple’s working for the company for a year. “I’ve been in it ever since,” said McIntosh, who is Black and Puerto Rican and lives in the Cleveland, Mississippi, area. She has been a truck driver for 15 years.McIntosh's father also had been a truck driver, and her parents “did everything they could to keep me out of a truck,” she said. Trying to fulfill their wishes, she went to college, double-majored in psychology and social work and “made everyone else happy.” McIntosh now makes more than she did at her bank job, she said.“What a lot of people don’t tell you is this pays you better than a white-collar job in a lot of businesses, so it’s not so much of a stigma anymore,” McIntosh said.Shifting in the pandemicRosio Villagrana, 35, got her Class A truck driver’s license on July 30. The company that hired her told her it hadn’t had a female truck driver for several years, she said.She had worked in and managed a pawn shop for about a decade. But her friends' work driving semi-trailer trucks had long intrigued her. With time on her hands and feeling restless confined to work and home early in the pandemic, Villagrana decided to give truck driving a try.“Why not?” she recalled saying. “I’m so for women empowerment. I feel like we are capable of what we do, plus more, especially in this male-dominated industry.”Ultimately, her goal is to be an owner-operator and one day own her own fleet of trucks. Tracy Barajas, 27, of Corona, California, has been driving trucks for three years. She had worked in online fashion stores and as a dispatcher for a plumbing company.Tracy Barajas of Corona, Calif., has been driving trucks for three years. Courtesy Tracy BarajasHer boyfriend, Oscar Hernandez, and cousins, who were truck drivers, inspired her to make the jump into trucking, she said.Barajas said she had lived paycheck to paycheck before she got into trucking. She had briefly attended community college with plans to be a psychologist. In trucking, she and Hernandez, who drive as a team and log their journeys online, have individually saved tens of thousands of dollars, and she makes four times her previous income, she said.“I never in my head would have thought that I would be able to or I would be in truck driving,” Barajas said. Steering through sexism, danger and scamsAll of the positive accounts notwithstanding, trucking can be a dangerous profession, and it can affect marriages and families. Not everyone experiences a financial windfall.McIntosh said her marriage ended over trucking. Her spouse at the time she started didn’t want her driving trucks. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor saysShe also lost money when she leased a truck from her employer. Costs for maintenance, gasoline, inspection and registration tags, insurance and other expenses were deducted from her paycheck, McIntosh said. She was falling short even when she increased her workload.McIntosh ended up joining a class-action lawsuit against the company, which settled with her and other drivers over the leasing arrangement.McIntosh used to travel with her fiancé, Montgomery. On a trip in Wisconsin in June, he suffered a massive heart attack while they were in their truck cab. He died in her arms, she said.She continues to drive, in part, to keep a promise to help support his brother who has autism, she said. Barajas was rear-ended by a drunk driver while she was driving a truck in Colorado in February 2020. Soon after the accident, her company reduced her and her boyfriend's wages by 10 cents and terminated their benefits, including their health care plan and their 401(k) retirement benefits. Barajas and her boyfriend switched to driving for FedEx in May 2020 and are making a good living again.Wood, of Real Women in Trucking, said that as more Latinas start driving trucks, there is a need for caution. Women are often paired with male drivers they don’t know for training, and that’s where “a lot of women fall through the cracks," she said. Some are raped or harassed and then retaliated against when they report the incidents, she said.The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration has been studying harassment and assaults of women and minority truckers.None of the Latinas who were interviewed said they had experienced any physical sexual harassment or assaults. Barajas said she gets hateful and sexist comments on her YouTube page for being a woman who drives a truck. But the comments that stick with her are from women who say she inspires them, she said. Student drivers also can be exploited because they work for low wages while they are in training, Wood said. She warns women not to enter company-sponsored training, although the women interviewed for this article said they had good experiences. The American Trucking Association, the trade and lobbying group for major trucking employers, reported that the annualized turnover rate for truck drivers last year was 90 percent, a point less than it was in 2019. For smaller fleets, it was 69 percent, down from 72 percent. A lot of the turnover happens in truckers’ first year, Wood said. Rivas said she has been told she can make $2,000 to $3,000 a week depending on how many hours she's willing to work and $3,000 to $4,000 if she drives out of state. Alyson Aliano for NBC NewsMany companies pay drivers based on how many miles they drive. The rate per mile can vary by experience. Drivers also might not drive enough miles to earn the money they thought they’d make.In May 2020, median pay for heavy and tractor-trailer truck drivers was $47,130 a year, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. That means half of such drivers made more and half made less.Ellen Voie, the president of Women in Trucking, said private fleets have lower turnover. Walmart has said that its average annual pay for its drivers is about $87,500 and that they earn training pay and pay when they aren’t driving. Voie said the biggest predictor of turnover is whether drivers feel misled about what they were promised. “​​The carriers who can match that reality with what they’re promising the driver will keep the drivers, but the ones who oversell or don’t live up to what they’re selling are the ones where the drivers get discouraged and leave,” Voie said.  Voie advised women to ask questions, such as whether a truck driving school is credible and will hold proper trainings and which carriers "walk the walk." She advised asking whether carriers give drivers the promised miles, what kind of time at home they provide and what pay raises and safety bonuses they offer. McIntosh advises Latinas getting into trucking to learn the industry first, drive for a company, increase their savings, pay off bills at home and be diligent about understanding the costs associated with leasing trucks. The women acknowledge that there are pitfalls and barriers to consider, which may dissuade others from following them into the industry. But Barajas said the small number of women in the field shouldn’t be one of those reasons.“Who cares if it is a male-dominated industry?” she said. “I would say just take the leap. Do it.”Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
