‘Too late’: Some question why boosters weren’t authorized for all adults sooner. Friday’s authorization by federal officials to expand Covid-19 booster shot eligibility to all adults was met with overwhelming support from public health experts. But some were puzzled as to why the Food and Drug Administration didn’t make the move sooner. Despite a plan by the Biden administration to have boosters available to nearly all Americans by late September, the FDA had only authorized a third shot of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine for certain populations, such as those 65 and older and people with underlying medical conditions, up until this point.With enough convincing evidence to demonstrate safety in those groups, experts said they were frustrated that it took until now to authorize the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna boosters for everyone else.“This is too late,” said Dr. Robert Murphy, executive director of the Institute for Global Health at the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine and a professor of infectious diseases. “What is the problem in getting the best treatment out there quickly?”The FDA signoff, which was followed by an endorsement from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, formalizes what has cropped up in a patchwork of states in recent days. Governors from Massachusetts to California have allowed people 18 and older to get boosters. Their decisions come ahead of the holidays, when indoor gatherings are expected to lead to a spike in Covid cases, including breakthrough infections.CDC panel recommends Pfizer, Moderna boosters for all adultsNov. 19, 202102:54“We’ve had the evidence for the need for boosters for several months,” said Dr. Dorry Segev, professor of surgery at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and professor of epidemiology at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health.He added that he has heard of people fibbing to get boosters before they officially qualify.“When you have people exaggerating their work situation or their medical risk situation or feeling like they have to flat-out lie to get the protection they need, that’s a failing on the FDA and CDC’s part,” he said. But others were not as quick to cast judgment, arguing the FDA needed time to review safety data, including the rare risk of myocarditis associated with the Covid shot and a third dose of it.If anything, said Dr. Gregory Poland, director of the Mayo Clinic’s vaccine research group, the FDA was “working at record speed,” given that Moderna only submitted its application for booster expansion earlier this week and Pfizer did so earlier this month.“I think it would have been a public relations disaster to say ‘We aren’t going to review the data, we’re just going to approve it,’” he said. Tener Goodwin Veenema, a professor and visiting scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security, agreed.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsFlooding in Washington state leaves residents wondering what's nextCoronavirusCoronavirusDutch police open fire on Covid lockdown protesters as European nations reintroduce restrictions“I just don’t think there’s anything to be gained in looking backwards and criticizing what has happened. We are still in the midst of a pandemic. We are looking at the potential of another surge,” she said. “We just have to keep a laser-focus on getting as many Americans vaccinated as possible, including children who are now age-eligible.”The FDA did not respond to NBC News regarding its booster shot timeline. In an interview Friday with The Associated Press, the agency’s vaccine chief, Dr. Peter Marks, said “we move as rapidly as we can.” “We have to do the right analyses to make sure that when we take an action, we can stand behind it,” he said. “Our goal is to make sure that the person who is on the fence, or perhaps doubting whether to take the vaccine, feels confident enough in our decisions that they are willing to come along and take the vaccine or take the booster.”Will people actually get a third dose?Whether people will choose to get a third dose remains to be seen. The experts all agreed that initially allowing just a portion of the population to get boosters likely led to confusion.“It’s fueling the anti-vaccine crowd,” Murphy said. “You don’t know if you’re supposed to take the vaccine or not take it, if it works or not. This kind of messaging is not helping.”While the FDA could have used more nuanced language — such as more forcefully indicating that their initial decision was based on the best available data at the time — the messaging problem was unavoidable, Poland believes. “We were doing it in real-time,” he said. “If we had been studying these vaccines and using them for low-grade outbreaks over five or 10 years like most other vaccines, we’d have come out with a different set of recommendations, but the pandemic did not allow that luxury.”“If we had been studying these vaccines and using them for low-grade outbreaks over five or 10 years like most other vaccines, we’d have come out with a different set of recommendations, but the pandemic did not allow that luxury.”Dr. Gregory Poland, director of the Mayo Clinic’s vaccine research groupAnd it’s not clear whether the general public would understand the evolving nature of the recommendations and the science behind them, Segev said. He worried many people would “start to see the messaging as, ‘Tomorrow they‘re just going to tell me something different, so why should I listen to them now?’”The hope of the nation’s top infectious diseases doctor, Dr. Anthony Fauci, is that adults will listen.Pointing to studies from Israel, where many have received a third dose of the Pfizer shot, Fauci has repeatedly said in recent months that boosters have been shown to be safe and effective. He argued this week that even though the vaccines are still providing protection against severe illness and hospitalization, a third shot will provide benefits beyond that.“I don’t know of any other vaccine that we only worry about keeping people out of the hospitals,” Fauci said at a White House briefing Wednesday. “I think an important thing is to prevent people from getting symptomatic disease.” Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
U.S. 'deeply concerned' about missing tennis star Peng Shuai as pressure mounts on China. The U.S. and the United Nations called for proof of missing Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai’s “whereabouts and well-being” Friday and called for an investigation into her allegations of sexual assault. The White House was “deeply concerned by reports that Peng Shuai appears to be missing,” press secretary Jen Psaki told a news briefing. The three-time Olympian and former No. 1-ranked women’s doubles player has not been seen publicly since a post on her social media account made allegations of sexual assault against former Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli, who was a member of China's all-powerful Politburo Standing Committee of the Chinese Communist Party and a lieutenant of party General Secretary Xi Jinping. The post was later deleted.“Any report of sexual assault should be investigated, and we support a woman’s ability to speak out and seek accountability, whether here or around the world,” Psaki said. Those views were echoed by the United Nations.  It was “important to have proof of her whereabouts and well-being,” Elizabeth Throssell, the spokesperson for the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, told a news briefing Friday.   “It was a challenging issue, as it was difficult for victims of sexual assault to come forward to make their allegations,” she added. “Sexual assault was found in any and every society. It was important to ensure justice and accountability for victims.” RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsFlooding in Washington state leaves residents wondering what's nextCoronavirusCoronavirusDutch police open fire on Covid lockdown protesters as European nations reintroduce restrictionsMeanwhile, in a new effort to dispel concern about her disappearance, an employee of Chinese state TV on Friday posted photos of Peng on Twitter that cannot be seen by most internet users in China.Shen Shiwei wrote the pictures showing Peng with a gray cat and holding a panda figurine in what appeared to be a private home with stuffed animals lined up behind her were on Peng’s account on the WeChat message service with the comment, “Happy Weekend.”There was no indication when the photos were taken, and NBC News has not been able to verify their authenticity.Shen works for CGTN, the English-language arm of China Central Television that is aimed at foreign audiences. The editor of Global Times, an English-language newspaper published by the Communist Party, said on Twitter he had confirmed from unidentified sources that the photos “are indeed Peng Shuai’s current state.”“In the past few days, she stayed in her own home freely and she didn’t want to be disturbed,” Hu Xijin wrote. “She will show up in public and participate in some activities soon.”He later posted two video clips of Peng to his Twitter account that he claimed had been shot at local time Saturday. NBC News was unable to verify this.The pictures were released after a number of tennis players including Naomi Osaka, Serena Williams and Novak Djokovic spoke out about Peng’s disappearance, along with rights groups, retired players and several athletes lobbies — trying to turn their profiles into power.'It's shocking that she's missing': Tennis stars react to Chinese tennis player's disappearanceNov. 17, 202102:30Steve Simon, the chairman and CEO of the Women’s Tennis Association, has threatened to pull the WTA’s events out of China. That means almost a dozen next year, including the WTA final.NBC News has reached out to the Chinese Tennis Association for comment. NBC News also attempted to reach Zhang, who retired in 2018 and is no longer in the public eye. The controversy is politically awkward as the Chinese capital prepares to hold the Winter Olympics in February. A Foreign Ministry spokesperson on Friday denied knowing about the outcry over Peng’s disappearance.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Flooding in Washington state leaves residents wondering what's next. SUMAS, Wash.— In a small church near the U.S.-Canada border, volunteers in muddied rainboots and work clothes buzzed up and down aisles of donated clothes, food, hygiene products and cleaning supplies.The Sumas Advent Christian Church was partially underwater two days ago after nearly 10 inches of rain pounded the area in 48 hours last Sunday and Monday. River silt still stains the floorboards. “I mean, in the past, this property has always been the shelter for town,” said Carl Crouse, the pastor at Sumas Advent, as he directed volunteers sorting bags of donations for distribution. “We had 80 people in here [during this flood] and they had to evacuate. The water just started coming in.” Passersby surround a car whose driver went past a barricade and into the flooded Nooksack River on Tuesday in Ferndale, Wash. Elaine Thompson / APThis corner of northwest Washington has been hard-hit by natural disasters, and some residents and officials point to climate change as the culprit. The region was battered by a deadly heat wave in June, a historic drought through the summer and now a historic rain. And British Columbia has dealt with unprecedented fire seasons over the last five years, which can destabilize soils and make debris flows more likely in heavy rain.“We have the possibility of this happening again this winter, that’s a real possibility,” said Jerry Debruin, chief of Whatcom County Fire District 14 in Sumas. “And it could happen every year. It’s actually kind of depressing. What’s going to come of a town that could face this kind of problem year after year or every several months? That’s the part that I struggle with.”Sumas adjoins, and in some cases, overlaps, the historic floodplain of the Nooksack River, a glacially fed watershed that supports a robust farm community in surrounding towns in both the U.S. and Canada. But a deluge of rain and early season snowmelt pushed the Nooksack to record flows on Monday and Tuesday, creating a destructive surge of water that rushed into the farmlands and river deltas of the lower Nooksack. Laura Anker cleans up the Cherry Street Market this week in Sumas, Wash. Elaine Thompson / APThe flooding was caused by an atmospheric river that lingered for two days, inundating the region with rain on the heels of more than a week of rapid snow accumulation in the nearby North Cascades.The “stalling” effect of the recent rain mirrored that of the heat dome that gripped the area in June, bringing unseasonably hot temperatures and little wind or respite for nearly a week, said  Armel Castellan, a warning preparedness meteorologist for Environment Climate Change Canada in British Columbia. The heat wave was blamed for over 100 deaths in Washington alone.“The way that the jet stream behaves in a warming climate is that it is more prone to stall ... just like we saw with the June heat dome, [where] the high pressure was so strong that it stuck around,” Castellan said. “And that wasn’t just two days of heat. It was six days of the record-breaking heat.” RecommendedCoronavirusCoronavirusDutch police open fire on Covid lockdown protesters as European nations reintroduce restrictionsU.S. newsU.S. newsFamily, friends of 'Rust' cinematographer Halyna Hutchins plan private ceremonyAt the church this week, Sumas Mayor Kyle Christensen joined the recovery effort, donning work boots, jeans and a high-vis jacket from the local fire department. Nearby, four volunteers stooped over water-logged sheets of paper filled with names and addresses of local residents as they tried to determine who needed help, who had flood insurance and where to send volunteers. “This is the second time in two years that we’ve had a flood,” Christensen said. “2020 wasn’t so bad, but this one came with a lot of magnitude and force and higher water levels.”He said about 25 homes sustained water damage last year when floods hit, but this time around he estimated more than 300 homes in Sumas alone were damaged.“That’s a lot of hurting families, especially the ones that got hit in 2020,” he said. “They’re losing all of their belongings again — this is going to be devastating to them.”A partially submerged car in floodwaters from the Skagit River that inundated farmland outside of Burlington, Wash., this week.Joe Nicholson / AFP - Getty ImagesThe floods caused one death in Washington this week and an unknown number in British Columbia. Many communities relied on residents’ boats and trucks and the heavy machinery of local farmers to make swift-water rescues as the water rose to 5 or 6 feet in some places.John Perry, the mayor of Everson, Washington, about 8 miles from Sumas, said a local contractor saved his son, daughter-in-law and two grandchildren from rising flood waters by carrying them to higher ground in the bucket of his front-end loader. “It’s not easy putting a community back together that’s been pretty well decimated,” said Perry, who estimated about 300 of the 700 homes in Everson were affected by flooding. “The pooled resources that we normally use and rely on during times like this are all dealing with the same issue. Neighbors helping neighbors is great. But when your neighbor is also swamped by floodwaters, it makes it tough.”Chris Elder, watershed planner for Whatcom County, where most of the damage occurred, said a council member owns a barn next to the river, and every time there’s a flood, he marks the barn at the highest water level.“According to him, that barn has been in his family for over 100 years,” Elder said, “and this is the highest water he’s seen on the barn.”Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
As Europe's border crisis eases, migrants face return to reality they sought to escape. BAGHDAD — The deadly crisis Belarus was accused of creating at its border with Europe appeared to subside this week, raising hopes of an end to what had become a spiraling confrontation between East and West.Yet as those who risked the journey in the hope of a better future returned to Iraq with their dreams frustrated, some described being violently beaten by security forces on both sides and enduring days without food or water in freezing conditions. Several would-be asylum seekers who spoke to NBC News at the airport in Baghdad said they would never attempt the journey again, and warned others not to follow their lead. They were among hundreds of Iraqis flown home Thursday from Minsk, while the main camps at the frontier with Poland were also largely cleared, according to Belarusian state media.The apparent climbdown from Belarusian strongman Alexander Lukashenko came after weeks of pressure from the United States, NATO and European leaders who accused him of flying in thousands of people from the Middle East and pushing them to attempt to illegally cross the border into the European Union.But it was unclear what would happen to the scores of migrants now relocated to temporary housing facilities, while Polish authorities accused Belarus of a renewed effort on Friday to push crowds to the border.Migrants in Belarus swap makeshift forest camp for warehouseNov. 19, 202101:05Freezing swamps and severe beatingsSpeaking with NBC News on Thursday after landing at the Baghdad International Airport on a flight from Minsk, Hussein Saadi Ahmed, 25, said he had sought to flee Iraq due to a worsening economic and security situation."Life here is difficult and we cannot find suitable jobs," he said.Like other asylum seekers, Ahmed, a law school graduate, said he spent around $3,000 to get to the border, acquiring a tourist visa through a tour company to reach Belarus. Once they got there, asylum seekers said Belarusian forces helped them reach the border, but left them to fend for themselves, navigating thick swamp-filled forests in freezing temperatures, where they were trapped for days without water and food. The harsh conditions "had a bad effect," Ahmed said — especially on the families, including young children, who risked the journey. Hussein Saadi Ahmed.Khalid Razak And when asylum seekers came close to reaching E.U. soil, many said they were beaten back by Polish forces — only to then face further violence when they tried to return to Belarus. “I lived for three days without food and water, and we had to drink water from the dirty swamps,” Ahmed said. “And when we tried to cross the border, we were severely beaten by the Polish forces...When we tried to return, we were again beaten."Ahmed said he wanted to warn others not to risk the journey "because it is never possible to cross to the Polish border."“After going through this experience, I decided not to do it again," he said. Muhammad Hadi, 30, who says he spent around $5,000 on the journey, agreed, telling NBC News: “I have no intention of migrating in this way again after the suffering I went through within a week of leaving the country.”Hadi, an anthropology graduate, also described violence at the border. “When we tried to cross the fence between Poland and Belarus, the Polish forces beat us to go back," he said. "I saw an old man being severely beaten by the Polish forces in front of his family.”NBC News has contacted Poland’s interior ministry, as well as the Belarusian government, but has not heard back from either.  In a statement shared with NBC News on Friday, Belarus’s embassy in the U.K. said “Belarus is also concerned about the current tense situation on its borders with Poland, Lithuania and Latvia,” which it said “has been exacerbated by Western politicians’ constant demonstrations of readiness to accept migrants on humanitarian and economic grounds, which serve only to encourage and reassure potential asylum seekers.”It said that “taking into account the E.U.’s total inaction and given the onset of cold weather, the President of Belarus has made a decision to take care of the children and women, by providing them with safe conditions on the territory of Belarus.”Violence erupts at Polish-Belarusian border where migrants seek entry to E.U.Nov. 16, 202101:04'A nice word instead of violence'For months, humanitarian organizations have been sounding the alarm about the plight of a growing number of migrants and asylum seekers at the borders that Poland and neighboring Lithuania and Ukraine share with Belarus. Lukashenko, the authoritarian leader who is a key ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin, has denied fomenting the crisis as a retaliation against European sanctions on his regime.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsFlooding in Washington state leaves residents wondering what's nextCoronavirusCoronavirusDutch police open fire on Covid lockdown protesters as European nations reintroduce restrictionsLukashenko repeated the denials in an interview with the BBC Friday. But, asked if Belarusian troops were helping migrants cross into the E.U., he said: “I think that’s absolutely possible. We’re Slavs. We have hearts.""Maybe someone helped them. I won’t even look into this,” he added.On Thursday, State Secretary Antony Blinken said the U.S. would be keeping a close eye on the situation at the Belarus-Poland border. “It is profoundly unconscionable that Lukashenko and Belarus have sought to weaponize migration,” Blinken told reporters during a visit to Nigeria, according to Reuters. He also warned that the U.S. had the authority to add sanctions if deemed necessary.While Lukashenko, Putin and Western officials traded accusations, some in the region took matters into their own hands.  Katarzyna Staszewa, an activist working for a Polish grassroots Grupa Granica, a collection of nonprofit organizations delivering aid, told NBC News in a phone interview earlier this week that many who risked the journey were in "bad condition," with some having "spent 20, even 30 days in the woods."Since September, journalists, activists and human rights workers have largely been blocked from reaching the border after Poland enacted a state of emergency. The move made it virtually impossible to render humanitarian assistance and left the rest of the world relying on the often conflicting accounts of Polish and Belarusian officials.Staszewa’s group worked to deliver food, water, medical aid and warm clothes to migrants who manage to make it through to Poland.“Sometimes they are so desperate, so alone, so depressed that they are just reaching out to ask us to be with them, so that they can meet someone who can offer a nice word instead of violence," she said. While she said the Belarusian regime was “instrumentalizing” migrants for political gain, she said it’s also the responsibility of Poland, the European Union and international community to help them by granting asylum to those people who qualify. The E.U. promised Wednesday it would send about $800,000 worth of food, blankets and other aid to migrants at the border, after criticism it had done too little to help those who saw the bloc as a place where they could enjoy a better future.Maciej Szczęsnowicz, a Muslim community leader in the eastern Polish village of Bohoniki, also rushed to support the migrants and  provide them with food and support.Szczęsnowicz said it was "not just my responsibility as a Pole or as a Muslim to help, it’s my responsibility as a human being."While much of the focus has been on the Polish-Belarusian border, asylum seekers have also described being taken to the Lithuanian border by Belarusian forces. Two of those returning to Iraq on Thursday said they had tried to reach Poland, but were apprehended by Belarusian forces and taken to the Lithuanian border instead. Both said Belarusian forces removed the SIM cards from their phones and broke them, so they had no way of reaching others. Ali Kazem Hussein.Courtesy Ali Kazem“Leaving us without water and food, I found myself forced to drink from the water of the swamps,” Ali Kazem Hussein, 21, said. “At one point I expected that my end would be there.”Hussein, who said he wanted to leave Iraq to “secure my future and build a family,” warned against viewing Belarus as a gateway to the E.U., saying “my advice, especially to Iraqi youth, is not to take this step because it is an experience full of risks.”“If I had the opportunity to immigrate again, I would do so,” he added.“But not through Belarus.” Khalid Razak reported from Baghdad. Chantal Da Silva and Yuliya Talmazan reported from London.  Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Family, friends of 'Rust' cinematographer Halyna Hutchins plan private ceremony. Family members and close friends of "Rust" cinematographer Halyna Hutchins will come together for a private ceremony. "Halyna was the love of my life, and our loss of her has devastated our family’s dreams. We feel the silence of her being forever gone as a suffocating stillness in our home," her husband, Matthew Hutchins, said in a statement. Hutchins did not say what day the ceremony will be held but it is expected to take place this weekend. During the ceremony, the late cinematographer's ashes will be interred at an undisclosed location. The grave marker for Halyna Hutchins.Matt Hutchins“Our love and adoration for her grows as we tell her story, and we hope her work can inspire filmmakers and storytellers around the world," Hutchins said. "We thank the many generous supporters who have been so thoughtful in our time of loss.” Halyna, 42, the director of photography of “Rust,” was shot and killed by a prop gun fired by producer and actor Alec Baldwin on the movie's set in October. Director Joel Souza was wounded and is recovering. According to a search warrant, Baldwin did not know the prop gun he fired had live ammunition, and neither did the assistant director who handed it to him.Before the shooting, assistant director Dave Halls yelled “Cold gun” to indicate that the prop firearm did not have any live rounds, according to an affidavit filed in New Mexico, where the movie was being filmed. Sources familiar with the situation previously said that the prop gun had misfired before on the set. But a prop maker who previously worked with Halls claimed that he allowed unsafe working conditions in past productions.Halls has not publicly commented on the claims and Rust Movies Productions said it was not aware of any official complaints about weapons or prop safety on set.No charges have been filed, and the investigation into the shooting continues. Hutchins was originally from Ukraine and grew up on a Soviet military base in the Arctic Circle. She worked as an investigative reporter in Europe before moving to Los Angeles to do film, according to her website.She graduated from the American Film Institute in 2015 and was selected as one of American Cinematographer’s rising stars of 2019, the site says. Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Chris Daughtry's wife slams 'homicide' rumors following daughter's death. Singer Chris Daughtry's wife is pleading for people to stop spreading rumors about her daughter's death, saying in a lengthy Instagram post that the false narratives are adding to their pain. "I lost my child and I’m having to now also deal with rumors and assumptions about her. The people who loved her are in pain and we are mourning they are not talking to the press, they are not spreading rumors and they sure as h--- are not making this about themselves," Deanna Daughtry wrote on Friday alongside a childhood photo of her daughter, Hannah Price. "So everyone please just stop! ... I loved my daughter so much & I am experiencing the deepest emotional pain I have ever felt! Please stop making it worse for those of us who love her by spreading rumors & saying disgusting things about our family. We are real people!" Price, 25, was reportedly found dead in her home by Nashville police on Nov. 12, according to People Magazine. Chris, Price's stepfather, announced the news in an Instagram post. "I am still processing the last 24 hours. I am absolutely devastated and heartbroken. I just recently lost my mother to cancer but I was blessed with the chance to say goodbye and I was processing it privately," he wrote. "We never got to say goodbye to our precious Hannah and it’s another huge hit to our family." The singer postponed some of his tour dates following Price's death. Circumstances surrounding the death remain unclear, but rumors began to swirl that it was being investigated by police as a homicide.RecommendedOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureNonbinary millennial is front and center in HBO Max dramedy 'Sort Of'Culture MattersCulture MattersBlack and Latino 'King Richard' director Reinaldo Marcus Green talks dads, sportsThe Eighth Judicial District Attorney General’s Office in Tennessee, however, dismissed those rumors and said the sheriff's office was treating the case as a "death investigation," according to NBC New York. District attorney general Jared Effler said "any attempt to classify it as a homicide investigation at this time is premature and irresponsible.”“Once the investigation into the death of Hannah Marie Price is complete, authorities will forward their findings to the 8th Judicial District Attorney General’s Office for review,” he said.Deanna echoed that same statement in her Instagram post. "The news floating around that we said our daughters death is being investigated as a homicide is false!" she wrote. "We were not told that and never said that to anyone! The day Hannah was found I shared some concerns I had with some people I know and said we won’t know anything for sure till after they complete the investigation. Someone took that and went running with it or they talked to someone else who then made assumptions and went running to the press with it. None of us can go jumping to conclusions." Deanna asked that if anyone has information they believe could help the case to share it with the police. Price and her brother Griffin Daughtry, 23, are Deanna’s children from a previous marriage. Chris, a former “American Idol” contestant, and Deanna also share twins Adalynn Rose and Noah James, 10.
Girl, 9, was raped and murdered in 1959. Authorities finally identified her killer. A former door-to-door salesman who authorities said raped and murdered a 9-year-old girl in Washington State more than six decades ago was identified Friday, ending what one detective called the “Mount Everest” of cold case investigations.The man, John Reigh Hoff, died by suicide at the age of 31 in 1970, but his daughter provided DNA to investigators in Spokane that helped solve the murder of Candy Rogers, the city’s police department said in a news release.In a video released by the department, Det. Zac Storment compared the investigation to the world's tallest mountain, saying it was "the one we could never seem to overcome, but at the same time nobody ever forgot."RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsFlooding in Washington state leaves residents wondering what's nextCoronavirusCoronavirusDutch police open fire on Covid lockdown protesters as European nations reintroduce restrictionsCandy was selling camp fire mints in her Spokane neighborhood when she vanished March 6, 1959. Sixteen days later, after a sprawling search effort turned deadly — two airmen with the Air Force died after their helicopter struck a power line — her body was found in the woods a few miles from her home.Hoff, then 20, was in the Army and stationed at the Fairchild Air Force base in Spokane County. He wasn't identified as a suspect in Candy's killing, though two years later he was convicted of assault after tying up a woman with her own clothes and strangling her, the department said.Hoff was discharged from the military and later worked at a lumber yard and as a door-to-door salesman before dying by suicide, according to the release.    This year, a combination of genealogical research, semen collected from Candy's body and DNA taken from Hoff's exhumed body identified him as the girl's killer, authorities said.According to the release, DNA testing showed the samples were 25 quintillion times more likely to have come from Hoff than the general population, police said. Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Arizona man convicted after threatening Pelosi with ‘I’m coming to kill you’ message. An Arizona man who left a message telling House Speaker Nancy Pelosi “I’m coming to kill you," was convicted Thursday, federal prosecutors said.Steven Arthur Martis, 77, of Bullhead City, was convicted on one count of communicating an interstate threat, the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Arizona said Friday.Martis left the voicemails with Pelosi's office on Jan. 17. One contained the threat to kill Pelosi, D-Calif., and the other said “you’re dead,” according to a criminal complaint.About a year earlier, the FBI had interviewed Martis about a different message to another member of Congress and warned him that conduct is against the law, an affidavit filed in the case says.Online court records show that the jury was deadlocked on two other counts, a mistrial was declared and that a new trial date was set for those charges in January.Martis' attorney, Dave Eisenberg, said Martis will be retried on those counts after the jury did not come to a unanimous verdict.Sentencing is set for January. The maximum sentence on the count is five years in prison. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsFlooding in Washington state leaves residents wondering what's nextCoronavirusCoronavirusDutch police open fire on Covid lockdown protesters as European nations reintroduce restrictionsEisenberg said he will advocate that Martis, who has been held since  his February arrest, is sentenced to time served.In a different case involving threats to elected officials, a 52-year-old Laramie, Wyoming, man was sentenced to 1 1/2 years in prison for making threats to two Republican members of Congress and a state senator, prosecutors said Tuesday.Christopher Kent Podlesnik pleaded guilty in August to four counts of transmitting threats in interstate commerce and was sentenced to 18 months in prison and a $10,000 fine Nov. 5, according to court records.He pleaded guilty to counts that he made threats to U.S. Sen. Cynthia Lummis, R-Wyoming; U.S. Rep. Matt Gaetz, R-Florida; and Wyoming State Sen. Anthony Bouchard, also a Republican, according to court documents.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Elijah McClain’s family and Aurora, Colorado, agree to record $15M settlement over deadly police confrontation. Officials in Aurora, Colorado, have agreed to pay $15 million to Elijah McClain’s family to settle a federal civil rights lawsuit over his 2019 death, which followed a violent confrontation with police, attorneys representing his family said Friday.The agreement is the largest police settlement in the city’s history, likely the largest in Colorado history, and among the largest ever in the United States.It was reached in federal court Friday, NBC affiliate KUSA of Denver reported."No amount of money will ever bring Elijah back to his mother. Ms. McClain would return every cent for just one more day with her son," the Denver law firm representing Sheneen McClain said in a statement that confirmed the settlement figure. The firm, Rathod Mohamedbhai, said an upcoming allocation hearing would determine how much of that would go to McClain, who it says raised Elijah, and how much would go to his father, LeWayne Mosley.In a statement released by his attorney Friday, Mosley said the settlement wouldn't make up for his loss, but said, “hopefully this sends a message to police everywhere that there are consequences for their actions.”McClain’s family filed the federal lawsuit in August 2020 naming the city, accusing several police officers, two paramedics and a fire department medical director of violating the 23-year-old Black man’s civil rights.According to KUSA, once McClain drops defendants from the suit the city will make its payment to the court’s registry. The registry will then hold the funds until allocation is determined.McClain was detained by authorities on Aug. 24, 2019. Police put him in a chokehold and handcuffed him before an Aurora paramedic injected him with ketamine, according to an independent investigation launched by the city.Sheneen McClain, the mother of Elijah McClain, in the office of her attorney on March 3, 2021, in Denver.David Zalubowski / AP file“Elijah was listening to music, enjoying the short walk home from the corner store with some iced tea when Aurora police officers grabbed, tackled, and assaulted him,” the lawsuit said.“In a span of eighteen minutes, Defendants subjected Elijah to a procession of needless and brutal force techniques and unnecessary, recklessly administered medication, the combined effects of which he could not survive,” the suit said.McClain was taken off life support and died days later, on Aug. 30.McClain’s death garnered national interest in light of George Floyd’s killing in Minneapolis, as millions of Americans protested police brutality and systemic racism.The settlement with McClain’s family is among the highest ever, and comparable to other recent high-profile deaths of Black people who died during interactions with police.In September 2020, the city of Louisville, Kentucky, reached a $12 million settlement with Breonna Taylor’s family six months after she was killed in her home during a police drug raid.The settlement did not require the city to admit any wrongdoing.In March, the city of Minneapolis agreed to pay $27 million to settle a civil lawsuit with George Floyd’s family, a record payout for the city.During the summer of 2020, Colorado became the first state to end so-called “qualified immunity,” a legal principle which generally shields police officers and other government employees from being held personally responsible in civil court.In February, an independent investigation concluded Colorado police and paramedics who stopped McClain made a series of crucial errors that ended in the young man’s death.Aurora police had no justification to stop or use force to detain McClain, and responding paramedics sedated him with ketamine “without conducting anything more than a brief visual observation” of him, according to a panel of medical and legal experts, appointed by the City Council, which commissioned the report.The initial stop of McClain was questionable, as “none of the officers articulated a crime that they thought Mr. McClain had committed, was committing or was about to commit,” the report found.“This decision had ramifications for the rest of the encounter,” according to findings.Investigation into Aurora police finds racial bias patterns, practicesSept. 15, 202101:55Authorities have said they believed he was in a state of excited delirium and posing a threat to officers.“Based on the record available to the panel, we were not able to identify sufficient evidence that Mr. McClain was armed and dangerous in order to justify a pat-down search,” the report said. “The panel also notes that one officer’s explanation that that Aurora officers are trained to ‘take action before it escalates’ does not meet the constitutional requirement of reasonable suspicion to conduct (a stop or frisk).”The 5-foot-7, 140-pound McClain was given a ketamine dosage that would have been proper for a man weighing 190 pounds, according to the panel’s findings.“Aurora Fire appears to have accepted the officers’ impression that Mr. McClain had excited delirium without corroborating that impression through meaningful observations or diagnostic examination of Mr. McClain,” the report said.“In addition, EMS administered a ketamine dosage based on a grossly inaccurate and inflated estimate of Mr. McClain’s size," the report said. "Higher doses can carry a higher risk of sedation complications, for which this team was clearly not prepared.”Elijah McClain was a 23-year-old massage therapist who played the violin. McClain was in the hospital after he was forcibly detained by Aurora police officers in August 2019. He later died.Courtesy Sheneen McClainThe report stopped short of blaming “implicit bias” for McClain’s death.“In looking at this single incident, the panel has insufficient information to determine what role, if any, bias played in Aurora Police officers’ and EMS personnel’s encounter with McClain,” according to the city-commissioned experts.“However, research indicates that factors such as increased perception of threat, perception of extraordinary strength, perception of higher pain tolerance, and misperceptions of age and size can be indicative of bias," the report stated. Previously, fire and emergency medical services officials in Aurora have said a preliminary review found that medics’ actions on the night police detained McClain were “consistent and aligned with our established protocols.”Family attorney Mari Newman said then the report supported plaintiff allegations.“This is a broadside on the city of Aurora from top to bottom, beginning with the illegal stop that set the wheels in motion and the illegal conduct every step of the way,” Newman told NBC News.Police officers, paramedics charged with the death of Elijah McClainSept. 1, 202101:49The report was also critical of city law enforcement well after McClain’s death.The department’s homicide unit “failed to ask basic, critical questions about the justification for the use of force,” and the Force Review Board review was “cursory and summary at best,” the report found. The incident wasn’t even reviewed by internal affairs, the panel said.“Without a detailed examination of the justification for the use of force throughout the incident, important opportunities to identify problems and reform practices were lost,” the report said.An autopsy failed to identify McClain's precise cause of death, according to reports from KUSA.But five people, including two police officers, a former officer, and two paramedics were indicted in September in connection to McClain's detainment and death, said Colorado Attorney General Phil Weiser.The five defendants were charged with one count each of manslaughter and criminally-negligent homicide.McClain’s father, Mosley, said he cried tears of joy upon learning of the indictment.“Nothing will bring back my son, but I am thankful that his killers will finally be held accountable,” Mosley said in a statement.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Partial lunar eclipse lasts nearly 3 and a half hours: See the images. 
Japanese fans celebrate Los Angeles Angels' Shohei Ohtani being named MVP. 
Indian farmers celebrate government climbdown. 
Copy of U.S. Constitution sells for $43.2 million at auction. 
A year later, protesters injured by police are still trying to heal. 
'Eternals' casting of Asians is refreshing amid history of fantasy erasure, critics say. While Marvels’ “Eternals” received mixed reception after its opening this month, critics and scholars agree that the film succeeds in one critical, yet under-discussed aspect of Asian representation in Hollywood. The movie starred several actors of Asian descent, including Gemma Chan, Kumail Nanjiani and Don Lee as Eternals, a race of ancient immortal aliens, untethered to any specific ethnicity. Experts note that the film in part bucks a glaring, historical trend in which Asians have been largely erased from or barely cast in fantasy roles.The absence of representation could, in part, reflect how Asians have typically been assigned identity-based, ethnically-coded roles. But more inclusion in fantasy roles could signal some early steps in progress. And though Chan’s character, for example, may not come with any cultural markers that make a statement about the Asian diaspora, race-conscious casting is still critical to shaping perceptions, critics said. “Even if there’s not a message preaching diversity or inclusion or anything, just seeing your face up there, and seeing that you are part of a team working together for a greater good, and also having powers, the ability to say you agree and don’t agree in an equal way — that’s significant,” Nancy Wang Yuen, professor of sociology at Biola University, told NBC Asian America. Because these made-up worlds in many popular fantasy films don’t feature existing, lived experiences or cultures tied to characters, major roles could have easily gone to Asian and other diverse actors, she said. From left, Dominic Monaghan, Elijah Wood, Billy Boyd and Sean Astin in 'The Lord of the Rings: Fellowship of the Ring'.   Pierre Vinet / New Line Productions via APYet films like the “Lord Of The Rings trilogy,” didn’t feature a single speaking character of Asian descent. Asian representation was also a rare find in other fantasy television shows like “Game Of Thrones.” In its eight seasons, the series only included Jessica Henwick, who’s of Chinese descent and was featured in eight episodes, in a speaking role. And it wasn’t until 2017 that Kelly Marie Tran made history as the first Asian American woman to have a significant role in the “Star Wars” franchise, which debuted in 1977. Oftentimes, appearances of Asian people are limited to nameless threatening hordes, or flattened depictions of savage fighters.“It’s basically a confession that the white imagination can’t have any room for people of color,” Yuen said. Experts say underrepresentation issues have to do with how the predominantly white authors, who inspire many shows and movies, conceptualize the fantastical. Yuen explained that many authors like J.R.R. Tolkien, who wrote the “Lord Of The Rings” series, and George R. R. Martin, the man behind “Game of Thrones,” rooted their lore far back in history, mostly in European traditions, to produce a pseudo ancient or medieval world. “They don’t think fantasy, they think historical European,” Yuen said. “They’re totally fine with dragons, and all sorts of different species of beings, but somehow they all have to be European.” Stories are also often framed from a European-centric point of view that frequently perpetuates white supremacist beliefs, explained Ebony Elizabeth Thomas, author of “The Dark Fantastic: Race and the Imagination from Harry Potter to the Hunger Games.”  Scholars say that concepts of race likely began to emerge from the medieval period, spanning the 5th century to the late 15th century, during which perceptions of different cultures were shaped by whether they were considered threats and their abilities to conquer. And these ideas are mirrored in fantasy literature. Though Asian cultures at the time were dominant and far more advanced compared to those in Europe, Thomas explained that much of the story of progress throughout Asia, including technology like gunpowder or other weaponry and Mongol domination of the 13th centuries, is essentially rewritten in fantasy realms. Analogues to European triumph and heroism, scholars say, are often centrally placed. From Rowling to Martin to epic fantasy author Terry Brooks, writers drew inspiration from Western mythology and perceptions of the world, so cultures of color get portrayed as terrifying beings, Thomas said. “Europe was conquered by Asia and white supremacist historic teaching doesn’t want to talk about that. But there’s always this sort of threat of conquest from the east that actually happened several times,” she said. They are really delving into some of the fears and the boogeymen of the European past.” Kit Harington, Sophie Turner, Maisie Williams and Isaac Hempstead Wright in 'Game of Thrones.' 
Helen Sloan / HBOIn “Game of Thrones,” for example, Thomas said, the continent of Essos serves as an analogue to Asia. The land of Yi-Ti, a nation in Essos, is given little detail, yet marked by exotic, stereotypical elements. For example, the land is surrounded by the “Jade Sea” and is referred to as the “Further East.” The “scary Brown people,” Thomas said, are referred to as “Dothraki” in the series, and hail from the northeast region of the continent. They appear to be an amalgamation of Genghis Khan and other stereotypes about the Mongol empire, she said. The lands stand in contrast to Westeros, where the series is focused and most developed, which is heavily reminiscent of Europe. “Asians in [the fantastic], they speak in exaggerated accents. The language and customs, even the very location of ‘the East,’ in most of fantasy is either unknowable, or it’s mysterious or scary,” she  said. “It’s a recurring problem in the western fantastic.” So while white characters often get a diversity of new stories, abilities and imaginative plotlines, fantasy material essentially recreates the same age-old stereotypes of Asians we see in media rooted in the real world, experts say. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsFlooding in Washington state leaves residents wondering what's nextCoronavirusCoronavirusDutch police open fire on Covid lockdown protesters as European nations reintroduce restrictionsAna-Christina Ramón, director of research and civic engagement of the division of social sciences at the University of California, Los Angeles, said that another systemic issue is that the source material by white writers is often adapted by white producers in Hollywood, who continue the trend of overlooking many of these inclusion concerns. In recent years, this model has also been replicated by newer platforms like streaming services.“When Netflix came out, they only hired really well-known filmmakers, and then they usually asked them to direct the first episode of a TV series,” Ramon said. “So it’s all about prestige. And usually, when you fall back on prestige, you’re falling back on hiring only white men, because they have then been approved by Hollywood in some way.”Aside from Kingo’s dance scene, a nod to Bollywood, there are no links between the Eternals and specific traditions or countries in the film. But the film’s takeaway might be based more on general inclusion and unity, Yuen says. For example, the Eternals, a group played by predominantly actors of color, reunite with one another after years of living among humans for a common purpose: to protect the world from their enemies, another race of age-old beings called the Deviants. “Maybe in a utopic way, their relationship with one another is aspirational — that we all respect one another’s talents and powers,” Yuen said of the Eternals.  “You start to see that there are divergent goals and how that’s realized. But at the end of the day, even with divergent goals, you all come together.”These roles also give actors a wider range of opportunities, beyond work that leans on their heritage. “Talking to actors of color, I think sometimes — And I think this is true for people who love their craft — they don’t necessarily always want to play an ethnically coded character in terms of the backstory, the immigrant or the struggle with racism,” Yuen said. “They want to be able to play … a character that doesn’t necessarily have to be predicated just on your identity, I think is refreshing for a lot of actors of color.” Audiences have exhibited a thirst for such representation, as well, Ramón said. A 2020 study, that Ramón co-authored, found that casts made up of 41 percent to 50 percent actors from minority groups experienced the highest median global box office earnings. Those that had fewer than 11 percent minorities in their cast performed the worst. The research also showed that people of color are enthusiastic consumers of content as well, accounting for the majority of domestic ticket sales in 6 of the top 10 films released in theaters in 2020. Despite the mixed reviews that “Eternals” received, the movie still stunned at the box office, achieving the fourth-highest opening in the pandemic, launching with $71 million in sales. “The movie didn’t suffer from those mixed reviews,” Ramón said. “I felt like because it did have that sense of ‘Wow, there’s so many different people and there’s people who are disabled, there’s an LGBTQ storyline,' … it shows that people are hungry for it.” The Marvel movie doesn’t signal equity, however. Yuen said that casting directors need to make intentional decisions to include more actors of color to ensure progress doesn’t end with the film. People of color are often left out of the traditional pipelines in Hollywood, so race-blind casting can often be exclusive, particularly if directors look to top agencies for talent, where people of color face barriers to entry, she explained. She recommended directors take a race-conscious and ability-conscious approach to ensure movies avoid perpetuating the existing, limiting depictions of Asians amid the fight for representation. Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Afghanistan's only music school completes exit from Kabul fearing Taliban crackdown. The last two of more than 270 students, faculty and staff from Afghanistan’s only music school have left the country in the wake of the Taliban takeover, the institution's founder said on Thursday. “It was extremely emotional,” the Afghanistan National Institute of Music’s founder and director Ahmad Sarmast said of students he greeted at the airport in Doha on Tuesday. “They just couldn’t stop crying and I was crying together with them.”More than 100 students and faculty were able to escape to the Qatari capital in October, but Sarmast, 59, and others had been working to evacuate the remaining 200 students and staff who were missing some paperwork.Ahmad Sarmast hugs Zohra and Farida, both aged 13, as they arrived in Doha, Qatar.Omar Nashat“I am very relieved,” he told NBC News over the the telephone. “It’s good to see them happy, and also hopeful about the future.”The 272 evacuees, including the all-female Zohra orchestra, will continue on to Portugal next, where they were granted asylum, the school’s officials said in a statement. They plan to resume the school’s activities there.Sarmast’s students and faculty are the lucky ones. Thousands of Afghans have been trying to flee the country since the United States and its allies withdrew their forces in August, seeking to escape repression, violence and a crumbling economy. But musicians face an especially difficult time under the austere fighters, whose interpretation of Islam has led them to outlaw music altogether in the past. While the departures could be lifesaving for the students and faculty themselves, they are a blow to a decadeslong international effort to foster the best and brightest of the country’s musicians. Since the school was founded in 2010, its male and female students have performed around the world — a symbol of progress in modern Afghanistan. After the invasion in 2001 and the previous Taliban government’s departure, music thrived in Kabul and other parts of the country.But the Taliban’s return in August has thrown a blanket of silence over much of the country. The school's activities, including the all-female Zohra orchestra, run counter to the Taliban's austere and harsh rule.Marcus Yam / Los Angeles Times via Getty Images fileAlthough music has not been formally banned, people in capital Kabul are cautious: Cafés and restaurants only play music inside, and even then — quietly. Less music is played on radio and TV. Wedding halls have stopped playing live music altogether, according to several wedding hall owners who spoke to NBC News.“When I speak with my friends and family in Kabul, they say that music is very rare,” said Arson Fahim, a pianist who escaped the Afghan capital shortly before the Taliban takeover. “They say that without music, the city almost feels dead.”While Afghanistan has a rich, centurieslong music tradition, and the Quran does not explicitly prohibit music or make it “un-Islamic,” the Taliban are using their extremist interpretation of Islam to justify erasing history and identity, of which music is a mainstay, historian Mejgan Massoumi at Stanford University said. “Musicians are terrified. They are in hiding. They have buried and destroyed their instruments. They have silenced themselves.”“It will be devastating for the Afghan people to attempt to silence voices and souls,” Massoumi said. But Taliban commanders have told NBC News that listening to music is against Islamic law. While they have not issued an overarching ban on all music since their takeover in August, they have raised awareness about the “evils of music,” Taliban spokesman Bilal Karimi said. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsFlooding in Washington state leaves residents wondering what's nextCoronavirusCoronavirusDutch police open fire on Covid lockdown protesters as European nations reintroduce restrictionsWhen they were first in power between 1996 and 2001, the Taliban banned all music outright. But this time around, trying to project a more moderate image, the group has stayed away from issuing a sweeping ban.Despite promises of moderation, the Taliban have unleashed a brutal crackdown since returning to power as they try to consolidate control over the fractious country and force Afghans to adhere to their strict interpretation of Islam. Download the NBC News app for breaking news and politics That has left many Afghan musicians paralyzed with fear — uncertain about whether they will ever be able to play music again. The United Nations special rapporteur on cultural rights, Karima Bennoune, said she has received reports of attacks on musicians in Afghanistan, destruction of musical instruments, closure of institutions associated with music and musicians forced to flee, making her “gravely concerned” about the safety of Afghan musicians.Pianist Arson Fahim, 21, left Kabul for the U.S. just 2 weeks before the Taliban took over the Afghan capital to study music in the U.S. Isabela Balena “Musicians are terrified,” said Katherine Butler Schofield, senior lecturer in South Asian music and history at U.K.’s King’s College London. “They are in hiding. They have buried and destroyed their instruments. They have silenced themselves.”Many have tried to leave the country, including during the chaotic evacuation of Western forces at the end of August. Until this week, the students and staff of Afghanistan’s most prominent music school were among them. Sarmast said that his school’s activities were suspended as the Taliban took over the country. He said his students and faculty had targets on their backs because they promoted coeducation, with boys and girls not only learning music, but touring together. We were “on the forefront of promoting democratic values through music,” he said.  Sarmast said the Taliban have given him reassurances that the school premises will be safe — until further notice from their senior leadership. But no students or staff have been allowed to enter, he added, and one of the school campuses has been turned into a military barrack. Fahim, a pianist who graduated from the school earlier this year, left for the U.S. just two weeks before Kabul fell to the Taliban to study at Massachusetts’ Longy School of Music of Bard College.While he is now concentrating on trying to rebuild the school in Portugal, Afghanistan National Institute of Music’s founder and director Ahmad Sarmast still hopes to return to Kabul one day to resume his work there.Wakil Kohsar / AFP via Getty Images fileHe said he considers himself enormously lucky, but he has been riddled with worry about his former colleagues in Kabul and the school that he said changed his life.“It was everything to me. It was like home,” Fahim, 21, said from Cambridge, Massachusetts. He said he never thought the school, along with hundreds of Afghan musicians, could be silenced.“Can you imagine not being able to do what you love, having to hide and being in danger because of something as beautiful as music?” Fahim said. Sarmast said 13 years of his life’s painstaking work, building and promoting his school, had been ripped away when the Taliban marched into Kabul in August.“Unexpectedly, all that is gone,” he said. While he is now concentrating on trying to rebuild the school in Portugal, he still hopes to return to Kabul one day to resume his work there — as naive as it may sound, he admitted.“If my safety is assured and I get the freedom to run a music school, I am going back to Afghanistan,” Sarmast said. “I do have hope.”Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Federal investigators launch civil rights probe into Southlake, Texas, schools. SOUTHLAKE, Texas — The U.S. Education Department’s civil rights enforcement arm is investigating allegations of discrimination at the Carroll Independent School District in Southlake, Texas, the agency and the school district confirmed Wednesday.The department’s Office for Civil Rights notified the suburban school district’s officials last week that it had opened three investigations into complaints about discrimination against students based on their race, gender and national origin. The agency declined to provide details on the allegations and doesn’t comment on pending investigations, a spokesman said.Karen Fitzgerald, a Carroll spokeswoman, confirmed that the district had received three notification letters and is “fully cooperating with this process.” “Our focus will always be what is best for our students as we prepare them for their next steps in their educational journey,” she said, noting that federal law prohibits her from commenting on cases involving specific students.The Carroll school system’s handling of discrimination allegations has been the focus of national media attention this year, placing Southlake at the center of a growing political battle over school programs, books and curricula on race, gender and sexuality that some conservatives have misbranded under the umbrella of critical race theory.Southlake: A viral video, a diversity plan and an election that changed an affluent Texas townSept. 3, 202137:17The Office for Civil Rights, or OCR, is responsible for enforcing federal laws that protect students from discrimination. Brett Sokolow, president of the Association of Title IX Administrators, a consulting firm that advises school districts on how to resolve civil rights complaints, said when the agency opens an investigation, it’s often the beginning of a process that can take months or years. If the investigation confirms violations of students’ rights, the agency can require a school district to make policy changes and submit to federal monitoring.“Opening a complaint means that OCR believes that there is a likely violation based on the complaint,” he said. “And then they’re going to do their due diligence to find out more information.”The federal investigations come three years after leaders in the Carroll school system, 30 miles northwest of Dallas, promised and ultimately failed to make sweeping changes to address racism in the district following the release of a video of white high school students chanting the N-word. After the video went viral, dozens of parents, students and recent graduates came forward with stories of racist and anti-LGBTQ harassment at Carroll, a majority-white district that has grown more diverse in recent years.The district’s proposal to address the issues, the 34-page Cultural Competence Action Plan, would have required diversity training for all students and teachers, a new process to report and track incidents of racist bullying, and changes to the code of conduct to hold students accountable for acts of discrimination, among other changes. But after the district unveiled the plan in August 2020, conservative parents packed school board meetings, formed a political action committee and funded a civil lawsuit to block the changes.They argued that the plan would have created “diversity police” and amounted to “reverse racism” against white children. Opponents took particular issue with a district proposal to track incidents of microaggressions — subtle, indirect and sometimes unintentional incidents of discrimination.Since then, conservative candidates supported by Southlake Families PAC, a group formed to defeat the diversity plan, have won majority control of the Carroll school board, effectively killing the plan.School board candidate Andrew Yeager stands next to a supporter holding a sign opposing the alleged teaching of critical race theory near Southlake Town Hall on Nov. 2. James Breeden for NBC NewsThe political fight in Southlake drew national media attention, including on Fox News and other conservative outlets, which pointed to the community’s revolt against the diversity plan as something to be emulated in suburbs across the country. It was also the subject of a six-part NBC News podcast, “Southlake,” which chronicled the district’s efforts to address allegations of racist and anti-LGBTQ bullying.Listen to NBC News’ “Southlake” podcast: All episodes available nowThe podcast included the story of a 16-year-old queer student who struggled to convince the principal at Carroll Senior High School to take action in March after boys in her class sent her a series of vulgar messages on social media mocking her gender identity. The girl secretly recorded her meeting with the principal, who made the case that the boys “were just wanting to debate” politics. NBC News is not naming the student because she’s a minor. After her parents filed a complaint over the school’s handling of the situation, senior Carroll administrators investigated and concluded that the principal acted appropriately.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsFlooding in Washington state leaves residents wondering what's nextCoronavirusCoronavirusDutch police open fire on Covid lockdown protesters as European nations reintroduce restrictionsBut the district has made some changes since then. In an interview this summer, Carroll Superintendent Lane Ledbetter, who joined the district in January in the midst of the political fight, said he and his staff were overhauling the process for handling student complaints to make sure students from all backgrounds feel safe reporting harassment and discrimination. The district also created a student and staff services division focused on the issue. “No students should feel unsafe,” he said in July. “And we’re going to address that. But as a whole, I absolutely believe that people are proud of this community and proud to be a part of Carroll ISD.”The district was back in the national spotlight last month, after a Carroll administrator was recorded advising teachers that if they have a book about the Holocaust in the classroom, they should also offer students access to a book from an “opposing” perspective. The instruction was meant to help teachers comply with a new Texas law that requires teachers to present multiple perspectives when discussing “widely debated and currently controversial” issues.Ledbetter later apologized and walked back those instructions.Mike Hixenbaugh reported from Houston; Antonia Hylton reported from Southlake. Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Pennsylvania teen had his hands up when fatally shot by State Police, new videos show. This article was produced in partnership with Spotlight PA, a collaborative newsroom that produces investigative journalism for Pennsylvania. STROUDSBURG, Pa. — A Chinese American teenager who was fatally shot by Pennsylvania State Police last year had his hands in the air when troopers opened fire, new videos reveal, prompting calls for an independent investigation.The videos, recorded by the State Police, show the final moments of Christian Hall’s life on the afternoon of Dec. 30, 2020. Hall, 19, who had been diagnosed with depression, was standing on the ledge of a highway overpass near Stroudsburg, in northeastern Pennsylvania, when troopers arrived. They tried to persuade him to get down, but when they saw he had a gun — later determined to be a realistic pellet gun — they backed away.Video previously released by the Monroe County district attorney shows Hall raising his hands in the air, with the gun in one hand, after a trooper fired bullets that struck the bridge. But the final seconds before he was killed were blurred by authorities.New videos show Pennsylvania State Police fatally shooting Christian HallNov. 17, 202103:01The full version of the videos — obtained by Spotlight PA and NBC News from Hall’s parents, whose lawyer received them through a subpoena — shows that Hall kept his hands above his head for 14 seconds in all. The videos show that Hall’s hands were still in the air, the gun in one hand, as two troopers fired another series of shots and he crumpled to the ground. State Police troopers from outside the local barracks investigated the killing and turned the findings over to the Monroe County district attorney, who ruled it justified, saying the lives of the troopers on scene were in danger. Michael Mancuso, an assistant district attorney, called Hall’s death a “classic suicide by cop scenario” at a news conference in March. But the fatal shooting drew protests from activists who questioned why State Police had opened fire on a teenager who appeared to be suicidal and needed help. Protesters also raised concerns about whether Monroe County District Attorney E. David Christine Jr. could make an unbiased call given that his office regularly works with troopers to build cases. Hall’s parents have begun the process of suing the two troopers who shot their son (the troopers’ names have not been released). They said they released the full videos because they believe Hall’s death merits more scrutiny, and they hope to spark fresh calls for an independent review. “I would like to see an unbiased investigation take place,” said Gareth Hall, Christian’s father. “I personally would like to see those police officers brought up on charges.”Ben Crump and Devon M. Jacob, the lawyers for George Floyd’s family, who are now representing Hall’s parents, said the troopers should not have shot Hall. “Everybody knows when you put your hands in the air that’s the universal sign of surrender,” Crump said. “Why use the most excessive force?”Protesters hold the street for seven minutes in honor of Christian Hall in Philadelphia on Feb. 12, 2021.Cory Clark / NurPhoto via APIn October, Crump and Jacob sent letters to the U.S. Justice Department, FBI, and Pennsylvania’s attorney general asking for a new investigation into Hall’s shooting and the response to it by the State Police and Christine’s office. The FBI and the Justice Department declined to comment. A spokesperson for the attorney general’s office said it does not have jurisdiction because the local district attorney has not referred the case to it. The letters accuse Christine’s office of falsely implying that Hall threatened troopers with the gun in the final moments before he was shot, while the full videos show that the gun remained above Hall’s head. The district attorney’s narrative and the blurred video lead “the viewer to believe that in the redacted portion of the video, Christian pointed the weapon at troopers and advanced on troopers; thereby justifying the use of deadly force,” the letters state.In response to questions and an interview request, Christine’s office released a statement saying it stood by its finding that the shooting was justified. Col. Robert Evanchick, the State Police commissioner, declined a request to be interviewed. The department could not comment because of pending litigation, a spokesperson said. Three use-of-force experts who reviewed the videos for Spotlight PA and NBC News were divided on whether the troopers were right to shoot, but all said independent reviews are superior because they increase public faith in the process.Christian Hall's parents call for investigation into shootingNov. 18, 202104:05Karlin Chan, a community activist who focuses on anti-Asian hate in New York City and helped organize a rally there two months after Hall’s death, believes the case deserves more attention. He’s been in touch with Hall’s family and watched the district attorney’s March news conference on Hall’s death. He believes Hall was inaccurately painted as a criminal not deserving of sympathy. “We can’t let this go,” he said. “We’re basically after accountability. We’re after the truth.”Activists left flowers for youth victims of alleged police brutality, including Christian Hall, center, at Washington Square Park in New York on April 28, 2021.Anadolu Agency / Anadolu Agency via Getty ImagesHall’s childhoodGareth Hall, who is Black and Latino, and Fe Hall, who is Filipino, adopted Hall from China in 2002 when he was a baby. They moved from New York City to the Poconos hoping to give him an idyllic childhood in an environment they thought would be safer.As a child, Hall was diagnosed with reactive attachment disorder, a serious condition sometimes found in adopted children that makes it difficult for them to connect with their parents and interact with others. The disorder can be a result of not having basic needs met as early as infancy. Treatments include counseling for children and education for their parents, but experts say more research needs to be done. Hall often ran away from home, though Gareth Hall said the family could always find him by the end of the day. At age 10, his parents said, he accidentally started a fire while playing with matches, damaging an empty room in a nursing home. No one was injured, but he spent the next four years in juvenile detention. Christian Hall's parents adopted him from China in 2002 when he was a baby.Fred Adams for Spotlight PA and NBC NewsAfter he was released, at 14, he ran away, violating his probation. Hall was sent back to the state’s custody. His parents said he was never charged with another crime, but that he cycled in and out of juvenile incarceration after continually running away from home.Hall was released from juvenile detention in 2020 and was living with his parents when he went with them on Dec. 29 to visit his aunt on her birthday. On the way home, Hall started talking about his former girlfriend, Gareth Hall said. Another man had apparently threatened to kill himself over her.Hall’s father was immediately concerned.“Do I believe Christian was suicidal? No. But I believe he planned on putting on a good show,” Gareth Hall said. “He was going to show her that he was going to go beyond what that guy was going to do.”Gareth Hall was upset by authorities' treatment of his family after the shooting. Fred Adams for Spotlight PA and NBC NewsWhat happened Dec. 30Christian Hall was supposed to be working at a grocery store when he called 911 about a “possible suicider” at about 1:30 p.m. Dec. 30. Before that, he had posted on Snapchat a picture of the overpass with the text “who would miss me,” according to a report released by the DA’s office.When State Police troopers arrived, they found Hall on a concrete ledge looking down on Interstate 80, the wind whipping around him. Troopers blocked off the overpass and asked Hall to talk to them. One of the troopers on scene had been a crisis negotiator for 15 years; another had been a crisis intervention specialist and had a master’s degree in counseling and clinical health psychology. The highest-ranking trooper was a corporal with more than 20 years of experience.Video from the State Police shows the troopers trying to coax Hall from the ledge until they see he has a gun in his hand. The troopers backed away, but tried to persuade him to leave the gun on the bridge and walk to them. Christian Hall stands on a ledge on a highway overpass on Dec. 30, 2020. Pennsylvania State PoliceAt one point, Hall put the gun down and smoked marijuana. The troopers talked to him for about 90 minutes. “Come on, man. I don’t think you want to stand out here all night, right?” a trooper said on the video. “Put it down for me and walk up here. That’s all you’ve got to do.” In the final 22 seconds before Hall was shot, he shuffled toward the troopers with the pellet gun in one hand, arms at his sides. Huddled behind their vehicles about 70 feet away, troopers again told him to drop the gun.The video shows Hall raising his hands after a corporal fired the initial shots, which missed him. Hall first raised his hands to his sides, then above his head, holding the gun in one hand, the video shows.“If he doesn’t drop it just take him,” a voice can be heard saying on the video.Hall’s hands stayed above his head as the corporal and another trooper fired several more shots. Hall was struck, clutched his stomach, and fell to the ground. While the video does not appear to show Hall pointing the gun directly at troopers before he was shot, the accounts by State Police and the DA’s office are inconsistent on this point.The State Police’s initial press release and one of several accounts in the district attorney’s written report state that Hall pointed the gun at troopers before shots were fired. A trooper said he watched Hall “bless himself, point to his head and then pull the gun from his waistband and point it in the direction of the Troopers.” The corporal then fired the first three shots, which appeared to miss Hall, according to that account. Another section of the report and a video released by the DA examining the shooting make no mention of Hall pointing directly at troopers or raising the gun before the first shots were fired. After the initial shots, Hall “raises the gun outward toward his side and then upwards by bending his elbow at a ninety degree angle,” that section of the report states.At the March news conference, Mancuso, the assistant district attorney, said Hall was an imminent threat from the moment he put his hand on the gun.“Frankly, it’s a testament to the troopers that they didn’t shoot sooner,” Mancuso said.Later he mimicked Hall pulling the gun out of his waistband and raising it in the air, and said Hall “played with it in this way and at some point kind of moved the muzzle over in the direction of the troopers then raised it upward.”Spotlight PA reporter breaks down revelations of new video showing teen shot by policeNov. 18, 202103:21Maria Haberfeld, who trains police as a professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York, viewed the unredacted video and believes Hall could have lowered his arm and fired quicker than the troopers’ reaction time. “The moment he is facing and approaching the police officers, moving towards the police officers with a gun in his hand, I don’t see how it’s not a justified shooting,” she said. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsFlooding in Washington state leaves residents wondering what's nextCoronavirusCoronavirusDutch police open fire on Covid lockdown protesters as European nations reintroduce restrictionsWhen someone is trying to get the police to kill them, they may be willing to hurt or kill to achieve their goal, she said. David Rudovsky, a longtime use-of-force expert and senior fellow at the University of Pennsylvania Law School, also watched the video but saw it differently. “I think there’s some serious questions as to justification,” Rudovsky said. “He would have had a difficult time shooting at them from where he was.”Still, it’s unlikely a court would find the troopers violated state law, said David Harris, a professor at the University of Pittsburgh School of Law and a police accountability expert who reviewed the video.“The question is, what do you do as a state, as a society, when you have a shooting that may be lawful, but looks awful?” he said.Even though Hall was armed, he was not acting aggressively, pointing the weapon at troopers, or “advancing in a way that indicates an attack,” Harris said. And there’s more to what happened, Harris said, than whether police were legally justified in pulling the trigger. More than 1 in 5 people fatally shot by police in the U.S. have mental illnesses, according to a Washington Post database, which raises questions about whether officers could be better trained to handle these situations.  “Is there anything else that could have been done to save this person’s life?” Harris asked. “How can we handle problems like this so police aren’t put in this position and so people in mental health crises don’t die?” A lack of trustHall’s parents learned that he had been shot and killed in the late afternoon of Dec. 30, when troopers called them down to the local barracks. They were distraught — and soon they were facing a barrage of questions from the State Police and the coroner’s office about their son’s final days. But they were in shock and couldn’t talk yet, they said. Fe Hall talks about her son, Christian.Fred Adams for Spotlight PA and NBC NewsAt one point a couple of days later, Hall’s parents said, they called the coroner’s office and were upset to learn that Hall’s body wouldn’t be released to them yet, because of the ongoing investigation. “We have to think about two lives here,” an official at the coroner’s office said, according to Fe and Gareth Hall. “Christian’s and the officer who shot him.” A spokesperson for the coroner’s office declined to comment.Hall’s parents last talked to the State Police on New Year’s Day, when Gareth Hall asked for his son’s phone. A trooper told him the department had a right to keep it, he said. Hall’s parents said they’ve never received any of his belongings and haven’t heard from anyone with the State Police since. A wooden birthday card Christian Hall made for his mother decorates a table in the family's home.Fred Adams for Spotlight PA and NBC NewsGareth Hall said they would have cooperated with the investigation and answered questions after those overwhelming initial days.“I was waiting,” Gareth Hall said. “Not a call.” At the news conference in March, Mancuso, the assistant district attorney, blamed the lack of communication on Hall’s parents. “We had no request for information from them,” Mancuso said. “No direct request was made regarding the course of the investigation from them.” Mancuso briefly talked about Hall’s juvenile record, declining to get into specifics. He said that Hall had frequently carried the airsoft pellet gun, and that investigators were told he robbed people with it.Jacob, one of the Hall family lawyers, saw the news conference as an attempt to prejudice anyone who might be scrutinizing the killing and denied that Hall had robbed anyone.  “None of that was relevant at all,” he said. “None of that was ever investigated. And none of that was proven.”Fe Hall said she believes her son’s race played into the troopers’ decision to shoot. She and her husband said the pain of losing their son has been compounded by their treatment by State Police and the district attorney’s office. “I feel that Asians are generalized as the quiet ones, they’re not going to fight back,” Fe Hall said. “Is it possible that when they shot Christian they were looking at him as Chinese? He doesn’t matter. His family is not going to say anything. This is just going to go away quietly.” Hall’s parents believe the district attorney wanted to protect the troopers involved. There was an incentive, they said, to paint their family as uncooperative and Hall as a criminal.  “The DA doesn’t have accountability to anybody,” Fe Hall said.Fe and Gareth Hall want to see changes in how police shootings are investigated. Fred Adams for Spotlight PA and NBC NewsThe benefit of the doubtIn Pennsylvania, the state Attorney General’s Office cannot investigate a criminal case unless the local district attorney asks for help — which can occur when local prosecutors lack sufficient resources or there is an “actual or apparent” conflict of interest. In this case, the Monroe County DA didn’t think there was a conflict of interest. Mancuso said the office’s resources were more than adequate and that the staff had more experience in such cases than Attorney General Josh Shapiro’s office.Shapiro’s office said Mancuso’s statement was “blatantly untrue” and that it had investigated 10 other criminal cases referred by the Monroe County DA since 2017.There’s an inherent conflict of interest when local prosecutors review the actions of local police, said Rudovsky, the University of Pennsylvania Law School senior fellow. “Everybody recognizes with local police and a local DA, they are working together every day,” he said. State Sen. Art Haywood, whose district includes part of Philadelphia, wants to change the law to require that an outside law enforcement agency investigate use-of-force cases in Pennsylvania, so families of victims and the public will have more faith in the findings.His legislation would give the state Attorney General’s Office the power to review those investigations without a referral from the local district attorney if no charges are filed. Under the bill, the governor, key lawmakers and the attorney general would receive a detailed report about the investigation within seven days of a decision being made not to file charges.Haywood said he started pushing for the changes after police killed Eric Garner in New York City and Michael Brown Jr. in Ferguson, Missouri, in 2014, and Antwon Rose II outside of Pittsburgh in 2018. So far the legislation hasn’t gotten much traction, but Haywood said he’s optimistic it can get passed in the future. Hall’s case, and other police shootings of people with mental illness in Pennsylvania, show why these investigations need to be independent, he said. Hall’s parents support the change. Fe Hall said she believes her son was badly treated by the juvenile justice system, and she had hoped he would grow up and expose the abuses she believes he suffered. She said she was uncomfortable with releasing the video of the shooting, but in doing so, she hopes Hall’s death can be the force for change that she wanted his life to be. “He’s just a memory now,” she said. “But I just want something good to come out of it.”If you or someone you know is in crisis, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 800-273-8255, text HOME to 741741 or visit SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources for additional resources.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Kyle Rittenhouse found not guilty on all counts. KENOSHA, Wisc. — A Wisconsin jury on Friday found Kyle Rittenhouse not guilty in the fatal shooting of two men during protests in Kenosha last year, capping a trial that touched on issues of gun rights and race.  Rittenhouse, 18, from nearby Antioch, Illinois, was cleared on all five charges related to his actions on Aug. 25 last year, during protests over the shooting of a Black man, Jacob Blake, by a white Kenosha police officer. Rittenhouse was charged with reckless homicide in the slaying of Joseph Rosenbaum, 36, and intentional homicide in the death of Anthony Huber, 26. He also faced a charge of attempted intentional homicide for severely wounding Gaige Grosskreutz, a 27-year-old paramedic from suburban Milwaukee who was there that night volunteering his medical services, and two counts of recklessly endangering safety. Rittenhouse, in a dark suit and burgundy shirt, was overcome with emotion when the fifth not guilty verdict was read in court.He doubled over and then hugged defense attorney Corey Chirafisi, who had to tell his client to relax and breathe.Lawyer for Kyle Rittenhouse says 'it was not a close call' to have him testifyNov. 19, 202102:06Fellow defense attorney Mark Richards joyously hit his hand on the table as the final not guilty verdict was read, while prosecutors looked down as the jurors' findings were announced.Families of those shot and killed held hands in court and cried as the verdicts were read.After three and a half days of deliberations, some in the panel appeared fatigued in the jury box. As the verdicts were read, some had their hands on their chins, rubbed their eyes and appeared ill-at-ease, shifting in their chairs or folding their arms across their chests.The jury of  seven women and five men deliberated for about 25 hours since Tuesday morning, and Richards said he was fearful the long talks meant a compromise set of verdicts that would send his client to prison for at least some time.“As time went on, we were afraid there was some horse trading in the jury room and that’s what really concerned us,” Richards said.Kenosha County Circuit Judge Bruce Schroeder thanked jurors for their work.“I couldn’t have asked for a better jury to work with,” said Schroeder. “It’s truly been my pleasure … just in terms of your attentiveness and the cooperation that you gave to us.” The judge told jurors the system worked.“It justifies the confidence that the founders of our country placed in you,” Schroeder said.How did lawyers for Kyle Rittenhouse effectively argue for self-defense?Nov. 19, 202106:25The Kenosha County District Attorney’s Office asked community members to "continue to express their opinions and feelings about this verdict in a civil and peaceful manner.""While we are disappointed with the verdict, it must be respected," the office said in a statement. "We are grateful to the members of the jury for their diligent and thoughtful deliberations. The Kenosha community has endured much over the past 15 months, and yet we remain resilient and strong."Wisconsin Gov. Tony Evers pleaded for calm before the verdict but deployed 500 National Guard in anticipation of post-verdict protests.  "No verdict will be able to bring back the lives of Anthony Huber and Joseph Rosenbaum or heal Gaige Grosskreutz's injuries just as no verdict can heal the wounds or trauma experienced by Jacob Blake and his family," Evers said in a statement after the verdicts."I have seen the pain and the frustration of so many and we must remain steadfast in our commitment to ending violence in our communities." President Joe Biden urged Americans to accept the verdicts and remain peaceful in protest."While the verdict in Kenosha will leave many Americans feeling angry and concerned, myself included, we must acknowledge that the jury has spoken," the president said in statement. "I ran on a promise to bring Americans together, because I believe that what unites us is far greater than what divides us."Emotions outside Kenosha's courthouse were high, but the scene was generally peaceful in the wake of the verdicts.“This is a total mockery of what justice should be. There’s no way he should be going home. Our personal opinion is that he should be going to jail,” said Justin Blake, the uncle of Jacob Blake. “This is a sad day for justice in America.”While it appeared that a majority of those protesting outside court favored conviction, there was also a fair share of Rittenhouse supporters.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsFlooding in Washington state leaves residents wondering what's nextCoronavirusCoronavirusDutch police open fire on Covid lockdown protesters as European nations reintroduce restrictions“This is the verdict that the majority of America wanted,” said California resident Brandon Lesco, who held up a “Free Kyle” sign after the verdicts were rendered. Community activist Tanya McLean said she was unhappy, but not shocked, by the not guilty verdicts."We’re gonna have to really rethink what it means for us in this community,” said McLean, executive director of Leaders of Kenosha, told NBC News. “I wish I could say I’m surprised by this decision but I’m not.”McLean said she fears for the safety of her and her two children.“It shows that we can be gunned down in the street and there are no consequences and that’s why they feel so emboldened to do what they do,” McLean said.'No accountability'Huber's parents issued a lengthy statement, saying they were disappointed.   "Today’s verdict means there is no accountability for the person who murdered our son," they said.  "It sends the unacceptable message that armed civilians can show up in any town, incite violence, and then use the danger they have created to justify shooting people in the street."Attorneys who represent Rosenbaum's family and Grosskreutz called for peaceful protest."Today we grieve for the families of those slain by Kyle Rittenhouse. Anthony Huber and Joseph Rosenbaum did not deserve to die that night," the lawyers said. "For now, we ask for peace from everyone hurting and that the public respect the privacy of the victims and their families." Blake was paralyzed from the waist down in the shooting that led to days of at times violent protests in Kenosha and across the country. Rittenhouse and other armed men said they went to Kenosha to protect private property during the protest.Family of Anthony Huber 'heartbroken and angry' with Rittenhouse verdictNov. 19, 202101:46Huber and Rosenbaum were not armed when Rittenhouse shot them, but Grosskreutz came toward him with a pistol in hand when Rittenhouse opened fire.Rittenhouse also attempted to shoot an unknown person, known in court as “jump kick man,” who tried kicking the defendant in the face, and prosecutors said Rittenhouse could have wounded another man when he opened fire on Rosenbaum.Rittenhouse testified in his own defense last week and said all the shootings were acts of self-defense.The move was questioned in some legal circles, but Richards  said they had no choice because their mock trials showed test jurors responded well to Rittenhouse explaining himself."I had to put him on, it wasn't a close call," Richards said. "In Wisconsin if you don't put a client on the stand, you're going to lose, period." NBC legal analyst Danny Cevallos said the law was always in the defense’s favor, because of the burden prosecutors faced in fighting the self-defense argument. “It’s not so much that it was a poor prosecution, but really poor facts for the prosecution,” Cevallos said. “In Wisconsin, the prosecution had to disprove self-defense in all the elements or any one of them beyond a reasonable doubt in addition to proving their case.”  Former federal prosecutor Joyce Vance said evidence that Grosskreutz had a gun in is hand when he was shot by Rittenhouse played a key role in the acquittals.“He essentially, on cross-examination, conceded self-defense talking about the fact that there was a gun in his hand,” Vance said. “The prosecution tried to argue their way out of that situation. But I think the die was cast in a significant way at that point.” The defense lawyer, Richards, refused to second-guess his client’s action that night, when Rittenhouse armed himself with an AR-15-style weapon to protect private property in Kenosha while also providing first aid.Rittenhouse, then 17, kept the weapon at a friend's home in Wisconsin. “I personally don’t like people carrying AR-15s around,” Richards said. “There was so much anger and so much fear in Kenosha on Aug. 25 that people did arm themselves.” Rittenhouse aspires to be a nurse and Richards urged his client to keep a low profile.“He has to get on with his life the best he can,” Richards said. “I think eventually some anonymity will come back to it. I don’t think he’ll continue to live in this area, it’s too dangerous.”David K. Li reported from  New York, Deon J. Hampton reported from KenoshaBreaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Parents protesting 'critical race theory' identify another target: Mental health programs. At a September school board meeting in Southlake, Texas, a parent named Tara Eddins strode to the lectern during the public comment period and demanded to know why the Carroll Independent School District was paying counselors “at $90K a pop” to give students lessons on suicide prevention.“At Carroll ISD, you are actually advertising suicide,” Eddins said, arguing that many parents in the affluent suburban school system have hired tutors because the district’s counselors are too focused on mental health instead of helping students prepare for college.Tara Eddins speaks at the school board meeting in Southlake, Texas, on Sept. 27. Carroll ISD“Some of these kids, they’re just trying to get through the day, get through compacted math, get through algebra, go to cotillion on Sunday,” Eddins said. “They are not thinking about these issues.”Two days after Eddins made the remarks, Southlake Families PAC — a group that has fought to stop a diversity plan at Carroll — sent an email to supporters calling on the school district to “Leave mental health and parenting to parents.”Christina Edmiston, a Southlake resident and mother of two, was outraged when she saw the email. Earlier that month, Edmiston had pulled her 12-year-old son out of the Carroll district after he reported thoughts of suicide after having been bullied by classmates for his sexuality.Some parent groups fighting school boards over suicide prevention programs, mental health rolesNov. 16, 202102:48“You can’t expect just to teach kids arithmetic and reading and look at their test scores and expect them to be decent human beings,” Edmiston said. “I personally cannot understand why a parent would not want their children to have knowledge of what depression looks like, what anxiety looks like.”But that’s what’s now being debated in communities across the country. As school districts struggle to address accusations that administrators are indoctrinating students in progressive ideas about race, gender and sexuality, the same parents and activists making the claims have begun targeting school initiatives centered on students’ mental health and emotional well-being.In Carmel, Indiana, activists swarmed school board meetings this fall to demand that a district fire its mental health coordinator from what they said was a “dangerous, worthless” job. And in Fairfax County, Virginia, a national activist group condemned school officials for sending a survey to students that included questions like “During the past week, how often did you feel sad?”Many of the school programs under attack fall under the umbrella of social emotional learning, or SEL, a teaching philosophy popularized in recent years that aims to help children manage their feelings and show empathy for others. Conservative groups argue that social emotional learning has become a “Trojan horse” for critical race theory, a separate academic concept that examines how systemic racism is embedded in society. They point to SEL lessons that encourage children to celebrate diversity, sometimes introducing students to conversations about race, gender and sexuality.Activists have accused school districts of using the programs to ask children invasive questions — about their feelings, sexuality and the way race shapes their lives — as part of a ploy to “brainwash” them with liberal values and to trample parents’ rights. Groups across the country recently started circulating forms to get parents to opt their children out of surveys designed to measure whether students are struggling with their emotions or being bullied, describing the efforts as “data mining” and an invasion of privacy.Asra Nomani, a mother and activist in Fairfax County, said she supports school curricula focused on character development and emotional well-being, but she said SEL programs have been hijacked by progressives.Asra Nomani, a former reporter for the Wall Street Journal, is a leader of Parents Defending Education. Mike Segar / Reuters file “It took a turn in the summer of 2020, after the tragedy of George Floyd’s killing,” said Nomani, a leader of Parents Defending Education, an activist group that criticizes school diversity and equity efforts. After that, she said, social emotional learning “became a vehicle for this quote-unquote ‘social justice activism’ and the indoctrination of controversial ideas related to race, sexuality and even gender and identity.”The attention to social emotional learning in particular has been further fueled by loyalists to former President Donald Trump. The Center for Renewing America, which was started by a former Trump administration official, published a glossary that claimed that teachers and counselors were embedding critical race theory into social emotional learning programs. And state GOP lawmakers who tried to stop certification of Joe Biden’s win in the presidential election in Wisconsin proposed legislation that would outlaw social emotional learning and other educational concepts that they labeled as “state-sanctioned racism.”Parents who have packed school board meetings to protest diversity initiatives, including in Loudoun County, Virginia, have begun targeting social emotional learning programs.  Evelyn Hockstein / ReutersSchool leaders across the country deny that the initiatives teach children to judge themselves or classmates based on their race. Many districts, including several in Georgia, Missouri and Tennessee, say they launched new social emotional learning programs in response to rising youth suicide rates in recent years and to help children cope with bullying and other emotional issues that can inhibit students’ abilities to focus at school.“It’s absolutely terrifying to think that our kids could be out there without the access to the things that they need,” said Amal Anthony, a parent in Carmel who runs a Facebook group supporting school diversity and inclusion efforts. “Because while we all like to think that our kids are going to come to us first, sometimes that’s not the reality.”Although youth suicides remain relatively rare, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported that 2,756 minors died by suicide in 2019, the most recent year for which data are available, making it the second-leading cause of death among children. Early CDC data from 2020 show that the number of children who visited emergency rooms for suicide attempts increased by 31 percent compared to a year earlier, feeding concerns among parents and pediatricians that more children have struggled with depression and suicidal ideation during the pandemic.A recent report from the student safety company Gaggle, which monitors school-issued computers and tablets, said that among students at the 1,500 schools it does business with, nearly 9,000 threats of suicide or self-harm had been flagged as so serious that they required immediate intervention by school emergency contacts in the last academic year.But the argument that social emotional learning and other school-based mental health initiatives are part of “a new-age nanny state” has been gaining traction in conservative media for months, including on Fox News. Columns in the National Review and The Federalist have suggested that social emotional learning has become “another vehicle for anti-white racism” and may soon eclipse critical race theory as the most debated phrase in education.Some parent groups have advanced more extreme ideas. A national activist group, No Left Turn in Education, connected social emotional learning to the potential sexual grooming of children, calling it a “dangerous” philosophy that teaches students to put their trust in educators over the instructions of their parents. The group warned that even if social emotional learning doesn’t lead to “sexual assault by an adult,” it could cause children to question their gender identity and “will likely lead to some serious mental health struggles.”As backlash over discussions about racism causes some schools to withdraw diversity and equity efforts, educators, child welfare experts and some parents said they worry that these protests could prompt a similar pullback from mental health programming.“I am concerned, because the people that stand to lose are the kids,” said Karen Niemi, the president of the Collaborative for Academic, Social and Emotional Learning, or CASEL, an organization that helps schools implement the framework. “And it does worry me that we could risk prioritizing what’s good for kids because of a misunderstanding or, potentially, social emotional learning being used for any political agenda.”Mental health director under attackIn Carmel, a suburb of Indianapolis, voters overwhelmingly approved a tax increase two years ago to hire more school resource officers and social workers. Stephanie Whiteside, the Carmel Clay School District’s first mental health coordinator, was put in charge of using the money to hire therapists based in schools, who are accessible to students with parental permission. More than 400 students have participated in therapy sessions in the last 14 months, according to the district. Nicki McNally, a Carmel parent who helped campaign for the referendum, said she can see the new programs’ paying off in the way her teenage daughter speaks freely with her friends about panic attacks, coping methods and seeing counselors, “because they’ve been trained that that’s OK, that’s normal, and that there are resources there for that.”Carmel parent Nicki McNally helped campaign for more school resource officers and social workers.Robert Scheer / The Indianapolis Star via USA Today NetworkBut this year, as parents organized to push back against the district’s equity measures, activists made Whiteside one of their prime targets, accusing her of making “victimhood the highest social currency.”Alvin Lui, who co-founded a group called Unify Carmel to fight the district’s diversity efforts, called the mental health coordinator’s job a “dangerous, worthless” position and circulated dossiers about Whiteside that included an analysis of posts she had liked or shared on social media that Lui said showed she held animus toward police. Lui also criticized the district’s use of social emotional learning as “an extremely deceptive indoctrination system.” If schools want to address students’ mental health, he said, the best approach is “to involve parents if there’s an issue.”“But focus the kids on academics,” Lui said. “Focus them on something productive and useful so that they feel competent and confident that they’re doing well in school. They shouldn’t be questioning their gender identity and worrying about marching and worrying about social justice.”A crowd carrying signs protesting SEL gathers ahead of a Carmel Clay School Board meeting on May 17, 2021. MJ Slaby  / IndyStar via USA Today NetworkThe district declined to make Whiteside available for an interview. In response to the criticism, administrators sent a letter to parents on Sept. 30 noting that she is married to a police officer and that her work in Carmel “has genuinely saved students’ lives.”Carmel Clay Schools also defended the district’s reliance on social emotional learning programs in a statement issued by a spokeswoman, Emily Bauer. The lessons can be as straightforward as having elementary school students draw self-portraits to portray their strengths, Bauer said, or initiating group projects or discussions to help students learn how to better communicate.The district said it completed 101 suicide screenings from the beginning of the school year through Oct. 18, more than twice as many as in the same period last year.“This rhetoric that the mental health coordinator and mental health services are dangerous really sets us back,” McNally said. “We’re supposed to be moving forward to remove the stigma of mental health services.” ‘A lever for equity’Some critics said they believe social emotional learning, first introduced in some schools beginning in the 1990s, has become entwined with progressive values.Many point to CASEL, a nonprofit organization that is considered the leading authority on social emotional learning. After the protests for racial justice last year, CASEL updated language on its website to describe social emotional learning as “a lever for equity” that “affirms diverse cultures and backgrounds” and plays a role in eliminating “deep-seated inequities in the education system” — all phrases that conservatives have branded this year as critical race theory.Niemi, CASEL’s president, said the backlash to the language around equity reflects a misunderstanding of social emotional learning, which is meant to adapt to whatever issues specific students might be struggling with, whether it’s stress, bullying or racism.“When you’re in a classroom where racial issues are heightened, it is necessary for kids to have the skills to understand who they are, how to relate to other people, how to get along, how to solve problems,” Niemi said. “It’s not about telling them what to think or telling them how to feel.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsFlooding in Washington state leaves residents wondering what's nextCoronavirusCoronavirusDutch police open fire on Covid lockdown protesters as European nations reintroduce restrictionsA survey of 2,000 parents released this year by the Thomas B. Fordham Foundation, a conservative-leaning think tank, found that people broadly supported the ideas behind social emotional learning. However, the support dropped when surveyors used the terms “social emotional learning,” “soft skills” and “whole child development.”SEL often involves “a lot of jargon and ideas that may sound kind of ivory tower or foreign to a lot of parents,” said Adam Tyner, who analyzed the survey for the foundation. “It doesn’t surprise me that some of those parents expect the worst.”Some parent groups have made more radical claims about social emotional learning, echoing baseless conspiracy theories popular among followers of QAnon.At an event at a church in Whiteland, Indiana, last month hosted by the activist group Purple for Parents Indiana, Rhonda Miller, the group’s president, said grade school lessons centered on emotions are meant to prepare children for sex trafficking by teaching them to be accepting of LGBTQ identities and introducing them to books about sex, gender and sexuality.“The schools are too dangerous,” Miller told the audience, according to a video of the meeting posted online. “They are doing exactly what they were designed to do. They’re not broken. When you go back and you look at the history of public education, it’s doing exactly what it was designed to do, which was to take our system down from within.”Purple for Parents has been working with a state legislator to introduce a measure that would outlaw social emotional learning in Indiana schools. The group didn’t respond to a request for comment.Parents raise privacy concernsIn Fairfax County, Virginia, where parents have spent months protesting the district’s diversity and equity initiatives, activists affiliated with Parents Defending Education have shifted the focus of their outrage in recent months to surveys that the school system has been sending to students as part of its social emotional learning initiatives.The activist group has raised alarm that the Northern Virginia district of 178,000 students allocated $1.8 million in federal Covid-19 emergency funds to a five-year contract with Panorama Education, a Boston-based company, to survey students districtwide about their emotional well-being. The district said the survey will help it address mental health challenges worsened by the pandemic.The surveys, which parents can opt their children out of, ask questions like “Overall, how much do you feel like you belong at your school?” Surveys intended for middle and high school students ask about their sexuality and gender identities, information that the company says is meant to help schools identify whether certain groups of students are struggling more than others. Southlake: A viral video, a diversity plan, and an election that changed an affluent Texas townSept. 3, 202137:17Panorama said the surveys — used in more than 21,000 schools across the country — are designed to help educators track students’ well-being, identify those who may be struggling and suggest interventions to help them. Although some of the surveys ask about students’ experiences with racism, Panorama said the questionnaires are “not a tool for teaching critical race theory,” adding that it “does not market, sell, or rent any student’s personal information” to any outside companies.Fairfax County Public Schools said survey answers are accessible only to educators who are directly involved with the students who responded and aren’t shared with the state or any company other than Panorama. But Nomani, the vice president of Parents Defending Education, said schools shouldn’t be relying on outside companies and algorithms to address students’ mental and emotional well-being. And she said she doesn’t believe it’s appropriate for schools to survey children about their sexuality.“What we need to do is to separate the authenticity of social and emotional learning from the activist, divisive agendas of profiteer consulting groups that are basically using our children to increase their bottom line,” she said, suggesting that the money spent to hire companies like Panorama could instead be used to hire more school counselors and therapists.‘Shame on them’Some conservative groups have explicitly targeted school-based anti-suicide initiatives this year, particularly those aimed at helping children younger than 12, arguing that the efforts distract from academics and introduce mental health issues to children who aren’t struggling.Utah Parents Unite, an activist group that says it’s fighting indoctrination and mask mandates in schools, urged its members to lobby against a bill to expand suicide prevention programs to elementary schools, where, the group said, “suicides are not happening.” (National data obtained by NBC News show that the number of children ages 6-12 who visited children’s hospitals for suicidal thoughts or self-harm has more than doubled since 2016.) “It’s not age appropriate,” Utah Parents Unite wrote of suicide prevention in elementary school, “and it’s not a topic we need to introduce into the minds of young children.” Despite the objections, the Utah Legislature passed a bill that was signed into law in March. Parent activists elsewhere have continued to make the argument, including in Southlake, a suburb 30 miles northwest of Dallas that was the subject of an NBC News podcast about the community’s fight over a school diversity plan. Neither Southlake Families PAC, which sent an email to supporters in September claiming that “social emotional learning is critical race theory,” nor Eddins, the mom who accused counselors of “promoting suicide,” were willing to be interviewed. In response to questions about the Carroll school system’s support for social emotional learning and whether it was appropriate for school counselors to focus on anti-suicide efforts, Karen Fitzgerald, a spokeswoman, said the district “is focused on what is in the best interest of all students.”Edmiston, the Carroll parent whose child struggled with depression after classmates teased him over his sexuality, said the district needs more counselors and programs centered on the mental well-being of students, not fewer. NBC News isn’t naming her son, because he is a victim of harassment.“I personally cannot understand why a parent would not want their child to understand — even if their child doesn’t have any mental health issues — ... what depression looks like, what anxiety looks like,” Edmiston said. “That doesn’t make sense to me, as a mom, as someone who’s a part of society.”Edmiston said that classmates started teasing her son about his sexuality last school year after he came out as bisexual, and that by September, the harassment had escalated. Her son, a sixth-grader, said he had told a friend at school that he wanted to die. Afterward, according to her son, some of his classmates responded by grabbing a rope from gym class and stringing it over a goalpost like a noose at recess.In an interview, Edmiston’s son said he started struggling with depression when he was 10 and has relied on therapists to cope. He said comments by parents claiming that most young children don’t need emotional support at school were “highly insolent.”“I’ve had to have help with my mental health,” he said. “And if there’s other people who are having to struggle like me, or even worse, and a parent can’t recognize that because they think a child is younger and can’t have those feelings, then shame on them.”As for Edmiston — starting this month, she said, she’s sending her son to a private school.If you or someone you know is at risk of suicide, please call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 800-273-8255, text TALK to 741741 or visit SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources for additional resources.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Covid is surging in Europe. Experts say it’s a warning for the U.S.. As Europe finds itself at the center of the Covid-19 pandemic once again, experts say it should serve as a warning to the U.S. and other countries about the coronavirus’s unremitting nature. Case numbers have soared across the continent — more than 50 percent last month — and the worrying trend has continued this month as winter begins to bite.Dr. Hans Kluge, the director of the World Health Organization’s Europe region, warned Nov. 4 that the region was "back at the epicenter of the pandemic," and his words proved prescient. The WHO said Friday that nearly 2 million cases were reported across Europe in the previous week — the most the region has had in a single week since the pandemic began.In recent weeks, Germany reported record daily numbers of new infections, with more than 50,000, according to data from Johns Hopkins University.  The Netherlands also reported more than 16,000 cases — the country’s most since the pandemic began — prompting the government to begin a partial lockdown Saturday that is set to last at least three weeks. As case numbers surged toward the end of last month, Belgium reimposed some Covid restrictions, including a requirement to wear masks in public places. People also have to show the country’s Covid-19 pass to enter bars, restaurants and fitness clubs. The passport shows that they have been fully vaccinated, have had recent negative tests or have recently recovered from the disease.The country nonetheless recorded more than 15,000 daily cases last Monday.Despite the surge, daily death rates in all three countries have remained relatively stable compared with past spikes, and experts have credited high vaccine uptake for weakening the link between the numbers of cases and hospitalizations and deaths.Download the NBC News app for breaking news and politics"Luckily, the high vaccination coverage limits the death toll and hospitalizations there to a large extent," Tom Wenseleers, an evolutionary biologist and biostatistician at KU Leuven, a university in Belgium, said Wednesday in an email.Belgium, which reported hundreds of deaths at the start of the pandemic and then again last autumn, when a second wave of cases forced a national lockdown, has had its "hospital capacity tested" in recent weeks, Wenseleers said. But overall deaths appear largely to have been decoupled from high case rates, he said.  'Truly disastrous'However, the same cannot be said for Eastern Europe, where, he said, the situation is "truly disastrous."Over the last three weeks, Romania, with 591; Bulgaria, with 334; and Latvia, with 64, have reported record daily death numbers, according to Johns Hopkins data. Case numbers have also surged. People on a street near Alexanderplatz in Berlin. Covid-19 infection rates have climbed dramatically in Germany in recent weeks.Sean Gallup / Getty ImagesSaying the surge was "worrying," Wenseleers said he believed low vaccine uptake and high vaccine hesitancy were largely to blame."It’s not due to lack of vaccines," he said, noting that the joint procurement of vaccines at the European Union level meant all 27 member states "were able to buy equivalent quantities of vaccines.""Despite having access to vaccines, those countries did not manage to convince their population to get vaccinated," he said. At least 1 in 3 people in countries in eastern Europe do not trust the health care system, compared to an average of 18 percent across the EU, a European Commission poll known as the Eurobarometer found, Reuters reported.Romania and Bulgaria are among the countries with the lowest rates of vaccine uptake across the continent, according to the EU’s vaccination tracker.The latest data showed that less than 23 percent of the adult population in Bulgaria had been fully vaccinated, while just over 25 percent had had at least one shot. In Romania, just under 34 percent of the population above age 18 had been fully vaccinated, while almost 38 percent had had at least one dose.A woman holds a poster at an anti-Covid vaccination protest in Sofia, Bulgaria, last month.Hristo Rusev / Getty ImagesThe Eurobarometer poll showed that respondents in both countries were among the least likely to express enthusiasm for getting vaccinated.The vaccination tracker also showed that other Eastern European countries have low vaccination rates compared to their Western neighbors.That "means that high case rates there translate [into] a very high death toll," Wenseleers said.Danny Altmann, a professor of immunology at Imperial College London, said that as the first winter with the delta variant approaches, he was "not sure if people in Eastern Europe appreciate how punishing the pandemic continues to be in the time of delta."Protesters hold a poster reading "Stop compulsory vaccination" at a demonstration against "compulsory" vaccination in Riga, Latvia, in August.Gints Ivuskans / AFP via Getty Images"It’s unremitting," he said. With some Eastern European countries "at the extreme end of vaccine hesitancy," he added, "there’s no possibility of dealing with this pandemic under these conditions."In Austria, which has long been a bridge between east and west, the government ordered a nationwide lockdown for unvaccinated people Sunday to slow the fast spread of the coronavirus.The move means unvaccinated people older than 12 will be banned from leaving their homes from midnight Sunday, except for basic activities like working, food shopping, going for walks — or getting their shots.“It’s our job as the government of Austria to protect the people," Chancellor Alexander Schallenberg told reporters Sunday in Vienna. “Therefore we decided that starting Monday ... there will be a lockdown for the unvaccinated.”Epidemiologist Eric Feigl-Ding, a senior fellow at the Federation of American Scientists, said the high death rates should be “a warning” for other countries with low vaccination rates.While he said he believed the most effective approach is multipronged, including coronavirus measures like mask-wearing and social distancing, he said vaccines and booster shots are critical to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Wenseleers agreed, saying people in the U.S. should take heed of the situation unfolding across Europe.People wait in line to get their shots at a "marathon of vaccination" at the National Library in Bucharest, Romania, last month. Daniel Mihailescu / AFP via Getty ImagesU.S. states both with high and low vaccination rates could take Europe’s case numbers as "a sign that the U.S. might still see resurgences, as well," he said.On both sides of the Atlantic, "convincing as many people to get vaccinated should be the top priority," along with "setting up booster campaigns" for those most at risk, he said.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Nonbinary millennial is front and center in HBO Max dramedy 'Sort Of'. Bilal Baig understands the weight and responsibility that comes with being the first queer South Asian Muslim actor to lead a Canadian primetime TV series. But the queer and transfeminine performer, who uses gender-neutral pronouns, said trans and nonbinary creators are still faced with the pressure of depicting an entire community with a single character or ensemble.“I’m somebody who has consumed a lot of trans and nonbinary content in an effort to see myself in media and art somewhere, and I think we can only start to take real risks in our art making when we know there are multiple representations out there of these communities,” Baig told NBC News in a phone interview. “I just think it helps expand our consciousness of who is a part of these communities and how diverse we actually are.”“Sort Of,” a groundbreaking new dramedy series set in Toronto, does just that. Co-created by Baig and Fab Filippo (“Queer as Folk”), the series — which premiered this fall on CBC in Canada and has now arrived on HBO Max — follows Sabi Mehboob (Baig), a gender-fluid millennial who straddles various identities as a bartender at an queer bar/bookstore, the youngest child in a Pakistani family and the nanny of a wealthy downtown family.When Sabi’s best friend, 7ven (Amanda Cordner), presents them with an opportunity to live in Berlin, a historically queer mecca, Sabi instead decides to stay and care for the kids they nanny, whose mother, Bessy (Grace Lynn Kung), has just gotten into a serious accident. In the process, Sabi feels like every aspect of their life is in transition, leading to a fascinating exploration of race, culture, sexuality and gender identity.Sabi’s evolution “is very subtle,” Baig said. “I think they budge an inch in their life over the course of this first season, but that inch budging actually opens them up to a sea of possibilities. They start in such a guarded place, and the walls just come down by a fraction, and I think opening yourself up in this way means that there’s so many different things that can come from being able to embrace who you are and feel a little bit more comfortable in your skin.”Baig and Filippo first met in 2018, when they both appeared as actors in a play called “Theory” at Toronto’s Tarragon Theatre. The two bonded over a shared desire to create their own work and, after the play ended, conceptualized the idea of a half-hour comedy series that centered on a character loosely inspired by Baig.Amanda Cordner and Bilal Baig in "Sort Of" on HBO Max.HBO MaxBut before agreeing to sign on to their first TV project, Baig asked Filippo an incisive question: “Why should I, a brown nonbinary millennial who feels like they might be transitioning, make a story about me with you?” After taking some time to consider the uncertainty that he was feeling at the end of his 15-year marriage, Filippo returned and said that he, too, was going through a transition. Simply put, he wanted to create a show where every character, not just Sabi, is “transitioning and evolving” — a notion that resonated deeply with Baig, who “loved hearing a cis person use the word ‘transition.’”Over the course of the eight-episode first season, Paul (Gray Powell), the father of the kids Sabi watches, is forced to confront his own shortcomings as a husband, father and employer; his own ideas of masculinity; and the microaggressions that have hurt Sabi and Paul’s own family. “I think it’s about how to actually work with people and collaborate and let go of some control. I think we’re really asking some questions around how we share this global world together, like Sabi and Paul together, and what it means for them to coexist,” said Baig, who later added that creating a character like Paul was a way to get cisgender men like him to connect with the show and, in turn, develop more empathy for trans and nonbinary people in general.Meanwhile, Raffo (Ellora Patnaik), Sabi’s 50something Pakistani Muslim mother, also discovers that she has been largely unaware of her own child’s transition and spends her newfound free time attempting to reconnect. As a result, she must reconcile her love for Sabi with the more traditional values held by the men in her family, including her husband, Sabi’s father.Cassandra James and Bilal Baig in "Sort Of" on HBO Max.HBO MaxIt’s a unique dynamic that was discussed extensively in the writers’ room, which included multiple queer South Asian writers, Baig said. “We just wanted to see a relationship that really felt like there were no villains between Sabi and Raffo, that neither of them are actually antagonistic towards each other.”“It really is this one-step-forward, two-steps-back kind of dance between the two of them until they get to this place of really committing to each other, no matter what,” Baig added. “I think that is exciting in terms of what that means for her, what that means for a South Asian woman of her age to really examine what it means to be a mother and then what it means to commit to children — particularly Sabi — who don’t fit in the norm and where that will take her.”From the moment that Baig and Filippo pitched this series (first to Sienna Films, a production company based out of Toronto, and then to the CBC), producers and executives made it clear that they wanted Baig to create a world that not only felt truthful to their own experiences, but also felt universal to a lot of others. For Baig, this meant creating a lead character that “wasn’t textbook sassy with finger snaps and perfectly articulated reads on people,” they said. “I’ve just seen enough of that in queer and trans content that it does start to perpetuate this notion that all of us must be like this. [So] what if we went the total opposite direction and presented a character who’s a little more inward and not so sassy?”RecommendedOUT NewsOUT NewsFormula One racing star wears LGBTQ Pride helmet at Qatar Grand PrixOUT NewsOUT NewsTransgender people in 'survival mode' as violence rises, anti-trans bills become lawAnd while they serve as the lead actor, co-creator and executive producer, “the show was never just a singular story,” Baig said. “Our writers’ room was full of people of different ages, genders, sexualities and skin colors, so we wanted to make a space where people felt like they could also bring their perspectives and their lived experiences into the fold.”After fleshing out Sabi’s world, Baig worked with the creative team to cast trans and nonbinary actors in such roles and to prioritize the casting of LGBTQ actors in roles that were not specifically scripted as such. In the complicated conversation of which actors should be allowed to play which parts, Baig said that trans actors should unequivocally play trans characters, “because, to me, it sends a really harmful message when we cast cis people in those roles. In my level of experience as a trans person consuming content, I see nuance and authenticity being missed when cis people playing those parts.”But it gets a little more complicated “when we’re talking about queerness, because there is a fluidity to queerness that doesn’t feel the same as in the trans world for me,” they added. “There’s so many people in my life who don’t identify 100 percent as straight and definitely don’t identify 100 percent as queer. I’m in a space where I’m open to people defining queerness for themselves and bringing that to their work. But the bottom line for me is a show like this wouldn’t work if it didn’t feel real and authentic, so we were just searching for that all the time in our casting.”Bilal Baig, Kaya Kanashiro and Aden Bedard in "Sort Of" on HBO Max.HBO MaxShortly after the show premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival, Baig revealed that, in a case of life imitating art, they decided to come out to their own immigrant parents, who knew very little about their career and gender identity.“We’re slowly moving through it. I think we’re in this place [where] I’m just trying to gently let them into more of my truth,” they explained. “I think they’re curious, and I think it’s also a lot of information. It was difficult for sure, and I think it will take some time before they can really settle in with this show and with seeing their child in this new way. But if I put myself in their shoes, I can see how this was a big shift.”At the end of the day, aside from making people laugh and “feel cozy and warm when they’re receiving this story,” Baig hopes that “Sort Of” will become part of the slight but steady advances that Hollywood has recently seen in onscreen trans and nonbinary representation.“When trans and nonbinary people aren’t a part of conversations, aren’t acknowledged as actual people, that literally is the definition of dehumanizing or erasing human existence,” Baig said. “To bring this show to so many people all over the world proves that we do exist and that we are complicated people who have relationships with cis folks and non-cis folks and children and adults — we really are a part of the fabric of this world.”“I really feel like I’m a part of something bigger,” they added. “What I’m hearing back from communities in Canada who have now accessed all eight of the episodes [is] there’s a real, fierce appreciation for the nuance, because I think it changes lives. People can use shows like ‘Sort Of’ to help parents or friends or lovers understand them better, and that is so powerful.”“Sort Of” is now streaming on HBO Max.Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Formula One racing star wears LGBTQ Pride helmet at Qatar Grand Prix. World champion race car driver Lewis Hamilton will wear an LGBTQ flag on his helmet for the upcoming Grand Prix in Qatar on Nov. 21. His new headpiece showcases the Progress Pride Flag, which includes black and brown stripes to honor queer communities of color, as well as light blue and pink colors to honor the transgender community. The back of the helmet reads “We Stand Together.”“Equal rights is a serious issue,” Hamilton said at a Formula One press conference Thursday. The 36-year-old British racer, who is Black, has been very vocal about human rights issues and has dedicated much of his platform to speaking out against human rights violations. Sunday's race will be the first Formula One tournament in Qatar after the country signed a 10-year deal with the racing league, according to BBC Sport. However, the upcoming race has raised concerns over human rights and equality in the Arab nation. “I do think as these sports go to these places, they’re duty-bound to raise awareness for these issues and these places need scrutiny and needs the media to speak to speak about these things,” Hamilton said Thursday.Qatar has been the center of numerous human rights violations. Homosexuality is illegal in the country and can lead to jail time. Courts governed by religious law can technically punish Muslim people in same-sex relationships by death, but there is no evidence that the punishment has been used, The Independent reported earlier this year. The Middle Eastern country has also been under fire for its treatment of migrant workers. Migrant hotel workers gearing up for the 2022 World Cup have worked long shifts at less than $2 an hour, with little to no time off, The Guardian reported Thursday. “I just feel that if we are coming to these places, we need to be raising the profile of the situation," Hamilton said at the conference. In July, the champion racer called out anti-LGBTQ laws in Hungary ahead of the Hungarian Grand Prix. Hamilton called the laws “cowardly” and “unacceptable” and urged Hungarian citizens to vote in an upcoming referendum, Insider reported. Human rights groups, including Amnesty International, have raised concerns over so-called sportswashing, when a country tries to use sports or major sporting events to distract the international community from human rights violations and mistreatment. Amnesty International called on the Qatari government to address its record of human rights violations before the 2022 FIFA World Cup, the world's premier soccer tournament. RecommendedOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureNonbinary millennial is front and center in HBO Max dramedy 'Sort Of'OUT NewsOUT NewsTransgender people in 'survival mode' as violence rises, anti-trans bills become law"FIFA must act now to ensure that the 2022 World Cup is a tournament to be proud of, and not one tainted by labor abuses," Stephen Cockburn, the organization's deputy director of global issues, said in a statement earlier this year.Formula One, in a statement on its website, said it is “committed to respecting internationally recognized human rights in its operations globally.” The racing league also outlined steps that it will take to ensure it is respecting human rights in its activities, including respecting the rights of its employees and monitoring the impact of its events. “There’s a long way to go,” Hamilton said. Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & Instagram Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Transgender people in 'survival mode' as violence rises, anti-trans bills become law. On Saturday, Que Bell will help lead a vigil for Transgender Day of Remembrance, an annual observance to honor the memory of transgender homicide victims that began in 1999.Bell has led these vigils before. He is the executive director of the Knights and Orchids Society, a nonprofit group based in Selma, Alabama, that supports Black transgender, queer and gender-nonconforming people, and he has been an advocate for more than a decade. But this year will be different. “​​This is literally the first time that I’ll have to write down my best friend’s name for a TDOR celebration,” Bell said, using the initialism for Transgender Day of Remembrance. “It’s really going to hit differently.”Bell’s best friend, Mel Groves, died Oct. 11 after having been shot multiple times. Groves, 25, a Black transgender man, was studying plant and soil science at Alcorn State University in Lorman, Mississippi. Just before he died, he was about to become the full-time community garden manager for the Knights and Orchids Society.Mel Groves, a farmer from Jackson, Miss.Courtesy Mel GrovesBut on Saturday, Bell will light a candle in Groves' memory. Groves is one of at least 47 transgender or gender-nonconforming people — and one of 28 Black trans people — to have died by violence in 2021, which has surpassed 2020 to become the deadliest year on record for trans people, according to the Human Rights Campaign, which has been tracking fatal anti-trans violence since 2013. A disproportionate number of the deaths have been in the Southeast.State legislatures across the country this year have also considered a record number of anti-transgender bills — more than 100 — many of which target trans youths, specifically trans girls. Advocates say the rhetoric coming out of legislatures is connected to the violence, because it describes transgender girls as boys and vice versa and, in many cases, characterizes trans people as “predators” on sports teams or in bathrooms. Transgender Day of Remembrance is also known as Transgender Day of Remembrance and Resilience — the latter part an effort to remind people that while trans people face disproportionate discrimination and violence, they are also leading grassroots efforts to make things better for their communities. Deadnaming, misgendering and clearance ratesBell said that he and Groves’ friends and family ultimately want the person who killed Groves brought to justice but that he doesn’t have confidence in the police investigation.When the Jackson Police Department first reported on Groves’ death, it used his legal name and misgendered him, causing local news outlets to repeat the mistakes. Groves’ loved ones had to reach out while grieving his loss to ask news outlets to update their stories to reflect who Groves actually was. Some updated their stories; others said they couldn’t change them without confirmation from law enforcement authorities or Groves’ immediate family.  A week after Groves died, Jackson police provided the same statement to NBC News that they first issued, which used his birth name (also known as deadnaming) and misgendered him. The police department hasn’t responded to a request for comment about whether it plans to update the statement.  Bell said police officials need to be more educated about what the trans community faces; otherwise, he said, they will be unable to solve the case. He recalled one officer's public statement that he would investigate Groves' death just like any other. “That is totally avoiding the issue,” Bell said. “I want you to be knowledgeable enough to know that, when something happens to trans people, how your department should be reacting to it and how you can help, versus being so defensive about acknowledging that this happened because it was a trans issue.”Bell said police need to understand that anti-trans violence is connected to discrimination and higher rates of homelessness, among other issues that trans people face, or “we’re never going to be able to solve the problem.”Jaida Peterson, a transgender woman, was found dead in a hotel room in Charlotte, N.C., on April 4, 2021.AP / NBC NewsAnti-trans fatal violence cases nationwide appear to have a lower average clearance rate — the percentage of cases in which someone has been arrested, charged and turned over to a court for prosecution — than fatal violence cases in general, said Brendan Lantz, an assistant professor of criminology and criminal justice at Florida State University.Lantz and his research team at the university’s Hate Crime Research and Policy Institute are creating the first database to track fatal violence against the transgender community. Although the Human Rights Campaign and other nonprofit groups track such deaths, the database Lantz’s team is creating, which will date to 2012, also tracks characteristics of the offenses, victims’ background information, perpetrators’ information, handling by police departments (including whether victims were misgendered or deadnamed) and whether cases have been solved, among other information.TransAmericaJune 17, 202152:10Preliminary data, which Lantz said are subject to change, show that the nationwide clearance rate for fatal anti-trans violence is about 44 percent, which is well below the national average of 60 percent to 70 percent. Early patterns also show that there’s “very likely a correlation between the prevalence” of deadnaming or misgendering by police and the likelihood of clearing a case, he said. Evidence is important when police are trying to solve a homicide, he said, “and if we’re not even using the correct name, obtaining that evidence isn’t particularly easy to do, right?”RecommendedOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureNonbinary millennial is front and center in HBO Max dramedy 'Sort Of'OUT NewsOUT NewsFormula One racing star wears LGBTQ Pride helmet at Qatar Grand Prix“Witnesses are less likely to come forward, and a lot of issues enter the equation,” he said.Transgender rights groups say anti-trans sentiment, reflected in bills considered in dozens of states, affects how trans people are treated, including by police. Police initially misgendered victims and used their birth names in reporting on 30 of the 46 known deaths, an NBC News analysis found.Since 2013, about 80 percent of trans people in deaths involving trans people with available data were initially misgendered by the media or law enforcement, according to a report released Wednesday by the Human Rights Campaign. An NBC News analysis of this year’s cases found that victims in 73 percent of investigations were misgendered or deadnamed by police, compared to 59 percent of cases in which someone was arrested and charged. ‘A sense of survival mode’Trans advocates say some policymakers and national advocacy organizations are quick to suggest police reform as a solution. But while many of them agree that improving police competence and investigations is important, they say the strategy addresses the issue only after the fact — when people have already died. That leaves many in the transgender community feeling unsafe, which has led some of them to take their safety and well-being into their own hands.“When you get tired of depending on a system to protect you that you know was not designed to protect you or to support you, you realize that you’re literally wasting time and resources putting money into a system that is not going to change,” Bell said. “So instead ... we decided to start investing in the things that we could tangibly change.”Advocates like Bell say community organizations should be given more resources and support, because they know how to best keep their people safe and help them thrive — by providing them with gender-affirming health care, as the Knights and Orchids Society does, or housing, as a number of trans-led groups across the country do.Mariah Moore, a national trans rights activist and a co-director of the House of Tulip, a nonprofit collective creating housing solutions for trans people in Louisiana, said: “It’s so important that we support community-led initiatives, because those folks leading those initiatives are actually folks who have that lived experience and are able to speak to the needs and actually distribute those resources directly to impacted community members.”  Trans United Leading Intersectional Progress, or TULIP, is a nonprofit collective creating housing solutions for trans people in Louisiana.House of TulipBell echoed that sentiment with respect to funding for nonprofit groups. He said that many people support and know of national advocacy organizations but that the groups aren’t providing emergency housing or money for trans people.“I’m committed to this work to always keep trans folks safe,” he said, adding that he has been evicted twice in the past because he has provided a place for people experiencing homelessness to stay, some of them as young as 13. “That comes out of a sense of survival mode,” he said. “I don’t have a lot, but what I do have I want to share with the folks who are like me who also don’t have.”In neighboring Georgia, Toni-Michelle Williams, the executive director of the Atlanta-based Solutions Not Punishment Collaborative, a Black trans- and queer-led organization that builds community safety through organizing and leadership training, said the group has supported more than 160 people through its Taking Care of Our Own Fund, which provides funding for emergency bail, housing, health care and other needs. The group provided the support with less than 3 percent of $15 million, Williams said, which represents this year's budget increase for the Atlanta Police Department. “Just imagine what we could do for our communities — Black trans and queer folks, sex workers, formerly incarcerated people — with at least 3 percent of that funding,” she said. “I definitely just want to encourage people to continue to push and to join our side around what it means to reallocate funding from these large institutions that have so many resources. Our communities are in need of them.” Looking ahead, Bell said he’s determined “not to lose another Mel.”“I want to do everything I can to make sure that we don’t have any more Mel Groves — that we don’t have another person who slips through the cracks, that for whatever reason we have the resources to make sure that folks have a fighting chance,” he said.A memorial was held for Mel Groves in Jackson, Miss., in October.Courtesy TC Caldwell/The Knights and Orchids Society.He added that he feels as though he has done a disservice to trans people who have been killed in the past. “Because what I don’t want people to remember about Mel is that he was the 39th person murdered,” Bell said. “And that’s often what happens when we lose somebody, is that the tragedy of their death is highlighted over their legacy, their purpose and all the good things that they have contributed to the world during their time.” He wants people to remember that Groves was a promising scientist and that his professors bragged about him and his research after his death. He loved Nat King Cole, he had a smile that made people want to talk to him, and he always offered to share food with his friends. Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
These 8 U.S. cities failed an LGBTQ equality evaluation. Eight cities in the United States scored a zero out of 100 on the 10th annual Municipal Equality Index, which evaluates cities and towns based on the level of LGBTQ inclusion found in their local laws, policies and services.LGBTQ advocacy groups Human Rights Campaign and Equality Federation evaluated 506 municipalities — including the country’s 50 state capitals and 200 largest cities — on 49 criteria for the index. The criteria included nondiscrimination protections, policies for municipal employees and city leadership. This year’s zero-point earners span from South Carolina to Wyoming, and they all came in at zero on last year’s index, too. But on the flip side, 22 percent of cities earned a perfect score, up from 8 percent in 2012, the report’s inaugural year. RecommendedOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureNonbinary millennial is front and center in HBO Max dramedy 'Sort Of'OUT NewsOUT NewsFormula One racing star wears LGBTQ Pride helmet at Qatar Grand Prix“If you’re scoring a zero, it’s because you’re making that choice. There are definitely some low-hanging fruit ways to get off of that zero place,” said Cathryn Oakley, the founding author of the index and the state legislative director for the Human Rights Campaign. “That is a statement on their end about how they’re willing to engage in these issues.”Here are the eight cities that scored a failing grade on this year’s Municipal Equality Index: Florence, AlabamaDowntown Florence, Ala. Robin Zeigler / Getty ImagesLocated in the northwest corner of Alabama, Florence sits on the Tennessee River, has a population of about 40,000 and is home to the University of North Alabama. The city made headlines in 2017, when several members of white nationalist groups, some dressed in Ku Klux Klan robes, staged a protest during northwest Alabama’s first Pride parade.Jonesboro, ArkansasDowntown Jonesboro, Ark.larrybraunphotography.com / Getty ImagesJonesboro, with a population of nearly 80,000, is Arkansas’ fifth largest city. It sits in the northeastern part of the state and is home to Arkansas State University. Earlier this year, a Pride Month book display — which included the children’s book “The GayBCs” — ignited a backlash at a public library in the city, The Jonesboro Sun reported. Southaven, MississippiThe Southaven Municipal Complex in Southaven, Miss.Google MapsSouthaven sits on the border of Mississippi and its northern neighbor, Tennessee, and is just 13 miles from Memphis. The city, which has about 55,000 residents, made news in 2019 after a same-sex couple said they were kicked out of a local Baptist church because the women wouldn’t end their “forbidden” marriage and “repent.”Broken Arrow, OklahomaThe historic Rose District of Broken Arrow, Okla. Denis Tangney Jr. / Getty ImagesLocated just outside Tulsa in the northeastern part of the state, Broken Arrow is the fourth largest city in Oklahoma, with a population of about 113,000. Oklahoma is the only state to have two cities earn zero points on this year’s Municipal Equality Index. Moore, OklahomaVeterans Memorial Park in Moore, Okla.Google MapsMoore, a city of about 63,000 residents, is part of the Oklahoma City metropolitan area, which sits in the middle of the state. Moore made national news back in 2017 after Ralph Shortey, a “family values” Republican who had served in the Oklahoma Senate, was found with a 17-year-old male in a local motel (Shortey was eventually sentenced to 15 years in prison on child sex-trafficking charges). Clemson, South CarolinaTillman Hall on the campus of Clemson University in Clemson, S.C.Maddie Meyer / Getty ImagesHome to Clemson University, this small South Carolina city, with a population of 17,700, sits in the northwest part of the state near the borders of both Georgia and North Carolina. While the city of Clemson scored a zero out of 100 on this year’s Municipal Equality Index, the university scored a 3 out of 5 on the LGBTQ nonprofit Campus Pride’s annual index. The university also opened Lavender Place, an LGBTQ “living-learning community,” in August. Pierre, South DakotaThe State Capitol in Pierre, S.D.Getty Images/iStockphotoWith a population of roughly 14,100, Pierre is the second-least populous state capital in the country, following Montpelier, Vermont. Home to the state’s legislature, the city hosts many of the state’s protests concerning LGBTQ issues. In January, Pierre made national headlines when a group of LGBTQ advocates protested against a proposed law that would ban people from changing the sex designation on their birth certificates. A South Dakota House committee later rejected the bill in February.Rocks Springs, WyomingRock Springs, Wyo. Jacob Boomsma / Getty Images/iStockphotoRock Springs is a city in Sweetwater County, Wyoming, with a population of about 23,500. Despite scoring a zero out of 100 on this and last year’s Municipal Equality Index, a Rock Springs church made history after hosting what it called the state’s first LGBTQ pride worship service in 2019, the Casper Star-Tribune reported.Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
White Kansas City officer convicted in Black man’s 2019 death. KANSAS CITY, Mo. — A judge on Friday convicted a white Kansas City police officer of involuntary manslaughter and armed criminal action in the fatal shooting of a Black man, in a case in which prosecutors said police planted evidence.Jackson County Judge Dale Youngs issued the bench ruling against Officer Eric DeValkenaere in the death of Cameron Lamb, 26. Lamb was shot while backing into his garage on Dec. 3, 2019, after chasing his girlfriend’s convertible in a stolen pickup truck.DeValkenaere testified during the trial that he fired after Lamb pointed a gun at another detective, Troy Schwalm, and that he believed his actions saved the life of his partner. On the stand, DeValkenaere said: “I’m thinking, ‘I can’t let this happen, I can’t let him shoot Troy.’”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsFlooding in Washington state leaves residents wondering what's nextCoronavirusCoronavirusDutch police open fire on Covid lockdown protesters as European nations reintroduce restrictionsProsecutors, however, argued that police lacked a warrant to be on the property and staged the shooting scene to support their claims that Lamb was armed. Before he was shot, prosecutors said, Lamb had his left hand on the truck’s steering wheel and his cellphone in his right hand.Another officer who was the first to arrive at the scene after the shooting testified during the trial that he didn’t see a gun on the ground below Lamb’s left arm, which was hanging out of the window of the truck. Later, though, a gun was there in police photographs.Two bullets were found in Lamb’s pockets at the morgue, but crime scene technicians didn’t find them at the scene. And prosecutors also raised questions about whether Lamb, who was right-handed, could have used his left hand to pull a gun due to an earlier injury. The defense argued that he could have.The verdict came after a bench trial, which was held before the judge without a jury at DeValkenaere’s request.The killing of Lamb, a father of three, was often invoked during racial injustice protests in Kansas City last year. And it was among several cases cited by a group of civil rights organizations in a petition urging U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland to investigate the Kansas City Police Department. The indictment in the case came days after Lamb’s death garnered renewed attention stemming from his family’s meeting with then-President Donald Trump in 2020.In the past year, prosecutors have brought criminal charges against five white Kansas City police officers for allegedly using excessive force against Black people. DeValkenaere was the only officer charged in an on-duty killing.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Black and Latino 'King Richard' director Reinaldo Marcus Green talks dads, sports. They're considered two of the most powerful players in tennis history.The Black and Latino movie director Reinaldo Marcus Green wants to take viewers back to the moment before Venus and Serena Williams became champions — and all they had was the ambitious plan of a determined father who wore short shorts and a cowboy hat on a tennis court in the city of Compton, in Southern California. Green is the director of “King Richard,” which premieres nationwide Friday and tells the story of Richard Williams, the father of Venus and Serena (played by Will Smith). Together with his wife, Oracene ‘Brandy’ Williams (played by Aunjanue Ellis), he sets out on a family journey from humble beginnings to the threshold of tennis fame and fortune. “To the outside world he was quite controversial and outspoken and colorful,” Green said about Williams in an interview with NBC News. After meeting the family and hearing their story, the director became interested in showing another dimension of Williams’ character. Director Reinaldo Marcus Green at the Sundance Film Festival in 2018.Taylor Jewell / Invision / AP“He was a dad who just tried to do right by his kids, the best way he could with the tools that he had. And nobody is perfect,” Green said. “He’s learned lessons along the way. He had to, at the end of our film, understand that his daughters were growing up and what do you do when that moment happens. Do you squeeze tighter or do you let go?” Green, whose father is Black and mom Puerto Rican, was born in the New York City borough of the Bronx and grew up in Staten Island and other parts of the city. Where he lived was not too different from Compton, Green said.  After Green's parents divorced, his mother and father chose to have  him and his brother live with their dad. "They really wanted us to have a father figure in the house," Green said. "It was important for my mom as well." The director said he can’t avoid comparing his father — who was raising two sons to become major league baseball players — with Williams.     “We grew up with a similar father ... I literally grew up on a baseball diamond. I played travel ball and all-star baseball," said Green, who also played in college. "My dad wore those short shorts too. So I knew what it’s like growing up with that parent that other folks think is a little out there, but you in your heart know is a special guy.” Green wanted to bring that level of complexity and authenticity to viewers when telling the story of two Black sisters who became champions in a sport that has been inaccessible to many diverse children.   The movie is a unique window into the early lives of the Williams sisters, the director said. Viewers will see them take their first steps toward becoming professionals at a young age when their parents were creating a blueprint for all of their future successes in tennis and beyond.  “They are ambassadors for their community,” Green said. “Tennis is only one aspect of what they’ve done.” Expanding diversity in the courts Carlos Mendez, the founder of the Multicultural Tennis Association, remembers seeing tennis courts when he was growing up in his  predominantly Latino neighborhood in East Los Angeles. But the courts were all locked up. The Mexican American father sees common ground with Williams, who created a tennis plan for his daughters just 12 miles away in Compton. “I found a lot of parallels and similarities when I watched the movie ‘King Richard’,” Mendez said in a video interview. “For me, with my daughter, it was pivotal that I encouraged her as a Latina to do something outside of our tradition, our comfort zone.” Carlos Mendez, founded the Multicultural Tennis Association and says he can relate to the movie “King Richard.”Courtesy Carlos Mendez 
Mendez said that he wanted his daughter to grow up with the opportunity to play tennis. But when his daughter started at a country club as the only Latina out of 30 kids, he says that the initial goal of sharing his love for tennis with his family grew into sharing the sport with other members of his community. “We don’t have a lot of kids that look like me or like my kids playing out there,” he said. “Less than 6 percent of college tennis players are Hispanic, compared to over 25 percent who play soccer.” Mendez founded the Multicultural Tennis Association in Las Vegas, and he's now in Chicago, where they've expanded the association with the sponsorship of the Mike Tyson Cares Foundation and are offering free programs in inner-city parks in partnership with the Chicago Parks District.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsFlooding in Washington state leaves residents wondering what's nextCoronavirusCoronavirusDutch police open fire on Covid lockdown protesters as European nations reintroduce restrictionsBut beyond the mission of making tennis more affordable and accessible, Mendez says there also has to be a cultural shift. “In our culture, we really don’t encourage our young ladies to go out there and really compete,” he said. “We need to break down that barrier and allow kids to fill up those tennis courts.” Like Williams in the film, Mendez believes that the key to success is balancing both education and sports. “As a parent, it’s important for me to have a well-rounded youth," he said. "And not just think that they’re going to be the next champion, because what happens if they don’t become professional tennis players?” Demi Singleton, Will Smith and Saniyya Sidney in a scene from "King Richard."Chiabella James / Warner Bros. Entertainment"Stories being generated for us" When asked about the importance of visibility on screen, Green says that more and more diverse stories are being told. But viewers don’t want to simply see movies that only check off diversity boxes. “What you may see now is let’s put a Black person in the lead, or let’s get a Latino,” he said. “But it’s not written for us. It’s written for someone else and it’s being slotted. As opposed to stories being generated for us. And I think hopefully that’s the next wave of films.” Green says that starts with Black people and Latinos writing and telling stories about themselves, and having the opportunity to be both in front and behind the camera.   “We’re on the long journey because we want meaningful, sustainable change,” he said about creating authentic Black and Latino movies. “Rather than it just being of the moment. Hopefully our films will feel timeless. And not just let’s do it now and let’s do it paint by numbers.” Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Simone Biles, Lizzo and Nikole Hannah-Jones featured in Essence’s ‘radical self-love’ issue. Essence magazine didn’t settle for just one gorgeous cover image for its November/December issue — instead, they featured three different superstars.Olympic gymnast Simone Biles, pop sensation Lizzo and Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist Nikole Hannah-Jones, founder of the 1619 Project, each grace a cover of the magazine’s last issue of 2021. The magazine said these three women are trailblazers when it comes to radical self-love and the power of saying no, which only reinforces their strength and beauty.Fans immediately shared their admiration for the covers on social media, especially for the diverse representation of Black skin tones and body shapes.“I STAN!!!!! There aren’t sufficient words to describe this. So proud of such a beautiful person,” one person wrote on Twitter about Hannah-Jones.One Twitter user wrote, “Black women, AKA THEE MOMENT.. across all industries” in response to seeing the three covers.Another wrote, “Whew! @Simone_Biles covers Essence and this melanin, this cover, this power...whew! We love to see it!”“Lizzo is such a vision,” someone wrote.Biles, who is often considered the greatest female gymnast of all time, chose her mental and physical health over the spotlight when she withdrew from key events at the Tokyo Olympics.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsFlooding in Washington state leaves residents wondering what's nextCoronavirusCoronavirusDutch police open fire on Covid lockdown protesters as European nations reintroduce restrictionsLizzo regularly and unapologetically claps back at haters who attempt to shame and critique her body-positive stance.And journalist and professor Nikole Hannah-Jones was in a fight for tenure at her alma mater, the University of North Carolina, only to decline the eventual offer for a position at Howard University, an HBCU.These three powerhouses serve as examples, particularly for Black women, to reject expectations from others, stand up for what they believe in and withdraw from circumstances, people or energy that does not serve them or bring them joy.Hannah-Jones thanked the magazine for the editors' commitment to representation within the Black community in an Instagram post: “Y’all. This was a dream I didn’t even have the audacity to dream. No magazine has meant more to me than @essence. As a Black girl from a working-class family in a working-class town, Essence exposed me to the beautiful spectrum and possibilities of Black womanhood.”Follow NBCBLK on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Defendant in Ahmaud Arbery killing asked for plea deal, Arbery family attorney says. An attorney for one of the three men on trial in the death of Ahmaud Arbery sought a plea deal for his client, but was swiftly turned down by prosecutors, an attorney for Arbery's mother said.Kevin Gough sought the deal Thursday for William "Roddie" Bryan, according to Lee Merritt, who represents Arbery's mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones.The specific terms of the deal, which was first reported by CBS News, are unclear.Attorneys for the defendants, each of whom have their own legal team, rested their cases Thursday. Closing arguments are scheduled for Monday.Latonia Hines, a spokesperson for the Cobb County District Attorney's Office, which was appointed to handle the high-profile case, declined to comment Friday."We would never discuss plea deals, if there even were one," she said.Gough did not immediately return phone and email requests seeking comment.Bryan, along with father and son Gregory and Travis McMichael, chased Arbery in separate trucks after they spotted him running in their neighborhood outside the Georgia port city of Brunswick on Feb. 23, 2020.Travis McMichael shot Arbery, 25, who was Black, with a shotgun at close range. Bryan filmed the fatal encounter on his cellphone. The three defendants, who are white, were arrested months later after the video leaked and brought the world's attention to the case. Arbery's death has been likened by many, including his family and civil rights leaders, to a modern-day lynching. The defendants, who are charged with murder and other crimes, face up to life in prison if convicted.Defense lawyers have said that the defendants suspected Arbery was a burglar and that they were attempting to carry out a citizen's arrest, which was legal at the time. They also contend that Travis McMichael shot Arbery in self-defense. The prosecution cast doubt on that defense during the trial and have said the men had no "immediate knowledge" of whether a crime had been committed.Arbery had been spotted several times on security camera video at a nearby home under construction. The videos never showed Arbery taking anything from the property.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsFlooding in Washington state leaves residents wondering what's nextCoronavirusCoronavirusDutch police open fire on Covid lockdown protesters as European nations reintroduce restrictions"I feel like the evidence is overwhelming of these men's guilt and that no reasonable jury could conclude that these men are not guilty," Merritt said in an interview this week.Travis McMichael was the only defendant to testify. Gough has made repeated failed attempts to prohibit Black pastors and civil rights leaders from sitting with Arbery's family in the courtroom and has filed multiple motions requesting a mistrial, each of which has been dismissed.On Thursday, the defense called six residents of the Satilla Shores neighborhood to the witness stand, including one woman, Sube Lawrence, who testified under cross-examination that Travis McMichael had told her that he and his father planned to leak the video before it was released and that she told him she would help share it.Lawrence, an administrator of a Facebook group that neighbors use to discuss crime in the area, said Travis McMichael was accepted to the group under a fake name after Arbery was killed so he could see what was being said. She said his original Facebook page had allegedly been hacked.Gough complained to the judge after the residents testified."I heard testimony today, for lack of a better characterization, as vigilante social media posts or communications involving co-defendants," Gough said.He said that some of the testimony Thursday "was more prejudicial than probative."Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Author Karen Tei Yamashita wins lifetime literary achievement award. Karen Tei Yamashita was awarded the 2021 Medal for Distinguished Contribution to American Letters by the National Book Foundation on Wednesday. Yamashita is the 34th recipient of the award since it was created in 1988. Past recipients include Joan Didion, Toni Morrison, Maxine Hong Kingston and Stephen King. "A bold and groundbreaking writer, Yamashita's deeply creative body of work has made an enduring impact on our literary landscape," the foundation's chair, David Steinberger, said in a statement. In her acceptance speech, Yamashita said the award was especially significant to her community, given how the past year has been plagued by anti-Asian violence and hatred. "Asian American literature is, at heart, a literature of politics and resistance," Yamashita said. Yamashita has written eight books, all published by the Minneapolis publishing house Coffee House Press. Her works include a book of short stories about being Japanese American, "Sansei and Sensibility," and "Through the Arc of the Rain Forest," a novel about a Japanese ex-pat living in Brazil amid an environmental crisis. "I’m here because Coffee House has envisioned the long distance of a writer’s journey, [they] know that books take time to be read and to be shared," Yamashita said, adding that the publisher always kept her books in print, which gave her readership time to grow. In 2010, Yamashita's "I Hotel," a novel set in San Francisco's Chinatown in the 1960s and '70s, was a finalist for the National Book Award. The title won the 2011 California Book Award and was a finalist for the Asian American Literary Award for fiction in 2011. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsFlooding in Washington state leaves residents wondering what's nextCoronavirusCoronavirusDutch police open fire on Covid lockdown protesters as European nations reintroduce restrictions"Karen Tei Yamashita is such a legend," author Jean Chen Ho tweeted in response to Yamashita's acceptance speech on Wednesday. "When I read 'I Hotel' in undergrad I remember just having my entire brain reorganized about what a novel is and can do."Yamashita currently serves as a professor emeritus at the University of California, Santa Cruz, where she researched Japanese immigration to Brazil and Asian American literature.She attended Carleton College in Minnesota and also studied at Waseda University in Tokyo. She was born in Oakland and raised in Los Angeles, according to the National Book Foundation. Both of her parents were incarcerated at Topaz internment camp during World War II.In addition to a bronze medal, the lifetime achievement award comes with $10,000. Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Univ. of Maryland slammed for separating Asian students from 'students of color' in graphic. The University of Maryland is facing backlash after an administrative graphic separated students into two categories — “students of color, minus Asians” and “white or Asian students.” The graphic was part of a presentation by university President Darryll Pines, who was sharing the incoming class’ diversity data with the student body senate. The school says it intended to highlight students who have been underrepresented on campus. Data on the slide spanned a five-year period, including information like UMD’s total number of applicants, with average SAT scores and grade point averages. But a point of contention for some students and a larger audience on Twitter is the race breakdown of yearly incoming first-years. Numbers listed under the “students of color, minus Asians” category were meant to represent the students with the lowest historical presence at the school, and it did include some Pacific Islanders, the university said in a statement provided to NBC Asian America. “The data in this specific section was intended to show student populations that have historically represented 11 percent or less of our campus community -- Black/African Americans, American Indians or Native Alaskans, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander and Hispanics,” the statement said. Students said the graphic perpetuates ideas like the model minority myth, which claims that Asians are inherently successful and close to whiteness. It also erases distinctions between groups within the Asian American and Pacific Islander umbrella, many of which are generally lower-income and underserved, they told The Diamondback.“[The university uses] us when they want to be diverse, and then not when they don’t want to,” Anish Kakarla, a UMD student and president of the South Asian Student Association, told the student newspaper The Diamondback.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsFlooding in Washington state leaves residents wondering what's nextCoronavirusCoronavirusDutch police open fire on Covid lockdown protesters as European nations reintroduce restrictionsAs the debate continues online, the university clarified that it does include Asians when describing students of color in data or otherwise.“When we refer to students of color, we include Asian students and Asian Americans,” the university said. Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Shohei Ohtani of Los Angeles Angels wins American League MVP award. Double-threat Shohei Ohtani of the Los Angeles Angels was named the American League's Most Valuable Player on Thursday, making him only the second Japanese player to win the award.Ohtani, often compared to MLB great Babe Ruth because of his ability to pitch and hit at an elite level, was the unanimous pick over the Toronto Blue Jays' Vladimir Guerrero Jr. and Marcus Semien in voting by the Baseball Writers’ Association of America.“MVP is something I was shooting for, obviously, I think any player is as long as they’re playing baseball professionally,” said Ohtani via a translator. “But I was more appreciative of the fact that American fans — just the USA baseball — was more accepting and welcoming (of) the whole two-way idea compared to when I first started in Japan.“I have always dealt with a lot of doubters, especially from my days in Japan but I try to not let that pressure get to me.”“This is my first time winning MVP so that is special alone but getting it unanimously makes it that much more special and helps me get more motivated to keep on putting up good numbers next season.”In his first full MLB season as both a hitter and pitcher, Ohtani had a .257 batting average, 46 home runs and 100 RBI to go along with a 9-2 record and 3.18 earned-run average in 23 starts on the mound.The 27-year-old is the first Japanese player to win the award since Ichiro Suzuki earned the honors in 2001 as a member of the Seattle Mariners.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsFlooding in Washington state leaves residents wondering what's nextCoronavirusCoronavirusDutch police open fire on Covid lockdown protesters as European nations reintroduce restrictionsThe Tokyo Tower will be illuminated in Los Angeles Angels colors on Friday to celebrate Ohtani’s accomplishment, MLB said in a statement.“Growing up I watched Ichiro and he also won MVP and was someone I looked up to and got me actually wanting to play in the Big Leagues one day,” said Ohtani. “Hopefully I can be that type of figure to the kids watching me right now and hopefully one day I could play with one of those kids watching me. That would be really special.”A mix of power and speed rarely seen on Major League diamonds, Ohtani’s 46 homers were just two off the MLB lead shared by Guerrero and Kansas City’s Salvador Perez.On the mound he overwhelmed batters with a 100 mph fastball and was speedster on the base path stealing 26 bases.The MVP was just the latest in a season packed with honors for Ohtani, who was also named the 16th recipient of the special Commissioner’s Historic Achievement Award.The honor goes to a group or person who has made a major impact on baseball and is presented at the commissioner’s discretion.“Shotime,” as Ohtani is known in the United States, was also named among the 100 most influential people of 2021 by the Time magazine.Ohtani’s selection is the sixth time an Angels player has earned MVP honors. He joins Mike Trout (2014, 2016, 2019), Don Baylor (1979) and Vladimir Guerrero (2004), father of runner-up Vladimir Guerrero Jr.“It’s been something special to witness what you’ve accomplished as a teammate. You have put together a season of your own… WELL DESERVED, #SHOTIME!!! #MVP,” tweeted Trout immediately after the announcement.Philadelphia Phillies Bryce Harper was named the National League MVP for the second time. He won the award in 2015 with the Washington Nationals.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
New Asian American Muppet prompts CPAC president to call for defunding PBS . Matt Schlapp, the president of the Conservative Political Action Committee, has drawn criticism from Asian Americans and others across social media this week after he called for “Sesame Street” to be defunded for introducing its first Asian American Muppet. Schlapp, a conservative lobbyist, tweeted a news story about the coming debut of a Korean American character, Ji-Young. The Muppet has been praised for letting Asian American children see a character like themselves on screen, but Schlapp slammed the host network, PBS, which receives both government and private-sector funding. “What race is Ernie is Bert?” Schlapp tweeted Monday. “You are insane PBS and we should stop funding you.”Schlapp doubled down Thursday on “Fox and Friends First,” claiming PBS and “Sesame Street” are “trying to bring race into Ernie and Bert.” “I grew up watching, and it wasn’t ever about race. It was about learning lessons and learning to read and learning tolerance,” Schlapp said. “And they want to inject race.” He also went on to jab at the Muppets’ take on gender. “And by the way, this whole question about gender into everything, one of the Muppet characters had a son, and the son wanted to be a daughter, and they just won’t stop with their push for woke politics,” Schlapp said. Elmo introduces newest ‘Sesame Street’ character, Ji-YoungNov. 15, 202103:52The Muppets have alluded to nonbinary characters in the past, but it was unclear which episode Schlapp was referring to. In an episode of “Muppet Babies,” the popular Muppet Gonzo, known for a love of stunt performance, dons a gown for Miss Piggy’s ball, making their debut as Gonzo-rella. In an email to NBC News, Schlapp did not deviate from his position. He also took shots at National Public Radio (NPR), a publicly funded nonprofit media outlet, accusing the organization, as well as PBS, of wanting to "be in arms in the socialist movement." “Sesame Street needs to go back to the time when a show was devoted to a letter in the alphabet, and not the latest woke fad," he wrote. "We all loved Bert and Ernie without the foggiest idea of the racial demographic they may have represented. Afterall, Ernie is orange. The taxpayers deserve a big rebate. If PBS and NPR want to be in arms in the socialist movement, they need to pay their own way.”A spokesperson for “Sesame Street” did not immediately respond to request for comment. Ernie with Ji-Young, the first Asian American Muppet, on "Sesame Street."Noreen Nasir / APJi-Young, an avid electric guitar player and skateboarder, will make her first appearance as part of a special titled “See Us Coming Together” on Thanksgiving Day. Alan Muraoka, who plays the owner of Hooper’s Store on the show, said that like many Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, she will straddle two cultures. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsFlooding in Washington state leaves residents wondering what's nextCoronavirusCoronavirusDutch police open fire on Covid lockdown protesters as European nations reintroduce restrictions“She’s a musician, she plays electric guitar, she’s a girl of the very modern American fabric,” he said. “She recognizes the culture through her relatives — her grandmother, through her mother — and through the food she eats and loves.”The show will also delve into other real and yet difficult issues relating to Ji-Young’s identity, including anti-Asian racism. During the special, another child tells her to “go home” in an offscreen incident. Friends and adults come together and help her understand that she’s “exactly where she belongs,” according to a statement about the episode.  “It’s necessary for the next generation of kids to understand these issues, because they’re real issues and they’re issues that I don’t see going away in the foreseeable future,” Muraoka said.  Schlapp’s comments came on the heels of criticism from Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, who accused “Sesame Street” of spreading “government propaganda” this month after the character Big Bird spoke about getting vaccinated against Covid-19. Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
A hit song wins a Latin Grammy. One of its songwriters is in a Cuban prison. . A group of Cuban musicians, including one imprisoned in Cuba, won song of the year at the Latin Grammy awards on Thursday for their song "Patria y Vida"  — garnering even more international attention for a song that's become an anthem for Cuba's opposition.Banned in Cuba, "Patria y Vida" is a song that transcends politics and culture. Amid the guitar and rhythmic beat, it's an emotional song whose lyrics denounce the harsh realities Cuban face on an everyday basis —  including censorship, lack of food and the sadness of mothers whose children have migrated from the island. "For me, this song has been the emotional awakening for Cuban society," Yadam González, one of the song's authors and producer who was on stage Thursday, said in a phone interview with NBC News on Friday.González said the song has " served as a bridge for Cubans to have a way to reflect their pain and their desire for change." At the Grammys, the award winners dedicated the song to Cuba's political prisoners. The group Gente de Zona, Yotuel of the group Orishas, and singer-songwriter Descemer Bueno collaborated on the song with two rappers in Cuba, El Funky and Maykel Osorbo, whose real name is Michael Castillo. Both rappers are part of an artists’ collective in Cuba known as the San Isidro Movement, who have protested against the Cuban government’s censorship.Castillo is being held in a maximum-security prison in Cuba after his arrest in May. He went on a six-day hunger and thirst strike in late October to protest his imprisonment and Cuba’s crackdown on free expression. Activists have said that Castillo is sick. “Homeland and Life” is a play on the famous revolutionary slogan “Patria o Muerte” (Homeland or Death), a term that has been used by Cuba’s government for decades. The title is symbolic and full of meaning for those who oppose the Communist government. Acts of dissent, banned in Cuba, have grown during the past year. During the July 11 historic antigovernment protests that swept through the island people could be heard shouting “Patria y Vida” and some wrote the words on signs.González, who left Cuba for Denmark in 1996 and now resides in Miami, said that when he heard the words "Patria y Vida" being shouted during July's protests, he felt "very proud to be part of the emotions Cubans were feeling. "In this case, I refer to Cubans in a very personal way, because my parents still live in Cuba," he said.The group performed at the Latin Grammys dressed in white, in solidarity with activists in Cuba who had called for a nationwide protest on Monday. The protest never happened after authorities surrounded activists’ homes, preventing them from leaving while keeping a significant police presence on the streets. Instead, activists dressed in white and hung white sheets outside their homes in a sign of peace.Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
U.S. group helps Mexican teens get coronavirus shots in California. SAN DIEGO — A group in San Diego along with San Diego County stepped in to help their neighbors in Mexico.A group of Mexican teens traveled by bus to California on Thursday to get vaccinated against the coronavirus as efforts get underway across Mexico to get shots in the arms of teens.About 150 kids from Tijuana were bused to the Mexican consulate in San Diego on Thursday where county nurses administered the Pfizer vaccine.The pilot program in San Diego aims to get shots in the arms of 450 youths ages 12 to 17 before it ends in late December. The adolescents from Tijuana were selected by Mexican social service organizations, including those who work with the children of parents deported from the United States.Mexico has resisted vaccinating minors ages 12 to 17, in part because the government focused on older adults believed to be more vulnerable. Mexico also has not had enough vaccine supply for most of its minors, who account for one-third of its population. The country this month is preparing to start vaccinating only teens ages 15-17.Among the teens who got vaccines in California was 14-year-old Leslie Flores, who said she was nervous but also happy about getting the shot.“Because this way I can protect myself and my family,” Leslie said.The county donated the doses. The teens will return in about three weeks for a second shot.All of the adolescents have a U.S. visa or passport, but they were unable to come to the United States before now to get the vaccine because they did not have an adult able to cross the border with them, said Carlos González Gutiérrez, the Mexican consul in San Diego.Adrian Medina Amarillas, Baja California’s secretary of health, praised the effort.“Baja California is experiencing a third wave” of infections, he said. “There is no doubt that this will help.”The program will be evaluated in early 2022 and officials will decide then whether it needs to be continued.Hundreds of parents in Mexico have taken legal action against the Mexican government to demand the right to be able to give the vaccine to their children. Overall, about 84 percent of Mexico’s adult population has had at least one dose of the vaccine.The effort comes less than two weeks after the United States fully reopened its borders, and Mexican officials see it as another step toward ensuring the border stays that way. Border businesses were decimated by the 18-month closure to tourists and shoppers.About 80 percent of the adult populations in both San Diego County and in Baja California have received at least one dose of the vaccine.The first mass vaccination of Mexican minors happened last month along the Texas border when more than 1,000 children from the Mexican border state of Coahuila were bused to Eagle Pass, where they got their first shot of the Pfizer vaccine administered by members of the Texas National Guard. The youths ages 12 to 17 are the children of workers at border assembly plants known as maquiladoras.In May and early June, more than 26,000 maquiladora workers in Baja California were vaccinated at the San Ysidro border crossing in San Diego.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'Silence is not acceptable': Latino poet Martín Espada wins National Book Award . The image reverberated across the country and the world — the intertwined bodies of a father and his little girl, facedown in the waters of the Río Grande, who drowned trying to cross the border into the United States. For poet Martín Espada, it was what happened after the photo came out that spurred him to write a poem that became the title of his book "Floaters: Poems,"  which garnered the prestigious National Book Award for poetry Wednesday."Can you imagine looking at that photograph and seeing a conspiracy?" he said in a phone interview from his home in Massachusetts on Thursday. After reports surfaced of a member of a Border Patrol Facebook group questioning whether the photo was "doctored" because he had "never seen floaters like this," Espada wrote a poem about Óscar Alberto Martínez Ramírez and his daughter Valeria.  "It was a way to humanize the dehumanized, taking their name back," Espada said, "... to demand that we see these people as people. That theme runs throughout the book." In announcing Espada's award, poet A. Van Jordan said the poems in "Floaters" "remind us of the power of observation, of seeing everything that’s in front of us, what’s behind us ... This is a collection that is vital for our times and will be vital for those in our future, trying to make sense of today."Espada, who said he was still "stunned" about the announcement, described the award as not just a recognition of his work, but also "a recognition of all the people in my work" — those whom he gives a voice to in his poems."Letter to my Father," which he describes as his favorite poem in the book, came after Hurricane Maria struck Puerto Rico "and I was here in western Massachusetts, looking on helplessly," he said. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsFlooding in Washington state leaves residents wondering what's nextCoronavirusCoronavirusDutch police open fire on Covid lockdown protesters as European nations reintroduce restrictionsHis father, Frank Espada, a renowned photographer and activist whose photographs are in the Smithsonian Institution and the Library of Congress, was born in the Puerto Rican mountain town of Utuado. The town was devastated during the hurricane and was constantly in the news. "I saw this destruction and I began to talk to my father — my father had already been gone, dead since 2014," he said. "I was talking to his ashes in a box, wrapped in a Puerto Rican flag, and began to tell him what was happening, as if he could still hear me.""I was telling him what was happening to Puerto Rico, to Utuado, Trump throwing paper towels," Espada said, referring to then-President Donald Trump, "and how I wished he could come back and make things right. That became the poem 'Letter to my father' — I promised that one day I would go and spread his ashes in Utuado." A professor at the University of Massachusetts Amherst and a Pulitzer Prize finalist for his 2006 book, "Republic of Poetry,"  several of Espada's poems in "Floaters" pay homage to a generation of groundbreaking Latino activists in New York City. One is a tribute to the poet, activist and former Museo del Barrio director Jack Agüeros and another to Luis Garden Acosta, an activist and former Young Lord who founded a seminal, youth-centered community health center, El Puente de Williamsburg, in Brooklyn, where Espada was born.  “They saw through the fog and clouds and saw there was something on the other side," Espada said about Agueros' and Garden Acosta's work. "Don't we need that now?"Their lives are also a reminder of the need to connect to the lives and issues around us. "Without community, what does it mean to be a writer?" he said. The book includes a series of love poems, "dedicated to my wife, who is a teacher and poet in her own right," Espada said. "My father’s presence, my wife's presence, are represented in every single page."When asked how the last few years of wrenching political changes, climate events and a pandemic impacted his writing, Espada was reflective."I am sometimes struck speechless. You sometimes wonder if words are going to be enough," he said. "But then you write the next poem. What choice do we have? Silence is not acceptable." Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
