CNN suspends Chris Cuomo after probe shows he advised ex-Gov. Andrew Cuomo. CNN suspended host Chris Cuomo on Tuesday after an investigation by the New York attorney general showed that he helped his brother, former New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, defend himself against sexual misconduct allegations. The investigation by Attorney General Letitia James raised "serious questions" about Cuomo's conduct, the network said in a statement."When Chris admitted to us that he had offered advice to his brother’s staff, he broke our rules and we acknowledged that publicly," the statement said. "But we also appreciated the unique position he was in and understood his need to put family first and job second. However, these documents point to a greater level of involvement in his brother’s efforts than we previously knew. As a result, we have suspended Chris indefinitely, pending further evaluation.”Video of investigators questioning Cuomo over sexual harassment allegations is releasedNov. 29, 202101:56Facing the possibility of impeachment, Andrew Cuomo resigned in August. He has denied wrongdoing.A representative for Chris Cuomo did not respond to requests for comment Tuesday.Cuomo, who has hosted "Cuomo Prime Time" since 2017, has previously said that helping his brother was a family matter and that it was appropriate because he was not directly reporting on Albany at the time.Documents released Monday revealed that Cuomo offered to help the former governor find out how many women would be accusing him of sexual harassment.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news3 killed, 8 injured in shooting at Oxford High School in suburban DetroitU.S. newsU.S. newsMan wanted in gun discharge at Atlanta airport surrenders"I would — when asked, I would reach out to sources, other journalists, to see if they had heard of anybody else coming out," Cuomo said, according to the documents.He also admitted helping his brother respond to allegations from Anna Ruch, who said she felt "uncomfortable and embarrassed" when Andrew Cuomo kissed her at a wedding in 2019.After texting the governor's top aide with a tip that he had a "lead on the wedding girl," Chris Cuomo said, he talked with his brother's staff about the allegation. He said he was trying to help them understand that the complaint should be taken seriously."I am worried about my brother and worried that this is being handled the best way it can," he said of their discussions. "And my feeling was that, to my basic mantra, you need to tell the truth and get in front of these if you have something to say. And if you have something to own, you need to do that as well."Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.
Elizabeth Holmes admits whistleblower was right and reporter was ‘mishandled’. SAN JOSE, Calif. — The government got its chance Tuesday to cross-examine Theranos founder Elizabeth Holmes about allegations of fraud tied to the failed blood-testing startup.Over several hours of testimony, the prosecution peppered Holmes with questions about lab reports with doctored logos, a multimillion-dollar home, allegations of retaliation against a whistleblower and her acrimony toward a dogged reporter.The first round of questioning focused on Holmes’ reaction to the reporting attempts in 2015 by John Carreyrou, then of The Wall Street Journal, who was pursuing a story about the company.Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert Leach showed the court text messages between Holmes and her former boyfriend, Theranos Chief Operating Officer Ramesh "Sunny" Balwani, demonstrating their preparations for a visit by Carreyrou amid concerns that he would write something negative. Balwani said they would “nail" the reporter, and Holmes said she had a meeting with the opposition research firm Fusion GPS to dig around for details on him.“I think I mishandled the entire process of the Wall Street Journal reporting,” Holmes said Tuesday.Leach then asked Holmes about her treatment of Erika Cheung, a former Theranos employee and whistleblower who had raised concerns several times about quality issues with the company's signature blood-testing devices. Cheung testified earlier in the trial that after she left the company, Theranos sent her threatening legal letters and hired investigators to conduct surveillance outside her home.In a stunning admission, Holmes acknowledged on the witness stand Tuesday that every issue Cheung had raised was correct.“I sure as hell wish we treated her differently and listened to her,” Holmes said.“You know today that Ms. Cheung was right, isn’t that fair?” Leach asked.“Yes,” Holmes replied.Holmes stopped short of admitting that the company hired investigators to follow a whistleblower, despite $150,000 in receipts. Holmes stopped short of admitting that the company also hired private investigators to follow her former employee, even after Leach tried to refresh her memory by showing her receipts for payments of $150,000 to them.Holmes testified that she had owned 51 percent of Theranos and was able to remove or fire anyone she wished, including Balwani, lab directors and board members, effectively placing her in control of the company.Asked about her annual salary, Holmes said it was about $200,000 from 2010 to 2013. In 2014, it rose to $360,000. Prosecutors also asked about a $9 million dollar home Holmes owned together with Balwani in the affluent town of Atherton, California, from 2013 to 2016.Holmes, who was once valued at over $4 billion because of her Theranos holdings, testified that she had never sold a single share in her company. "I didn’t want to. I believed in the company and wanted to put everything I had into it,” she said.Prosecutors also homed in on the relationship between Holmes and Balwani, highlighting affectionate text messages between the two.In a supportive message from Balwani in October 2015, not long after the initial Journal articles were published — and with scrutiny on Theranos mounting — he told Holmes: "U r god's tigress and warrior. You are extraordinary."As scrutiny on Theranos mounted, Balwani texted Holmes: "U r god's tigress and warrior. You are extraordinary.""Coming from my tiger means the whole universe to me," she wrote back.Leach, the prosecutor, asked, "Would it be fair to say that you thought you and Mr. Balwani had a spiritual connection?""I did at the time," Holmes said. The messages were in sharp contrast to her dramatic testimony Monday, when she testified that Balwani, who is 20 years her senior, dictated how she should control her body movements and behave as a businessperson and at times forced her to have sex with him.She said she broke off the relationship in 2016 after her belief in Balwani crumbled. “I started to realize that not only was he not the person that he said he was to me personally, but that there was also no way I could save our company if he was there,” Holmes said.Leach questioned Holmes later about how lawyers advised the company to drastically water down claims on its website before it launched and whether it had fully disclosed the use of modified third-party equipment to investors and board members.“There are many things I wish I did differently," Holmes said in response to a line of questioning about how forthright she was with her board.Holmes also testified that not only had she added pharmaceutical company logos to Theranos lab reports without authorization before sending them to Walgreens, with whom she was pursuing a retail deal, but that she also made additional changes.In the case of Pfizer, she testified, she deleted the words "prepared for Dr. Aidan Power," one of the Pfizer employees with whom she was interacting. To a report from Schering-Plough, she added the phrase "gold standard."Holmes, 37, a former Silicon Valley darling who once graced the covers of glossy business magazines, saw the $9 billion company she founded collapse after investigative reporting and failed government lab inspections found flaws in its blood diagnostics technology. The company claimed it could run all commercially available tests from just a finger prick. However, in reality, the blood-testing devices could run fewer than a dozen tests, and they secretly used Siemens diagnostic equipment instead of their own — while still returning inaccurate results to patients, including a patient who was given an HIV diagnosis and another whose blood test indicated that she was at high risk of miscarriage.If she is convicted, Holmes faces decades in prison, fines and an order to pay restitution to her investors.
Courts block two Biden administration Covid vaccine mandates. The Biden administration was blocked on Tuesday from enforcing two mandates requiring millions of American workers to get vaccinated against COVID-19, a key part of its strategy for controlling the spread of the coronavirus.U.S. District Judge Terry Doughty in Monroe, Louisiana, temporarily blocked the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) from enforcing its vaccine mandate for healthcare workers until the court can resolve legal challenges.Doughty's ruling applied nationwide, except in 10 states where the CMS was already prevented from enforcing the rule due to a prior order from a federal judge in St. Louis.Doughty said the CMS lacked the authority to issue a vaccine mandate that would require more than 2 million unvaccinated healthcare workers to get a coronavirus shot."There is no question that mandating a vaccine to 10.3 million healthcare workers is something that should be done by Congress, not a government agency," wrote Doughty.Separately, U.S. District Judge Gregory Van Tatenhove in Frankfort, Kentucky, blocked the administration from enforcing a regulation that new government contracts must include clauses requiring that contractors' employees get vaccinated.The contractor ruling applied in the three states that had filed the lawsuit, Kentucky, Ohio and Tennessee, one of at least 13 legal challenges nationwide against the regulation. It appears to be the first ruling against the contractor vaccine mandate.The White House declined to comment.RecommendedElectionsElectionsCelebrity physician Dr. Oz launches campaign for Senate in Pennsylvania as a RepublicanPolitics NewsPolitics NewsWhite House considering stricter international travel testing requirements amid omicron variantThe legal setbacks for President Joe Biden's vaccine policy come as concerns that the Omicron coronavirus variant could trigger a new wave of infections and curtail travel and economic activity across the globe.Biden unveiled regulations in September to increase the U.S. adult vaccination rate beyond the current 71% as a way of fighting the pandemic, which has killed more than 750,000 Americans and weighed on the economy.Republican state attorneys general, conservative groups and trade organizations have sued to stop the regulations.Tuesday's rulings add to a string of court losses for the Biden administration over its COVID-19 policies.The most sweeping regulation, a workplace vaccine-or-testing mandate for businesses with at least 100 employees, was temporarily blocked by a federal appeals court in early November.In August, the U.S. Supreme Court ended the administration's pandemic-related federal moratorium on residential evictions.(Reporting by Tom Hals in Wilmington, Delaware; Additional reporting by Nandita Bose in Washington; Editing by Jonathan Oatis and Peter Cooney)
Weapons expert points to possible explanation for how live rounds got on 'Rust' set . A search warrant filed Tuesday for a New Mexico film prop firm indicates live ammunition on the deadly set of "Rust" might have originated with storied stuntman Thell Reed.Reed is the father of "Rust" armorer Hannah Gutierrez Reed, who's been under scrutiny for her role as caretaker of firearms on the set of the Hollywood production. The filing indicates that Thell Reed, also an armorer, did not intentionally provide the live rounds, but that ammunition he brought to an earlier, separate production might have made its way to the set of "Rust.""Rust" director of photography Halyna Hutchins, 42, was killed, and director Joel Souza, 48, was injured when producer and actor Alec Baldwin accidentally shot them before an afternoon filming session.Reed told authorities he had brought an "ammo can" of live rounds to another set, earlier in summer, at the request of Seth Kenney, a movie gun supplier who is affiliated with the New Mexico prop firm PDQ Arm & Prop LLC, the target of Tuesday's search warrant. Reed and Kenney were working together on that earlier production, according to the filing.Reed told investigators Kenney had asked him to bring live ammunition for actor training with live rounds at a firing range, according to the affidavit for the warrant filed by the Santa Fe County Sheriff’s Office. Reed's statement said Kenney already had live ammo but thought he might run out, according to the filing. Reed said he brought a can filled with as many as 300 rounds, it stated.He said rounds of ammunition, including .45 caliber, was left over following the production and that Kenney took it back to New Mexico, the filing states. When Reed repeatedly tried to get the can and ammo back from Kenney he was rebuffed and ultimately told to "write it off," it said."Thell stated his ammunition may match the ammunition found on the set of 'Rust,'" the affidavit states.Reed and Kenney did not immediately respond to request for comment.'Rust' crew member speaks out about set conditionsNov. 5, 202102:45Investigators want to search the New Mexico business associated with Kenney, ostensibly to find that can or ammo, which Reed described as "not factory made," according to the filing.The filing states "Rust" prop master Sarah Zachry said the ammunition for that production was from multiple sources, including rounds Gutierrez Reed brought from a previous production and some provided by another person. It's not clear how this narrative fits with the one about live rounds from a previous set.According to Tuesday's filing, Zachry told investigators she checked the box of ammunition on the prop cart after the shooting and compared it with the round she was handed — the suspected live round from the gun Baldwin fired. Zachry said she found some cartridges in the box would rattle, which signified them being "dummy rounds," however, others did not, which led her to believe some were live, according to the filing. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news3 killed, 8 injured in shooting at Oxford High School in suburban DetroitU.S. newsU.S. newsMan wanted in gun discharge at Atlanta airport surrendersThe shooting happened Oct. 21 after Baldwin was handed a gun that he was told was safe to use, investigators said in a previous affidavit. They said he was practicing with a handgun when it went off.Santa Fe County Sheriff Adan Mendoza has said the gun fired a live round, which killed Hutchins and wounded Souza. Sheriff’s investigators recovered blanks, dummy rounds and what investigators suspected were live rounds from the set. Jason Bowles, an attorney for Gutierrez Reed, called the search warrant “a huge step forward …  to unearth the full truth of who put the live rounds on the ‘Rust’ set.”Robert Gorence, another attorney for Gutierrez Reed, suggested in early November that someone might have sabotaged the set.Producers of "Rust" have said little. In October, they said in a letter to cast and crew: "As the investigation continues, we cannot respond to the comments that have been making their way into the media, on social media and elsewhere."
First Maxwell accuser says she was ‘groomed’ to have sex with Epstein, others. The first of the four women who say Ghislaine Maxwell “groomed” them to have sex with Jeffrey Epstein and others took the stand Tuesday and, in graphic detail, described how she was taught to satisfy a predator.Testifying at Maxwell’s trial in New York City and using the pseudonym Jane, the woman said she was 14 and eating ice cream at a summer camp for young artists in Michigan when Maxwell, who was walking a Yorkie, and Epstein approached her and struck up a conversation. Soon, Jane said, Maxwell went from acting like a big sister to training her how to "massage" Epstein."I was frozen in fear," Jane said as she recounted how Epstein sexually abused her in a pool house at his Palm Beach mansion.Later, Jane said, she found herself taking part in orgies that included Maxwell and Epstein at the financier's palatial homes in Palm Beach, Florida and New York City and on his New Mexico ranch. She described the sex when asked as “kissing, oral sex on each other, oral sex on Jeffrey, full-on intercourse.”Jane's voice broke when she described how she wanted to harm herself out of despair."It just kind of seemed hopeless," she said. "Not much joy to look forward to." On cross-examination, Maxwell defense attorney Laura Menninger tried to chip away at Jane's credibility by noting that she claimed to have "escaped" from Epstein in 1999 but didn't tell investigators about Maxwell's alleged involvement until after Epstein died by suicide a decade later.“I don’t know. They did despicable things to me, and I didn’t want to talk about them,” she replied.Jane's often emotional testimony on the second day of Maxwell's trial came after Epstein's longtime pilot, Larry Visoski, testified that he met Jane on one of the flights and remembered her "piercing blue eyes."But on cross-examination, Visoski said he wasn’t aware that she was underage and that he didn’t know of any minors flying on Epstein’s private planes “without a parent.”“She looked like a woman,” Visoski, who told the court he worked for Epstein from 1991 to 2019, said of Jane.Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell at Cipriani Wall Street in New York City on March 15, 2005.Patrick McMullan via Getty ImagesProsecutors have accused Maxwell, 59, a British socialite, of identifying and targeting vulnerable young women and “grooming” them for sex with Epstein and other powerful men.Maxwell, who is on trial accused of helping Epstein recruit and abuse Jane and three other underage girls, mostly in the 1990s, has denied all the accusations and pleaded not guilty to the six charges.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news3 killed, 8 injured in shooting at Oxford High School in suburban DetroitU.S. newsU.S. newsMan wanted in gun discharge at Atlanta airport surrendersHer lawyers contend that prosecutors are going after Maxwell because they can’t try Epstein, a convicted sex offender who hanged himself in prison two years ago as he was awaiting trial over allegations of sex trafficking.Epstein’s flights became the focus of intense media scrutiny after it was discovered that former President Bill Clinton, Britain’s Prince Andrew, lawyer Alan Dershowitz and a host of other celebrities took trips on his planes. Virginia Roberts Guiffre, who isn’t part of the case, has alleged in a civil lawsuit that Maxwell trafficked her to Prince Andrew when she was 17. He has denied the allegations.Visoski said that he met Guiffre, as well, on one of the flights in the “mid- to late ’90s” and that he had no idea how old she was, either. He also said he never witnessed any sex on the planes he piloted to Epstein’s numerous luxurious homes.Ghislaine Maxwell, in a courtroom sketch, listens as defense attorney Bobbi Sternheim gives her opening statement at the start of Maxwell's trial Monday. Jane Rosenberg / Reuters“I didn’t know her age. She didn’t look young,” he testified. “She was a woman in my category.”Asked about the well-known names who flew on Epstein's planes, Visoski mentioned Andrew and the former astronaut and senator John Glenn, the actors Kevin Spacey and Chris Tucker and the violinist Itzhak Perlman. He said Donald Trump was a repeat flyer before he became president."There was more than once, I believe," Visoski said. "I certainly remember President Trump but not anyone else associated with him."Trump, who once called Epstein a "terrific guy," told reporters in 2019 that they had a falling out 15 years earlier and that he "was not a fan of his."Visoski said he frequently ran into Maxwell and testified that she oversaw Epstein’s households.Asked about Maxwell and Epstein’s relationship, he said: “I thought it was more personal than business.”Visoski was questioned by Assistant U.S. Attorney Maurene Comey, the daughter of former FBI Director James Comey, whom Trump fired in 2017.Maxwell's trial in the Southern District of New York, which started Monday, is expected to take six weeks.CORRECTION (Nov. 30, 2021, 6:10 p.m. ET): A previous version of this article misspelled the first name of an assistant U.S. attorney. She is Maurene Comey, not Maureen.
Black golf fans mourn Lee Elder's death as Tiger Woods says injuries will limit his play. Andy Graham was stung by the news that one of golf’s trailblazers, Lee Elder, had died Sunday at 87. Then, Monday afternoon, Tiger Woods said in an interview that he would not compete any longer as a full-time player on the PGA Tour because of injuries from a car crash.“Two pieces of news that, as a Black golfer and fan of the sport, is hard to take,” said Graham, 68, of Dallas, Elder’s hometown. “I was inspired to play golf by Lee Elder. I literally began playing golf because of him. And Tiger, well, when I played so badly that I thought about giving up the game, he inspired me to keep going. So, for me, these two are linked.” Elder and Woods are inextricably connected for countless Black golfers and fans of the game, but for different reasons — Elder for being the first Black person to play at the famed Augusta National in the 1975 Masters, enduring death threats along the way, and Woods for emerging as perhaps the greatest player in history, inspiring an entire generation of new Black golfers.“It’s easy to think of one of them and also think of the other,” Graham said, “because Lee Elder opened the door and Tiger stepped through it.” Lee Elder talks to Tiger Woods before the final round of the 1997 Masters. Augusta National / Getty ImagesElder earned his tour card in 1968 — seven years after the PGA’s Caucasian-only rule was lifted. His perseverance, Woods has said, not only cleared a path for him to display his unique talent but also proved that Black golfers could play on the highest level. He won four times on the tour and eight more times on the PGA Seniors Tour, now called the PGA Champions Tour.And he did much of it even as racial slurs were hurled at him and he got death threats from white people who did not want the sport to be integrated. He also often had to change clothes in his car, because, as a Black man, he was not allowed in segregated clubhouses. But he was undeterred, driven by his passion for the game he picked up as a caddie in his youth. It was a monumental occasion when Elder was named one of the ceremonial starters for the Masters Tournament in April.“Lee Elder still hadn’t got enough credit as an icon breaking down the color barrier in a sport that was exclusive of Black people,” said avid golfer Robert Diggs, a lawyer in Atlanta. “But he was finally getting the recognition he deserved. So it’s unfortunate he passed away now.“And then you throw in Tiger not being able to play often, and it’s just sad,” he said. If Elder took Black golf to one level, Woods, 45, took it into the stratosphere, earning 15 major championships and a historic 82 career wins, more than any other male player. He posted a video last week on social media taking swings for the first time since his serious car accident in February, when he suffered multiple open fractures along his right leg, as well as damage to the ankle and trauma to the leg’s muscle and soft tissue.In an interview Monday with Golf Digest, Woods said: “I think something that is realistic is playing the tour one day, never full time, ever again, but pick and choose a few events a year and you play around that. You practice around that, and you gear yourself up for that. And you play. I think that’s how I’m going to have to play it from now on.“It’s an unfortunate reality, but it’s my reality. And I understand it, and I accept it,” he said.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news3 killed, 8 injured in shooting at Oxford High School in suburban DetroitU.S. newsU.S. newsMan wanted in gun discharge at Atlanta airport surrendersIt is not as easy for all fans to accept, however. Woods was a one-man television ratings bonanza whose dynamic play revolutionized the game and drew new fans to the sport. “I’m sure his body can’t take it anymore,” Diggs said. “It just can’t. Sounds like that was a really bad accident on top of the other surgeries he’s already had. You hate to see him wind down his career like this, playing every so often. But he made history. He’s the greatest ever. And he made the sport cool for Black people.”Graham said: “Maybe it’s just me, but golf will not be the same without Tiger playing regularly. The day was going to come at some point, but he still had a lot left. I guess there will be a big  buildup every time he tees it up. But through his success, so many people were inspired to play a game that they didn’t have any interest in before him. He walked right in the path Elder and others created for him.”Khary Mitchell, who co-created the Facebook page Black Golfers Association and the website Honor 61 — which celebrates the legacy of Black golfers and seeks to continue its growth among  Black people — said Elder’s lasting mark as a golfer and as a man speaks to more than the game.“I can only hope that his spirit continues to embody the golfer in our day and age, especially in the African American community,”  he said. “There were more Lee Elders out there that never got a club in their hand to learn what it’s like to imagine a shot, hit that shot. There was always some sort of legal, financial or racial issue hindering our ability to be a part of golf.” And that continues today. Beside Woods, Cameron Champ and Harold Varner are the only Black mainstays on the PGA Tour. Recreationally, Blacks’ participation in the sport grew exponentially once Woods began dominating golf in the late 1990s.But it all goes back to Elder. “He allowed my dad to get excited about the game and allowed me to participate in the game,” Woods said on ESPN after he won the 2019 Masters. “He set a progression ... society needed.”Follow NBCBLK on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.CORRECTION (Nov. 30, 2021, 9:40 p.m. ET): A previous version of this article misstated a record attributed to Tiger Woods. Although he has won 82 golf tournaments, more than any other male player, he has not won more golf tournaments than anyone else. Kathy Whitworth won 88 tournaments on the LPGA Tour.
Wife of Mexican drug trafficker 'El Chapo' sentenced to 3 years in prison, officials say. The wife of Mexican drug kingpin Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzmán was sentenced to three years in prison after she pleaded guilty to helping her husband run his multibillion-dollar trafficking operation, the Justice Department said Tuesday.Emma Coronel Aispuro, 32, appeared in federal court Tuesday and told the judge that she was deeply sorry and ashamed, reported Telemundo, NBC’s Spanish-language network.Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman is escorted by soldiers in Mexico on Jan. 8, 2016. Tomas Bravo / Reuters fileCoronel Aispuro pleaded guilty in June to three federal offenses as part of a plea deal with federal prosecutors including knowingly and willfully conspiring to distribute heroin, cocaine, marijuana and methamphetamine for several years. She also pleaded guilty to a money-laundering conspiracy charge and to engaging in transactions with a foreign narcotics trafficker.U.S. District Judge Rudolph Contreras also entered a forfeiture money judgment Tuesday of nearly $1.5 million, representing proceeds of property Coronel Aispuro obtained as a result of her drug-trafficking activities, the Justice Department said in a statement.Coronel Aispuro's attorney, Jeffrey Lichtman, could not immediately be reached for comment Tuesday afternoon.From about 2011 to at least Jan. 19, 2017, Coronel Aispuro "was a co-conspirator in the activities of the Sinaloa Cartel," which was led by her husband, officials said.February: Wife of drug kingpin El Chapo arrested on drug trafficking chargesFeb. 23, 202101:41She was taken into custody in February at Dulles International Airport near Washington. Coronel Aispuro told Contreras in Spanish on Tuesday that she was remorseful. "I am here before you, asking you for forgiveness," she said through a court interpreter.Federal prosecutor Anthony Nardozzi said: "While the overall effect of the defendant's conduct was significant, the defendant's actual role was a minimal one. The defendant acted primarily in support of her husband."RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news3 killed, 8 injured in shooting at Oxford High School in suburban DetroitU.S. newsU.S. newsMan wanted in gun discharge at Atlanta airport surrendersHe added that after she was arrested, she "quickly accepted responsibility for her criminal conduct."Coronel Aispuro, a dual U.S.-Mexican citizen, helped Guzmán escape from a maximum-security prison in Mexico in 2015 by conducting "planning meetings with other co-conspirators and by coordinating the movement of drug proceeds to finance the escape," the Justice Department statement said.After her husband was caught, she was alleged to have plotted another escape from the same facility two years later, authorities said.Guzmán was convicted in 2019 of 10 charges of engaging in a continual criminal enterprise and multiple counts of distributing tons of cocaine in the U.S. He was sentenced to life in prison plus 30 years.
Former UCF running back Otis Anderson Jr. killed in dispute over dog bite. A former college football standout was gunned down in Florida by  his father following an argument they had over a dog bite, officials said Tuesday.Gunfire erupted near just before 9:30 p.m. Monday in northwest Jacksonville, where officers found "two victims with gunshot wounds, one adult Black male and one adult Black female," according to a statement from the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office.They were both taken to the hospital, where the man, shot in the chest and shoulder, was pronounced dead, authorities said."All involved parties are believed to be related, this incident was domestic in nature, and there are no outstanding suspects," according to the sheriff's statement. Authorities didn't immediately name the victims, but court documents later identified the suspect as Otis Lee Anderson, 52. The University of Central Florida mourned the loss of  23-year-old Otis Anderson Jr., a former star running back for the Knights.The fatal confrontation began after "Otis Lee Anderson Sr. got bit by (the victim's) girlfriend's dog" and "was bleeding throughout the house," according to a booking and arrest report.The suspect then flipped a reclining chair before the two continued their argument, officials said.The heavily redacted report quoted Anderson Sr. saying "Anderson Jr. charged at him" but it wasn't clear if the suspect was claiming self-defense.Anderson Sr. also "stated multiple times that Anderson Jr. had never disrespected him before this incident," according to the report. The father was booked on suspicion of second-degree murder and attempted second-degree murder in the shooting of his wife, Denise Anderson, records showed.A lawyer for Anderson Sr. could not be immediately reached for comment Tuesday.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news3 killed, 8 injured in shooting at Oxford High School in suburban DetroitU.S. newsU.S. newsMan wanted in gun discharge at Atlanta airport surrenders“We have now confirmed and are devastated to hear of the passing of Otis Anderson Jr. He was revered by his teammates, our fans, and everyone within Knight Nation,” according to a UCF statement.“Our deepest condolences go out to everyone who loved Otis. He was taken too soon and will truly be missed.” Anderson Jr. rushed for 2,182 yards during his four-year UCF career, making him the ninth most prolific rusher in school history.“My brief interaction with him was special — he cared very deeply for UCF,”  said university Athletic Director Terry Mohajir, who came on the job shortly after Anderson’s Knights football career ended. “I’m hopeful that all who knew him can somehow find peace, especially his teammates.” Anderson was not drafted but spent this past training camp with the Los Angeles Rams before he was cut. University of Tennessee football coach Josh Heupel, who was Anderson's coach at UCF, fondly remembered his former player's toughness on the field and good nature off the gridiron."Saddened and stunned by the passing of Otis Anderson Jr.,"  Heupel tweeted Tuesday. "Tough and gritty, fun and full of laughter, he made such a positive impact on our university, community and our locker room. He was an unbelievable teammate." Otis Anderson Jr. is not related to Super Bowl XXV MVP Ottis “O.J.” Anderson of the New York Giants."So deeply saddened today to hear about the murder of Otis Anderson Jr.," Ottis Anderson said in a statement on Tuesday. "I have no words.  Please say a prayer for the healing of his mother."
Author Alice Sebold apologizes to man wrongfully convicted of raping her. Author Alice Sebold apologized Tuesday to the man who was exonerated of the 1981 rape featured in her memoir, "Lucky," saying she struggled with the role she "unwittingly played within a system that sent an innocent man to jail." The man, Anthony Broadwater, 68, was convicted in 1982 of raping Sebold, 58, and served 16 years in prison. The conviction was overturned last week after authorities found serious flaws in the original arrest and the trial.Sebold, who also wrote the novels "The Lovely Bones" and "The Almost Moon," based her 1999 memoir, "Lucky," on her rape when she was a student at Syracuse University.In a statement to The Associated Press, which was later posted on Medium, Sebold apologized to Broadwater for her role in his conviction. She wrote that as a "traumatized 18-year-old rape victim," she chose to put her faith in the legal system. "My goal in 1982 was justice — not to perpetuate injustice," she said. "And certainly not to forever, and irreparably, alter a young man's life by the very crime that had altered mine."In a written statement Tuesday, publisher Scribner and Simon & Schuster said distribution of "Lucky" in all its formats would cease "while Sebold and Scribner together consider how the work might be revised." The decision was made following Broadwater's exoneration and in consultation with Sebold, the statement said.Sebold wrote in “Lucky” that she was raped and that several months later, she saw a Black man walking down the street who she believed was the person who attacked her. Sebold, who is white, reported her experience to police. An officer suggested that the man was Broadwater, who had supposedly been seen in the area. Sebold failed to identify Broadwater in a police lineup after he was arrested. She wrote in “Lucky” that she picked a different man based on the "expression in his eyes."Man exonerated in 1980s rape of author Alice SeboldNov. 24, 202103:49Broadwater was tried and convicted regardless. Sebold identified him as her rapist on the witness stand, and an expert said microscopic hair analysis linked him to the assault. The analysis used in the 1982 case has since been debunked as "junk science" by the Justice Department. Broadwater told The AP that he has "been crying tears of joy and relief" since he was exonerated. RecommendedCulture MattersCulture MattersSinger Trey Songz under investigation after sexual assault is alleged in Las VegasPop Culture NewsPop Culture NewsAdele announces Las Vegas residency at Caesars PalaceSebold said in her statement: "I am grateful that Mr. Broadwater has finally been vindicated, but the fact remains that 40 years ago, he became another young Black man brutalized by our flawed legal system. I will forever be sorry for what was done to him."Sebold said she is also grappling with the fact that her rapist will "never be known" and may have assaulted other women. Broadwater, who has not publicly responded to Sebold's apology, remained on New York's sex offender registry after he was released from prison in 1999.Sebold said she will remain sorry for the rest of her life "that while pursuing justice through the legal system," her "own misfortune" put Broadwater behind bars. "He has served not only 16 years behind bars but in ways that further serve to wound and stigmatize, nearly a full life sentence," she said.
Barbados cuts ties with Queen Elizabeth II, becomes a republic in a dazzling ceremony. LONDON — Almost 400 years after the first English ship arrived on its golden shores, the former British colony of Barbados woke up Tuesday as a republic.The tiny Caribbean nation removed Queen Elizabeth II as its head of state in a spectacular ceremony that began late Monday, breaking its ties with the British royal family — and with it, one of the island’s last remaining imperial bonds to the United Kingdom. The event was held 55 years to the day since Barbados gained full independence but kept the monarch in the ceremonial role. At the strike of midnight local time, the new republic was born to the cheers of local crowds. The moment was marked by a 21-gun salute and the playing of the Barbadian national anthem.A dazzling display of fireworks, dance and music was followed by  Prime Minister Mia Mottley declaring the singer Rihanna — a Barbadian native, as well as a global star — a national hero."May you continue to shine like a diamond,” the prime minister told Rihanna during the ceremony as they both laughed. Toby Melville / Pool via ReutersSandra Mason, a Barbadian who had served as the island’s governor general — or queen’s representative — was sworn in as the country’s first president. She was elected to the figurehead post by Parliament last month, but Mottley will continue to run the country.  “It is a monumental step,” Kristina Hinds, a senior lecturer in political science at the University of the West Indies in eastern Barbados, said on a Zoom call from her home in Wanstead, north of the capital, Bridgetown ahead of the ceremony. “I think it is part of the evolution of our independence, and it is certainly long overdue.”Prince Charles, the heir to the British throne, was in attendance as Barbados celebrated ending its formal links with his 95-year-old mother. Elizabeth is queen of 15 other realms including the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada and Jamaica.Charles gave a speech saying the creation of the republic "offers a new beginning,” while his mother sent the island her "warmest good wishes" in a statement.“From the darkest days of our past and the appalling atrocity of slavery which forever stains our history, people of this island forged their path with extraordinary fortitude,” he saidHis presence may signal the royal family’s desire to maintain strong bonds with the island, which will remain in the Commonwealth — a voluntary association of 54 states that includes many former British colonies and which the queen has championed throughout her life. Prince Charles' speech sought to highlight the continuing friendship of the two nations in spite of Barbados' move to become a republic.ReutersBut to Hinds, Charles’ presence is symbolically “a bit odd.” “It’s problematic for those among us who believe that the British monarchy, as important as it has been for Barbados historically in positive ways, has also caused serious harm to the country,” she said.In the 17th century, Barbados was claimed by the British and turned into a lucrative colony using the labor of hundreds of thousands of people brought over as slaves from Africa.It became a major hub for the production of sugar, an increasingly crucial commodity that helped enrich British slave owners. “A result of the desire for the production of sugar, which was catering for a growing sweet tooth back in England — white consumer lifestyles built on the back of black exploitation and slave labor,” said Christopher Prior, associate professor in colonial and postcolonial history at U.K.’s University of Southampton. The island’s present day population of about 287,000 is comprised  mostly of the descendants of people brought over as slaves from Africa to work in the plantations. 'Not personal'Despite this history, there remains a level of respect for the monarchy and Britain in general, especially among the island’s older population, Hinds said. Many places in Barbados are named after the queen or her ancestors, and a lion’s share of the country’s tourists come from the U.K., she added. The island is often referred to as “little England.”Still, several people in Barbados welcomed their country’s move to sever ties with its old imperial rulers. “For Barbadians, this is not something personal against the queen, it is about our national pride and governance,” René Holder-McClean-Ramirez, 45, an LGBTQ community advocate and consultant, said on the phone from his home in Bridgetown. “As we grow and develop as an independent nation, having a foreign head of state just is not necessary or practical,” he said. For Ronnie Yearwood, an attorney from Bridgetown, the positive feeling of the move is combined with regret that the government pushed ahead without consulting the public on the type of republic they would want.Barbados first pursued the idea of republicanism in the late 1970s and in 2008 proposed to hold a referendum on the issue, but the date was pushed back indefinitely. The decision to remove the queen as head of state was announced in 2020 but with little consultation about the transition, Yearwood said. “There is a lot of disappointment,” Yearwood, 42, said. “It could have been a beautiful moment for all Barbadians.”NBC News reached out to both the prime minister’s office and Mason, but was not granted interviews. Archive footage of Queen Elizabeth's tours as Barbados removes her as the head of stateNov. 26, 202100:54'Global conversation'Barbados’ decision to ditch the queen follows a wave of protests across the world inspired by the Black Lives Matter movement in the United States. A more forthright evaluation of Britain’s imperial past has helped drive an effort to bring down symbols of racism and colonialism from Cambridge to the Caribbean.“It’s a local manifestation of a very global conversation that’s being had about the legacy of the British empire and its colonial exploitation,” Prior said.“Barbados’ move is another element of our decolonizing moments.” So could the change stirring on the beaches of Barbados mark the start of a wave of realms cutting ties with the royal family?“When the queen eventually passes away, there is going to be an emergence of further conversations, particularly in places like Australia, about whether they want to have Charles as their head of state,” Prior said. “I don’t want to suggest there’s any inevitability, but I think it’s extremely likely that the issue of republicanism is not going to be going away anytime soon.”
Adele announces Las Vegas residency at Caesars Palace. Adele is headed to Las Vegas. The singer, who released her album "30" this month, tweeted on Tuesday that she'll be starting a residency in 2022 called "Weekends With Adele." "See you at Caesars in Vegasss," the "Easy on Me" singer tweeted.The residency is slated to run from January to April, according to an image included in the tweet. The first show is scheduled for Jan. 21. The final show is scheduled for April 16.RecommendedPop Culture NewsPop Culture NewsAuthor Alice Sebold apologizes to man cleared of rape at the center of her memoir 'Lucky'Culture MattersCulture MattersSinger Trey Songz under investigation after sexual assault is alleged in Las VegasThe show will miss one weekend in February when Van Morrison is scheduled to perform at the same venue.  Adele releases new single from album '30'Oct. 15, 202100:58Caesars Palace also tweeted about the residency on Tuesday. The hotel is home to The Colosseum, the entertainment venue where the residency will be held. Tickets will go on pre-sale in early December.The announcement comes on the heels of the release of "30," the singer's latest, critically acclaimed album, which, three days after its debut, became the best-selling album of 2021. 
Josephine Baker becomes first Black woman honored at Paris’ Panthéon. Josephine Baker, the legendary performer and entertainer, will be honored Tuesday at the Panthéon in Paris, where she will the first Black woman to be memorialized, as well as the first U.S.-born person and performing artist to be recognized.Baker, who died in 1975, began her career as a jazz performer. When she moved to France in 1925, she continued to showcase her Black heritage through her performances as she became immersed in French culture. As the second World War gained traction across Europe, Baker, who became a French citizen in 1937, lent her services to the French government, acting as a spy and bringing other counterintelligence officers into her act. According to the French Defense Ministry, her clandestine service continued through the war, when she refused to perform for Nazis who occupied France. Josephine Baker with army officers during the ceremony at which she was awarded with the Legion of Honor and the Croix de Guerre with palm on Aug. 19, 1961. AFP via Getty ImagesConstructed in the 18th century, the Panthéon is a symbol for the history of France, holding 72 men and five women recognized for their accomplishments by France and its citizens. Following tradition, Baker’s symbolic casket will be carried down Paris’ Rue Soufflot into the monument. The casket contains soil from four places she inhabited: St. Louis, Missouri; Paris; Les Milandes in the south of France; and Monaco. French President Emmanuel Macron will speak, and Baker’s children will read excerpts from some of her best-known speeches. A video highlighting Baker’s life will be shown , and a children’s choir will perform.The Panthéon in Paris. Stephane Cardinale / Corbis via Getty ImagesBaker and other Black American artists and intellectuals gravitated to Europe to escape racism in the U.S., especially in the early 20th century. Maboula Soumahoro, an associate professor at the Université de Tours in France, said Black Americans in particular were associated with the power and respect of the U.S. because of its war efforts in France during World War I and World War II. As a result, the French people generally welcomed Black Americans. “It’s not only about race,” said Soumahoro, who focuses on U.S., African American and Africana studies. “It’s not only about Blackness. She was a Black American. So that status that she achieved in France was possible, and impossible in the United States.” But Soumahoro said Black inhabitants of French colonies “would have never reached that level of success” in France.Josephine Baker around 1970.David Redfern / RedfernsJulie Browne, a journalist, gives tourists a historical glimpse into Baker’s life through her company, Walking the Spirit Tours, which focuses on exploring the history and culture of Black people in Paris. The route following Baker’s life includes sites like Château des Milandes, where Baker raised her children, and the Madeleine Church, the site of her state funeral in 1975. Browne said Baker’s Black and French identities contributed to her cultural influence and made her “a universal figure.” “She’s actually on both sides, because the Blackness very much is important to the advancement that she wants to make for the Black community,” Browne said, “but on the other side, there is the universal side of being an entertainer who has influence in everything she does, like with the army. She embodied, you know, that liberty, the freedom, the quality and the brotherhood, and she has remained faithful to France, all that she has done and the French values.”Baker’s performances had a daring quality, and her style influenced other women regardless of their race. As a cultural icon, Baker encouraged more women to seek liberation, including sexual freedom. Josephine Baker in 1961.Hulton Archive / Getty ImagesThrough her stardom, Baker was often in the presence of many royal figures, including Princess Grace of Monaco. In an NBC News interview, Prince Albert reminisced about Baker’s gracious and friendly character, which established her great friendship with his mother. Albert’s family helped Baker during times of financial hardship while helping her perform again after a hiatus. Albert watched Baker perform in her later years at a live show in 1974, where, he said, “her beauty and radiance were still there” and “it was a delight to be able to witness that.”Besides being an artist, an entertainer and an activist, Baker also engaged in humanitarian efforts. Her 12 adopted children are referred to as “the rainbow tribe,” as they all derived from different nationalities and ethnic groups. Eleven of her children are still living, one of them Akio Bouillon, who said his mother continuously donated her time, resources and money to help those in need. Josephine Baker and conductor Jo Bouillon at their wedding in the chapel of the Milandes Castle in Castelnaud-la-Chapelle, France, on June 3, 1947.AFP via Getty Images“She wanted the world to be better,” Bouillon said. “That was her aim in life.”Baker’s legacy lives on through those who continue to be inspired by her, like Rosemary Phillips, a Caribbean jazz singer, songwriter and actor who incorporates Baker’s dance routines into her own performances. Phillips, who lives in France, also owns one of Baker’s properties, Le Parc de Josephine Baker in Castelnaud-la-Chapelle, which she and her boyfriend plan to restore. During Baker’s life, the property hosted concerts and conferences while attracting people from all over the world, from famous musicians to children who were stayed at the park through Baker’s scholarship program. Baker’s youthful and philanthropic spirit lives on through Phillips’ vision, which includes using the property as the cultural place it once was for artists in dance, music and film. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news3 killed, 8 injured in shooting at Oxford High School in suburban DetroitU.S. newsU.S. newsMan wanted in gun discharge at Atlanta airport surrendersSince she took ownership of the property, Phillips has hosted concerts, master classes and fundraisers for children with disabilities. She also uses it for festivals, and she plans to hold art exhibitions. Through her activities, Phillips continues Baker’s dream of overlooking people’s differences and unifying the world through artistic expression.“She was really before her time,” Phillips said. “So it was a really big project to make the world a better place before leaving it.”
Europe’s border agency under fire for aiding Libya's brutal migrant detentions . This article was produced in partnership with The Outlaw Ocean Project, a nonprofit journalism organization based in Washington that focuses on reporting about environmental and human rights crimes at sea.Around 5 p.m. on Feb. 4, roughly 70 miles north of Libya, a white reconnaissance plane with a camera on its underside circled a raft that was carrying a hundred desperate migrants trying to cross the Mediterranean Sea to reach Europe. The surveillance footage from the airplane’s camera was transmitted live to an office in Warsaw, Poland, at the headquarters of Frontex, the European Union’s border patrol agency.Two hours later, a Libyan Coast Guard cutter caught up with the migrants and ordered them to stop, even though they were well outside of Libyan waters. According to several migrants who survived the experience, the armed officers then took the migrants on board, beat them savagely, and carried them back to the one place they did not want to go: Libya’s gulag of detention centers.  Aliou Candé.Courtesy Jacaria CandéTwo months later, on April 8, one of the passengers, a 28-year-old Bissau Guinean and father of three named Aliou Candé, was shot and killed in Libya’s most notorious detention center, Al Mabani.The Libyan Coast Guard’s discovery of the boat was no coincidence. A Frontex official confirmed what several investigations by European news organizations have already found: Officials in multiple E.U. countries routinely transmit Frontex’s aerial surveillance footage to the Libyan Coast Guard, which uses that information to pick up migrants and return them to a network of abusive detention centers in Libya.Efficient and brutal, the at-sea capture and on-land internment of these migrants is what European Union officials hail as part of a successful partnership with Libya in their “humanitarian rescue” efforts across the Mediterranean. But the true intent of this joint campaign, according to many human rights advocates, legal experts and members of the European Parliament, is less to save migrants from drowning than to stop them from reaching European shores.Since the migrant crisis started in 2015 and hundreds of thousands of people began crossing the Mediterranean Sea, European officials have relied heavily on the Libyans to stem the flow. Not only did the E.U. equip and train the Libyan Coast Guard, it also lobbied the United Nations maritime organization to recognize an enlarged search-and-rescue zone so that the Libyans could have wider reach off their coast. The E.U., led by Italy, has trained and equipped the Libyan Coast Guard to serve as a proxy maritime force, whose central purpose is to stop migrants from reaching European shores. Flying drones and airplanes over the Mediterranean, Frontex locates migrant rafts, then alerts the Italians, who, in turn, inform the Libyan authorities. Once captured by the Libyan Coast Guard, tens of thousands of these migrants are then delivered into a dozen or so detention centers run by militias.This collaboration has been the principal factor in a precipitous drop in the number of migrants reaching Europe: Around 20,000 migrants arrived in the first seven months of this year, down from 70,000 during the same period in 2016. Without the support of aerial reconnaissance from Frontex, the Libyan Coast Guard would in effect be searching with its eyes closed.  Though the Libyan Coast Guard routinely opens fire on migrant rafts, has been tied by the U.N. to human trafficking and murder and is now run by militias, it continues to draw strong E.U. support. In 2020, the E.U. shipped four new speedboats to the Libyan Coast Guard so that it could more effectively capture migrants and send them to the same detention centers that the U.N. has described as being involved in state-sponsored crimes against humanity.Growing evidence of collaboration with LibyaFrontex has long denied direct cooperation with Libya, which has been a failed state largely run by militias since NATO allies deposed President Moammar Gadhafi in 2001. Most migrants from the Middle East or Africa seeking to get to Europe launch from Libya because the passage is cheaper than from Morocco or Tunisia, and the trip across the Mediterranean from Libya is relatively short. Frontex has insisted its sole aim is to save lives, and a spokesperson for the agency said that it only directly alerts Libyan authorities of migrant boats in a true emergency.“International law obliges all vessels to provide assistance to any persons found in distress,” the Frontex press office said in a statement, in response to requests for comment on this article. “[Frontex] has never engaged in any direct cooperation with Libyan authorities.”But a mounting body of evidence collected by European journalists and nongovernmental organizations suggests otherwise. Bangladeshi migrants making their way from Libya to Europe are rescued by the crew of the Geo Barents, a rescue vessel operated by Doctors Without Borders in the central Mediterranean, on June 12, 2021.Ed Ou / The Outlaw Ocean ProjectLast year, for instance, Lighthouse Reports, a Dutch nonprofit journalism organization, documented 20 instances in which Frontex aircraft were in the vicinity of migrant boats later captured by the Libyan Coast Guard. In a dozen of those cases, Lighthouse determined, Frontex was the first to identify the boats, meaning that under international law, it was obliged to notify not just the Libyan Coast Guard, but the nearest vessel — government or commercial — so that a rescue might be promptly undertaken.“There is a clear pattern discernible,” Lighthouse researchers asserted. “Boats in distress are spotted, communications take place between European actors and the Libyan Coast Guard. No notice is given to nearby commercial shipping or NGO vessels despite its proximity to urgent situations where boats are in distress on the open sea.“While the real numbers could be far higher, this representative sample showed that Frontex was present and watching while at least 91 people went missing and are presumed to have drowned.”Frontex says that in emergency situations, it contacts any potential seaborne rescuer, including the Libyan Coast Guard, but says this does not imply it coordinates with Libya to pick up the migrants.The Al-Mabani detention center in Libya on May 18, 2021.Pierre Kattar / The Outlaw Ocean ProjectDocuments released in October following an open-records request by the European transparency group FragDenStaat show that Frontex even sends the locations of migrant rafts directly to the Coast Guard. In a WhatsApp exchange from June, Frontex wrote to a “Captain of the Libyan Coast Guard,” saying, “Good morning sir — we have a boat adrift [at these coordinates]... please acknowledge this message.” Frontex officials recently sent The Outlaw Ocean the results of an open-records request, which indicate that, from Feb. 1 to Feb. 5, around the time that Candé was at sea, the agency exchanged 37 emails with the Libyan Coast Guard.Hussein Baoumi, Amnesty International’s Libya researcher, said he was not surprised by Frontex’s continuing denial of a formal relationship with the Libyan Coast Guard. “They want to separate themselves from the dirtiest aspects of migrant containment,” Baoumi said. “It doesn’t matter. They are cooperating. They are directly complicit.”Behind the migrant prisons, E.U. moneyThe E.U. has also denied directly funding the gulag of migrant prisons in Libya, while consistently both conceding their barbarity and calling for improvements. But lawmakers and human rights advocates have called for the E.U. to end its work with Libya and take steps to rescue those caught up in the country’s migrant jails.But if the E.U. does not pay to build the detention centers or staff their guards, European money does pay for virtually everything else in the inhumane system where migrants are routinely tortured, raped, unlawfully held and sometimes murdered, The Outlaw Ocean Project and The New Yorker found in a 11-month investigation based on financial reports, interviews with European parliamentarians and U.N. officials and aid workers, E.U. purchasing documents, an open-records request to Frontex and the European Commission, flight-tracking data, and open-source platforms including Facebook and Instagram.Through Frontex drones and planes, the E.U. is first responsible for spotting the rafts and, via Italian and Maltese authorities, handing this intelligence over to Libya. Then E.U.-purchased boats operated by the Libyan Coast Guard capture the migrants and bring them back to shore.Migrants wait to be returned by Libyan Coast Guard off the coast of Garabulli, Libya, on Oct. 19, 2021.Anadolu Agency via Getty Images fileFunds from the E.U. and member states, sometimes routed through aid organizations, pay for most of what happens next, the investigation found by scouring public databases such as the E.U. Tenders Portal.  This money bought the shipping containers that double as port offices for the Libyan Coast Guard staff, and the touch-screen tablets used by aid workers who count the migrants as they disembark in Tripoli. The team examined public disclosures, interviewed European parliamentarians and combed through annual reports and audits of the E.U.’s Emergency Trust Fund for Africa, which indicated that money from the E.U. and its member states pays for much of what happens to migrants in Libya. Some of these efforts make the prisons more humane, but they also help sustain a brutal system, which exists largely because of E.U. policies that send migrants back to Libya.The project also studied the social media pages of Libyan authorities, sourcing images and video of the boats, SUVs, ambulances and buses provided by the European Union that are being used to intercept and transport migrants to the detention centers.The investigation found that the E.U. pays for every aspect of the migrant interception infrastructure in some way — from aerial surveillance to Libya’s boats, from the SUVs that intercept migrants in the desert to the buses that bring them from port to the gates of the detention centers. It even pays for the offices of the Libyan Coast Guard.A Libyan coastguard vessel carries migrants recovered off the coast of al-Khums, about 120 kilometres east of the capital, as it approaches the pier in Tripoli's naval base on Feb. 10, 2021.AFP via Getty ImagesSome of it may appear to be humanitarian assistance: the blankets, winter clothes, and slippers that migrants often receive upon arrival. The bathrooms at some of the detention centers as well as the showers, toilets, soap, hygiene kits, and toilet paper were bought with E.U. money. The same goes for the mattresses where the detained migrants sleep. When migrants in detention get sick, often the ambulances that take them to the hospital have been purchased by the E.U.But E.U. money also paid for the SUVs used by Libyan migration authorities to look for migrants if they escape detention or as they enter Libya in the south through the Saharan desert. Ultimately, experts and advocates said the abuses suffered by migrants would not be happening if E.U. money did not make it possible.“If the E.U. did not finance the Libyan Coast Guard and its assets, there would be no interception, and there would be no referral to these horrific detention centers,” said Tineke Strik, the Dutch member of the European Parliament who wrote the parliamentary report on Frontex.Asked about the involvement of the E.U. in Libyan abuses of migrants, Josep Borrell, the E.U.’s ​​High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, said the treatment of migrants is the sole responsibility of the Libyan government.Josep Borrell, the E.U.’s High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, left, and Libyan Foreign Minister Najla al-Mangoush attend a press conference in Tripoli, Libya, on Sept. 8, 2021.Hamza Turkia / Xinhua News Agency via Getty Images file“The [European] Commission does not support Libya’s detention system,” he said in a statement. “Accordingly, the E.U. Emergency Trust Fund for Africa does not fund the country’s detention centers. However, through its partners, the Commission does provide lifesaving support to detained migrants, including Voluntary Humanitarian Return to the country of departure, non-food items, medical assistance, cleaning, as well as fumigation and disinfection to prevent diseases from spreading inside the centers.”Migrants face a brutal detention systemIn May, I went to Libya’s capital, Tripoli, to report on the country’s gulag of migrant jails. I interviewed dozens of migrants who had been imprisoned at Al Mabani, one of the most notorious detention centers, in the heart of the city. They told me of cells so crowded the detainees had to sleep in shifts. They spoke of a special room where migrants were sometimes beaten while hung upside from ceiling beams. And they shared with me the audio message that Aliou Candé, the young migrant from Guinea Bissau who was captured in February, had recorded on a cellphone sneaked into the jail in which he made a final plea to his family to send the ransom he needed to be set free.Messages are scrawled on a wall in the Gharyan Detention Center in Libya.The Outlaw Ocean ProjectCandé was killed, the other migrants said, one of hundreds who died at the hands of guards and were buried in an overcrowded migrant cemetery in Tripoli.No one was punished for Candé’s death. E.U. officials called for an investigation, but then went silent.And then I got my own taste of Libya’s brutality. A week into my reporting on Candé’s killing, I was abducted from my hotel room and held for almost a week by Libya’s intelligence service, run by a militia called Al-Nawasi. I was blindfolded, two of my ribs were broken, and I was held incommunicado for five days before my eventual release. My crime? Reporting on migrants. My colleagues and I were later forced at gunpoint by our captors to sign a confession letter at the behest of the head of the Libyan intelligence service, a man named Maj. Gen. Hussein Muhammad Al-A’ib.Frontex “didn’t want to understand”Since Frontex is the tip of the spear, more attention is being paid to the role it plays and the legality of its involvement.A recent investigation by the European Parliament produced a litany of allegations against the agency — that it turned a blind eye to human rights violations committed by coast guard personnel from European countries and partner countries in Africa; that its own internal system for receiving and acting on complaints of misconduct was itself a failure; and that the agency’s head, Fabrice Leggeri, had failed to act on four years of warnings from his agency’s own top human rights official.Frontex issued a statement at the time saying that while it was not in violation of any human rights, it was willing to look into the criticism and the recommendations and try to “strengthen the respect of fundamental rights in all our activities,” in Leggeri’s words.Frontex director Fabrice Leggeri speaks in Rezovo, Bulgaria, on Sept. 15, 2021.Hristo Rusev / Getty Images fileBut in an interview with The Outlaw Ocean Project in late October, a senior Frontex official said Leggeri had engaged in a calculated and disingenuous game for years — insisting that “evidence” of misconduct by E.U. border agencies be produced before he would act, all while failing to ensure that complaints of such potential abuse were aggressively investigated. The senior official, who is not allowed to talk to reporters publicly and asked for anonymity, said it is no longer clear that Frontex is meeting its most essential obligation: making sure the rights of some of the world’s most vulnerable people are respected. The official said the angry and volatile emotions in Europe concerning the question of migration enforcement had eroded Frontex’s complete independence. “The influence of politics is a problem when you are handling the question of fundamental human rights,” the official said. “Even if its participation in returning migrants to Libya is indirect, Frontex may be violating E.U. law.”“No interest” in investigating the allegations, the official said of Leggeri and his other most senior aides. “It didn’t matter what you told them. They didn’t want to understand.” Presented with the findings of this investigation, Leggeri’s office denied repeated requests for an interview. Border agency faces European justiceThis year, two landmark cases are being brought by migrants against Frontex before the Court of Justice of the European Union, the E.U.’s chief judicial authority. The first case, filed in May, claims that Frontex has long been operating in violation of its obligations to report and halt criminal abuse of migrants seeking asylum in Europe. The case alleges that two migrants — a 17-year-old Congolese boy named Jeancy Kimbenga and a woman from Burundi who asked to remain anonymous — were part of a group of 13 that was rounded up by Greek authorities after arriving on the Greek island of Lesbos. They say they were forcibly transferred to a Coast Guard vessel and brought back out to sea before being abandoned on a lifeboat, eventually ending up back in Turkey.The allegations in the second case, filed in October, are even stronger. The case alleges that a Syrian family, with four children between the ages of 1 and 7, were deported from Greece in 2016 without being given access to an asylum procedure, and were returned to Turkey on a flight arranged by Frontex, with the four young children separated from their parents while Frontex staff looked on. The family was detained on landing in Turkey and now lives in northern Iraq.Portuguese Frontex crew members check coordinates as they monitor the Aegean Sea between Turkey and Greece for boats carrying refugees on March 30, 2016, near Mithymna, Greece.Dan Kitwood / Getty Images fileThe cases are the first time Frontex has been brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union. The agency dismissed the cases as “an activist agenda pretending to be a legal case.”The nonprofit group Human Rights Watch, in a report published last summer, issued a sweeping indictment of Frontex’s performance, its organizational culture and its leadership. “Frontex has repeatedly failed to take effective action when allegations of human rights violations are brought to its attention,” said Eva Cossé, Western Europe researcher at Human Rights Watch. “Its rapid growth into an executive agency of the E.U., with increased powers, funding, and legal responsibilities makes it all the more urgent for Frontex to put in place effective tools to safeguard fundamental rights.”Created in 2004, Frontex now has a budget of 541 million euros (about $619 million) and it employs more than 1,400 staff members, including a uniformed force of roughly 600 officers. The agency is governed by a management board consisting of representatives of the 25 E.U. member states and two members of the European Commission. In theory, there are a range of mechanisms by which Frontex could be held accountable, but it has rarely, if ever, faced any genuine sanction. Obtaining basic information from the agency, even for a member of the European Parliament, is difficult. Employees work in the situation room at the headquarters of the European Union border agency Frontex in Warsaw, Poland, on Sept. 29, 2015.Wojtek Radwanski / AFP via Getty Images file“We really have problems with the lack of transparency,” said Tineke Strik, a Dutch member of the European Parliament.In its analysis of the history of Frontex’s work, Human Rights Watch noted that under its own bylaws, the agency has the power to suspend or end the operations of E.U. border agencies found to have committed abuses against migrants. In its entire history, Human Rights Watch said, the agency has never done so.Leggeri, Frontex’s executive director, has repeatedly faced calls to resign in recent months. Protesters gathered outside Frontex’s offices in Brussels in June calling for the abolishment of the agency altogether. In a letter to his staff, Leggeri, who worked on migration enforcement as a member of the French interior ministry, called the protests a “hate campaign” and vowed legal action.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news3 killed, 8 injured in shooting at Oxford High School in suburban DetroitU.S. newsU.S. newsMan wanted in gun discharge at Atlanta airport surrendersIn June, Human Rights Watch sent the agency’s top officials what it said was evidence of serious misconduct either committed or overlooked by Frontex in three European countries. It has yet to get a response. The organization accused Frontex of a cynical semantic game in avoiding responsibility for abuses taking place in both the Mediterranean and Aegean Seas.“Over the years, Frontex has relied on its coordinating role and lack of executive authority to evade human rights responsibility,” Human Rights Watch wrote. “In December 2020 Frontex Executive Director Fabrice Leggeri told the European Parliament there was no evidence of Frontex’s involvement in abuses in the Aegean and that only member states had the authority to make operational decisions, implying that Frontex could not be held responsible.”Frontex, under pressure, ordered an internal review of its operations. Its own investigators offered a withering critique of the agency’s systems for reporting problems in its ranks. The investigators said the agency needed to acknowledge its failures, and recommended what amounted to an overhaul of the agency’s culture concerning its responsibilities for identifying and acting on concerns about human rights violations. It suggested that Frontex record on video the enforcement work being done by E.U. member states and preserve the recordings for investigation.The European border agency Frontex is headquartered in the Warsaw Spire skyscraper, seen here on April 6, 2018, in Warsaw, Poland.Jaap Arriens / NurPhoto via Getty Images fileIn June, a migrants rights organization that had for years been part of an independent board of advisers to Frontex withdrew from the group. Saying it felt ignored and marginalized, the organization, the Platform for International Cooperation on Undocumented Migrants, said it had grown uncertain of Frontex’s role in “a civil society.”On yet another front, in January, the European Anti-Fraud Office opened an investigation into Frontex, looking at allegations of fraud, cases of illegally turning back migrants, and issues of workplace harassment, but the specific allegations have not been made public. Both Frontex and the European Anti-Fraud Office confirmed an investigation was taking place, but did not offer further details. “[They] are operating very carefully,” Strik said of investigators. “But I spoke to them in August and they hope to finish within a few months.”Outsourcing enforcement to a failed stateFrontex’s work with Libya is part of a much larger and more expensive European push to outsource immigration enforcement to third-party countries. The E.U. has sent billions to countries such as Libya, Niger, Tunisia and others, ostensibly to help them improve conditions in their countries and thus limit the need for people to flee. But tens of millions of those dollars have gone to toughen immigration legislation and empower enforcement agencies in those countries, according to a variety of studies by nongovernmental organizations.In July, Amnesty International issued its latest report on the state of migrants in Libya. It noted that the Libyan Coast Guard, often after being alerted by Frontex to migrants trying to make it to Europe, races to intercept the migrant boats and capture those aboard, sometimes firing guns at the rafts or dinghies, occasionally capsizing them. In February, for example, the Coast Guard fired on a raft, puncturing it and causing it to sink. Five people drowned as members of the Coast Guard filmed with their cellphones, the report said. A message is scratched out on a wall inside the Gharyan Detention Center in Libya.The Outlaw Ocean ProjectThe Libyan Coast Guard, really a hodgepodge of local port authorities, has for years been understood by the U.N. and other institutional observers to be working in concert with the country’s militias, many of whom are involved in human trafficking. Indeed, the head of the Libyan government agency overseeing the crackdown on migrants has admitted in a series of recent interviews that corruption exists within the ranks of the Coast Guard.The senior Frontex official who talked to The Outlaw Ocean Project said the agency should not do any sort of business with the Libyan Coast Guard, in part because Europe “didn’t have a clue” as to the integrity of those purporting to belong to the Coast Guard. Things were simply too broken and opaque in Libya, a divided and violent country still struggling to emerge from years of civil war, the official said.“It’s impossible,” the official said, “to have any vetting of who is who.”
9 months after the Texas freeze, the power grid remains vulnerable. This article was published in partnership with The Texas Tribune, a nonprofit, nonpartisan local newsroom that informs and engages with Texans. Sign up for The Brief Weekly to get up to speed on essential coverage of Texas issues.MIDLOTHIAN, Texas — After last winter’s freeze hamstrung the flow of electricity to millions of customers from one big Texas utility, the company’s CEO, Curt Morgan, said he’d never seen anything like it in his 40 years in the energy industry. During the peak days of the storm, Morgan’s company, Vistra Corp., Texas’ largest power generator, sent as much energy as it could to power the state’s failing grid, “often at the expense of making money,” he told legislators shortly after the storm.ERCOT faces Texas lawmakers after devastating power outagesFeb. 25, 202101:14But it wasn’t enough. The state’s grid neared complete collapse, millions of customers lost power for days in subfreezing temperatures, and more than 200 people died.Since the storm, Texas legislators have passed measures to make the grid more resilient during freezing weather. Signing the bill, Gov. Greg Abbott said, “Everything that needed to be done was done to fix the power grid.”But Morgan isn’t so sure. His company has spent $50 million this year preparing more than a dozen of its plants for winter. At the company’s plant in Midlothian, southwest of Dallas, workers have wrapped electric cables with 3 inches of rubber insulation and built enclosures to help shield valves, pumps and metal pipes.An employee of Vistra Corp.’s Midlothian Power Plant in Midlothian, Texas, adjusts the wiring of a power unit Oct. 15. Energy providers like Vistra are preparing their plants for extreme weather after the February winter storm.Shelby Tauber / The Texas TribuneNo matter what Morgan does, however, it won’t be enough to prevent another disaster if there is another severe freeze, he said. That’s because the state still hasn’t fixed the critical problem that paralyzed his plants: maintaining a sufficient supply of natural gas, Morgan said.Natural gas slowed to a trickle during the storm, leaving the Midlothian facility and 13 other Vistra power plants that run on gas without enough fuel. The shortage forced Vistra to pay more than $1.5 billion on the spot market for whatever gas was available, costing it in a matter of days more than twice what it usually spends in an entire year. Even then, plants were able to operate at only a small fraction of their capacities; the Midlothian facility ran at 30 percent during the height of the storm. “Why couldn’t we get it?” Morgan asked recently. “Because the gas system was not weatherized. And so we had natural gas producers that weren’t producing.”Twelve miles of pipes at Vistra Corp.’s Midlothian Power Plant in Midlothian, Texas, will be insulated and heated to maintain the internal temperature during extreme weather.Shelby Tauber / The Texas TribuneIf another major freeze hits Texas this winter, “the same thing could happen,” Morgan said in an interview.The predicament in Midlothian reflects a glaring shortcoming in Texas’ efforts to prevent a repeat of February, when a combination of freezing temperatures across the state and skyrocketing demand shut down natural gas facilities and power plants, which rely on one another to keep electricity flowing. The cycle of failures sent economic ripples across the country that cost hundreds of billions of dollars. The power and gas industries say they are working to make their systems more reliable during winter storms, and the Public Utility Commission, the state agency that regulates the power industry, finally acted on recommendations that federal regulators made a decade ago after another severe winter storm. But energy experts say Texas’ grid remains vulnerable, largely because new regulations allowed too much wiggle room for companies to avoid weatherization improvements that can take months or years. More than nine months after February’s storm — which could exceed Hurricane Harvey as the costliest natural disaster in state history — a lack of data from regulators and industry groups makes it impossible to know how many power and gas facilities are properly weatherized. Many energy providers, like Vistra, are preparing their plants for extreme weather to prevent a repeat of last winter's power problems.Shelby Tauber / The Texas TribuneFor millions of Texans, that means there is no assurance that they will have electricity and heat if there is another major freeze. “If we see a recurrence of the storm we saw last year, people should probably be worried,” said Adrian Shelley, the director of the Texas office of Public Citizen, a nonprofit consumer advocacy group.The stakes are high, and not just for Texas, the country’s top energy-producing state. Its winter preparedness, which affects customers as far away as California and Minnesota, is a test of the U.S.’s ability to deal with climate change, which is making weather more extreme, more unpredictable and deadlier. “Extreme weather events, such as the one in February 2021, are unfortunately becoming more commonplace and the electricity ecosystem needs to come together to plan for and prepare to operate under more extreme, longer duration, and wide area weather events,” Jim Robb, the president and CEO of North American Electric Reliability Corp., said in a statement. Robb’s nonprofit organization, which helps set reliability standards for the power industry, published a joint report with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission this month that detailed the failures of both the power and the natural gas industries to protect against February’s storm, despite recommendations by federal agencies after a similar disaster in 2011. That storm caused rolling blackouts across much of the state over three days — but no deaths — as then-Gov. Rick Perry asked Texans to conserve electricity. Although the natural gas industry has blamed electricity generators for the February blackouts — claiming gas slowed only after power was cut to their facilities — the report said freezing temperatures were the main cause of a sharp decline in natural gas in Texas and neighboring states in the early days of the storm that triggered a cascade of outages. ‘It’s a regulatory problem’But federal regulators have little say in how the Texas grid operates. The main Texas grid is an island, not connected to the country’s two major power grids. That is by design, the result of state leaders’ actions decades ago to avoid federal regulation and encourage free-market competition. Multiple state agencies, as well as a nonprofit organization, the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, or ERCOT, govern the grid’s operations, writing rules based on laws passed by state legislators.The legislators responded to February’s disaster by passing measures to improve the power system’s preparedness for winter. They established weatherization mandates but left it to state regulators to implement them. The Public Utility Commission followed with a rule enacting the weatherization requirements. But the rule allows power plants to request exceptions if they document their efforts to comply, explain why they couldn’t and submit plans to do so later. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news3 killed, 8 injured in shooting at Oxford High School in suburban DetroitU.S. newsU.S. newsMan wanted in gun discharge at Atlanta airport surrendersThe Texas Railroad Commission, which regulates the natural gas industry, is working more slowly. A proposal published in September and expected to be finalized Wednesday lays out a timeline that would identify, map and impose weatherization mandates for gas producers that supply power plants by early 2023. It also seeks to prevent a repeat of a major paperwork error that resulted in dozens of natural gas providers’ having their power cut off during February’s rolling blackouts because they failed to declare themselves “critical infrastructure.” But the proposed rule, which the Railroad Commission said was written to reflect the language in the new state law, would allow gas companies to opt out of that classification and avoid having to weatherize their equipment. That infuriated many legislators, even though they’d voted for the law that allowed it after lobbying by the natural gas industry. Power is transformed into usable energy at the main switchyard of Vistra Corp.’s power plant in Midlothian, Texas.Shelby Tauber / The Texas TribuneThe result is that Texas has done “next to nothing” to weatherize its natural gas supply, said Doug Lewin, an Austin-based energy consultant.  “We don’t have a regulatory system in place that holds the industry accountable. That is the problem,” Lewin said. “It’s not a technology or engineering problem. It’s a regulatory problem.”Natural gas fuels a majority of power generation in Texas, especially in the winter. At one point during February’s storm, more than half of the state’s natural gas supply was shut down because of power outages, frozen equipment and weather conditions, ERCOT said, adding that at least 20 percent of all of the outages the week of the storm were due to power plants’ not getting enough gas.The natural gas industry, which has been among the most politically powerful in Texas for generations, has donated generously to the campaigns of governors, legislators and Railroad Commission members. That contributes to a culture in which gas companies have escaped strict weatherization mandates, energy experts and consumer advocates say.The Texas Oil and Gas Association, one of the most prominent energy lobbyist groups in Texas, defended the gas industry’s image in a public relations campaign after the storm. It also has had a heavy hand in deciding who sits on an informal advisory council that legislators codified after the storm to ensure that energy and electricity operations continue during extreme weather. Industry group: Natural gas system will be prepared for winterTodd Staples, the president of the Texas Oil and Gas Association, said gas companies already weatherize to varying degrees and “are working with a sense of urgency.”The best way to avoid a repeat of February is for power companies to get access to more stored gas ahead of a storm, he said in an interview.Staples said more than 1,000 facilities — out of more than 250,000 statewide — have filled out paperwork to be added to the list of “critical” facilities that won’t have their power cut off. That’s up from just 60 before the storm, Staples said.The number will continue to rise after the Railroad Commission enacts its weatherization rule, Staples said. Because not all gas facilities immediately need emergency power during storms, Staples said, the Railroad Commission should set up a system to prioritize which get power before others.  Vistra Corp.’s Midlothian Power Plant in Midlothian, Texas.Shelby Tauber / The Texas TribuneHe said the industry would be prepared for winter, including having more gas in storage. “If the power is kept on, natural gas will continue at a reasonable level,” Staples saidOncor, Texas’ largest electricity transmission and distribution company, which delivers power to 3.8 million homes and businesses, said that since the February storm it has received 1,061 forms from gas companies declaring their infrastructure as critical, a sign that they are likely to be weatherized and prepared to operate during a grid emergency. AEP Texas and CenterPoint Energy, which together service more than 3.6 million Texas households and businesses, said they have received 278 more forms from gas companies registering their facilities as critical.Several of Texas’ largest natural gas producers, including XTO Energy and Apache Corp., didn’t respond to calls or emails seeking comment on their weatherization efforts. Representatives of BP and Devon Energy declined to comment. And the Railroad Commission said it didn’t know how many natural gas companies are actually prepared for winter. An agency spokesperson said ERCOT would have the information. An ERCOT spokesperson declined to comment.As the Railroad Commission works on its weatherization rule, electricity companies — including Oncor, AEP Texas, CenterPoint and Texas-New Mexico Power Co. — have already begun criticizing the proposal. The companies filed a comment with the commission arguing that the proposed rule was too vague and that it “does not provide information electric utilities will need in order to efficiently and effectively incorporate natural gas facilities into their respective” emergency plans.Virginia Palacios, the executive director of Commission Shift, an organization that researches the Railroad Commission’s ties to the oil and gas industry, said the long process of creating weatherization rules has prevented Texas from preparing for this winter.“We are not going to have any assurances that operators are weatherizing for this winter,” she said. “And probably not for the next one.”
Cafecito and presidential sightings: A landmark Miami restaurant turns 50. MIAMI — It's a place to get some strong Cuban "cafecito" — and perhaps a glimpse of a celebrity or two. Its customers have included Beyoncé and Jay-Z, as well as quite a few U.S. presidents: George W. Bush made a surprise visit for breakfast, Bill Clinton had a celebratory meal there and Donald Trump made an unexpected visit to the bakery in 2020.“Whoever’s campaigning always comes by Versailles and has that picture in the ventanita (little window) drinking their Cuban coffee,” said Nicole Valls, 39, whose grandfather opened Versailles, a restaurant that has charted the growth and history of Miami's dynamic Cuban American community.This month, Versailles is celebrating its 50th anniversary. It was opened in 1971 by Felipe Valls Sr., who fled Cuba in 1960 after Castro’s Communist revolution. Through the decades, the front of Versailles has become the gathering place for huge crowds during protests and rallies — and a place to tap the Cuban American community's pulse.  The most recent rally supported protesters in Cuba during the historic demonstrations that took place in July.Demonstrators support the protests in Cuba on Nov. 15 in front of the Cuban restaurant Versailles in Miami.Wilfredo Lee / AP fileDespite its storied history, Versailles is still a culinary home to many ordinary Cuban Americans who've forged a life in Florida. “I like going because people are always talking about Cuba and I feel at home there, like a fish in water,” said Miami resident Rosita Gonzalez, 68, who came from Cuba in 1999.Each time someone Gonzalez knows comes to visit from Cuba, she takes them to the restaurant. “People in Cuba have heard of Versailles so it’s a point of reference," she said. "It’s showing them the soul of Miami.”Miguel Suarez with a replica menu from 1971 before dining with his wife, Yolanda, at Versailles in Miami on Nov. 10.Lynne Sladky / AP fileThe interior of Versailles was designed by an uncle of Pitbull — yes, the famous rapper — who’s Cuban American. The restaurant's name comes from the dining rooms adorned with mirrors and chandeliers, like the Hall of Mirrors at the palace in France.“We used to run around this place,” said Nicole Valls, who remembers the eatery as a playground for her and her sisters. “There are so many mirrors. It’s like a fun house. We would run to the cafeteria and get candies from the ladies.”During an interview on a recent rainy, yet busy, Friday afternoon, Valls recalled the early years of the restaurant.“It was smaller than it is now. It consisted of a ventanita, a sandwich counter and some tables," she said. Valls helps run the business with her father, Felipe Valls Jr., and other relatives. Versailles has been remodeled several times and now sits close to 400 people.Eva Marie Uzcategui / AFP - Getty Images fileHer grandfather Felipe Sr., 88, still goes from time to time. An immigrant family success, the Valls own several Cuban restaurants, among them La Carreta, which is down the street. The grandfather got his start doing odd jobs in Miami, including washing dishes in restaurants. Then he began importing espresso machines, helping supermarkets and other businesses set up ventanitas, or pick-up windows — a new concept in Miami as Cubans began settling in the area.Versailles was the first restaurant to have a ventanita, his granddaughter said. The concept is now a fixture in the city: Every day, there’s a crowd outside the service window sipping hot, Cuban coffee and munching on guava pastries, a Cuban and Caribbean staple. In the last 50 years, Versailles has remodeled and expanded several times; it currently sits close to 400 people.Felipe Valls Jr., owner of Versailles, with his daughter Nicole. The restaurant was the first to popularize a ventanita, or service window, now a fixture in Miami.Lynne Sladky / AP fileCharting historyThe rallies outside the restaurant have long reflected the political and cultural history of the city's Cuban Americans, whose growing numbers and economic clout paved the way for Miami to become a destination for many Latin Americans — as well as a growing international hub. In 1999, thousands of Cuban Americans turned out in front of Versailles to protest the U.S. government's decision in the international custody battle over Elián Gonzalez, a 5-year-old boy who was rescued from the ocean after his mother drowned while fleeing Cuba. The young boy was returned to Cuba at his father's behest. Alexandra Villoch, president and publisher of the Miami Herald Media Co., hands out a special edition of The Miami Herald in front of Versailles on Nov. 26, 2016.Wilfredo Lee / AP fileBut the event that stands out most in Valls’ memory was the death of Fidel Castro in 2016. Years before, news outlets had begun reaching out to the restaurant to secure a spot outside, knowing it would be a crucial gathering spot when Castro died. Valls kept a binder in her car with a floor plan of Versailles and the surrounding parking lots that included assigned spots for news outlets, information on who would have access to the rooftop and where the security guards would be.“I remember getting that call on the Friday after Thanksgiving. I drove over here, and ended up staying through the night,” said Valls. “I remember on Saturday going up to the roof of Versailles and just looking down and you couldn’t see anything but people.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news3 killed, 8 injured in shooting at Oxford High School in suburban DetroitU.S. newsU.S. newsMan wanted in gun discharge at Atlanta airport surrenders“It was a surreal moment for me. It was a moment that so many people had been waiting for and this is where they came to celebrate," she said. "This is like my second home, so it was an honor.”For politicians, making a stop at Versailles while campaigning is a must. The tradition started with Bob Graham, a Democrat, in 1977. As a candidate for governor, he took on different jobs for a day. One was as a busboy and serving food at Versailles. Since then the campaign stops at the restaurant haven’t stopped. (Graham won.)Former Presidents Ronald Reagan, both Bushes, Clinton and Trump all made a stop at Versailles, as well as presidential hopefuls like Mitt Romney and John McCain. The visits weren’t always planned.President George W. Bush greets cafe staff members and workers after breakfast with business leaders at Versailles in Miami on July 31, 2006.John Van Beekum / Miami Herald via Getty Images file“I was at the office across the street. By the time they called me and I ran over they had already left,” Valls said about Trump's 2020 visit. “He ordered croquetas and pastelitos and tipped the girls $100.”On its website, Versailles calls itself "the world's most famous Cuban restaurant." “I run into people I know and we talk about Cuba and reminisce about the old times,” said one longtime patron, Osorio Pérez González, 74, a Miami resident who came to the U.S. in 1980.Valls said, “There’s nothing like Versailles, especially for Cubans.""This is kind of their ground zero, the epicenter of the Cuban American community," she said. "Whenever anything happens, this is where everyone gathers."
How clean is green? Nevada town fights to keep solar industry out of desert. PAHRUMP, Nev. — Just minutes from the California border sits a sun-drenched town in Nevada that wants nothing to do with its neighbor to the west. Located about 60 miles from Las Vegas, Pahrump was once home to the Southern Paiute Indians and didn’t install telephone service until the 1960s. Many current residents moved to the unincorporated town to get away from the traffic and pollution that plague much of California. Residents now find themselves at odds with Candela Renewables, a San Francisco-based renewable energy company that hopes to build a large-scale solar field across some 2,300 acres. “It seems illogical to me to destroy the environment to protect the environment,” said Pahrump resident Jeannie Cox-King, who helped organize a protest Saturday against the Rough Hat Nye County solar field. “We should keep our public lands public.”Attendees hold signs at a rally to protest solar development in Pahrump, Nev., on Nov. 27, 2021.Bridget Bennett for NBC NewsAs climate change ravages the country with droughts, wildfires and heat waves, Nevada is making a push to become a leader in renewable energy. About 80 percent of the state is public land, much of it maintained by the Bureau of Land Management. The nearly year-round sunshine and abundance of space make it an attractive option for solar companies.But community members and conservationists worry that green energy projects are not entirely clean and could destroy thousands of miles of untouched land. They are part of a growing chorus of people who say they support clean energy, including solar, but not at the expense of local ecosystems. Large-scale solar fields run the risk of displacing native plant and animal life, contributing to ferocious dust storms, and disturbing fragile desert soil capable of capturing much-needed moisture from the air.“We need to recognize that any form of energy is going to have some impacts,” said Nels Johnson, North American director for renewable energy at The Nature Conservancy. “The question is how do we try to avoid and minimize those impacts?”Candela Renewables, a San Francisco-based renewable energy company, is hoping to build a large-scale solar field in Pahrump, Nev., which has what's known as cryptobiotic soil. Disturbing the delicate desert crust, a thin layer of bacteria-rich soil that retains water and nutrients and slows erosion, can contribute to powerful dust storms that release particles into the air.Bridget Bennett for NBC NewsAmong those impacts is damage to the desert’s crust, a thin layer of soil on the surface that acts like a seal, trapping both carbon and nutrients underneath. Removing the crust can contribute to powerful dust storms that release particles and carbon into the air, Johnson said. Those particles can be unhealthy, especially for people with existing respiratory conditions.Last week, a solar company was fined almost $220,000 for failing to control dust during construction and blowing some 70 tons of excess dust into the air, The Associated Press reported. Native animal species are also at risk. Last year, a team of biologists moved 139 Mojave desert tortoises, a threatened species, off the site of the 3,000-acre Yellow Pine Solar Project 10 miles south of Pahrump. Thirty of the tortoises were killed, possibly by badgers, conservationists said. And across the border in California’s Mojave Desert, the Ivanpah Solar Electric Generating System killed some 6,000 birds annually in 2016. Attendees hold signs at a rally to protest solar development in Pahrump, Nev., on Nov. 27, 2021.Bridget Bennett for NBC NewsJohnson and other conservationists say installing solar panels on pre-existing buildings or land previously developed for other uses, including abandoned mines, could mitigate some of the ecological concerns surrounding large-scale solar farms. But experts say that approach is expensive and ultimately insufficient compared to the rapidly increasing threat of climate change.“The idea that these projects are saving us from climate change is, at the very least, questionable,” said Kevin Emmerich from the Nevada conservation group Basin and Range Watch. “We’re not really thinking about true conservation.”A spokesperson for Candela Renewables said that although the company is in very early planning stages for the Rough Hat Nye County project, environmental and ecological concerns remain a high priority. “We hear the Pahrump community’s concerns loud and clear. We, too, see the area we’re considering as more than a site for a clean-power facility. We appreciate that this land already supports an ecosystem, schools, trails and homes," the spokesperson said in a statement. "Candela believes that over time we can show that balance is possible." The company estimates Rough Hat Nye County would create roughly 400 local jobs and help support the Biden administration’s goals of permitting 25 gigawatts of new solar, wind and geothermal power projects by 2025.Dust settles after an off-road vehicle travels across federal land where the proposed Rough Hat solar project could be constructed in Pahrump, Nev., on Nov. 27, 2021.Bridget Bennett for NBC NewsThe Rough Hat Nye County solar farm project would produce 500 megawatts of electricity and a neighboring project in Clark County would produce 400 megawatts. Combined, the two projects would power more than half a million homes. This is part of a national push away from fossil fuels amid a deepening climate emergency, caused in part by the burning of energy sources such as coal, oil and gas.Nevada Gov. Steve Sisolak, a Democrat, has set the goal of requiring 50 percent of the state’s power to come from renewable energy by 2030 and 100 percent by 2050. The state is on track to meet those goals, according to the Nevada Governor’s Office of Energy.There are currently nine solar projects operating in the state and another five approved and pending construction, according to the Bureau of Land Management.“Nevada has long been known for its renewable energy potential,” David Bobzien, director of the Nevada Governor's Office of Energy, said in a statement. “Any energy produced in the state is going to be renewable energy, and with abundant solar and geothermal resources and 80 percent federally-owned public lands, there is enormous potential for leveraging those resources to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions from the electricity sector.”Jeanne Wright looks off her property in Pahrump, Nev., on Nov. 27, 2021. Surrounding her and her neighbors is federal land where the proposed Rough Hat solar project could be constructed.Bridget Bennett for NBC NewsSolar power could provide nearly half of America’s electricity by the middle of this century, the Biden administration said in a study released earlier this year. The study, by the Energy Department’s National Renewable Energy Laboratory, found that meeting the administration’s climate change goals would require increasing the solar share of energy production to at least 37 percent by 2035 and then to 44 percent or more by 2050. As of now, just 3 percent of the current national electricity supply comes from solar power. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news3 killed, 8 injured in shooting at Oxford High School in suburban DetroitU.S. newsU.S. newsMan wanted in gun discharge at Atlanta airport surrenders“We are just in the early stages of a huge transformation in the way energy is produced and used. It is going to generate the biggest infrastructure development era, maybe in the history of the United States,” Johnson said. Scale is what concerns Pahrump resident Dee Mounts, who described her community as an “old Wild West town” where deals are still made with handshakes. At least six solar projects have been proposed in Nye County and neighboring Clark County, including two by Candela Renewables. The Yellow Pine solar farm in Pahrump Valley, developed by NextEra Energy Resources LLC, has been targeted by activists for some time, but construction is expected to start in the coming months. A residence displays a sign opposing solar projects in Pahrump, Nev., on Nov. 27, 2021. Candela Renewables, a San Francisco-based renewable energy company, hopes to build a large-scale solar field across some 2,300 acres bordering Pahrump.Bridget Bennett for NBC News“That’s what really makes people upset,” Mounts said. “It’s going to be a town of solar instead of what we’re known for — the land and the trails.”Barbara Callihan uses many of those trails for her Happy Hoof Beats equestrian business. A 22-year resident of Pahrump, she survived lung cancer and getting one lung removed. She spent most of the pandemic practicing social distancing and spending time outside, but now fears that if the Rough Hat solar project is approved, construction could mean blinding dust storms and valley fever, or coccidioidomycosis, an infection caused by fungus found in soil in the southwestern United States and parts of Mexico.“I am absolutely on board for green energy, but not at the expense of the community this is being put on top of,” she said. “I don’t know if I can be happy if I’m going to be enduring a fungal infection that could kill me.”At a recent meeting of the Pahrump Public Lands Advisory Committee, Dewey Klurfield, Candela Renewables manager of development, shared plans for the Rough Hat Nye County solar project with community members. Dozens of residents lambasted the company for encroaching on their land. During one especially tense exchange, Nye County Commissioner Debra Strickland warned: “This is not going over well with my community.”“We need to come to some understanding that we can’t see this in our backyard,” she added.“I’m not a fool,” Klurfield responded. “I can read a room.”
Omicron may cause milder symptoms. But experts aren’t breathing easy yet.. Amid the global concern over a new coronavirus strain has been one piece of hopeful news: Those infected with the omicron variant appear to have “very mild” symptoms, according to the South African doctor who first spotted the variant.Dr. Angelique Coetzee told the BBC that neither she nor her colleagues had admitted anyone who had the strain to the hospital so far. Her patients had experienced extreme fatigue but no loss of taste or smell, which are often telltale symptoms of Covid-19, she said.The early reports are encouraging, epidemiologists and other experts said. But they cautioned that there is too little data to draw any conclusions yet. Their bigger concern, they said, is how quickly the omicron variant, with its high number of mutations, might spread and how it will match up against vaccines.“I don’t think we know anything about the virulence. What we’re worried more about is the transmissibility and the immune-evasion capabilities,” said Dr. Amesh Adalja, an infectious disease doctor who is a senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security.Adalja said he suspected that vaccination would still provide strong protection against severe disease, while unvaccinated people who have natural immunity from previous Covid infections could be at even higher risk for getting the virus again.Omicron variant is worthy of concern but not alarm, doctor saysNov. 29, 202103:54“It may be that breakthrough infections or reinfections become more common with this, but it’s probably unlikely that you see severe breakthrough infections become common in healthy people,” he said.In the meantime, Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna are racing to determine whether their vaccines will protect against the variant and exploring ways to tweak them if necessary.With the omicron variant, it’s not just the number of mutations but also where they are that has caught researchers’ attention, said Stephen Morse, a professor of epidemiology at Columbia University’s Mailman School of Public Health. The variant has a number of spike mutations never seen before.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news3 killed, 8 injured in shooting at Oxford High School in suburban DetroitU.S. newsU.S. newsMan wanted in gun discharge at Atlanta airport surrenders“The antigen we use in the vaccines is specifically the spike protein, so there’s always a concern that the more mutations you see in the spike protein, the greater the possibility that it could be able to evade the immunity provided by the vaccine if it’s different enough,” he said. “We still don’t really know.”The variant’s mutations may also make it more contagious. In South Africa, new infections tripled in the past week. But only about 35 percent of adults in South Africa are fully vaccinated, compared to 70.9 percent of adults in the U.S. Whether the variant will spread as quickly in countries with higher vaccination rates is still to be determined, said Ramon Lorenzo-Redondo, the bioinformatics director of the Center for Pathogen Genomics and Microbial Evolution at the Harvey Institute for Global Health and a research assistant professor of medicine in infectious diseases at Northwestern University’s Feinberg School of Medicine. “It might not even establish in other countries,” Lorenzo-Redondo said. “It’s still too early to know if this variant is going to spread. Maybe other factors, like higher vaccination, will stop this.”The strain so far has been detected in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Hong Kong, Belgium and a number of other countries, in addition to South Africa. While it has yet to be found in the U.S., the government’s top infectious disease expert, Dr. Anthony Fauci, said over the weekend that he would “not be surprised” if it is already circulating here.Why you shouldn't panicDespite the unknowns and the World Health Organization’s deeming the omicron strain to be a “variant of concern,” the experts all had the same message: Don’t panic.“This is what viruses do. They mutate. This is normal,” said Melissa Nolan, an assistant professor of epidemiology and biostatistics at the Arnold School of Public Health at the University of South Carolina. “This will not be the last variant of concern. There will be more as long as we still have people unvaccinated, susceptible to disease.”The same methods of protection that have worked throughout the pandemic will continue to work, the experts said, such as wearing masks and washing your hands. “If you are fully vaccinated and boosted, you are probably OK.”And while not everyone globally has access to vaccines, those in the U.S. who haven’t been vaccinated should take the opportunity to get immunized, they said.“This is another reminder that if you haven’t gotten your vaccination, you should get it,” Nolan said. “If you are fully vaccinated and boosted, you are probably OK.”
Ahmaud Arbery trial shines a light on prosecutorial misconduct. The successful prosecution of Ahmaud Arbery’s murderers this month almost didn’t happen. And that leaves us focused on something unusual in the world of accountability for prosecutors: the indictment in September of Jacqueline Johnson, the former district attorney in Georgia’s Brunswick Judicial Circuit. A grand jury indicted Johnson on multiple charges related to allegations about her actions as the first prosecutor presented with the crime committed by Travis McMichael, his father, Greg McMichael, and a neighbor, William “Roddie” Bryan.It is even unusual for bar disciplinary authorities to pursue prosecutors for professional misconduct.Johnson is not charged with bribery or similar kinds of corruption, but rather with trying to maneuver behind the scenes in a case she quickly recused herself from.It is still all too rare for grand juries to indict prosecutors for misusing their authority. Indeed, it is unusual even for bar disciplinary authorities to pursue prosecutors for professional misconduct. But those authorities would be wise to take their responsibilities more seriously. Sanctions affecting an unethical prosecutor’s license to practice law often best fit the violation and can be a highly effective punishment, putting aside how difficult it is to secure convictions in cases like Johnson’s.Want more articles like this? Follow THINK on Instagram to get updates on the week's most important cultural analysisGeorgia Attorney General Christopher Carr initiated the charges against Johnson, who is alleged to have tried to use her influence to protect Arbery’s killers from arrest and prosecution. Understandably, Arbery’s mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones, said the indictment was “a very huge win” for accountability.But Johnson’s case raises challenging questions about how we hold prosecutors accountable for professional misconduct.Former DA indicted, accused of ordering police not to arrest suspected gunman in Ahmaud Arbery caseSept. 3, 202101:28The bare-bones, two-count indictment does not reveal much about the case’s strength. Johnson is accused of “willfully and intentionally” violating her oath of office by “acting with favor” to Greg McMichael and with disfavor to Arbery and his family. She is also charged with obstructing justice by directing police officers not to arrest Travis McMichael.Johnson, who denies wrongdoing, recused herself immediately after Arbery’s death because Greg McMichael had worked as an investigator in her office. The indictment alleges that she nonetheless sought to derail the investigation by recommending the appointment of a neighboring prosecutor, George Barnhill, whose son worked for Johnson, without disclosing her conversations about the case with Barnhill.To replace her, the attorney general initially appointed Barnhill, who, under pressure, later also removed himself. In doing so, though, he wrote a letter to police that included a sentence about Arbery’s “apparent aggressive nature and his possible thought pattern to attack an armed man.”RelatedOpinionOpinionFinding Arbery's killers guilty doesn't mean America has healed its racial woundsAs we now know, there was ample evidence to reject the self-defense argument advanced by Arbery’s killers. And yet, before video of the incident had been made public, the investigation might very well have ended with white men literally getting away, again, with the murder of a Black man. As has happened throughout our nation’s history, this kind of injustice often requires the complicity of prosecutors, whether because of overt racism or because of implicit or unconscious bias.Prosecutors’ frequent failures to charge police officers with killing Black civilians echo this problem.Our justice system is grappling with how to hold prosecutors accountable for the consequences of their biases — conscious or unconscious. Even when they knowingly abuse their authority and derail legitimate investigations, they can escape professional liability.Courts oversee the professional discipline of lawyers, and they have, on occasion, sanctioned prosecutors for conflicts of interest, dishonesty or prejudicing the administration of justice. But such discipline has historically been infrequent. Limited resources available to courts’ disciplinary arms may partly explain why. The excuse of “prosecutorial discretion” can also be used to cover improper motives.It will take strong evidence to persuade a jury unanimously and beyond a reasonable doubt that Johnson acted corruptly.Here, it is the state’s attorney general who has acted. But we can anticipate a tough road ahead for the indictment against Johnson alleging “favoritism” and obstructing justice by directing a non-arrest. She is likely to contend that her motives were proper — for example, that she honestly thought it would have been rash to make an arrest before the investigation had uncovered all the relevant facts.It will take strong evidence to persuade a jury unanimously and beyond a reasonable doubt that she acted corruptly, not mistakenly or ineptly.In the end, however worthy this prosecution may prove to be, bar discipline is often a surer path to hold prosecutors accountable when they fail to act properly and without bias. The standard of proof to sustain a violation of ethical rules is easier to satisfy than with criminal charges — there is no need to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. In addition, criminal statutes are not always well-suited to prosecutors’ misbehavior. And prosecutors should be accountable for malfeasance that falls short of being criminal.RelatedOpinionOpinionWe want to hear what you THINK. Please submit a letter to the editor.In this case, any of us in the shoes of Cooper-Jones would share her hope that Johnson be held accountable insofar as she may have deliberately tried to derail a murder investigation. But prosecuting her will not necessarily achieve that objective. Regardless of the outcome of the criminal case, the Georgia Bar’s disciplinary authorities should be investigating whether Johnson breached the ethical rules that bind all licensed attorneys in the state.RecommendedOpinionOpinionThe Cuomo brothers are trying to gaslight America. They need to go — now.OpinionOpinionWe don't need a 'smoking gun' linking Trump to Jan. 6That, too, would set a vital precedent.Related:Guilty verdicts in Ahmaud Arbery murder trial are bandages on festering racial woundsKyle Rittenhouse's not guilty verdict reveals the true value of life in WisconsinPolice misconduct needs to be tracked by prosecutors — and acted onChristian Hall shooting shows police use cameras to protect themselvesSubscribe to the THINK newsletterReTHINK the news cycle with timely op-eds, in-depth analyses and personal essays delivered weekly to your inbox.
Tiger Woods says he will 'never' play golf again full time. Tiger Woods said Tuesday he’s “lucky to be alive” following a serious car crash earlier this year that will prevent him from ever playing the game full-time again.In his first press conference since suffering severe injuries from the Southern California wreck in February, Woods also revealed that he nearly lost a leg and that amputation "was on the table.” “I’m lucky to be alive, but also to still have the limb," Woods told reporters ahead of his charity tournament, the Hero World Challenge."Those are two crucial things. I’m very, very grateful that someone upstairs was taking care of me, that I’m able to not only to be here but to walk without a prosthesis." In an interview published Monday in Golf Digest, Woods said he'll "never" be a full-time player on the PGA tour again but still hopes to “click off a tournament here or there."Comparing the sport to scaling the world’s tallest mountain, Woods said that after a previous back operation, he had to “climb Mt. Everest one more time,” adding: “I had to do it, and I did. I don’t think I’ll have the body to climb Mt. Everest, and that’s okay. I can still participate in the game of golf.”Woods, 45, fractured the tibia and the fibula in his right leg in a crash Feb. 23 in suburban Los Angeles.Tiger Woods seen playing golf for first time since car accidentNov. 21, 202101:15Woods was traveling more than 80 mph when he lost control of the Genesis SUV and plowed into a tree. There were no signs that he was impaired, authorities said, and no charges were filed.Woods, who has won 82 tournaments in a 25-year career, including five Masters championships, was charged with DUI in 2017. Soon afterward, he checked himself into a clinic for prescription drug abuse. Authorities believe Woods tried to pump the brakes but accidentally gunned the accelerator in the crash in February. The SUV was going 75 mph when it hit the tree and went airborne.In his meeting with reporters on Tuesday, Woods declined to answer any questions about the crash.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news3 killed, 8 injured in shooting at Oxford High School in suburban DetroitU.S. newsU.S. newsMan wanted in gun discharge at Atlanta airport surrendersHe kept the conversation fixed on golf, setting a loose goal of playing in next year's British Open, which will be played at St. Andrews where he captured the Claret Jug in 2000 and 2005.“As far as playing at the tour level, I don’t know when that’s going to  happen," Woods told reporters, joking about the shock of seeing his post-crash long game suddenly falling short.“To see some of my shots fall out of the sky a lot shorter than they used to is a little eye opening.  But at least I’m able to do it (play golf at all) again."In his Golf Digest interview, Woods recalled the most difficult times he faced while at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, wondering if he'd ever walk on two legs again.At one point, Woods wasn't sure "if I was going to walk out of that hospital with one leg," he told the magazine, adding that he still has "so far to go" to rehabilitate his leg."I'm not even at the halfway point yet," he said.
Hungary parliament clears way for government's LGBTQ referendum as election nears. BUDAPEST - Hungary's parliament passed a resolution on Tuesday which will empower the government to hold a referendum on LGBTQ issues, raising Prime Minister Viktor Orban's anti-LGBTQ campaign to a new level as he heads into a tough election race next year.Orban, a nationalist who has been in power since 2010, this year proposed a referendum on ruling party legislation that limits schools' teaching about homosexuality and transgender issues, stepping up a culture war with the European Union.Facing his first competitive election in more than a decade, nationalist Orban has sought to promote social policies that he says safeguard Christian values against Western liberalism, putting gender issues and what he calls LGBTQ propaganda at the center of his campaign along with migration.Parliament voted on four referendum questions one by one, passing them with Fidesz's ruling majority."The Hungarian government proposes that citizens should have a chance to express their stance on the issues of gender propaganda," deputy minister Balazs Orban told parliament."We are committed. We believe that we ...have to say no to LGBTQ propaganda in schools carried out with the help of NGOs and media, without parental consent."He said holding the referendum on the same day as the parliamentary vote would save taxpayers money but it is up to President Janos Ader to set the date. Ader, an ally of the government, has not yet fixed a date for the parliamentary elections which are expected to be held in April.RecommendedOUT NewsOUT NewsTransgender Miss USA contestant eliminated earlyOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureFans are loving Elliot Page’s latest selfie: 'You’re embodying your confidence'In the referendum, Hungarians will be asked whether they support the holding of sexual orientation workshops in schools without parents' consent and whether they believe gender reassignment procedures should be promoted among children.They will also be asked whether media content that could affect sexual orientation should be shown to children without any restrictions.The law passed in June, which the government says aims to protect children, has caused anxiety in the LGBT community.
Transgender Miss USA contestant eliminated early. Kataluna Enriquez, the first openly transgender Miss USA contestant, was eliminated before the round of 16 at the pageant Monday, prompting social media responses lamenting her finish.The pageant ultimately awarded its crown to Elle Smith, a reporter at Louisville, Kentucky, television station WHAS. "This is quite the accomplishment!!" the station tweeted. "Our Elle Smith is your new MISS USA!"Earlier in the day, Enriquez, 27, was celebrated as a champion in her home state, Nevada."Kataluna represents the best of her community and our state and when she takes the stage, she'll make history!" Gov. Steve Sisolak tweeted Monday night.Sen. Jacky Rosen, D-Nev., agreed, tweeting, "Kataluna is making history as the first openly transgender woman to compete in Miss USA, and I couldn't think of anyone better to represent the Silver State."In June, Enriquez outperformed 21 other contestants at the South Point Hotel Casino in Las Vegas to take the Miss Nevada crown in her adopted hometown.That took her to Monday's event at River Spirit Casino Resort in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Smith, the night's winner, will head to the Miss Universe pageant next month in Eilat, Israel.First transgender Miss Nevada speaks out about the danger of hateJune 30, 202100:35The Miss Universe pageant system, including Miss USA, began allowing transgender entrants in 2012. In 2018, Spain’s Angela Ponce became the first transgender contestant at the global pageant. Donald Trump sold the U.S. contest to a Hollywood talent agency in 2015 amid backlash to xenophobic remarks about Mexican immigrants he made during the launch of his campaign for the White House. Today Miss USA's slogan is "Pageantry Reimagined."Enriquez, who is Filipina American, said she designs her own pageant clothing. RecommendedOUT NewsOUT NewsHungary parliament clears way for government's LGBTQ referendum as election nearsOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureFans are loving Elliot Page’s latest selfie: 'You’re embodying your confidence'In March, after she won a preliminary pageant in Nevada, she spoke about being trans. “Today I am a proud transgender woman of color. Personally, I’ve learned that my differences do not make me less than, it makes me more than,” she said, the Las Vegas Review-Journal reported. “I know that my uniqueness will take me to all my destinations, and whatever I need to go through in life.”
Fans are loving Elliot Page’s latest selfie: 'You’re embodying your confidence'. Elliot Page is taking a moment to show off on Instagram.Page, who publicly came out as transgender last December, shared a shirtless mirror selfie on Instagram on Sunday. He posed in a pair of black sweatpants, donning a simple chain that hung above his chest while snapping the mirror selfie.The actor shared a cheeky message in the caption, writing, “Oh good my new phone works.”Fans of the “Juno” and "Umbrella Academy" star, as well as fellow celebrities, praised the actor for the photo, using the comments to uplift Page for the selfie.“Get it bro! Never seen you stand so tall,” one person commented. “You have a lot to be proud of.”Another fan left an early congratulatory message for Page just a few days shy of the one-year anniversary of him coming out, writing, “ELLLIIIIOOOOTTTT! You look incredible! Happy almost one year of coming out!”“ELLIOT YOU LOOK AMAZING AND SO HAPPY!!” one fan wrote.Outpouring of support after actor Elliot Page announces he’s transgenderDec. 1, 202001:39Another person commented, “Elliot Page thirst trap! I am here for it! You are embodying your confidence and I love it!”Page, whose pronouns are he/they, shared his first milestone moment earlier this year after coming out, posting a shirtless photo on Instagram at the end of May. The photo documented his first time swimming in men’s swim trunks and marked the first shirtless photo he shared of himself publicly after he underwent top surgery.“Trans bb’s first swim trunks,” he captioned the post, adding the hashtags, “#transjoy #transisbeautiful.”The 34-year-old actor came out as transgender on Dec. 1 of last year, penning an emotional letter on Instagram to share the news with the world. He received an outpouring of support after coming out and thanked fans for their support weeks later and just days before the holidays, calling their love “the greatest gift.”In March, Page opened up to Time magazine about coming out and having the chance to “fully become” himself. He described his current state as, “This feeling of true excitement and deep gratitude to have made it to this point in my life, mixed with a lot of fear and anxiety.”Elliot Page talks to Oprah about going public about his transitionApril 29, 202100:51The next month, the actor sat down with Oprah Winfrey for an in-depth interview as part of the “Oprah Conversations” series to talk about coming out and the aspects of his transition that brought him the most joy. While responding to Winfrey’s question about joy, Page got emotional trying to convey his answer.“It’s the little things... getting out of the shower and the towel’s around your waist and you’re looking at yourself in the mirror and you’re just like, ‘There I am,’” he told Winfrey. “And I’m not having the moment where I’m panicked.”He continued trying to put his emotions into words, explaining, “I’m not having all these little moments that use to be... just being in a T-shirt. It’s being able to touch my chest and feel comfortable in my body, probably for the first time.”RecommendedOUT NewsOUT NewsHungary parliament clears way for government's LGBTQ referendum as election nearsOUT NewsOUT NewsTransgender Miss USA contestant eliminated earlyThis story first appeared on Today.com
Make the Yuletide gay with these new LGBTQ Christmas movies . Last year saw a flurry of LGBTQ-inclusive Christmas movies from Lifetime, Hallmark and other networks and streaming services. The tradition continues in 2021, with films starring RuPaul, Michael Urie, Jonathan Bennet and more — plus appearances by gay favorites like Jennifer Coolidge.Plan your holiday season binge-watching sessions accordingly with these upcoming movies and specials. 'Christmas at the Ranch'Dec. 1 , Tello FilmsRaised by her grandmother (Lindsay Wagner of “The Bionic Woman”), city slicker Haley (Laur Allen) is summoned home to Tennessee by her brother (Archie Kao), who needs her help to save the family ranch from foreclosure (a familiar enough scenario to fans of TV Christmas movies). Haley is reluctant to get involved but finally gets the Christmas spirit — and some real chemistry with ranch hand Kate (Amanda Righetti).Launched in 2009, TelloFilms.com describes itself as the first streaming network dedicated to telling stories about queer women. 'Single All the Way'Dec. 2, NetflixTony-winning director Michael Mayer (“Spring Awakening”) helms Netflix’s first gay holiday film, which sees perpetually single Peter (Michael Urie) begging his best friend, Nick (Philemon Chambers), to come home with him and pretend to be his boyfriend to put an end to his family’s constant meddling. But the ruse is put to the test when his mother (another gay fave, Kathy Najimy) sets him up with her hunky trainer (“Brothers and Sisters” actor Luke Macfarlane).Kudos to “Single All the Way” for casting three out actors as gay characters — and for casting Jennifer Coolidge, period.'The Bitch Who Stole Christmas'Dec. 2, VH1RuPaul expands his empire with his first holiday movie, which sees the drag icon playing a grinchy fashion editor who sends journalist Krysta Rodriguez (Netflix’s “Halston”) to a small town obsessed with Christmas. But far from a winter wonderland, she encounters “cut-throat housewives, a high-stakes ‘Winter Ball’ competition and a sinister plot that could destroy Christmas fore-evah!” according to the film’s synopsis.Also on board for the special, produced by MTV and World of Wonder, are “RuPaul’s Drag Race” judges Michelle Visage and Ross Mathews, “The Other Two” star Andy Ridings, pop singer Kim Petras, Charo and nearly two dozen “Drag Race” alumni — including Ginger Minj, Peppermint, Gottmik and Kylie Sonique Love.   'The Great British Baking Show: Holidays'Dec. 3, NetflixFormer contestants return to the tents for a pair of holiday-themed episodes: In “The Great Christmas Baking Show,” out comic Tom Allen subs for Noel Fielding to co-host with gay presenter Matt Lucas as season nine’s Jon Jenkins and Kim-Joy Hewlett and season 11’s Hermine and Rowan Williams whip up wondrous Yuletide treats. “The showstopper challenge, they’ve got to make a festive feast illusion cake,” judge Paul Hollywood teased, according to Variety.In “The Great New Year’s Baking Show,” it's season five winner Nancy Birtwhistle up against season nine champion Rahul Mandal and two contestants from season 19: Gay nerd Henry Bird and witchy Helena Garcia.Earlier this month, "The Great British Bake Off" producers also announced the cast of the acclaimed British AIDS drama “It’s a Sin” has reunited for a new one-off celebrity edition of the show, but an airdate hasn’t been announced. The holiday-themed episode will see cast members Olly Alexander, Lydia West, Nathaniel Curtis and Shaun Dooley whisk, beat, chop and knead under the watchful eyes of judges Paul Hollywood and Prue Leith.'The Jenkins Family Christmas'Dec. 4, BET+After the death of the family patriarch, adult sisters Baneatta and Beverly (Regina Taylor and Kim Coles) try to continue family Christmas traditions despite long-simmering resentments. But the arrival of a previously unknown half-sister could put coal in everyone’s stockings. Baneatta’s gay son, Kenny (Anthony Chatmon II), brings his boyfriend, Logan (Derek Chadwick), home for the holidays but is given an icy reception. Will Logan's pushing Kenny to stand up to his overbearing mother bring them closer together or drive them apart?Robin Givens directs this BET+ seasonal drama, co-starring Tammy Townsend and Robert Gossett.'With Love'Dec. 17, Amazon Prime VideoAmazon Prime’s first entry in the LGBTQ holiday movie game is this five-part miniseries from Gloria Calderón Kellett, showrunner for Netflix’s reboot of "One Day at a Time."Each episode is set during a different holiday in one year, following Lily Diaz (Emeraude Toubia) as she navigates a love triangle with hunky suitors Nick and Santiago (played by Desmond Chiam and Rome Flynn).The queer quotient comes courtesy of  Lily’s brother, Jorge, (Mark Indelicato of "Ugly Betty") — who brings his new boyfriend, Henry (Vincent Rodriguez III), home on Christmas Eve — and from trans model-actress Isis King, playing cousin Sol, who has a “potential blossoming relationship” with a doctor coworker, according to the official synopsis. 'The Christmas House 2: Deck Those Halls'Dec. 18, Hallmark ChannelLast year, after sparking outrage by pulling a jewelry ad featuring lesbian brides, Hallmark made amends by featuring the first gay couple in one of its many, many holiday movies: "The Christmas House" scored more than 13 million viewings over the 2020 holiday season,  so a sequel was a no-brainer. In the original, Bill and Phylis Mitchell (Treat Williams and Sharon Lawrence) invited their adult sons home for the holidays, then drop a bomb that they’re selling the family home.This time around, gay son Brandon (Jonathan Bennet) and his husband, Jake (Brad Harder), compete with Brandon’s straight brother, Mike (Robert Buckley), to see who can create the most festively decorated Christmas house.'Under the Christmas Tree'Dec. 19, LifetimeLast year, Lifetime debuted its first gaycentric holiday flick, "The Christmas Setup," and this season, it's bringing a lesbian romance to the small screen.In this holiday tale from "The Christmas Setup" screenwriter Michael J. Murray, Christmas tree “whisperer” Charlie Freemont (Tattiawna Jones) finds the perfect tree for the governor’s holiday celebration — right in the backyard of marketing whiz Alma Beltran (Elise Bauman). RecommendedOUT NewsOUT NewsHungary parliament clears way for government's LGBTQ referendum as election nearsOUT NewsOUT NewsTransgender Miss USA contestant eliminated earlyWhile they initially butt heads, according to the official description, “romantic sparks soon begin to fly between the two women as the enchanting tree and some Christmas fairy dust from the town’s pâtissière extraordinaire (Ricki Lake) bring out the best in them,” Earlier this month, Lifetime programming head Amy Winter told The Wrap that it is important for viewers see themselves represented in holiday fare. “I feel like we’re the leader when it comes to Christmas and diversity and inclusion and selecting great stories from all different walks of life,” she said. “And that commitment will continue.”
Kim Potter, ex-Minnesota officer, will testify at trial in killing of Daunte Wright. MINNEAPOLIS — The former suburban Minneapolis police officer accused of fatally shooting Daunte Wright, a Black motorist, when  her department said she confused her handgun for her Taser during a traffic stop in April, will testify at her trial, her attorney revealed Tuesday, as jury selection got underway.Attorney Paul Engh disclosed the decision to have Kim Potter take the stand after a potential juror wrote in her questionnaire that she didn't fully understand how the fatal encounter came about."Let me tell you, that if you're selected, Officer Potter will testify and tell you what she remembered what happened," Engh said. "So you will know, not just from the video, but from the officers at the scene and Officer Potter herself what was occurring. I think it should quite interesting in hearing what she has to say."Officer Kim Potter in 2007.Bruce Bisping / Star Tribune via AP filePotter, a 26-year veteran of the Brooklyn Center Police Department, was charged with first- and second-degree manslaughter in the death of Wright. The Hennepin County Medical Examiner's Office said Wright, 20, died of a gunshot wound to the chest.According to the complaint against Potter, Wright was initially stopped on the afternoon of April 11 for an air freshener hanging from his rearview mirror and the car's expired license plate tabs. Officers then learned Wright also had an arrest warrant for a weapons violation.Daunte Wright remembered in emotional Minneapolis funeral serviceApril 22, 202101:30After he was ordered out of the car and officers tried to handcuff him, a body-worn camera showed Wright trying to get back in the vehicle as a female voice shouted, "Taser!"The same voice could be heard later saying, "Holy s--- I just shot him," as Wright attempted to drive away, police said.Then-Brooklyn Center Police Chief Tim Gannon said that he believed Potter meant to draw her Taser, but instead grabbed her service weapon.Potter, who is white, has said she made an innocent mistake when she shot Wright. Both she and Gannon resigned in the wake of the shooting.Minnesota Attorney General Keith Ellison announced in May that his office would lead the prosecution against Potter. His office also oversaw the prosecution that led to a murder conviction of former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin in the killing of George Floyd.Wright's death came as Chauvin's trial was underway and tensions were high in the Twin Cities. Wright's death sparked several nights of protests in Brooklyn Center and revived painful memories of the sometimes violent unrest that erupted after Floyd's death in May 2020.Katie Wright grasps a necklace containing the ashes of her son, Daunte Wright, during a press conference with the Families Supporting Families Against Police Violence community organization on Nov. 29, 2021 in Minneapolis.Stephen Maturen / Getty ImagesThe prospective jurors summoned Tuesday had already responded to questionnaires similar to those used in Chauvin's murder trial. Roughly 200 people were asked what they knew about the Potter case, their impressions of her and Wright, and their views on protests and policing in the Minneapolis area in recent years.The first juror to be seated Tuesday, a man who said he is a medical editor, said he has a very unfavorable view of the "blue lives matter" slogan that has emerged in recent years. He said he believes it's less about supporting police than about countering the Black Lives Matter movement. But he also said he opposes the movement to abolish or defund the police.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news3 killed, 8 injured in shooting at Oxford High School in suburban DetroitU.S. newsU.S. newsMan wanted in gun discharge at Atlanta airport surrendersTwo other jurors — a retired special education teacher and an operations manager at Target — were also selected Tuesday.Jurors' names were being withheld and were not shown on the livestream of the trial, a rarity in Minnesota. Hennepin County Judge Regina Chu set aside six days for jury selection, with opening statements set for Dec. 8.California civil rights attorney John Burris, who won a $2.8 million settlement for the family of Oscar Grant, a Black man killed by a transit officer in Oakland who went to prison for grabbing his gun instead of a Taser in 2009, said he thinks Potter had the right to use reasonable force and could get credit from the jury for intending to use her Taser. And if that happens, he said, the best the prosecution might get is a conviction on the lesser charge. But if the jury agrees she should not have used her Taser at all, he added, they might find it was first-degree manslaughter.Still, if Potter comes across as remorseful, she'll get empathy that could result in an acquittal or hung jury, Burris said."These are tough cases," he said. "A lot of emotion comes in a case like that. If an officer did not intend to kill someone, that officer is going to be highly emotional. That emotion is going to have an impact on jurors."Shaquille Brewster reported from Minneapolis and Erik Ortiz from New York.
Ari Lennox arrested in Amsterdam, cites racist treatment. American R&B singer Ari Lennox was arrested at Amsterdam Schiphol airport on Monday for disturbing public order, Dutch military police said after she had accused airline staff of racial discrimination.“I’m being arrested in Amsterdam for reacting to a woman racially profiling me,” Lennox tweeted on Monday morning, following a tweet in which she had accused “Amsterdam security” of hating Black people.Dutch military police, who are responsible for security at Schiphol airport, said Lennox was held because of her aggressive behavior towards an airline official, and for being drunk in public.“Our unit found a woman full of emotions, that wouldn’t calm down,” spokesman Robert van Kapel said. “That’s why she had to be taken into custody.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news3 killed, 8 injured in shooting at Oxford High School in suburban DetroitU.S. newsU.S. newsMan wanted in gun discharge at Atlanta airport surrendersIt was unclear on Monday afternoon how long Lennox would remain in custody, Van Kapel said, as police were investigating claims of possible threats made by Lennox during the incident.The news of Lennox’s arrest follows the performance of her latest single, “Pressure,” at the  2021 Soul Train Awards on Sunday, November 28. The 30-year-old singer is from Washington D.C. and has been signed to J. Cole’s Dreamville Records since 2015. Hours after the incident on Monday, Lennox’s manager, Justin LaMotte, tweeted that the singer “is safe and appreciates the support and everyone checking on her.” Lennox, whose real name is Courtney Shanade Salter, is best known for her 2019 single Shea Butter Baby, which has been streamed almost 114 million times on Spotify.
'You’re a hero': Frank Ocean pays tribute to late designer Virgil Abloh. Among the many musicians paying tribute to the top designer Virgil Abloh, who died on Sunday at the age of just 41 after a battle with cancer, Frank Ocean took to Instagram to make a rare statement about his friend, who founded the Off-White line and was Louis Vuitton Menswear’s artistic director.“In 2018 I believe it was I called V and asked him how it was possible to play hundreds of shows a year and do numerous fashion collections a year and be a father and a husband and return EVERYONE’s texts with enthusiasm and emojis and encouragement and seemingly.. with ease,” Ocean wrote in Instagram Stories, as noted by Billboard.“I cannot remember how he responded verbatim but I’m sure it was quotable whatever he said,” he continued. “He was always quotable. But the gist of his response was that he was interested in living and living to the maximum extent of his level… which proved to be Impossible today because he was BEYOND.”Remembering trailblazing fashion designer Virgil AblohNov. 29, 202101:35Ocean also wrote about Abloh’s connection with the singer’s late younger brother, Ryan Breaux, who died in a car accident last year at the age of just 18.“When Ryan went to his prom you got him some pieces from your new collection at LV and he was GEEKed. Couldn’t get him to take it off,” he wrote. “When my brother passed I never said anything because it was way too much but he loved you and really looked up to you. He was going to fashion school and everything. He wanted to be a designer.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news3 killed, 8 injured in shooting at Oxford High School in suburban DetroitU.S. newsU.S. newsMan wanted in gun discharge at Atlanta airport surrendersHe also wrote about sharing early versions of his songs with Abloh. “When I went to Miami and you played a set on the beach in 2016 you played ‘White Ferrari’ — a song with no drums or bars anywhere to be found lol — and started a sing-along,” he wrote. When Ocean played demos of music he had been working on, or showed Abloh plans for his luxury company, Homer, "way before it was ready you put the battery in my back.“My fam was proud of you like you were our family,” he concluded. “I know grief is love that you don’t get to express so is an attempt at expressing it. Love you V. You’re a hero.”Follow NBCBLK on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.
Philly teenager, victim of brutal, racially-motivated train attack, speaks out. Christina Lu, a Philadelphia high school student who was one of the victims of a brutal, racially motivated attack earlier this month, spoke out for the first time Tuesday. The 18-year-old was with a group of students on a SEPTA train, Philadelphia’s public transit, when she saw a 14-year-old freshman, who is Asian, being attacked on his way home from school. When Lu tried to intervene, the group of attackers threw her to the ground and began kicking and beating her. Police say the assailants, four teenage girls, used racial slurs during the incident. Lu gave a speech to a crowd outside a municipal building Tuesday afternoon as a crowd rallied demanding accountability from SEPTA and an end to anti-Asian hate, according to a video from CBS Philly.“You all have inspired me,” she said. “Everyone has been calling me a hero, but I am not. I’m just an ordinary girl from an ordinary family who saw people in need of help and so I tried to help.”The four girls who allegedly perpetrated the attack, all under the age of 17, were charged with aggravated assault, ethnic intimidation, criminal conspiracy, simple assault, recklessly endangering another person and disorderly conduct.The mother of one of the girls spoke to NBC10 Philadelphia anonymously, saying her daughter is 12 years old and had run away from home two weeks prior to the attack. “I was extremely hurt … I needed to meet with you guys publicly so that you know that my family is very sincerely apologetic about what happened to that child because we all pray that our children make it home safe from school,” she said.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news3 killed, 8 injured in shooting at Oxford High School in suburban DetroitU.S. newsU.S. newsMan wanted in gun discharge at Atlanta airport surrendersShe said she tried to reach out to the families of the victims to apologize personally. A report released last year by the Stop AAPI Hate Youth Campaign revealed that one quarter of Asian American and Pacific Islander young adults have been targets of racism since the start of the pandemic. The discrimination most commonly came in the form of verbal harassment, cyberbullying and shunning, with students being followed home, coughed on and called racial slurs. “I will continue to stand up against bullying and violence and help people in need,” Lu said in her speech on Tuesday.
Korean pop group BTS talks anti-Asian racism in first live tour in 2 years. Members of the South Korean pop group BTS spoke out Sunday against anti-Asian racism after their first in-person concert since the pandemic.“When we talk about Asian hate, our path, all the awards and our music, we just hope that this can truly help every Asian in the world, especially who live in the countries abroad,” Kim Nam-Joon, known as RM, said at a news conference at SoFi Stadium in Los Angeles. “If there is something that we can help ... we’re always open. We’ll try to expand the variety and stop the discrimination and racism.”BTS performed two sold-out shows in Los Angeles over the weekend as part of its “Permission to Dance on Stage” concert series. The seven members of BTS — RM, Jin, V, J-Hope, Suga, Park Ji-min and Jungkook — also expressed gratitude for their fans’ support and the awards they have received, including artist of the year at the American Music Awards and their second Grammy nomination. K-pop stars BTS delight fans with return to in-person concertsNov. 29, 202101:28The concerts, which were sold out for months, were the band’s first shows since 2019. “Seeing the stadium filled with all the fans yesterday got me really emotional beyond words,” RM said. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news3 killed, 8 injured in shooting at Oxford High School in suburban DetroitU.S. newsU.S. newsMan wanted in gun discharge at Atlanta airport surrendersIt’s not the first time BTS has spoken about the racism many Asians faced during the coronavirus pandemic. Band members this year addressed the discrimination they faced, saying in a statement on Twitter that some experiences made them feel “powerless.” “We cannot put into words the pain of becoming the subject of hatred and violence for such a reason,” the post said.BTS has also supported other social movements, including Black Lives Matter, to which it donated $1 million in June 2020. “We stand against racial discrimination. We condemn violence. #BlackLivesMatter,” the group tweeted. Within 24 hours of the donation, BTS fans had matched it.The BTS tour continues with concerts Wednesday and Thursday in Los Angeles.
Rapper Asian Doll facing backlash for hosting ‘Indian-themed’ party. The rapper Asian Doll is facing backlash on social media after announcing and selling tickets to her Indian-themed birthday party. The rapper, whose real name is Misharron Jermeisha Allen, grew up in Dallas and is not of South Asian descent. She announced the details of the party on her Twitter and Instagram on Sunday with a flyer set to Arabic background music. The party, called “Asian Doll Escapes to India,” will be held in Atlanta on Dec. 7. According to the online invitation, Indian clothes are required to enter. On her Instagram account, which has since been deactivated, she posted outfit inspiration pics that included Indian celebrities dressed in traditional kurtas and clips from Hindi movie dance numbers. The announcement gained traction, and eventually thousands of users began denouncing the party’s theme as blatant cultural appropriation. Some pointed to a now-deleted tweet Allen made in February in which she called Indian food “nasty.” “How is Asian Doll going to have a 'Indian' theme party which is so ignorant. But was just saying Indian food looked/tasted disgusting? Now I feel like the culture is a joke to her,” one person said. Others joked about her use of Arabic music to promote her “Bollywood” party, and some couldn’t help but laugh at how ridiculous and overt it all was. “LOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOL theme Bollywood music Arabic,” another person wrote. “[W]hy are some americans dense and this culturally unaware????”This isn’t the first time Allen has faced backlash for cultural appropriation, or the adoption or profiting from a minority culture. She’s known for pushing those boundaries, in fact. Those following the controversy were quick to note that even her stage name “Asian Doll” and her past use of traditional clothing were objectionable.Allen seemed to respond to the backlash on Twitter, saying that she doesn’t care what people say and that she’ll do what she wants “with no apologies.” She tweeted another announcement of the party on Monday morning, set to different music. Allen didn’t respond to NBC Asian America’s request for comment.
For many Asian Americans, graphic novels are way to explore history, fight racism. In “The Legend of Auntie Po,” Shing Yin Khor uses watercolors and folklore to bring alive a late-19th century Sierra Nevada logging camp, where some of the country’s earliest Chinese immigrants lived and worked. Centered on the 13-year-old daughter of a Chinese cook, Khor’s middle-grade graphic novel, a finalist in this year’s National Book Awards, explores the hardships Chinese laborers experienced in the tumultuous years after the passage of the Chinese Exclusion Act.But rather than dwelling on the pain and setbacks the group faced, Khor offers hope and whimsy by focusing on the gains, like how Chinese workers developed friendships with Black and Indigenous loggers. A page from "The Legend of Auntie Po."Shing Yin Khor“When you start to examine the history of marginalized groups, it’s never just about trauma,” Khor told NBC Asian America. “We wouldn’t have ended up with generation upon generation of Chinese Americans in this country if it were complete and utter misery every single moment of the time.”Graphic novels, with their powerful blend of images and words, have grown in popularity as a literary genre to explore the legacy of racism and the complexity of the immigrant experience. And in recent years, Asian American writers are increasingly publishing works that reckon with the country’s racial injustices, past and present. Illustrated memoirs in particular surged during the Trump years. Thi Bui’s “The Best We Could Do,” which won an American Book Award in 2018, recounts her family’s flight from war-torn Vietnam to the United States. In her 2018 book “Good Talk,” Indian American writer Mira Jacob documents sobering conversations about race she has with her 6-year-old biracial son, including her own coming of age post 9/11 and her struggle to accept his Jewish grandparents’ support for then-President Donald Trump. And George Takei’s 2019 memoir, “They Called Us Enemy,” chronicles his childhood years in a Japanese American internment camp during World War II.A page from "The Legend of Auntie Po."Shing Yin KhorFor Jacob, writing in the comic form can be liberating. The discomforting juxtaposition between the painful conversations she recounts and her illustrations of the characters’ unchanging, emotionless faces beckons readers to think deeply about how people of color are treated in America. “I don’t want to be the person who’s holding onto all these emotions and asking you to care anymore,” she said. “I’d rather be the unemotional face telling you the enormous difficulty of trying to get through my life, and you get to hold it for once.” Tara Fickle, an associate professor at the University of Oregon who teaches Asian American literature and comics, said the growth of graphic memoirs can be partly attributed to the “coming of age” of certain Asian American subgroups that haven’t “historically received as much attention in mainstream narratives,” including the children of refugees, mixed-race Asian Americans and transracial adoptees.  “Graphic novels are part of a larger contemporary media landscape where we see debates over minority representation and self-authorization play out,” she wrote in an email. “Asian American graphic novelists have developed brilliant ways to expose and critique the microaggressions and everyday reality of growing up Asian American, as well as the broader historical and systemic forces that determine their specific racialization.”In some ways, the graphic novel is almost uniquely equipped for writers to explore the complexities of race, said Gene Yang, author of 2006's “American Born Chinese,” the first graphic novel to be nominated for a National Book Award.The combination of words and images, he said, allows writers to convey the wide spectrum of emotions and memories that often characterize the immigrant experience."Displacement."Kiku Hughes“A well constructed graphic novel can have the same intimacy as a diary,” he said. “Issues of identity can be so emotionally fraught, so it makes sense to talk about them using a visual medium.”While the rise of Asian American graphic novelists is a more recent phenomenon, Yang said, the group has had greater representation in comic books than perhaps any other storytelling industry. Jim Lee, a renowned Korean American artist who’s now the chief creative officer and publisher of DC Comics, created such iconic superheroes as Wildcat and Gambit. Japanese Canadian creator Mariko Tamaki contributed to two recent DC anthologies that reimagined Batgirl and Harley Quinn.  “If you ask any comic book fan for a list of their favorite artists, there’d be at least one to two Asian Americans,” Yang said. “You wouldn’t get that with filmmakers or actors.”"Displacement."Kiku HughesIn her 2020 novel “Displacement,” Kiku Hughes uses a science fiction staple to explore the intergenerational impact of incarceration on Japanese American families like her own. While on vacation in San Francisco, her teenage avatar is abruptly transported back in time to the 1940s concentration camp her late grandmother was sent to during the war. “I wanted to use the time travel device to put the reader in a place where the emphasis is not on historical fact,” Hughes said, “but on the personal experience of someone who went through it.” The graphic novel form is a particularly powerful tool to examine the legacy of incarceration, she said. Because official records are scarce and government-produced films were often seen as propaganda, Miné Okubo’s 1946 graphic novel “Citizen 1366,” an illustrated memoir about life in an internment camp, became one of the only existing visual renderings of camp conditions, including bathrooms, kitchens, clothing and the food they ate.“Reading her book made me feel like comics are the foundational medium with which the story has been told since the 1940s,” Hughes said.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news3 killed, 8 injured in shooting at Oxford High School in suburban DetroitU.S. newsU.S. newsMan wanted in gun discharge at Atlanta airport surrendersAs more states consider legislation to integrate Asian American history into public school curriculums, some graphic novelists are hoping their works have a place in the classroom alongside history textbooks.  Khor hopes “The Legend of Auntie Po” encourages young people to look into the history behind the Chinese logging camps, which now receive only a footnote in textbooks.Growing up, Khor loved books about courageous young girls who led wild adventures: "Anne of the Green Gables" and "Little House on the Prairie." But the heroines were always white.“The moment I got a chance,” Khor said, “I just really wanted to write a story where a kid who’s pretty similar to me could be the star.”
After historic protests, Biden 'hit the pause button' on Cuba policy, senior official says. MIAMI — Washington's policy toward Cuba, which has been under review for close to a year, “hit the pause button” after the historic protests that rocked the communist-run island July 11, a senior U.S. official said.“There’s a rule before July 11 and after July 11,” Juan Gonzalez, the National Security Council’s senior director for the Western Hemisphere, told NBC News, referring to the historic protests that that took place in Cuba over the summer. He said President Joe Biden “feels very strongly about matters of human rights, matters of democracy. He’s not one who feels like change will just come if you let it.”Critics of Biden’s Cuba policy say the administration has largely left former President Donald Trump’s policy, that included a barrage of sanctions, intact and has been slow to implement changes. “After July 11, we hit the pause button," Gonzalez said. "Even those Cuban Americans that were pro-engagement said, ‘We need to wait — we need to look at this moment and figure out how we move forward from here.’”The July 11 protests were a watershed moment for Cuba that took the world by surprise. Thousands poured into the streets and protested against an array of grievances that included lack of freedom, shortages in food and medicine, as well as the government’s response to the coronavirus pandemic. The demonstrations were the largest since Fidel Castro’s 1959 revolution. Authorities responded with a massive crackdown. Over 1,200 arrests were made, according to the human rights group Cubalex. More than 600 are still jailed, including some minors.Open opposition and criticism of Cuba’s government have grown since July 11. A group of activists planned an islandwide protest Nov. 15 that resulted in police and security agents preventing demonstrators from leaving their homes. About 87 people were arrested and 11 are still detained. The group’s most visible leader went into exile in Spain.More Cubans have access to the internet than ever before and it has helped them communicate and organize. Many of those calling for change are young, internet-savvy people hungry for reforms. At one point during the July 11 protest, the authorities blocked popular communication sources such as WhatsApp and Facebook and they weren’t fully restored until two days later. The blockage led to calls in the U.S. for the Biden administration to find ways to provide internet to the island.Gonzalez said the administration has spent an “inordinate amount of time” looking at the issue of internet connectivity and reviewed what the Trump administration did with the Cuba Internet Task Force it set up. “There’s no really technical, easy fix, nor is the technology there to have internet connectivity, so we should be focusing on censorship circumvention.”Tensions between Washington and Havana have grown recently, with the island’s government claiming the U.S. is trying to destabilize Cuba by paying and directing dissidents. Following the protests, the Cuban government has reiterated that the decadeslong U.S. embargo is mostly to blame for its economic hardship. For some Cuban Americans, the most important policy issues are the restrictions on travel and remittances. In 2019, Trump suspended flights from the U.S. to nine airports in Cuba, allowing travel to Havana’s airport only. Western Union, which operated 407 locations throughout Cuba was forced to close them after Trump prohibited remittances through its partner, the military-owned Fincimex. Biden promised during his 2020 campaign he would lift the restrictions on travel and remittances.Gonzalez wouldn’t say if and when these restrictions would be lifted and stated the administration is not looking at these isolated restrictions. “We’re looking at the whole policy," he said.The administration set up a remittance working group after the July protests to come up with “innovative options” to ensure money sent to the island doesn’t fall into the hands of the military.“We’ve decided to further pursue investigation,” he said, pointing out that a significant number of Cubans do not receive remittances.“How can we actually use remittances to support communities that aren’t being benefited by this? A lot of the focus has been on sanctioning individuals, so we’re going to continue to sanction those individuals," Gonzalez said. "We’re trying to promote a debate about what is clearly happening in Cuba, which is a regime that is afraid of giving greater rights and even engaging in a debate.”He also said the administration is taking steps to restart consular processing but did not offer a timeline. The U.S. Embassy scaled back its staff in 2017 following health incidents that affected employees and their families. Cubans have to fly to Guyana to have their visas processed at the U.S. Embassy there. In September, the State Department began allowing diplomats in Cuba to be accompanied by some adult family members.Gonzalez said the process of restaffing takes time because of the health incidents. “We want to get that started and we’re taking the steps to get there.When asked if the governments have had discussions, he said they've mostly been "private" conversations regarding U.S. offers of vaccines, oxygen and general humanitarian support during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.
A lifeline: Grants helped Latino nonprofit groups be pandemic 'first-responders'. The disbursement of millions of dollars to Latino nonprofit groups at the height of the Covid-19 pandemic last year enabled hundreds of organizations to serve as "safety nets" and provide direct assistance to Hispanic families, according to a new report.The Hispanic Federation, one of the nation's largest Latino nonprofit umbrella organizations, disbursed $20.6 million to more than 350 nonprofit groups and 798 small businesses through its Covid relief grant program. The funds were awarded between March 2020 and September this year, and about 73 percent of the beneficiaries served Latino and immigrant communities across the mainland United States and Puerto Rico.“We knew from the very beginning because of our experience with Hurricanes Irma and Maria in Puerto Rico that these community-based organizations were going to be the lifeline of communities,” Hispanic Federation President Frankie Miranda said. “These were the ones that would not be able to close their doors and were going to be asked to do more, although they were underresourced and underfunded.”The community-based organizations reached more than 2 million people and provided health care, food and housing assistance, among others.The local organizations, he said, "are incredibly important for communities and when these organizations disappear, it takes years for organizations to come back and be able to be re-established."One of the organizations that received a grant was the Redlands Christian Migrant Association in Immokalee, Florida, an agricultural region with many farmworker and migrant families. The association's primary goal is to provide education to children of farmworkers and low-income families, serving more than 6,000 children annually across the state.The $85,000 grant from the Hispanic Federation was for Covid vaccination efforts, rental and utility assistance, and educational programs. More than 200 families benefited from the funding, according to Isabel Garcia, the association's executive director.“Most of the families and farmworkers are the ones that are always the last and have always been the ones that are forgotten about,” she said. “They would get sick and they would not have any other income coming in, because if you don’t want to work in the field, you don’t get paid.”The Redlands Christian Migrant Association has helped relieve other financial stressors including gas and travel expenses for essential workers who missed work due to Covid, and covered child care service fees when schools were closed.“We really want to target the rural population that are the hardest to reach areas where you have the most neediest families,” Garcia said. “The funding we did really helps to provide those needed services that the families are needing during this time of hardship.”In Chicago, the nonprofit Latinos Progresando said through a statement that the Hispanic Federation funding "was the first to arrive," according to its founder Luis Gutierrez, and it was used for food and vaccination drives, as well as cash assistance for vulnerable residents. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news3 killed, 8 injured in shooting at Oxford High School in suburban DetroitU.S. newsU.S. newsMan wanted in gun discharge at Atlanta airport surrendersThe initial funding for the Hispanic Federation’s Covid emergency grant program was $250,000 and was matched by “Hamilton” creator Lin-Manuel Miranda and other family members. The federation was established in New York City in 1990 by Luis Miranda, Lin-Manuel Miranda's father.  The report compiled and summarized data from an online survey of grantees during this summer.More than $10 million in grants for food assistance provided help to more than 550,000 people. At least 68 nonprofit groups launched food-related programs and 75 organizations expanded upon them. About $1 million in grant money went to 19 Latino health centers that provided more than 230,000 vaccinations in communities where fear of not having insurance or lacking legal status — even though vaccines are free and available to all regardless of immigration status — had kept some Hispanic and other families from getting shots.  The federation is hoping to disburse $7 million in additional funds by the end of the year, “While we have been able to do this, our organizations are still not getting a fair and equitable share of the funding that is out there. They continue to be disproportionately underfunded," the Hispanic Federation's Miranda said.Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.
A ‘Bitcoin City’ in El Salvador inspired by ancient Greeks? Here’s a reality check.. Dressed in pristine white in front of an audience of investors and foreign visitors, El Salvador's president, Nayib Bukele, recently announced plans to create an oceanside "Bitcoin City" at the base of a volcano.Bukele said his new urban center was inspired by the legendary cities built by Alexander the Great — except El Salvador's would be fueled by cryptocurrency.How the switch to bitcoin currency will benefit El Salvador’s economy&nbsp;Aug. 3, 202103:24“This is not just a nice idea. It’s the evolution of humankind,” Bukele told the audience amid a display of lights, smoke machines, an AC/DC song and images that showed, among other things, his figure descending from a multicolored UFO, his face in maximalist proportions and a re-creation of the square that will be in the center of the new city. Seen from the air, the town square would show the Bitcoin sign. But several analysts and experts say it's impossible for a project of that magnitude to materialize in the coming years.No technical plan for the project has been disclosed. Bukele promised that it will be very close to the Conchagua volcano, whose geothermal energy will power bitcoin mining, as well as the city’s needs. “El Salvador has the natural resources to generate that energy, but it does not have the infrastructure. We must remember that we are one of the poorest countries in the region," said José Miguel Cruz, the director of research at the Kimberly Green Latin American and Caribbean Center at Florida International University. "That money could be invested in health and education." Bukele said his planned city will be totally ecological and that it will have almost total exemption from taxes: Only a value-added tax will be charged — 13 percent — of which 6.5 percent will go to issue bonds to build the city, and the rest of which will be managed by the municipality for public services and other urban needs. The incentives to attract investment to the country are a double-edged sword, analysts said, because the government lacks the institutional controls to detect and sanction money laundering activities related to bitcoins.“The Salvadoran government has been characterized by the systematic destruction of the institutions of political and financial control," Cruz said. "In addition, all projects with bitcoins are not transparent. So we do not know who guarantees that there are no money laundering operations."A plan 'for other people'Almost 125 miles away, Dalila Meléndez, 45, watched the event as if it were news from another world.“In Soyapango, nobody uses those bitcoins, neither my friends nor my neighbors, nor do they receive them in the store. They do not serve us, because here everything is still pure dollars," said Meléndez, who works in a factory in the enterprise zone of San Bartolo. "That [plan] of the president is for other people.” More than two months have passed since bitcoins began to circulate as legal currency in El Salvador, and a recent survey revealed that, when Salvadorans can choose which currency to pay with, 91.4 percent of people use the dollar, while only a 4.9 percent favor bitcoins.When a poll by the Center for Citizen Studies at Francisco Gavidia University asked Salvadorans about the decision to adopt bitcoin as the country's currency, 35 percent said they were in favor, while 40 percent were opposed. “The truth is that now everything is more expensive, everything in the basic basket has risen a lot. Oil, meat — this bitcoin thing has not helped us yet,” Meléndez said.'Desperation to seek financing' Despite Bukele's attention-grabbing event, many analysts didn't focus on the idea of ​​Bitcoin City but on another announcement: the issuance of “volcano bonds” in the bitcoin ecosystem worth $1 billion.According to a document Salvadoran government officials have distributed among potential investors, to which Noticias Telemundo had access, the operation of the bonds would be carried out in 2022, and half of the amount would go to buy bitcoins.The rest would be used to develop infrastructure in areas like energy and cryptocurrency mining. The bonds would run for 10 years at 6.5 percent interest; that is, if the proposal materializes, El Salvador would have to pay about $1.65 billion to investors.The announcement came as Bukele’s government was in negotiations with the International Monetary Fund for a loan of $1.3 billion to improve state finances, because, experts said, the country risks defaulting on sovereign bonds maturing in 2023.“Behind the announcement of the city and the volcano’s bonds, what I see is desperation to seek financing for its populist programs,” said Ricardo Castaneda Ancheta, an economist at the Central American Institute for Fiscal Studies.“El Salvador’s risk profile has skyrocketed to levels never seen before. If the country went out to place bonds in international markets, it would have to pay an interest rate of 14 or 15 percent — that is, it would be financial suicide. They are looking for alternatives in case the IMF [loan] is not achieved," Castaneda Ancheta said.Cristian Flores, the president's commissioner for strategic projects, said El Salvador’s foray into the world cryptocurrency scene has given the country an economic boost. He said the new city is one of a series of government projects developing in the southern region.“This year we achieved a 10-point growth. It's the first time in our history. That had never been achieved, and it's thanks to the economic strategy," he said. "In addition, a few days ago we had  more than 2,000 investors, and some had capital of up to $6 billion in bitcoins. Everything is part of a plan."Salvadorans struggle with bitcoin as official currencySept. 10, 202101:28After a visit to the country, however, the IMF warned that the country’s public debt could grow to 95 percent of its gross domestic product by 2026. It also said the use of bitcoin as legal currency entails serious risks because of the volatility of cryptocurrencies.“The government clings to that growth figure, but it's not real," said Carlos Acevedo, a former president of El Salvador's Central Reserve Bank. "It's a rebound due to the 8 percent fall of last year due to the pandemic. In addition, all projections estimate that in the next few years we will grow again between 2 and 2.5 percent. If it really were solid growth, we would have levels of 7 and 8 percent in the following years. But that won't happen."'A paradise for money laundering'Bitcoin was created to carry out transactions without the intervention of trusted third parties, such as central banks or financial institutions.That is one of its great attractions, and, paradoxically, it's what makes Bukele’s commitment so novel, because it means spending part of a country’s budget in a deeply speculative market — much more speculative than investing in commodities like oil, for example. “This is almost like a national casino. It is playing with public money, betting it without having any certainty. If there is a stroke of luck and it generates a lot of money, in the end it is not clear how it is going to be invested and distributed in the country," said Cruz of Florida International University. "But the worst thing is that bitcoin falls, and it is an irreparable loss for such a poor nation."Another element that concerns experts is one of bitcoin's most touted advantages: allowing transactions using only digital identities, which gives users a certain degree of anonymity.Its increasingly widespread use has made bitcoin the preferred currency for many illicit activities, such as computer attacks, or for intricate digital networks of illegal trade in drugs and weapons and even to hire hitmen, according to reports.“At this time, the government does not have the ability to determine if a bitcoin comes from an investor who obtained it by mining, in legal exchanges or from someone who extorts or is engaged in drug trafficking. Criminals are going to find a fertile field, because there is no institutional framework — El Salvador could be considered a paradise for money laundering," Castaneda Archeta said.In addition, financial regulations weren't modified after the law that allows the circulation of bitcoins was approved, so “there is no legal framework” to detect and sanction illicit operations carried out with cryptocurrencies, Castaneda Archeta said.Flores, the commissioner, said El Salvador is out in front in the fight against corruption, and Bukele has demanded that the government’s finances “be clean.”“We have seen the development of cryptocurrencies and how control mechanisms have improved,” Flores said. “As a country, we know that it is necessary to be open to these investors, but they must always go through a filter, a knowledge process, that allows our laws to be applied. Everything in life improves and changes, so our laws will evolve as different cases arise.”But in July, the U.S. State Department publicized a list of senior officials in Central America deemed to be corrupt, including seven current and former top Salvadoran officials, among them Bukele’s labor minister, Rolando Castro; his Cabinet chief, Carolina Recinos; and his former justice and security minister, Rogelio Rivas.A city built from scratch? Bitcoin City is intended to be in an environment with many tourist attractions on nearby beaches, so it lacks the infrastructure to house thousands of people and dozens of companies.Flores said the south of the country will become a center for tourist, economic and technological development with the construction of the Pacific airport, the reactivation of the port of La Unión — a project that has never operated efficiently — the building of a shipyard and, of course, the new Bitcoin City. He said over $2 billion in private tourism investment is projected in the area of the Gulf of Fonseca.“The first thing we need is to have the capital, because urban projects of this size are sold in plans, and then you start to decide the timeline," Flores said. "I think that in the next five years we could have great advances in the works and — why not? — in 10 years, the developed project." In general, building a city is a slow process despite contemporary technological advances. Bitcoin City would require the creation of a municipality and the use of national land to start building infrastructure, including the possible expropriation of land. “It’s crazy to think that everything will be done in a few years. In fact, I don’t remember any project in a Salvadoran city that has been built from scratch in the last century, and this is going to cause problems for the people who live in those areas, because we are a densely populated country. So they will have to expropriate” land, Cruz said. Three days after the event on Mizata beach, the Salvadoran Legislative Assembly, dominated by the ruling party, approved a law that allows the expropriation of real estate for municipal works.The energy problemIn his presentation, Bukele emphasized that Bitcoin City will have “zero CO₂ emissions,” because the new urban center, as well as the cryptocurrency mining operations, will use geothermal energy.Investigations have warned of the vast environmental impact of bitcoin mining, because it can consume as much electricity as a medium-size country.“It is true that we are pioneers, because 25 percent of the energy that the country uses is of geothermal origin, but that has been achieved in more than five decades," said Carlos Martínez Cruz, a professor of electrical engineering at the University of El Salvador. "It is not installing a plant. And at once, we are going to get a well with 90 or 100 terawatts? That will never happen so fast."The government plans to use part of the capacity of a geothermal plant in the town of Berlin while the facilities are being built on the Conchagua volcano. But Martínez Cruz said that would create another problem that would end up affecting the environment.“They are going to use a plant that is already operational to use that clean energy in the cryptocurrency industry, but that is going to leave a lot of people without electricity, because we import electricity. So they are going to have to create plants that burn petroleum derivatives to cover the deficit, and that will increase pollution," he said. The new city will be in a very hot area, so mining not only will consume electricity as the computers are processing, but also require solutions to cool the equipment, which consumes much more energy, Martínez Cruz added.For entrepreneurs like Juan Mayén, the director of the Honduran company TGU Consulting Group, El Salvador is the promised land, a place where you can pay for a coffee or a pizza with an electronic wallet. He said he believes that will boost the use of cryptocurrencies in the region.“We recently installed the first bitcoin ATM in Honduras, but what the government of El Salvador is doing is very innovative," Mayén said. "I think Bukele is going to raise a lot of money with the bonds and the city. This can change things."Meanwhile, many Salvadorans, like Dalila Meléndez, distrust money they can't touch and continue to prefer dollars for their daily lives.“In my neighborhood, many people took the $30 from the Chivo wallet but then didn't use it anymore,” Meléndez said, referring to the digital bitcoin wallet the government created to promote the use of bitcoins. “I don’t understand much of it.” An earlier version of this story was published in Noticias Telemundo.
Our big holiday streaming list — all featuring Latino actors and themes. If your holiday weekend plans include a few hours of streaming and relaxing in front of the screen, we compiled an amazing list of movies, series and documentaries featuring Latino filmmakers or actors. From "Acapulco" to "Cobra Kai," all the shows have a little sabor latino, or Latino flavor.Netflix“Gentefied”The hit bilingual comedy series follows the travails of the Morales cousins as they tackle life, love and careers while trying to save their grandfather’s unique taco shop in Los Angeles amid gentrification. America Ferrera is one of the show’s creators.Carlos Santos and Karrie Martin in Gentefied.Courtesy Netflix“Rita Moreno: Just a Girl Who Decided to Go for It”A 90-minute documentary about the extraordinary life and career of Emmy, Grammy, Oscar and Tony winner Rita Moreno, directed by the Latina filmmaker Mariem Pérez Riera. The film shares a closer look at the Puerto Rican icon’s remarkable 70-year career in Hollywood, and it’s narrated by Moreno herself.“Narcos: Mexico”Set in the 1990s, the latest and last season goes beyond the war on drugs and the eternal battle for control among cartels and takes a closer look at the globalization of the drug business. Scott McNairy, José María Yazpik and Alejandro Edda are joined by new cast members Luis Gerardo Méndez, Luisa Rubino and the music superstar Bad Bunny.“Tick, Tick … Boom!”“Hamilton” creator Lin-Manuel Miranda makes his feature film directorial debut with the story of the late composer Jonathan Larson and his groundbreaking and acclaimed Broadway show “Rent.” Trivia bit: Miranda played the role of Larson in a 2014 production."Pose"Co-created by the Afro Latino screenwriter Steven Canals, “Pose” is a story about New York City’s Black and Latino LGBTQ ballroom community as it battles poverty, addiction and the devastating AIDS crisis in the late 1980s and early ’90s."Cobra Kai"A scene from the fourth season of Netflix's "Cobra Kai."Netflix / \In a show set 30 years after the iconic “Karate Kid” movie franchise, rivals Daniel LaRusso and Johnny Lawrence are now the sensei teaching their karate philosophy. The first three seasons are available, all of which feature Miguel Diaz, played by the Latino actor Xolo Maridueña, who is of Mexican, Cuban and Ecuadorian heritage — a highlight of the ensemble cast."Luis Miguel: The Series"Starring Diego Boneta and co-executive produced by Luis Miguel himself, this biographical drama gives unique insight into the life and career of the Mexican superstar.“Halston”A miniseries that follows the intense career and tragic life of the American fashion designer and ’70s icon, it stars Ewan McGregor as Halston, Krysta Rodríguez as Liza Minnelli and the Venezuelan newcomer Gian Franco Rodríguez as Halston’s love interest, Victor Hugo."Jane the Virgin"A spinoff of the Venezuelan telenovela “Juana La Virgen,” this popular comedy follows the story of Jane Villanueva, an aspiring writer (played by Golden Globe winner Gina Rodriguez) who learns that she is pregnant because of an artificial insemination mix-up.“Jane the Virgin.”Courtesy The CW"Dynasty"The Carringtons and the Colbys feud for control over their fortune —and their children — in this updated reboot of the classic prime-time soap. Starring Elizabeth Gillies and Rafael de la Fuente, who is Venezuelan."Cocaine Cowboys: The Kings of Miami"A six-episode documentary about two Cuban American childhood friends who go from high school dropouts to become the most powerful drug kingpins in South Florida: Augusto “Willy” Falcon and Salvador “Sal” Magluta, also known as “Los Muchachos.”“The Day I Met El Chapo: The Kate Del Castillo Story”The Mexican actress Kate del Castillo shares the story of her encounter with Joaquín "El Chapo" Guzmán, the world’s most-wanted drug lord. The three-part docuseries uses never-before-seen footage and exclusive details — and it is narrated by Del Castillo herself."The Queen’s Gambit"The hit seven-part miniseries that swept the awards circuit tells the story of a chess prodigy and her struggles with addiction. Starring Golden Globe winner Anya Taylor-Joy — who is of Argentinian heritage — as the complex chess master Beth Harmon."On My Block"Bryana Salaz, Keyla Monterroso Mejia, Ciara Riley Wilson and Shiv Pai in the fourth season of Netflix's "On My Block."Kevin Estrada / NetflixA coming-of-age story that follows the lives of a group of Black and Latino high school teens and their daily struggles living in South Central Los Angeles. Co-created by Eddie Gonzalez, "On My Block" stars Sierra Capri; Jason Genao, a Dominican American; Diego Tinoco, who is of Colombian and Mexican heritage; and Brett Gray."Selena: The Series"A two-part series about the short life and enduring musical legacy of Tejano music queen Selena Quintanilla and her family members. “The new show is at its core a story about the Quintanillas, a tight-knit Mexican American family from South Texas striving for a better life," NBC News reported. All episodes are available to stream."Vivo"Sony Pictures Animation’s first animated musical follows the adventures of Vivo (voiced by Lin-Manuel Miranda), a musically gifted kinkajou who spends his life playing music in the streets of Havana alongside his human friend, Andrés (Juan de Marcos González), until an unexpected tragedy takes him to Miami."7 Prisoners"The story follows the life of young Mateus, who takes a job at a junkyard in São Paulo but realizes he is trapped in a dangerous human trafficking operation. Directed by Alexandre Moratto, the film stars the Brazilian actors Christian Malheiros, Josias Duarte, Cecilia Homem, Rodrigo Santoro and Vitor Julian.“Maya and the Three”Netflix's "Maya and the Three."NetflixThe Mexican director Jorge Gutiérrez, the creator of “The Book of Life,” pays homage to his culture in this animated adventure about a Mesoamerican warrior princess who embarks on a special journey to recruit three fighters to help save humankind. The cast includes the Mexican actor Diego Luna, Stephanie Beatriz, Zoe Saldana and Gabriel Iglesias, among others.“Passing”A 1929 novel adaptation by Nella Larsen, “Passing” stars the Afro Latina actor Tessa Thompson, who plays Irene “Reenie” Redfield, a woman from Harlem who encounters an old friend who has been pretending to be white.“Love Hard”Directed by the Costa Rican writer, comedian and actor Hernán Jiménez, “Love Hard” is a comedy that follows Los Angeles journalist Natalie Bauer and her misfortunes in love — until she swipes right on a dreamy guy from the East Coast.“Roma”Written and directed by the Mexican director Alfonso Cuarón, the Academy Award-winning movie “Roma” is an emotional story about Sofía, a mother of four, and Cleo, the family’s nanny, inspired by the two women who raised the director.“Pan’s Labyrinth”Written and directed by the Mexican director Guillermo del Toro, this award-winning fantasy story follows the life of a young girl named Ofelia and how her deep passion for fairy tales creates an imaginary world that allows her to escape the realities of the Spanish Civil War.Hulu“Only Murders in the Building”A hilarious murder-mystery series that follows the lives of three strangers (Steve Martin, Martin Short and Selena Gomez, who is of Mexican heritage) who share an obsession with true crime podcasts and suddenly find themselves wrapped up in one.Steve Martin, Martin Short and Selena Gomez in "Only Murders in the Building."Courtesy Hulu“Brooklyn Nine-Nine”A comedy about talented but carefree detective Jake Peralta (Andy Samberg) and his precinct colleagues. Starring Latinas Melissa Fumero as Detective Amy Santiago and Stephanie Beatriz as Detective Rosa Diaz. Beatriz became an icon for the LGBTQ community after her character came out as bisexual. All episodes are available on Hulu and Peacock TV. (Peacock is the streaming service of NBCUniversal, the parent company of NBC News.)“Mayans M.C.”From the creators of “Sons of Anarchy,” the show follows Ezekiel “EZ” Reyes and his new life after his release from prison. Starring the Mexican American cinematic legend Edward James Olmos; J.D Pardo, who is of Argentinean and Salvadorian heritage; Clayton Cardenas, who is of Filipino Mexican heritage; Sarah Bolger; Michael Irby, who is Mexican American; and the Venezuelan newcomer Carla Baratta.“Home Economics”A comedy that gives a closer look into the relationship among three adult siblings: one in the 1 Percent, one who's in the middle class and one who's barely holding on. Starring Topher Grace, Caitlin McGee, Jimmy Tatro, Sasheer Zamata and the Mexican actor Karla Souza.“The Moodys”A loving dysfunctional family gathers in their hometown for the “perfect” holiday. The comedy, which stars Denis Leary, Elizabeth Perkins, Francois Arnaud, Chelsea Frei and Jay Baruchel, also features Josh Segarra, who is of Puerto Rican descent, and the Venezuelan actor María Gabriela de Faría, who plays Cora, who is from Venezuela.“Love, Victor”"Love, Victor" on Hulu.Greg Gayne / HuluA young LGBTQ Latino from a religious family faces the challenges of adjusting to a new city and a new high school as he struggles with his sexual orientation.“Plan B”After a regrettable first sexual encounter, a high-achieving high school student and her slacker best friend have only 24 hours to hunt down a Plan B pill. Starring Kuhoo Verma and Victoria Moroles and directed by Natalie Morales, who is Cuban American.“We Are Freestyle Love Supreme”A documentary about Lin-Manuel Miranda’s first improv hip-hop group, called “Freestyle Love Supreme,” with Thomas Kill and Anthony Veneziale. The film includes their reunion performance in New York City in 2019.“Second Act”Jennifer Lopez stars as Maya, a retail worker who reinvents her résumé and her life story to show big New York City corporations what “street smarts” can do.Peacock TV“La Brea”Starring the Puerto Rican actor Jon Seda, “La Brea” follows a family as they are separated after an enormous sinkhole inexplicably opens in Los Angeles. Watch Tuesdays on NBC at 9 PM and the next day on Peacock.“La Brea” on NBC.Courtesy NBC“Ordinary Joe”The show, which tells the three parallel stories of Joe Kimbreau and how his life choices lead to separate paths with different careers, friendships, relationships and family lives, stars James Wolk and Natalie Martinez, who is Cuban American. Season one is available on Peacock TV and Hulu, and it airs Monday nights on NBC.“Superstore”A comedy that takes a closer look at the lives of a group of employees at a big-box store. The show stars Ben Feldman, Lauren Ash, Colton Dunn, Nico Santos, Mark McKinney, Nichole Sakura, Danny Gura and the acclaimed Latina actor America Ferrera, who is of Honduran heritage. Stream all episodes, including the season finale, which premiered this year, on Peacock, as well as on Hulu with a premium subscription.Amazon Prime “Language Lessons”A Spanish teacher and her student develop an unexpected friendship. Starring Mark Duplass, Desean Terry, Christine Quesada and Cuban American Natalie Morales, who also directed the film.“The Addams Family 2”The movie follows the Addamses on their family trip to Niagara Falls and the Grand Canyon. Starring the Latino sensation Oscar Isaac, Charlize Theron, Chloë Grace Moretz, Javon “Wanna” Walton, Bette Midler, Nick Kroll and Snoop Dogg. Writer and producer Dan Hernández co-wrote the screenplay. The film is available for rent on Amazon Prime Video, Apple TV and YouTube.“No Time to Die”Daniel Craig stars as James Bond in "No Time to Die."MGMDaniel Craig’s fifth and final performance as James Bond features Bond girls Léa Seydoux as Madeleine and the Cuban actress Ana de Armas as Paloma. The film premiered in theaters Oct. 8 and is available for rent on Amazon Prime Video and Apple TV.Apple TV+“Acapulco”A bilingual comedy series starring the Mexican actors Eugenio Derbez, Enrique Arrizon, Fernando Carsa and Damián Alcázar and the Colombian American actor Camila Perez. The show depicts the glamorous life at a famous luxury resort in 1980s Acapulco, Mexico.“Ted Lasso”Cristo Fernandez in Apple TV+'s “Ted Lasso.”Apple TVThe comedy about a struggling English Premier League soccer team features a lovable cast, including the Mexican actor Cristo Fernández as Danny Rojas, who has won the hearts of fans around the world with his catchphrase “fútbol is life.”“The Morning Show”The hit show's last two seasons tackle tough topics: #MeToo, sexual and gender issues in the workplace and the Covid-19 pandemic, all in the cutthroat world of morning television news. Starring Jennifer Aniston, Reese Witherspoon, Billy Crudup, Mark Duplass and the Cuban American actor Nestor Carbonell. All episodes, including the Season 2 finale, are available.“Schimigadoon!”The show features a magical town where every person acts as if they're part of a 1940s musical. The best part? The Mexican actor Jamie Camil co-stars as Doc López. The first season is available.“Truth Be Told”The Latino actor and Broadway star Anthony Lee Medina joined Season 2 of “Truth be Told,” a show that follows a true crime podcaster played by Octavia Spencer and her pursuit to solve all the mysteries surrounding each criminal case.Disney+“Coco”Set around Día de los Muertos, or Day of the Dead, the Oscar-winning Disney film tells the story of an aspiring musician, Miguel, who finds himself in the colorful Land of the Dead looking for his great-great-grandfather, a legendary singer. Starring the Mexican actors Anthony Gonzalez, Gael García Bernal and Jaime Camil and the Peruvian American actor Benjamin Bratt.“Coco.”Courtesy Pixar/Disney+“The Mandalorian”The sci-fi-adventure series from the “Star Wars” franchise, which is set between “Return of the Jedi” and “The Force Awakens,” stars Pedro Pascal, who is Chilean, as the title character."Diary of a Future President”Watch the young Cuban American and future president of the U.S. Elena Cañero-Reed go through the ups and downs of middle school. Created and written by Ilana Peña, the show stars Tess Romero and Gina Rodriguez, who directed two episodes.“Lost Temple of the Inca”The documentary filmmaker Jim Aikman follows the journey of the environmental scientist Preston Sowell in his search for the lost temple of Ausangate, a sacred mountain of the Inca Empire in Peru, and his campaign to protect it from environmental devastation.“Hamilton”Lin-Manuel Miranda’s original production, based on the life of Founding Father Alexander Hamilton, is still available for streaming on Disney+.“Elena of Avalor”Follow the animated adventures of teenage Princess Elena of Avalor and how she saves her magical kingdom from an evil sorceress. Elena is voiced by Dominican actress Aimee Ortega, and Princess Isabel, Elena’s sister, is voiced by Jenna Ortega, who is of Mexican and Puerto Rican descent.HBO Max“Scenes From a Marriage”The HBO adaptation of the acclaimed 1973 Ingmar Bergman drama takes a closer look at the beauty and the difficulties of marriage through the lens of an American couple played by the Guatemalan actor Oscar Isaac and Jessica Chastain.“Dune: Part One”The adaptation of Frank Herbert’s science fiction classic novel tells the story of Paul Atreides, a gifted young man born into a noble family who must travel to the most dangerous planet in the universe to safeguard the future of his family and his people. The Guatemalan actor Oscar Isaac plays the patriarch, Duke Leto Atreides. “King Richard”Directed by the Black Latino filmmaker Reinaldo Marcus Green, the film tells the story of how Venus and Serena Williams became worldwide tennis superstars under the coaching of their father, Richard.Paramount+“The Harper House”An animated comedy about an Arkansas woman, Debbie Harper, and her battle to regain a higher status for herself and for her family after she loses her job and moves from the rich side to the poor side of her small town. The Venezuelan American comedian and writer Joanna Hausmann voices two characters.AMC+“Ragdoll”Based on Daniel Cole’s trilogy of the same name, “Ragdoll” follows three London police officers who investigate the murders of six people who have been dismembered and sewn into a rag doll. Starring the British Brazilian actor Thalissa Teixeira as Detective Inspector Emily Baxter, Henry Lloyd-Hughes as Detective Sergeant Nathan Rose and Lucy Hale as Detective Constable Lake Edmunds.“Fear the Walking Dead”This “Walking Dead” spinoff, set in Los Angeles, follows two families who team up to survive the zombie apocalypse. Season 7 premiered Oct. 17, starring the Latino actors Colman Domingo as Victor Strand and Danay Garcia as Luciana Galves and the Panamanian music icon Rubén Blades as Daniel Salazar.
