2 missionaries who were kidnapped in Haiti have been released. A religious organization announced Sunday that two of its missionaries who were taken hostage with 15 others last month in Haiti have been released. Christian Aid Ministries, an Ohio-based nonprofit organization, didn't identify the two missionaries or the circumstances behind their release. The organization said its heart was still with the more than a dozen other missionaries still being held. "We cannot provide or confirm the names of those released, the reasons for their release, where they are from, or their current location," the organization said in a statement. "We ask that those who have more specific information about the release and the individuals involved would safeguard that information." The two people are "safe, in good spirits, and being cared for," the statement said. Seventeen U.S. and Canadian citizens working with Christian Aid Ministries were kidnapped last month by the 400 Mawozo gang, which controls the Ganthier commune in the suburb of Port-au-Prince where the missionaries were taken. Christian Aid Ministries headquarters in Titanyen, Haiti, on Oct. 22. Ricardo Arduengo / AFP via Getty Images fileThe group comprised 12 adults and five children 8 months to 15 years old. It's unclear whether either of the released hostages is one of the children.Haitian officials said the group's leader was demanding $1 million per hostage, totaling $17 million. RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store A video circulating on social media, which a U.S. official said appeared to be legitimate, threatened to kill hostages if the ransom demand wasn't met.  Haiti has faced a series of disasters over the years, and the last several months have been met with renewed hardships. President Jovenel Moïse was assassinated in July, and a 7.2-magnitude earthquake hit in August. More than 2,000 people were killed in the quake, and thousands more were displaced after their homes and businesses were devastated.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Warrants issued for man after gun goes off at Atlanta airport. Warrants have been issued for a man who fled after a gun went off during a search of his luggage at Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport, causing panicked travelers to flee and briefly halting departures Saturday afternoon, officials said.  About 1:30 p.m., a transportation security officer was checking a passenger's bag after the X-ray machine identified a prohibited item, the Transportation Security Administration said.The officer told the passenger not to touch the bag, but "as he opened the compartment containing the prohibited item, the passenger lunged into the bag and grabbed a firearm, at which point it discharged," the TSA said in a written statement. The passenger ran out of the security line and an airport exit with the gun, said Robert Spinden, the TSA's federal security director for Georgia. The airport tweeted that there was not an active shooter and that a firearm had gone off accidentally. Airport officials gave the all-clear at 2:57 p.m. and said passenger screenings and flights were underway again.At a news conference Saturday evening, authorities identified Kenny Wells, 42, as the man whose gun discharged.Warrants have been issued for Wells on charges of possession of a firearm by a convicted felon, discharging a firearm, carrying a concealed weapon at a commercial airport and reckless conduct, said the airport police commander, Maj. Reginald Norman.Cellphone video captured frightened travelers lying on the ground. Other video showed passengers getting off planes and waiting on the tarmac and around the terminals, NBC affiliate WXIA of Atlanta reported.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsArmored truck spills money on California freeway, sparking cash-grab frenzyWorld CupWorld CupQatar's migrant workers face heat, exploitation and death in race to build World Cup venuesThe airport said that there was no danger to passengers or employees and that the incident is being investigated. At least three people were reported to have been injured, two of them with shortness of breath and a third who fell in an area separate from the security checkpoint. None of the injuries were thought to be life-threatening, and it was unclear whether they were directly tied to the scare, officials said. No one was injured in the discharge.The Federal Aviation Administration halted departures. The airport said normal operations are beginning to resume. The TSA said the incident should remind passengers of "the importance of checking personal belongings for dangerous items before leaving for the airport." TSA officers have come across more than 450 firearms at checkpoints in the Atlanta airport this year, the agency said. "Firearms, particularly loaded firearms, introduce an unnecessary risk at checkpoints, have no place in the passenger cabin of an airplane, and represent a very costly mistake for the passengers who attempt to board a flight with them," the TSA said. The agency said it assesses civil penalties when travelers take firearms to airport checkpoints. The penalties vary based on any previous offenses and whether the firearms are loaded. 
A rural hospital closed its obstetrics unit, hitting most vulnerable the hardest. Shantell Jones gave birth in an ambulance parked on the side of a Connecticut highway. Even though she lived six blocks away from a hospital, the emergency vehicle had to drive to another one about 30 minutes away.The closer medical center, Windham Hospital, discontinued labor and delivery services last year and is working to permanently cease childbirth services after “years of declining births and recruitment challenges,” its operator, Hartford HealthCare, has said.But medical and public health experts say the step could potentially put pregnant women at risk if they don't have immediate access to medical attention. Losing obstetrics services, they said, could be associated with increased preterm births, emergency room births and out-of-hospital births without resources nearby, like Jones' childbirth experience.The dilemma Jones faced is one that thousands of other pregnant women living in rural communities without obstetrics units nearby are encountering as hospitals cut back or close services to reduce costs. Nationwide, 53 rural counties lost obstetrics care from 2014 through 2018, according to a 2020 study in the Journal of the American Medical Association, which also found that out of 1,976 rural counties in the country, 1,045 never had hospitals with obstetrics services to begin with.The problem is particularly acute in communities of color, like Windham in northeastern Connecticut, where the population is 41 percent Latino, while the statewide Latino population is only 16.9 percent, according to the U.S Census Bureau. The community is 6.2 percent Black. Local activists say they fear low-income residents will bear the brunt of the hospital’s decision because Windham has a 24.6 percent poverty rate compared to 10 percent statewide, according to the census.The night Jones delivered her son, her mother, Michelle Jones, had called 911 because Jones was going into labor a few weeks early, and after her water broke they knew the baby was coming soon. Both expected the ambulance to drive the short distance to Windham Hospital, where Jones received her prenatal care.But the ambulance attendant was told Windham wasn't taking labor and delivery patients and was referring people to Backus Hospital in Norwich, Jones said.In the ambulance, she was without her mother, who was asked to follow in her car.“I was anxious and scared and traumatized,” Jones said.Ten minutes into the drive, the baby wasn’t going to wait and the ambulance pulled onto the shoulder of Route 32.An emergency medical technician delivered the boy just after midnight Nov. 17, 2020, while cars sped by. As Jones pushed, she was terrified a complication might arise and there would be no hospital resources to lean on.Fortunately, the delivery was smooth, and she was able to hold her newborn as the ambulance drove the rest of the way to the hospital."It was surreal," Jones said. "The hospital was down the street from my house. I could have had my baby in a hospital bed."Windham Hospital, which discontinued labor and delivery services in June 2020, has filed a state-required “certificate of need” to officially close its childbirth services. The Connecticut Office of Health Strategy, which held a regulatory hearing Nov. 10 on the potential permanent closure, has not said when it plans to make a final decision."The proposal at its core is about patient safety," Jennifer Fusco, an attorney for Hartford HealthCare, said during the public hearing. "It's about a need to close a labor and delivery service that can no longer be operated in a safe or consistent manner."A group called Windham United to Save Our Healthcare, the local chapter of the NAACP and the American Teachers Federation, which represents Windham Hospital health care workers, have circulated petitions, organized weekly virtual meetings and participated in rallies to oppose the move.RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store “It’s about the fabric of this community, and I really love this community,” Brenda Buchbinder, who spearheaded Windham United, said. “It’s where my husband and I settled. It's where our children were born. It’s where we passed the local hospital and got to tell them, ‘That’s where you were born.’”The Windham Town Council also passed a resolution last year asking the hospital to “restore all core services, especially maternity services of Labor and Delivery.”Labor and delivery departments "have a lot of human value" but often make little money, said Katy Kozhimannil, a public health researcher and University of Minnesota professor, who authored the study published in JAMA.Windham's contentious decision shows the risk to low-income women who may not have the means or resources to travel 30 minutes at a moment's notice, she said.Leah Ralls, NAACP chapter president for Windham and nearby Willimantic, said the community is already medically underserved and the closure of delivery services will only make it worse."The concern that I have is that women of color be given an opportunity for quality health care," she said. "There are white women in this community negatively affected by the closing. However, in terms of health equity, race lends itself to being a major concern for us."She said she fears financially struggling families without access to transportation won't be able to travel to Hartford or Norwich when it's time to give birth."It hurts my heart because I'm a patient of Windham Hospital," Ralls said. “I'm very, very attached to that hospital."Alejandra Perez-Handler went to Windham Hospital a few months ago and was transported by ambulance to Backus Hospital, where she gave birth. Her insurance covered the $1,300 ride, but she knows a lot of people wouldn’t have been able to afford it."That $1,300 that Anthem covered for my ambulance ride to Backus Hospital would not have needed to happen if Windham had accepted me," she said, sighing.Windham Hospital has said it will continue prenatal and postnatal services."They're acknowledging by saying, 'We have these wonderful prenatal and postnatal services at our hospital,' that there is a need," said Lynne Ide, executive director of Universal Health Care Foundation of Connecticut, an advocacy group.Jones, who recently celebrated her son’s first birthday, is thankful for a healthy baby, but she still struggles with the memory of giving birth on the side of the road, anxious and afraid.When her son, Michel Le Barron Jones, is old enough, she plans to tell him about his birth on Route 32 and how they both overcame an obstacle, their first hurdle as a family."I'll tell him I felt brave," Jones said. "I'll tell him he's a warrior.”Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Queen Elizabeth attends christening of great-grandsons. LONDON — Queen Elizabeth attended a private ceremony to celebrate the christenings of two of her great-grandchildren on Sunday, the British news agency PA reported, four days after the 95-year-old monarch made her first public appearance since a hospital stay.RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store Buckingham Palace had no comment on the report.The queen spent a night in hospital for the first time in years last month for what the palace called “preliminary investigations” into an unspecified ailment, and doctors have advised her to cancel most engagements since then.Queen holds first in-person engagement since hospital stay, back sprainNov. 17, 202100:43She pulled out of a Remembrance Day Ceremony on Nov. 14 with a sprained back which a palace source said was unrelated to the condition which has required rest and was an unfortunate coincidence.On Nov. 17, she was pictured standing and smiling at her Windsor Castle home as she chatted to the chief of defence staff.Britain's Queen Elizabeth receives Gen. Sir Nick Carter at Windsor Castle on Wednesday. Steve Parsons / Pool via ReutersSunday’s private ceremony, which took place at the Royal Lodge in Windsor Great Park, was to celebrate two family christenings, according to the PA report.One was of the baby son of Princess Eugenie, daughter of the queen’s third child Prince Andrew. The other was of the third child, a son, of Zara Tindall, daughter of the queen’s second child Princess Anne.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'SNL' views Kyle Rittenhouse verdict through red-state lenses. "Saturday Night Live" tried to see the not guilty verdicts in the homicide trial of Kyle Rittenhouse through the eyes of red-state America.The show turned to Fox News' "Justice With Judge Jeanine" to help. Host Jeanine Pirro, played by Cecily Strong, focused on Kenosha, Wisconsin, as the "top story." Rittenhouse, 18, was found not guilty Friday on all charges related to fatally shooting two men and wounding a third during protests in the city last year. His lawyers have argued Rittenhouse was defending himself from attackers after he went to Wisconsin in an effort to protect businesses and provide medical assistance amid August 2020 demonstrations and unrest over the shooting of Jacob Blake, a Black man, by a white officer. "That lovable scamp was put through a nightmare of a trial just for doing the bravest thing any American can do —protecting an empty used car lot in someone else’s town," Pirro said.Mikey Day as Judge Bruce Schroeder, who presided over Kyle Rittenhouse's trial, appears in the opening of 'Saturday Night Live' on Nov. 20, 2021.NBCShe introduced Kenosha County Circuit Court Judge Bruce Schroeder, who made headlines during proceedings by forbidding the use of the word "victim" to describe decedents Joseph Rosenbaum, 36, and Anthony Huber, 26, and survivor Gaige Grosskreutz. He also continued his roughly 20-year custom of allowing the defendant to choose 12 jurors through a blind and random drawing. Schroeder, played by Mikey Day, defended his management of a trial that was watched by some as a barometer of race and privilege.“It was all standard procedure,” Schroeder said. “That’s why I ordered the prosecution not to use the word victims. They were rioters.”The judge insisted his rules and rulings "did not give my client an unfair advantage in any way."Pirro brought in Sandra Cummings (Chloe Fineman), described as an NPR legal analyst, and Howard University professor of law Samuel Fields (Chris Redd) for some fairness and balance, but the guests seemed to have different opinions."This is not who we are," said Cummings, who is white. The verdict, she argued, sends a message that "any American can just prowl the streets with an AK-47."Fields, who is Black, responded, "Any American? I think you're missing a key word there."Cummings continued, undeterred. "I was shocked," she said."You were?" the professor said, "Because I wasn’t.""I’ve never seen anything like it before," the legal analyst said.RecommendedPop Culture NewsPop Culture NewsFrom Rock to Bond? Dwayne Johnson says he wants to play James BondPop Culture NewsPop Culture News'Tiger King' Joe Exotic moved to North Carolina facility after cancer diagnosis"I have, many many times," Fields said.The show's James Austin Johnson reprised his well-received impression of former President Donald Trump, who was introduced by Pirro as "this people's sexiest man alive."Trump meandered, emphasizing 2024 election goals while also commenting on popular culture."We’re coming back in 2024," he said. "We’re doing the reboot, OK?" A few beats later he asked, "Why did they reboot 'Gossip Girl?'""Weekend Update" had no good news for President Joe Biden, despite a week that included his signing of a hard-fought $555 billion infrastructure bill."Yesterday was a weird one for President Biden," co-host Colin Jost said. The day included the Rittenhouse verdict and the first time in United States history a woman served as acting president. Biden, who turned 79 on Saturday, went under anesthesia for a colonoscopy, and temporarily transferred power to Vice President Kamala Harris."You can't drop all that [news] on him the second he comes out of the gas," Jost said.Simu Liu hosted and Saweetie was the night's musical guest. 
Qatar’s migrant workers have faced exploitation and servitude. Now they're fighting for change.. In a year’s time, the heroes of the so-called beautiful game will head to the tiny Gulf kingdom of Qatar in the hope of being crowned champions at the World Cup. But a growing number of critics accuse its leaders and private construction firms of contributing to the systemic exploitation of migrant workers, some of whom have died in unexplained circumstances while building vast soccer venues in the blazing heat.Download the NBC News app for breaking news and politicsAnd while Qatar says it has made significant labor reforms to protect a migrant workforce of about 2 million people — an estimated 95 percent of the country’s total working population — the World Cup is shining a light on migrant deaths and human rights challenges in the region.Before dawn every day, workers typically from India, Bangladesh, Nepal, the Philippines and Kenya are taken by bus from their designated accommodations to work on colossal stadiums. The trip can take hours, and temperatures regularly reach 102 degrees Fahrenheit.A report released Friday by the International Labor Organization, a U.N. agency that has an office in the country’s capital, Doha, said 50 migrant workers across all sectors died in work-related accidents last year, most of them in falls or road traffic accidents, It didn't provide data for other years. In addition, there were 38,000 work-related injuries last year, 500 of them classed as severe. The report didn’t specify how many were related to the World Cup.Workers on the construction site at Al-Wakrah stadium outside the Qatari capital, Doha.Karim Jaafar / AFP via Getty Images fileThe report said some work-related deaths may not have been properly recorded — a lack of information and potential errors by front-line medical staff members mean some work-related deaths may not have been recorded as such, it said. The International Labor Organization called for a review of how the deaths of healthy young men from “natural causes” are investigated.The human rights group Amnesty International has alleged that Qatari authorities had failed to investigate thousands of migrant deaths over the past decade, some even before World Cup projects began, while suggesting that some of the deaths were linked to unsafe working conditions. “These men are seemingly healthy, they have passed their tests to work in Qatar, and yet they die at a young age and their death certificate just states either natural causes, cardiac arrest or respiratory failure,” said May Romanos, a researcher on workers’ rights in the Gulf region for Amnesty International.“The issue is also concerning the climate in Qatar and knowing the heat and the weather conditions, with migrant workers on building sites and working as security guards,” Romanos said.Qatar disputes the findings and argues that the mortality and safety statistics for migrant workers are in line with international standards. The soccer world is taking notice of the campaign for better conditions. Denmark’s national team said in a statement Wednesday that it wouldn't take part in promotional activities at the World Cup “to mark the continuing struggle for the improvement of human rights in Qatar.” Instead of the normal logos of commercial sponsors, the Danish players’ shirts will display what the statement said are “critical messages.”In March, Norway and Germany both took to the field before matches wearing shirts emblazoned with human rights slogans.Workers' accommodations during a tour of the construction site of Al Bayt stadium in Doha, Qatar, on Jan. 9, 2017.Lars Baron / Bongarts/Getty Images fileThe number of migrant workers who have died while working in Qatar is disputed — human rights campaigners acknowledge that there is no single reliable figure. Official Qatari statistics show that 15,021 non-Qataris died from 2010 to 2019 across the country, counting all causes of death.The Qatari Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy of the 2022 World Cup, which the government created in 2011, says there have been just 38 deaths since 2015 among migrants working on official tournament projects, 35 of which were classed as “non-work-related.”Soccer’s international governing body, FIFA, said in a statement that the World Cup has contributed significantly to labor conditions across Qatar through the Supreme Committee’s Workers’ Welfare Program.“The robustness of this program has been recognised repeatedly by experts and trade unions over the years, and as stated in a recent U.N. report, constitutes ‘impressive changes’ and ‘sweeping reforms’ within the country,” said Alois Hug, a FIFA spokesperson.International Labor Organization statistics show a much higher rate of occupational deaths for other countries: Armenia recorded 13.6 deaths per 100,000 workers in 2016; Egypt had 10.6 per 100,000 in 2018. Qatar’s figure from 2016 is 1.7.“Our commitment to workers’ welfare has resulted in significant improvements in accommodation standards, health and safety regulations, grievance mechanisms, health care provision, and reimbursements of illegal recruitment fees to workers,” the Supreme Committee said in an emailed statement.RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store The Government Communications Office of Qatar said in response to questions that “no other country has come so far on labor reform in such a short amount of time.”“The government is committed to engaging collaboratively and constructively with international partners and critics to further improve standards for all migrant workers in Qatar,” it said in a statement. The recent reforms include banning working outside during the hottest part of the day; a new monthly minimum wage of 1,000 riyals (around $275), plus payments for food and accommodation if they aren't included in contracts; and annual health checks.It also scrapped the system of “kafala,” in which workers gave up their passports and couldn't leave the country or change jobs without permission from their employers, a practice still common across parts of the Middle East, which trade union groups have described as a form of modern slavery.Qatar's 2022 FIFA World Cup Lusail stadium is seen under construction. Getty Images fileFor families who have lost loved ones, the reforms came too late, campaigners say.“This 2022 World Cup, I often call it the blood diamond of World Cups,” said Barun Ghimire, a human rights lawyer in Nepal, the home country of thousands of migrant workers in Qatar. “It’s a bloodstained cup. Everyone knows migrant workers are dying. And they [the workers] did not know about this risk.” Ghimire described representing the families of men who have died while working in Qatar as “emotionally devastating.” In some cases, Ghimire said, families have had to wait days before they are informed of a death and then aren’t told the cause.“This is someone who’s taken a loan, goes abroad with the hope of making their future and making some money, and as a result of work conditions or other factors they die, and at least I think the family deserves to know how they died,” he said.Ghimire is lobbying the Nepali government to stop what he says is a cycle of abuse that can often start in workers’ home countries, where agencies lend money to poor, vulnerable people, often at extreme interest rates, to cover airfare and migration fees.The Nepali government temporarily shut down three recruitment agencies in December for breaking the rules about interviews for jobs offered in Qatar.“Someone who is going abroad, they don’t understand financial systems, they don’t go to banks. They take a loan from the informal sector,” Ghimire said. “Those who do not die can often end up in a debt trap and have to pay a huge sum of interest to those who provided the loan.“When this happens we’ll all enjoy it and support our team, but on the backside of it, these stadiums and facilities are constructed on the dead bodies of migrant workers from one of the poorest regions in the world,” Ghimire said.Speaking by phone early one evening last month, a construction worker, 44, said he didn't want to stay up too late because his shift started the next day at 6 a.m. The worker asked not to be named for fear of retribution from his employers for speaking to the media.Workers in their accommodations at Al Bayt stadium in Doha, Qatar, on Jan. 9, 2017.Lars Baron / Bongarts/Getty Images fileFor some workers, the trip to their worksite is two hours, he said, and that's without the added complication of sandstorms, which, even in the middle of Doha, Qatar’s capital, can halt work entirely.He was positive about the changes Qatar has made in workers’ rights, which means there is no working outside from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. during the summer, but he said it wasn’t always so. Have migrant workers died because of heat exhaustion?“Yeah, before, but now it’s very strict on working outside. The climate is very difficult,” he said.Qatar 2022, which will be played in the winter because of the region’s extreme heat, will be the first in an Arab country. The record high temperature for Doha is 122.7 degrees F, set in 2010. Even in November, temperatures can reach 86 degrees F.The worker has been in Qatar since 2014 and earns the minimum wage, sending 60 percent of the money home to his family in the Philippines, like the vast majority of migrant workers here who send money to their home countries.He is working on Al Thumama stadium in Doha, which, according to the Qatar 2022 Organizing Committee, is “12km (7.5 miles) south of Doha’s glittering skyline and seafront promenade.” Its design is based on the ghafiya, a traditional cap worn by men and boys across the Middle East seen as a “symbol of dignity and independence.”The 40,000 fans who will pack the stadium when the World Cup kicks off next November may not realize that many of the workers who built it couldn’t legally change jobs or return to their home countries until recent labor reforms took effect.The construction worker was adamant, however, that he will stay for two or three more years: “I think more and more migrants in Qatar are staying here because [work] can’t support me in the Philippines. I’m trying my best to change my life.”Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Jamal Khashoggi's fiancée pens letter asking Justin Bieber not to perform in Saudi Arabia. The fiancée of the slain Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi has published an open letter in The Washington Post asking the singer Justin Bieber to cancel his performance at a Formula One race in Saudi Arabia.In the letter, Hatice Cengiz urged Bieber to cancel his scheduled Dec. 5 performance in the Red Sea city of Jiddah to "send a powerful message to the world that your name and talent will not be used to restore the reputation of a regime that kills its critics."Khashoggi's "brutal murder made headlines all over the world," Cengiz wrote. "Ever since, many human rights organizations and individuals, including myself, have been calling for justice and accountability."Cengiz said she believed Bieber was traveling to Saudi Arabia to perform for his fans, but she encouraged him to think of those who have suffered at the hands of the government."I know that you are dedicated to your fans and are traveling to Saudi Arabia on their behalf. However, there are hundreds of Saudis, of all ages, backgrounds and religious beliefs, languishing in prison, punished for merely expressing their opposition to the merciless Saudi dictatorship of" Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, she wrote.Bieber is one of several performers scheduled to appear at the Jiddah race, including the rapper A$AP Rocky, the DJs David Guetta and Tiesto and the singer Jason Derulo. Bieber is arguably the most famous of the group.Some stars, like Nicki Minaj, have canceled shows after they came under public pressure, but others, like Mariah Carey, have gone ahead with performances since the death of Khashoggi, a writer and former government spokesman."Please know that your invitation to participate in a concert in Jiddah comes directly from MBS, as the crown prince is known," Cengiz wrote in her open letter to Bieber. "Nothing of significance happens in Saudi Arabia without his consent, and certainly not an event as important and flashy as this."Khashoggi's stunning killing in 2018 was carried out by a team of 15 Saudi government agents who had been sent to Istanbul, where he had an appointment at the Saudi Consulate for documents he needed to marry Cengiz. She waited for him outside the consulate, but he never walked out. His body was never found.RelatedInvestigationsInvestigationsU.S. concludes Saudi crown prince approved Khashoggi killing, new intel report to sayThe killing by agents who worked for the crown prince drew international outrage and cast a shadow over Prince Mohammed, whose reputation has never fully recovered. Prince Mohammed has maintained that he had no prior knowledge of the operation that killed Khashoggi. A U.S. intelligence assessment made public under President Joe Biden, however, determined that the crown prince approved the operation.Bieber will open a world tour in February that was rescheduled from last year because of the coronavirus pandemic.Since then, Saudi Arabia's state-owned sovereign wealth fund — steered by Prince Mohammed — scooped up shares in Live Nation, the company that owns Ticketmaster and promotes concerts for Bieber and other major stars. As Live Nation's shares plummeted last year during Covid-19 lockdowns and the cancellations of thousands of shows, the Public Investment Fund bought $500 million worth of shares in the battered company.Public filings show that the Saudi wealth fund is now the second largest institutional holder in Live Nation, with a stake worth about $1.4 billion.Human Rights Watch has also called on Bieber and the other performers to pull out of the Formula One concerts in Saudi Arabia, saying the events are aimed at "sportwashing" by diverting attention from and deflecting scrutiny of Saudi Arabia's human rights record.Saudi youths are the main attendees of these concerts, enjoying the country's social changes, which allow for music and gender mixing. The kingdom's General Sports Authority argues that sports are a tool for social change in the kingdom.Next month's F1 race will be the first premier sporting event hosted by Saudi Arabia; the kingdom has hosted the lesser-known Formula-E race in the past to raise its profile as a tourist destination.At the time of Khashoggi's killing, the crown prince was being lauded for ushering in social reforms transforming life for many in the country. Khashoggi had been writing columns for The Washington Post criticizing the crown prince's brash foreign policy moves and simultaneous crackdown on activists and perceived critics, including women's rights activists, writers, clerics and economists.Saudi Arabia held a trial for some of those involved in his killing, sentencing five of them to death before sparing them execution.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
From Rock to Bond? Dwayne Johnson says he wants to play James Bond. Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson has his eyes on a new role: 007.In an interview with Esquire, Johnson said he wants to play the famous secret agent with a license to kill now that actor Daniel Craig's tenure as the character has come to a close."I would like to follow in his footsteps and be the next Bond," Johnson told Esquire.He added that he has no desire to play one of the iconic bad guys who have graced the film series since its inception in 1962."I don't want to be a villain," he said. "You gotta be Bond."RelatedPop CulturePop Culture'He's a legend': Daniel Craig's new Bond movie is his last. What's next for the franchise?Several men have portrayed the British icon, including Sean Connery, Pierce Brosnan, and Craig.Craig has had the role since 2006, and wrapped up his final appearance with the film "No Time To Die," which was released last month.RecommendedTVTV'SNL' views Kyle Rittenhouse verdict through red-state lensesPop Culture NewsPop Culture News'Tiger King' Joe Exotic moved to North Carolina facility after cancer diagnosisIn the Esquire interview, Johnson touched on several topics beyond Bond, including that he urinates in bottles during his workouts.He said the gyms he works out in often don't have restrooms, so instead he uses old water bottles to relieve himself.“It’s not a water bottle that I’ve actually purchased solely for water that you wash and clean when you’re done using it. These are just bottles that I’m no longer using," he said.
'Ghostbusters: Afterlife' scares up $44M at the North American box office. “Ghostbusters: Afterlife,” Sony’s latest attempt to resurrect the beloved 1980s movie franchise, grossed $44 million at the North American box office over the weekend.The supernatural comedy also earned $16 million in 31 foreign markets, according to studio estimates Sunday. It is playing exclusively in theaters.“Afterlife,” the fourth entry in the Ghostbusters saga and a sequel to 1989’s “Ghostbusters II,” attempts to introduce the franchise to a younger generation of viewers who were not reared on Blockbuster Video and other Generation X hallmarks.The film stars Finn Wolfhard (“Stranger Things”), Mckenna Grace (“Troop Zero”), Carrie Coon (“Gone Girl”) and Paul Rudd (People’s Sexiest Man Alive), and features not-so-secret cameos from some of the first movie’s cast members.“Afterlife" moves the action from New York City to a middle-of-nowhere town in Oklahoma, where two siblings discover a realm of ghosts, ghouls and demonically possessed Stay-Puft Marshmallow Men.The movie was directed by Jason Reitman (“Juno”), whose father, Ivan Reitman, helmed the first two installments. Paul Feig (“Bridesmaids”) oversaw the third installment, a female-led reboot that drew intense sexist and racist backlash before it even hit theaters in 2016.“Afterlife” garnered mixed reviews from professional critics, and some have knocked the project for being too slavishly devoted to the nostalgia of the Reagan-era originals.RecommendedTVTV'SNL' views Kyle Rittenhouse verdict through red-state lensesPop Culture NewsPop Culture NewsFrom Rock to Bond? Dwayne Johnson says he wants to play James Bond“In trying to please everyone, ‘Ghostbusters: Afterlife’ should ultimately please no one except the most hardcore of fans whose idea of a fun time at the movies is pointing at things they’ve seen before,” Tribune News Service critic Katie Walsh wrote.The weekend’s other major release, the uplifting tennis drama “King Richard,” served up a modest $5.7 million from 3,302 locations — the latest sign that non-blockbuster dramas are struggling at the pandemic box office."Non-blockbuster dramas have had a tougher time gaining traction in this marketplace, particularly those aimed at more mature audiences who, when given the option, may opt to view these films at home," said Paul Dergarabedian, a media analyst at Comscore, which tracks box office data.The movie, like other 2021 projects from Warner Bros., debuted simultaneously on HBO Max, which does not disclose viewership data."King Richard" also debuted in the United Kingdom, Russia and 28 other small overseas territories, where it grossed a total of $2.5 million from 2,111 screens, according to studio estimates.“King Richard” stars Will Smith as Richard Williams, who relentlessly pushed his daughters Venus (Saniyya Sidney) and Serena (Demi Singleton) to the heights of athletic greatness. The biopic drew mostly positive reviews, and Smith is widely seen as a lock for a best actor nomination at next year’s Academy Awards. (He has been nominated twice before, for his roles in 2001’s “Ali” and 2006’s “The Pursuit of Happyness.”)Entertainment Weekly critic Leah Greenblatt wrote that the movie “manages to be both a surprisingly nuanced portrait of a flawed and deeply complicated man and the kind of classic-uplift sports movie that used to fill multiplexes once upon a time.”
Armored truck spills money on California freeway, sparking cash-grab frenzy. An armored truck dropped loads of cash onto a freeway in Carlsbad, California, causing a major traffic jam as motorists hopped out of their vehicles to scoop up the bills — but authorities say drivers need to return the money or face possible criminal charges. Shortly before 9:15 a.m. Friday, the California Highway Patrol, or CHP, began getting 911 calls about cash scattered across part of Interstate 5 near Cannon Road. CHP and the FBI, which are investigating, said several people got out of their vehicles to chase after the money. "Many of the motorists returned the money immediately to the officers; however, there were motorists observed driving from the scene with stolen money," they said in a joint statement. "The CHP would like to thank those motorists who have already returned money to their local CHP office and remind the public to do the right thing and return any money they found on the freeway."Authorities said videos and photos that were posted on social media recorded people's faces and vehicles' license plate numbers. The agencies released several photos showing people scooping up the bills. In one photo, a woman wearing a grey hoodie is seen laughing as she holds a wad of cash in her arm. Other photos released by authorities were screen grabs taken from an Instagram video posted by the fitness influencer Demi Bagby. "This is the most insane thing I’ve ever seen," Bagby says in the video, which she shared with her more than 2 million followers. "Someone dropped money all over the freeway." RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store As Bagby pans the camera, people are seen grabbing cash from the street. Bagby did not immediately respond to a request for comment Saturday. The CHP and the FBI said Friday that anyone who took money needs to return it within 48 hours "in order to avoid a potential criminal charge."Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Dozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store  . Dozens of looters descended on a Nordstrom store and stole merchandise Saturday night in a raid that was over within a minute, police in Walnut Creek, California, said. About 80 people rushed into the store in the city’s Broadway Plaza, a police spokesperson said. The spokesperson said that an employee was pepper-sprayed and that two others were punched and kicked. All three sustained minor injuries and were treated and released at the scene, the spokesperson said.     The suspects were in and out of the store, which was open at the time, within a minute, the spokesperson said, adding that an undetermined amount of merchandise was taken.  Jodi Hernandez, a reporter for NBC Bay Area, was near the store when the raid took place. She tweeted that about 25 cars blocked the street. People in the cars rushed into the store and jumped back into their cars before they sped away with goods, she said. Hernandez said it appeared that most looters got away. A video she took showed police officers arresting and handcuffing some people. An officer can also be seen pointing a weapon at one of the drivers. Nordstrom did not immediately respond to a request for comment. RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsArmored truck spills money on California freeway, sparking cash-grab frenzyBrett Barrett, who works at a nearby restaurant in Walnut Creek, northeast of Oakland, told NBC Bay Area that he saw 50 to 80 people in ski masks carrying crowbars. “I had to start locking the front door, the back door,” he said. “You never know, they could have come right in here.”Download the NBC News app for breaking news and politics Three people have been arrested so far, police said. Two were arrested immediately on suspicion of robbery, conspiracy, burglary and possession of stolen property. One of the two had a firearm and faces a weapons charge, police said. A third person was found not long after the incident and also faced charges. Walnut Creek police also confirmed that the incident was not linked to a series of protests that have taken place across the country over the non-guilty verdict in the trial of Kyle Rittenhouse. Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4. JERUSALEM — A Palestinian gunman killed one person and injured four other people when he opened fire near the entrance to a flashpoint holy site in Jerusalem, Israeli police said Sunday. It was the second deadly incident in Jerusalem’s historic Old City in recent days.The "shooting attack" killed an Israeli civilian and injured two others, a police spokesperson said, adding that two officers were also slightly injured. The gunman, 42, was shot dead by officers, said the spokesperson, who added that a knife was also found at the scene, along with the weapon the man used to carry out the attack.  Download the NBC News app for breaking news and politics Describing the attack as a “heroic operation,” the militant group Hamas said in a statement that the gunman was one of its members.   The incident took place near an entrance to a contested shrine known to Jews as the Temple Mount and to Muslims as the Noble Sanctuary. It is considered holy by both faiths. Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett expressed his support for the victims at the start of the weekly Cabinet meeting and said he had directed the country's security forces to be on alert to prevent similar attacks.Sunday’s incident was the second of its kind in Jerusalem’s historic Old City in recent days. A Palestinian teen was fatally shot Wednesday after having stabbed two Israeli border police officers.The officers were hospitalized, and the teen, identified as a 16-year-old from East Jerusalem, was pronounced dead at the scene.Examining the complicated history of the Israeli-Palestinian conflictMay 19, 202105:01Shootings around Jerusalem’s Old City and its holy sites are relatively rare, and Israel maintains a sizable security presence in the area.Palestinians have nonetheless carried out dozens of stabbing, shooting and car-ramming attacks targeting Israeli civilians and security personnel in recent years. Israel captured East Jerusalem, including the Old City and its Christian, Muslim and Jewish holy sites, along with the West Bank and the Gaza Strip in the 1967 Middle East war. It later annexed East Jerusalem in a move unrecognized by most of the international community.The Palestinians seek the occupied West Bank and Gaza for a future independent state, with East Jerusalem as its capital.Lawahez Jabari reported from Jerusalem, Paul Goldman from Tel Aviv and Yuliya Talmazan from London.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Could Kyle Rittenhouse face civil penalties despite acquittals in Kenosha deaths? . As an 18-year-old online college student, Kyle Rittenhouse wouldn't appear to have deep pockets to pay for any award should he face —and lose — a civil trial in the shooting deaths of the two men he was acquitted of killing on Friday. But Rittenhouse has proven to be a prodigious fundraiser when it comes to gathering resources to pay for his bail and defense in the wake of the deadly violence last year in the aftermath of the police shooting of Jacob Blake in Kenosha, Wisc."He's a public figure now, and money might come in," said Ion Meyn, who teaches law at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. "I'm not convinced there's nothing there."  Supporters have already given more than $2 million for his legal defense.If Rittenhouse were taken to civil trial for wrongful death, the teen could claim self-defense, as he did during the criminal case. He has said that he went to Kenosha to protect property from rioters but that he came under attack and feared for his life when he shot three people, two of them fatally. But the burden of proof civil plaintiffs need to make, by a preponderance of evidence rather than beyond a reasonable doubt, is much lower than what Kenosha prosecutors faced during the criminal trial, legal experts say."In a civil case you just have to prove negligence," said Rory Little, a professor at the University of California Hastings College of Law. "Did his conduct fall below the standard of care that the average person would have?"Rittenhouse "could say, 'I didn't have the intent to kill anyone — I just panicked,'" Little added. "The jury could still say, 'We didn't think the average person would do what you did.' If your conduct is judged to be less than that, you lose."A civil action would also allow a jury to examine a broader range of evidence.In the criminal case against Rittenhouse, Judge Bruce Schroeder barred jurors from considering Rittenhouse's links to the sometimes-violent, far-right Proud Boys and from seeing a video that prosecutors said showed him injuring a teenage girl. Instead, jurors were told to focus on the few moments before the shootings — or what Little called "a narrow piece of the day's action.""In a civil case, you can broaden the field," he said. "You can look into things like, what was he doing there?"Kariann Swart, Joseph Rosenbaum's fiancée, Susan Hughes, Anthony Huber's great-aunt, and Hannah Gittings, Anthony Huber's girlfriend, listen to the verdict during Kyle Rittenhouse's trial at the County Courthouse in Kenosha, Wis., on Nov. 19, 2021.Sean Krajacic / Pool via ReutersEven if there's no financial payout for taking Rittenhouse to civil court, the symbolic value of such action could be of emotional value to the victims' families.The families of Ron Goldman and Denise Brown famously took O.J. Simpson to civil court after a criminal jury cleared the former football star of double murder. A civil panel found Simpson liable for Goldman and Brown's deaths, though Simpson has paid only a fraction of the $33.5 million judgment."It would make a statement, and there’s definitely people who want to return something else, provide another view," Meyn said."That could be worth something, giving (the victims' families) a certain amount of accountability that the criminal justice system couldn't afford them." Jeff Scott Olson, a civil rights lawyer in Madison, Wisc., said that even though Rittenhouse probably isn't worth a "hill of beans," a civil judgment against him would function as a lien against his assets for years."Maybe he'd come into money," Olson said.The federal government will also likely investigate to determine if a criminal civil rights violation occurred, Little said.  Authorities are unlikely to bring such charges, because the burden of proof — beyond a reasonable doubt — is the same as state criminal court, he said. But every once in a while it happens. Little pointed to the aftermath of the brutal beating of Rodney King in 1991, when four Los Angeles police officers were acquitted of excessive use of force. The year after the acquittal, in a separate case, federal authorities secured convictions against two of the officers for violating King's civil rights. The officers served 30 months in prison.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Build Back Better vote eases Democratic tensions, raises McCarthy's profile. WASHINGTON — Progressives celebrated a giant step toward expanding the social safety net. Centrist Democrats secured some top legislative demands. And House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy won plaudits from conservatives for a lengthy floor speech that delayed passage of the Build Back Better Act.From a political perspective, all sides had something to crow about after Friday’s largely party-line vote on the $1.7 trillion spending package.For Democrats, tensions between progressives and moderates subsided after months of infighting over policy and procedural differences relating to the safety net and infrastructure bills.Progressive fears that a faction of centrists, led by Rep. Josh Gottheimer, D-N.J., was scheming to sink the Build Back Better legislation proved unfounded. Liberals for months prevented passage of the $550 billion infrastructure bill to use as leverage before eventually relenting two weeks ago, when the House passed the bipartisan measure. Centrists in turn voted for the larger bill shortly after they received the cost estimate they wanted from the Congressional Budget Office.President Biden looks to push Build Back Better plan through the SenateNov. 20, 202101:10And with their votes, Gottheimer and others in the group secured a major policy priority in the bill by raising the $10,000 cap on state and local tax deductions, established by Republicans in 2017, to $80,000. The cap hits residents of high-tax states like New York and New Jersey the hardest.For some New Jerseyans, it was personal. The state sends more money to the U.S. Treasury than it receives in federal funding, and the deduction cap widened that disparity by limiting residents' tax deductions.Gottheimer, co-chair of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus, celebrated the provision after the House vote.Progressives, meanwhile, were elated that the House passed a dramatic expansion of the social safety net — including universal pre-K and money for child care, housing and health care — and approved record spending to combat climate change."This historic Build Back Better Act delivers on our promise to provide transformative investments in working people across America that will allow them to wake up feeling differently about their daily lives and the opportunities their families have," said Rep. Pramila Jayapal, D-Wash., progressive caucus chair.McCarthy, for his part, used the occasion to shine a spotlight on the House bill, delivering a speech spanning 8 hours and 32 minutes that delayed a planned Thursday evening vote and broke a record previously held by Speaker Nancy Pelosi for longest floor speech.Rep. Kevin McCarthy makes 9-hour speech to stall vote on Build Back Better billNov. 19, 202102:40The lengthy remarks by the California Republican attacked numerous aspects of Biden’s presidency and "one-party rule" by Democrats in Washington. He called the opposition party reckless and spendthrift in a speech that provided a smorgasbord of red meat to the Republican base and covered an array of unrelated topics from Elon Musk to Afghanistan policy.McCarthy appeared to have reached his audience.RecommendedPolitics NewsPolitics NewsFueled by Trump-inspired grievance, attempts to terrorize public officials escalateWhite HouseWhite HouseFor the unvaccinated, Biden bets billions on Covid treatments as another surge threatensOn Friday afternoon, former President Donald Trump released a statement praising the minority leader: "Great job by Kevin McCarthy last night, setting a record by going over 8 hours of speaking on the House Floor in order to properly oppose Communism," he said.McCarthy's top priority is to win back control of the House from Democrats next year and become speaker, a goal that will likely require help from Trump and his supporters. He won praise from some staunch Trump allies, including Rep. Matt Gaetz, R-Fla., after his speech.At the end of the night, some Democrats cheekily thanked McCarthy for drawing attention to a bill that remains popular with the U.S. public in polls, even as Biden's job approval rating has taken a hit.The drama surrounding the vote gave some rank-and-file members a new opportunity to garner attention on the national stage.Seconds before the vote on passage was announced, Rep. Kat Cammack, R-Fla., took to the House floor to announce several Republican proxy votes, and declared that she's voting "hell no" on the bill, dubbing it "Build Back Broke.""And good luck in the Senate," she said.Moments later, Pelosi was asked to respond to McCarthy breaking her record for longest speech."No, I barely noticed," she quipped before pivoting back to celebrating the contents of the legislation.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
A year later, protesters injured by police are still trying to heal. 
Transgender people in 'survival mode' as violence rises, anti-trans bills become law. On Saturday, Que Bell will help lead a vigil for Transgender Day of Remembrance, an annual observance to honor the memory of transgender homicide victims that began in 1999.Bell has led these vigils before. He is the executive director of the Knights and Orchids Society, a nonprofit group based in Selma, Alabama, that supports Black transgender, queer and gender-nonconforming people, and he has been an advocate for more than a decade. But this year will be different. “​​This is literally the first time that I’ll have to write down my best friend’s name for a TDOR celebration,” Bell said, using the initialism for Transgender Day of Remembrance. “It’s really going to hit differently.”Bell’s best friend, Mel Groves, died Oct. 11 after having been shot multiple times. Groves, 25, a Black transgender man, was studying plant and soil science at Alcorn State University in Lorman, Mississippi. Just before he died, he was about to become the full-time community garden manager for the Knights and Orchids Society.Mel Groves, a farmer from Jackson, Miss.Courtesy Mel GrovesBut on Saturday, Bell will light a candle in Groves' memory. Groves is one of at least 47 transgender or gender-nonconforming people — and one of 28 Black trans people — to have died by violence in 2021, which has surpassed 2020 to become the deadliest year on record for trans people, according to the Human Rights Campaign, which has been tracking fatal anti-trans violence since 2013. A disproportionate number of the deaths have been in the Southeast.State legislatures across the country this year have also considered a record number of anti-transgender bills — more than 100 — many of which target trans youths, specifically trans girls. Advocates say the rhetoric coming out of legislatures is connected to the violence, because it describes transgender girls as boys and vice versa and, in many cases, characterizes trans people as “predators” on sports teams or in bathrooms. Transgender Day of Remembrance is also known as Transgender Day of Remembrance and Resilience — the latter part an effort to remind people that while trans people face disproportionate discrimination and violence, they are also leading grassroots efforts to make things better for their communities. Deadnaming, misgendering and clearance ratesBell said that he and Groves’ friends and family ultimately want the person who killed Groves brought to justice but that he doesn’t have confidence in the police investigation.When the Jackson Police Department first reported on Groves’ death, it used his legal name and misgendered him, causing local news outlets to repeat the mistakes. Groves’ loved ones had to reach out while grieving his loss to ask news outlets to update their stories to reflect who Groves actually was. Some updated their stories; others said they couldn’t change them without confirmation from law enforcement authorities or Groves’ immediate family.  A week after Groves died, Jackson police provided the same statement to NBC News that they first issued, which used his birth name (also known as deadnaming) and misgendered him. The police department hasn’t responded to a request for comment about whether it plans to update the statement.  Bell said police officials need to be more educated about what the trans community faces; otherwise, he said, they will be unable to solve the case. He recalled one officer's public statement that he would investigate Groves' death just like any other. “That is totally avoiding the issue,” Bell said. “I want you to be knowledgeable enough to know that, when something happens to trans people, how your department should be reacting to it and how you can help, versus being so defensive about acknowledging that this happened because it was a trans issue.”Bell said police need to understand that anti-trans violence is connected to discrimination and higher rates of homelessness, among other issues that trans people face, or “we’re never going to be able to solve the problem.”Jaida Peterson, a transgender woman, was found dead in a hotel room in Charlotte, N.C., on April 4, 2021.AP / NBC NewsAnti-trans fatal violence cases nationwide appear to have a lower average clearance rate — the percentage of cases in which someone has been arrested, charged and turned over to a court for prosecution — than fatal violence cases in general, said Brendan Lantz, an assistant professor of criminology and criminal justice at Florida State University.Lantz and his research team at the university’s Hate Crime Research and Policy Institute are creating the first database to track fatal violence against the transgender community. Although the Human Rights Campaign and other nonprofit groups track such deaths, the database Lantz’s team is creating, which will date to 2012, also tracks characteristics of the offenses, victims’ background information, perpetrators’ information, handling by police departments (including whether victims were misgendered or deadnamed) and whether cases have been solved, among other information.TransAmericaJune 17, 202152:10Preliminary data, which Lantz said are subject to change, show that the nationwide clearance rate for fatal anti-trans violence is about 44 percent, which is well below the national average of 60 percent to 70 percent. Early patterns also show that there’s “very likely a correlation between the prevalence” of deadnaming or misgendering by police and the likelihood of clearing a case, he said. Evidence is important when police are trying to solve a homicide, he said, “and if we’re not even using the correct name, obtaining that evidence isn’t particularly easy to do, right?”RecommendedOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop Culture'Sort Of' depicts transitions as an inevitable part of lifeOUT NewsOUT NewsFormula One racing star wears LGBTQ Pride helmet at Qatar Grand Prix“Witnesses are less likely to come forward, and a lot of issues enter the equation,” he said.Transgender rights groups say anti-trans sentiment, reflected in bills considered in dozens of states, affects how trans people are treated, including by police. Police initially misgendered victims and used their birth names in reporting on 30 of the 46 known deaths, an NBC News analysis found.Since 2013, about 80 percent of trans people in deaths involving trans people with available data were initially misgendered by the media or law enforcement, according to a report released Wednesday by the Human Rights Campaign. An NBC News analysis of this year’s cases found that victims in 73 percent of investigations were misgendered or deadnamed by police, compared to 59 percent of cases in which someone was arrested and charged. ‘A sense of survival mode’Trans advocates say some policymakers and national advocacy organizations are quick to suggest police reform as a solution. But while many of them agree that improving police competence and investigations is important, they say the strategy addresses the issue only after the fact — when people have already died. That leaves many in the transgender community feeling unsafe, which has led some of them to take their safety and well-being into their own hands.“When you get tired of depending on a system to protect you that you know was not designed to protect you or to support you, you realize that you’re literally wasting time and resources putting money into a system that is not going to change,” Bell said. “So instead ... we decided to start investing in the things that we could tangibly change.”Advocates like Bell say community organizations should be given more resources and support, because they know how to best keep their people safe and help them thrive — by providing them with gender-affirming health care, as the Knights and Orchids Society does, or housing, as a number of trans-led groups across the country do.Mariah Moore, a national trans rights activist and a co-director of the House of Tulip, a nonprofit collective creating housing solutions for trans people in Louisiana, said: “It’s so important that we support community-led initiatives, because those folks leading those initiatives are actually folks who have that lived experience and are able to speak to the needs and actually distribute those resources directly to impacted community members.”  Trans United Leading Intersectional Progress, or TULIP, is a nonprofit collective creating housing solutions for trans people in Louisiana.House of TulipBell echoed that sentiment with respect to funding for nonprofit groups. He said that many people support and know of national advocacy organizations but that the groups aren’t providing emergency housing or money for trans people.“I’m committed to this work to always keep trans folks safe,” he said, adding that he has been evicted twice in the past because he has provided a place for people experiencing homelessness to stay, some of them as young as 13. “That comes out of a sense of survival mode,” he said. “I don’t have a lot, but what I do have I want to share with the folks who are like me who also don’t have.”In neighboring Georgia, Toni-Michelle Williams, the executive director of the Atlanta-based Solutions Not Punishment Collaborative, a Black trans- and queer-led organization that builds community safety through organizing and leadership training, said the group has supported more than 160 people through its Taking Care of Our Own Fund, which provides funding for emergency bail, housing, health care and other needs. The group provided the support with less than 3 percent of $15 million, Williams said, which represents this year's budget increase for the Atlanta Police Department. “Just imagine what we could do for our communities — Black trans and queer folks, sex workers, formerly incarcerated people — with at least 3 percent of that funding,” she said. “I definitely just want to encourage people to continue to push and to join our side around what it means to reallocate funding from these large institutions that have so many resources. Our communities are in need of them.” Looking ahead, Bell said he’s determined “not to lose another Mel.”“I want to do everything I can to make sure that we don’t have any more Mel Groves — that we don’t have another person who slips through the cracks, that for whatever reason we have the resources to make sure that folks have a fighting chance,” he said.A memorial was held for Mel Groves in Jackson, Miss., in October.Courtesy TC Caldwell/The Knights and Orchids Society.He added that he feels as though he has done a disservice to trans people who have been killed in the past. “Because what I don’t want people to remember about Mel is that he was the 39th person murdered,” Bell said. “And that’s often what happens when we lose somebody, is that the tragedy of their death is highlighted over their legacy, their purpose and all the good things that they have contributed to the world during their time.” He wants people to remember that Groves was a promising scientist and that his professors bragged about him and his research after his death. He loved Nat King Cole, he had a smile that made people want to talk to him, and he always offered to share food with his friends. Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Pennsylvania teen had his hands up when fatally shot by State Police, new videos show. This article was produced in partnership with Spotlight PA, a collaborative newsroom that produces investigative journalism for Pennsylvania. STROUDSBURG, Pa. — A Chinese American teenager who was fatally shot by Pennsylvania State Police last year had his hands in the air when troopers opened fire, new videos reveal, prompting calls for an independent investigation.The videos, recorded by the State Police, show the final moments of Christian Hall’s life on the afternoon of Dec. 30, 2020. Hall, 19, who had been diagnosed with depression, was standing on the ledge of a highway overpass near Stroudsburg, in northeastern Pennsylvania, when troopers arrived. They tried to persuade him to get down, but when they saw he had a gun — later determined to be a realistic pellet gun — they backed away.Video previously released by the Monroe County district attorney shows Hall raising his hands in the air, with the gun in one hand, after a trooper fired bullets that struck the bridge. But the final seconds before he was killed were blurred by authorities.New videos show Pennsylvania State Police fatally shooting Christian HallNov. 17, 202103:01The full version of the videos — obtained by Spotlight PA and NBC News from Hall’s parents, whose lawyer received them through a subpoena — shows that Hall kept his hands above his head for 14 seconds in all. The videos show that Hall’s hands were still in the air, the gun in one hand, as two troopers fired another series of shots and he crumpled to the ground. State Police troopers from outside the local barracks investigated the killing and turned the findings over to the Monroe County district attorney, who ruled it justified, saying the lives of the troopers on scene were in danger. Michael Mancuso, an assistant district attorney, called Hall’s death a “classic suicide by cop scenario” at a news conference in March. But the fatal shooting drew protests from activists who questioned why State Police had opened fire on a teenager who appeared to be suicidal and needed help. Protesters also raised concerns about whether Monroe County District Attorney E. David Christine Jr. could make an unbiased call given that his office regularly works with troopers to build cases. Hall’s parents have begun the process of suing the two troopers who shot their son (the troopers’ names have not been released). They said they released the full videos because they believe Hall’s death merits more scrutiny, and they hope to spark fresh calls for an independent review. “I would like to see an unbiased investigation take place,” said Gareth Hall, Christian’s father. “I personally would like to see those police officers brought up on charges.”Ben Crump and Devon M. Jacob, the lawyers for George Floyd’s family, who are now representing Hall’s parents, said the troopers should not have shot Hall. “Everybody knows when you put your hands in the air that’s the universal sign of surrender,” Crump said. “Why use the most excessive force?”Protesters hold the street for seven minutes in honor of Christian Hall in Philadelphia on Feb. 12, 2021.Cory Clark / NurPhoto via APIn October, Crump and Jacob sent letters to the U.S. Justice Department, FBI, and Pennsylvania’s attorney general asking for a new investigation into Hall’s shooting and the response to it by the State Police and Christine’s office. The FBI and the Justice Department declined to comment. A spokesperson for the attorney general’s office said it does not have jurisdiction because the local district attorney has not referred the case to it. The letters accuse Christine’s office of falsely implying that Hall threatened troopers with the gun in the final moments before he was shot, while the full videos show that the gun remained above Hall’s head. The district attorney’s narrative and the blurred video lead “the viewer to believe that in the redacted portion of the video, Christian pointed the weapon at troopers and advanced on troopers; thereby justifying the use of deadly force,” the letters state.In response to questions and an interview request, Christine’s office released a statement saying it stood by its finding that the shooting was justified. Col. Robert Evanchick, the State Police commissioner, declined a request to be interviewed. The department could not comment because of pending litigation, a spokesperson said. Three use-of-force experts who reviewed the videos for Spotlight PA and NBC News were divided on whether the troopers were right to shoot, but all said independent reviews are superior because they increase public faith in the process.Christian Hall's parents call for investigation into shootingNov. 18, 202104:05Karlin Chan, a community activist who focuses on anti-Asian hate in New York City and helped organize a rally there two months after Hall’s death, believes the case deserves more attention. He’s been in touch with Hall’s family and watched the district attorney’s March news conference on Hall’s death. He believes Hall was inaccurately painted as a criminal not deserving of sympathy. “We can’t let this go,” he said. “We’re basically after accountability. We’re after the truth.”Activists left flowers for youth victims of alleged police brutality, including Christian Hall, center, at Washington Square Park in New York on April 28, 2021.Anadolu Agency / Anadolu Agency via Getty ImagesHall’s childhoodGareth Hall, who is Black and Latino, and Fe Hall, who is Filipino, adopted Hall from China in 2002 when he was a baby. They moved from New York City to the Poconos hoping to give him an idyllic childhood in an environment they thought would be safer.As a child, Hall was diagnosed with reactive attachment disorder, a serious condition sometimes found in adopted children that makes it difficult for them to connect with their parents and interact with others. The disorder can be a result of not having basic needs met as early as infancy. Treatments include counseling for children and education for their parents, but experts say more research needs to be done. Hall often ran away from home, though Gareth Hall said the family could always find him by the end of the day. At age 10, his parents said, he accidentally started a fire while playing with matches, damaging an empty room in a nursing home. No one was injured, but he spent the next four years in juvenile detention. Christian Hall's parents adopted him from China in 2002 when he was a baby.Fred Adams for Spotlight PA and NBC NewsAfter he was released, at 14, he ran away, violating his probation. Hall was sent back to the state’s custody. His parents said he was never charged with another crime, but that he cycled in and out of juvenile incarceration after continually running away from home.Hall was released from juvenile detention in 2020 and was living with his parents when he went with them on Dec. 29 to visit his aunt on her birthday. On the way home, Hall started talking about his former girlfriend, Gareth Hall said. Another man had apparently threatened to kill himself over her.Hall’s father was immediately concerned.“Do I believe Christian was suicidal? No. But I believe he planned on putting on a good show,” Gareth Hall said. “He was going to show her that he was going to go beyond what that guy was going to do.”Gareth Hall was upset by authorities' treatment of his family after the shooting. Fred Adams for Spotlight PA and NBC NewsWhat happened Dec. 30Christian Hall was supposed to be working at a grocery store when he called 911 about a “possible suicider” at about 1:30 p.m. Dec. 30. Before that, he had posted on Snapchat a picture of the overpass with the text “who would miss me,” according to a report released by the DA’s office.When State Police troopers arrived, they found Hall on a concrete ledge looking down on Interstate 80, the wind whipping around him. Troopers blocked off the overpass and asked Hall to talk to them. One of the troopers on scene had been a crisis negotiator for 15 years; another had been a crisis intervention specialist and had a master’s degree in counseling and clinical health psychology. The highest-ranking trooper was a corporal with more than 20 years of experience.Video from the State Police shows the troopers trying to coax Hall from the ledge until they see he has a gun in his hand. The troopers backed away, but tried to persuade him to leave the gun on the bridge and walk to them. Christian Hall stands on a ledge on a highway overpass on Dec. 30, 2020. Pennsylvania State PoliceAt one point, Hall put the gun down and smoked marijuana. The troopers talked to him for about 90 minutes. “Come on, man. I don’t think you want to stand out here all night, right?” a trooper said on the video. “Put it down for me and walk up here. That’s all you’ve got to do.” In the final 22 seconds before Hall was shot, he shuffled toward the troopers with the pellet gun in one hand, arms at his sides. Huddled behind their vehicles about 70 feet away, troopers again told him to drop the gun.The video shows Hall raising his hands after a corporal fired the initial shots, which missed him. Hall first raised his hands to his sides, then above his head, holding the gun in one hand, the video shows.“If he doesn’t drop it just take him,” a voice can be heard saying on the video.Hall’s hands stayed above his head as the corporal and another trooper fired several more shots. Hall was struck, clutched his stomach, and fell to the ground. While the video does not appear to show Hall pointing the gun directly at troopers before he was shot, the accounts by State Police and the DA’s office are inconsistent on this point.The State Police’s initial press release and one of several accounts in the district attorney’s written report state that Hall pointed the gun at troopers before shots were fired. A trooper said he watched Hall “bless himself, point to his head and then pull the gun from his waistband and point it in the direction of the Troopers.” The corporal then fired the first three shots, which appeared to miss Hall, according to that account. Another section of the report and a video released by the DA examining the shooting make no mention of Hall pointing directly at troopers or raising the gun before the first shots were fired. After the initial shots, Hall “raises the gun outward toward his side and then upwards by bending his elbow at a ninety degree angle,” that section of the report states.At the March news conference, Mancuso, the assistant district attorney, said Hall was an imminent threat from the moment he put his hand on the gun.“Frankly, it’s a testament to the troopers that they didn’t shoot sooner,” Mancuso said.Later he mimicked Hall pulling the gun out of his waistband and raising it in the air, and said Hall “played with it in this way and at some point kind of moved the muzzle over in the direction of the troopers then raised it upward.”Spotlight PA reporter breaks down revelations of new video showing teen shot by policeNov. 18, 202103:21Maria Haberfeld, who trains police as a professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York, viewed the unredacted video and believes Hall could have lowered his arm and fired quicker than the troopers’ reaction time. “The moment he is facing and approaching the police officers, moving towards the police officers with a gun in his hand, I don’t see how it’s not a justified shooting,” she said. RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store When someone is trying to get the police to kill them, they may be willing to hurt or kill to achieve their goal, she said. David Rudovsky, a longtime use-of-force expert and senior fellow at the University of Pennsylvania Law School, also watched the video but saw it differently. “I think there’s some serious questions as to justification,” Rudovsky said. “He would have had a difficult time shooting at them from where he was.”Still, it’s unlikely a court would find the troopers violated state law, said David Harris, a professor at the University of Pittsburgh School of Law and a police accountability expert who reviewed the video.“The question is, what do you do as a state, as a society, when you have a shooting that may be lawful, but looks awful?” he said.Even though Hall was armed, he was not acting aggressively, pointing the weapon at troopers, or “advancing in a way that indicates an attack,” Harris said. And there’s more to what happened, Harris said, than whether police were legally justified in pulling the trigger. More than 1 in 5 people fatally shot by police in the U.S. have mental illnesses, according to a Washington Post database, which raises questions about whether officers could be better trained to handle these situations.  “Is there anything else that could have been done to save this person’s life?” Harris asked. “How can we handle problems like this so police aren’t put in this position and so people in mental health crises don’t die?” A lack of trustHall’s parents learned that he had been shot and killed in the late afternoon of Dec. 30, when troopers called them down to the local barracks. They were distraught — and soon they were facing a barrage of questions from the State Police and the coroner’s office about their son’s final days. But they were in shock and couldn’t talk yet, they said. Fe Hall talks about her son, Christian.Fred Adams for Spotlight PA and NBC NewsAt one point a couple of days later, Hall’s parents said, they called the coroner’s office and were upset to learn that Hall’s body wouldn’t be released to them yet, because of the ongoing investigation. “We have to think about two lives here,” an official at the coroner’s office said, according to Fe and Gareth Hall. “Christian’s and the officer who shot him.” A spokesperson for the coroner’s office declined to comment.Hall’s parents last talked to the State Police on New Year’s Day, when Gareth Hall asked for his son’s phone. A trooper told him the department had a right to keep it, he said. Hall’s parents said they’ve never received any of his belongings and haven’t heard from anyone with the State Police since. A wooden birthday card Christian Hall made for his mother decorates a table in the family's home.Fred Adams for Spotlight PA and NBC NewsGareth Hall said they would have cooperated with the investigation and answered questions after those overwhelming initial days.“I was waiting,” Gareth Hall said. “Not a call.” At the news conference in March, Mancuso, the assistant district attorney, blamed the lack of communication on Hall’s parents. “We had no request for information from them,” Mancuso said. “No direct request was made regarding the course of the investigation from them.” Mancuso briefly talked about Hall’s juvenile record, declining to get into specifics. He said that Hall had frequently carried the airsoft pellet gun, and that investigators were told he robbed people with it.Jacob, one of the Hall family lawyers, saw the news conference as an attempt to prejudice anyone who might be scrutinizing the killing and denied that Hall had robbed anyone.  “None of that was relevant at all,” he said. “None of that was ever investigated. And none of that was proven.”Fe Hall said she believes her son’s race played into the troopers’ decision to shoot. She and her husband said the pain of losing their son has been compounded by their treatment by State Police and the district attorney’s office. “I feel that Asians are generalized as the quiet ones, they’re not going to fight back,” Fe Hall said. “Is it possible that when they shot Christian they were looking at him as Chinese? He doesn’t matter. His family is not going to say anything. This is just going to go away quietly.” Hall’s parents believe the district attorney wanted to protect the troopers involved. There was an incentive, they said, to paint their family as uncooperative and Hall as a criminal.  “The DA doesn’t have accountability to anybody,” Fe Hall said.Fe and Gareth Hall want to see changes in how police shootings are investigated. Fred Adams for Spotlight PA and NBC NewsThe benefit of the doubtIn Pennsylvania, the state Attorney General’s Office cannot investigate a criminal case unless the local district attorney asks for help — which can occur when local prosecutors lack sufficient resources or there is an “actual or apparent” conflict of interest. In this case, the Monroe County DA didn’t think there was a conflict of interest. Mancuso said the office’s resources were more than adequate and that the staff had more experience in such cases than Attorney General Josh Shapiro’s office.Shapiro’s office said Mancuso’s statement was “blatantly untrue” and that it had investigated 10 other criminal cases referred by the Monroe County DA since 2017.There’s an inherent conflict of interest when local prosecutors review the actions of local police, said Rudovsky, the University of Pennsylvania Law School senior fellow. “Everybody recognizes with local police and a local DA, they are working together every day,” he said. State Sen. Art Haywood, whose district includes part of Philadelphia, wants to change the law to require that an outside law enforcement agency investigate use-of-force cases in Pennsylvania, so families of victims and the public will have more faith in the findings.His legislation would give the state Attorney General’s Office the power to review those investigations without a referral from the local district attorney if no charges are filed. Under the bill, the governor, key lawmakers and the attorney general would receive a detailed report about the investigation within seven days of a decision being made not to file charges.Haywood said he started pushing for the changes after police killed Eric Garner in New York City and Michael Brown Jr. in Ferguson, Missouri, in 2014, and Antwon Rose II outside of Pittsburgh in 2018. So far the legislation hasn’t gotten much traction, but Haywood said he’s optimistic it can get passed in the future. Hall’s case, and other police shootings of people with mental illness in Pennsylvania, show why these investigations need to be independent, he said. Hall’s parents support the change. Fe Hall said she believes her son was badly treated by the juvenile justice system, and she had hoped he would grow up and expose the abuses she believes he suffered. She said she was uncomfortable with releasing the video of the shooting, but in doing so, she hopes Hall’s death can be the force for change that she wanted his life to be. “He’s just a memory now,” she said. “But I just want something good to come out of it.”If you or someone you know is in crisis, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 800-273-8255, text HOME to 741741 or visit SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources for additional resources.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Kyle Rittenhouse found not guilty on all counts. KENOSHA, Wisc. — A Wisconsin jury on Friday found Kyle Rittenhouse not guilty in the fatal shooting of two men during protests in Kenosha last year, capping a trial that touched on issues of gun rights and race.  Rittenhouse, 18, from nearby Antioch, Illinois, was cleared on all five charges related to his actions on Aug. 25 last year, during protests over the shooting of a Black man, Jacob Blake, by a white Kenosha police officer. Rittenhouse was charged with reckless homicide in the slaying of Joseph Rosenbaum, 36, and intentional homicide in the death of Anthony Huber, 26. He also faced a charge of attempted intentional homicide for severely wounding Gaige Grosskreutz, a 27-year-old paramedic from suburban Milwaukee who was there that night volunteering his medical services, and two counts of recklessly endangering safety. Rittenhouse, in a dark suit and burgundy shirt, was overcome with emotion when the fifth not guilty verdict was read in court.He doubled over and then hugged defense attorney Corey Chirafisi, who had to tell his client to relax and breathe.Lawyer for Kyle Rittenhouse says 'it was not a close call' to have him testifyNov. 19, 202102:06Fellow defense attorney Mark Richards joyously hit his hand on the table as the final not guilty verdict was read, while prosecutors looked down as the jurors' findings were announced.Families of those shot and killed held hands in court and cried as the verdicts were read.After three and a half days of deliberations, some in the panel appeared fatigued in the jury box. As the verdicts were read, some had their hands on their chins, rubbed their eyes and appeared ill-at-ease, shifting in their chairs or folding their arms across their chests.The jury of  seven women and five men deliberated for about 25 hours since Tuesday morning, and Richards said he was fearful the long talks meant a compromise set of verdicts that would send his client to prison for at least some time.“As time went on, we were afraid there was some horse trading in the jury room and that’s what really concerned us,” Richards said.Kenosha County Circuit Judge Bruce Schroeder thanked jurors for their work.“I couldn’t have asked for a better jury to work with,” said Schroeder. “It’s truly been my pleasure … just in terms of your attentiveness and the cooperation that you gave to us.” The judge told jurors the system worked.“It justifies the confidence that the founders of our country placed in you,” Schroeder said.How did lawyers for Kyle Rittenhouse effectively argue for self-defense?Nov. 19, 202106:25The Kenosha County District Attorney’s Office asked community members to "continue to express their opinions and feelings about this verdict in a civil and peaceful manner.""While we are disappointed with the verdict, it must be respected," the office said in a statement. "We are grateful to the members of the jury for their diligent and thoughtful deliberations. The Kenosha community has endured much over the past 15 months, and yet we remain resilient and strong."Wisconsin Gov. Tony Evers pleaded for calm before the verdict but deployed 500 National Guard in anticipation of post-verdict protests.  "No verdict will be able to bring back the lives of Anthony Huber and Joseph Rosenbaum or heal Gaige Grosskreutz's injuries just as no verdict can heal the wounds or trauma experienced by Jacob Blake and his family," Evers said in a statement after the verdicts."I have seen the pain and the frustration of so many and we must remain steadfast in our commitment to ending violence in our communities." President Joe Biden urged Americans to accept the verdicts and remain peaceful in protest."While the verdict in Kenosha will leave many Americans feeling angry and concerned, myself included, we must acknowledge that the jury has spoken," the president said in statement. "I ran on a promise to bring Americans together, because I believe that what unites us is far greater than what divides us."Emotions outside Kenosha's courthouse were high, but the scene was generally peaceful in the wake of the verdicts.“This is a total mockery of what justice should be. There’s no way he should be going home. Our personal opinion is that he should be going to jail,” said Justin Blake, the uncle of Jacob Blake. “This is a sad day for justice in America.”While it appeared that a majority of those protesting outside court favored conviction, there was also a fair share of Rittenhouse supporters.RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store “This is the verdict that the majority of America wanted,” said California resident Brandon Lesco, who held up a “Free Kyle” sign after the verdicts were rendered. Community activist Tanya McLean said she was unhappy, but not shocked, by the not guilty verdicts."We’re gonna have to really rethink what it means for us in this community,” said McLean, executive director of Leaders of Kenosha, told NBC News. “I wish I could say I’m surprised by this decision but I’m not.”McLean said she fears for the safety of her and her two children.“It shows that we can be gunned down in the street and there are no consequences and that’s why they feel so emboldened to do what they do,” McLean said.'No accountability'Huber's parents issued a lengthy statement, saying they were disappointed.   "Today’s verdict means there is no accountability for the person who murdered our son," they said.  "It sends the unacceptable message that armed civilians can show up in any town, incite violence, and then use the danger they have created to justify shooting people in the street."Attorneys who represent Rosenbaum's family and Grosskreutz called for peaceful protest."Today we grieve for the families of those slain by Kyle Rittenhouse. Anthony Huber and Joseph Rosenbaum did not deserve to die that night," the lawyers said. "For now, we ask for peace from everyone hurting and that the public respect the privacy of the victims and their families." Blake was paralyzed from the waist down in the shooting that led to days of at times violent protests in Kenosha and across the country. Rittenhouse and other armed men said they went to Kenosha to protect private property during the protest.Family of Anthony Huber 'heartbroken and angry' with Rittenhouse verdictNov. 19, 202101:46Huber and Rosenbaum were not armed when Rittenhouse shot them, but Grosskreutz came toward him with a pistol in hand when Rittenhouse opened fire.Rittenhouse also attempted to shoot an unknown person, known in court as “jump kick man,” who tried kicking the defendant in the face, and prosecutors said Rittenhouse could have wounded another man when he opened fire on Rosenbaum.Rittenhouse testified in his own defense last week and said all the shootings were acts of self-defense.The move was questioned in some legal circles, but Richards  said they had no choice because their mock trials showed test jurors responded well to Rittenhouse explaining himself."I had to put him on, it wasn't a close call," Richards said. "In Wisconsin if you don't put a client on the stand, you're going to lose, period." NBC legal analyst Danny Cevallos said the law was always in the defense’s favor, because of the burden prosecutors faced in fighting the self-defense argument. “It’s not so much that it was a poor prosecution, but really poor facts for the prosecution,” Cevallos said. “In Wisconsin, the prosecution had to disprove self-defense in all the elements or any one of them beyond a reasonable doubt in addition to proving their case.”  Former federal prosecutor Joyce Vance said evidence that Grosskreutz had a gun in is hand when he was shot by Rittenhouse played a key role in the acquittals.“He essentially, on cross-examination, conceded self-defense talking about the fact that there was a gun in his hand,” Vance said. “The prosecution tried to argue their way out of that situation. But I think the die was cast in a significant way at that point.” The defense lawyer, Richards, refused to second-guess his client’s action that night, when Rittenhouse armed himself with an AR-15-style weapon to protect private property in Kenosha while also providing first aid.Rittenhouse, then 17, kept the weapon at a friend's home in Wisconsin. “I personally don’t like people carrying AR-15s around,” Richards said. “There was so much anger and so much fear in Kenosha on Aug. 25 that people did arm themselves.” Rittenhouse aspires to be a nurse and Richards urged his client to keep a low profile.“He has to get on with his life the best he can,” Richards said. “I think eventually some anonymity will come back to it. I don’t think he’ll continue to live in this area, it’s too dangerous.”David K. Li reported from  New York, Deon J. Hampton reported from KenoshaBreaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Parents protesting 'critical race theory' identify another target: Mental health programs. At a September school board meeting in Southlake, Texas, a parent named Tara Eddins strode to the lectern during the public comment period and demanded to know why the Carroll Independent School District was paying counselors “at $90K a pop” to give students lessons on suicide prevention.“At Carroll ISD, you are actually advertising suicide,” Eddins said, arguing that many parents in the affluent suburban school system have hired tutors because the district’s counselors are too focused on mental health instead of helping students prepare for college.Tara Eddins speaks at the school board meeting in Southlake, Texas, on Sept. 27. Carroll ISD“Some of these kids, they’re just trying to get through the day, get through compacted math, get through algebra, go to cotillion on Sunday,” Eddins said. “They are not thinking about these issues.”Two days after Eddins made the remarks, Southlake Families PAC — a group that has fought to stop a diversity plan at Carroll — sent an email to supporters calling on the school district to “Leave mental health and parenting to parents.”Christina Edmiston, a Southlake resident and mother of two, was outraged when she saw the email. Earlier that month, Edmiston had pulled her 12-year-old son out of the Carroll district after he reported thoughts of suicide after having been bullied by classmates for his sexuality.Some parent groups fighting school boards over suicide prevention programs, mental health rolesNov. 16, 202102:48“You can’t expect just to teach kids arithmetic and reading and look at their test scores and expect them to be decent human beings,” Edmiston said. “I personally cannot understand why a parent would not want their children to have knowledge of what depression looks like, what anxiety looks like.”But that’s what’s now being debated in communities across the country. As school districts struggle to address accusations that administrators are indoctrinating students in progressive ideas about race, gender and sexuality, the same parents and activists making the claims have begun targeting school initiatives centered on students’ mental health and emotional well-being.In Carmel, Indiana, activists swarmed school board meetings this fall to demand that a district fire its mental health coordinator from what they said was a “dangerous, worthless” job. And in Fairfax County, Virginia, a national activist group condemned school officials for sending a survey to students that included questions like “During the past week, how often did you feel sad?”Many of the school programs under attack fall under the umbrella of social emotional learning, or SEL, a teaching philosophy popularized in recent years that aims to help children manage their feelings and show empathy for others. Conservative groups argue that social emotional learning has become a “Trojan horse” for critical race theory, a separate academic concept that examines how systemic racism is embedded in society. They point to SEL lessons that encourage children to celebrate diversity, sometimes introducing students to conversations about race, gender and sexuality.Activists have accused school districts of using the programs to ask children invasive questions — about their feelings, sexuality and the way race shapes their lives — as part of a ploy to “brainwash” them with liberal values and to trample parents’ rights. Groups across the country recently started circulating forms to get parents to opt their children out of surveys designed to measure whether students are struggling with their emotions or being bullied, describing the efforts as “data mining” and an invasion of privacy.Asra Nomani, a mother and activist in Fairfax County, said she supports school curricula focused on character development and emotional well-being, but she said SEL programs have been hijacked by progressives.Asra Nomani, a former reporter for the Wall Street Journal, is a leader of Parents Defending Education. Mike Segar / Reuters file “It took a turn in the summer of 2020, after the tragedy of George Floyd’s killing,” said Nomani, a leader of Parents Defending Education, an activist group that criticizes school diversity and equity efforts. After that, she said, social emotional learning “became a vehicle for this quote-unquote ‘social justice activism’ and the indoctrination of controversial ideas related to race, sexuality and even gender and identity.”The attention to social emotional learning in particular has been further fueled by loyalists to former President Donald Trump. The Center for Renewing America, which was started by a former Trump administration official, published a glossary that claimed that teachers and counselors were embedding critical race theory into social emotional learning programs. And state GOP lawmakers who tried to stop certification of Joe Biden’s win in the presidential election in Wisconsin proposed legislation that would outlaw social emotional learning and other educational concepts that they labeled as “state-sanctioned racism.”Parents who have packed school board meetings to protest diversity initiatives, including in Loudoun County, Virginia, have begun targeting social emotional learning programs.  Evelyn Hockstein / ReutersSchool leaders across the country deny that the initiatives teach children to judge themselves or classmates based on their race. Many districts, including several in Georgia, Missouri and Tennessee, say they launched new social emotional learning programs in response to rising youth suicide rates in recent years and to help children cope with bullying and other emotional issues that can inhibit students’ abilities to focus at school.“It’s absolutely terrifying to think that our kids could be out there without the access to the things that they need,” said Amal Anthony, a parent in Carmel who runs a Facebook group supporting school diversity and inclusion efforts. “Because while we all like to think that our kids are going to come to us first, sometimes that’s not the reality.”Although youth suicides remain relatively rare, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported that 2,756 minors died by suicide in 2019, the most recent year for which data are available, making it the second-leading cause of death among children. Early CDC data from 2020 show that the number of children who visited emergency rooms for suicide attempts increased by 31 percent compared to a year earlier, feeding concerns among parents and pediatricians that more children have struggled with depression and suicidal ideation during the pandemic.A recent report from the student safety company Gaggle, which monitors school-issued computers and tablets, said that among students at the 1,500 schools it does business with, nearly 9,000 threats of suicide or self-harm had been flagged as so serious that they required immediate intervention by school emergency contacts in the last academic year.But the argument that social emotional learning and other school-based mental health initiatives are part of “a new-age nanny state” has been gaining traction in conservative media for months, including on Fox News. Columns in the National Review and The Federalist have suggested that social emotional learning has become “another vehicle for anti-white racism” and may soon eclipse critical race theory as the most debated phrase in education.Some parent groups have advanced more extreme ideas. A national activist group, No Left Turn in Education, connected social emotional learning to the potential sexual grooming of children, calling it a “dangerous” philosophy that teaches students to put their trust in educators over the instructions of their parents. The group warned that even if social emotional learning doesn’t lead to “sexual assault by an adult,” it could cause children to question their gender identity and “will likely lead to some serious mental health struggles.”As backlash over discussions about racism causes some schools to withdraw diversity and equity efforts, educators, child welfare experts and some parents said they worry that these protests could prompt a similar pullback from mental health programming.“I am concerned, because the people that stand to lose are the kids,” said Karen Niemi, the president of the Collaborative for Academic, Social and Emotional Learning, or CASEL, an organization that helps schools implement the framework. “And it does worry me that we could risk prioritizing what’s good for kids because of a misunderstanding or, potentially, social emotional learning being used for any political agenda.”Mental health director under attackIn Carmel, a suburb of Indianapolis, voters overwhelmingly approved a tax increase two years ago to hire more school resource officers and social workers. Stephanie Whiteside, the Carmel Clay School District’s first mental health coordinator, was put in charge of using the money to hire therapists based in schools, who are accessible to students with parental permission. More than 400 students have participated in therapy sessions in the last 14 months, according to the district. Nicki McNally, a Carmel parent who helped campaign for the referendum, said she can see the new programs’ paying off in the way her teenage daughter speaks freely with her friends about panic attacks, coping methods and seeing counselors, “because they’ve been trained that that’s OK, that’s normal, and that there are resources there for that.”Carmel parent Nicki McNally helped campaign for more school resource officers and social workers.Robert Scheer / The Indianapolis Star via USA Today NetworkBut this year, as parents organized to push back against the district’s equity measures, activists made Whiteside one of their prime targets, accusing her of making “victimhood the highest social currency.”Alvin Lui, who co-founded a group called Unify Carmel to fight the district’s diversity efforts, called the mental health coordinator’s job a “dangerous, worthless” position and circulated dossiers about Whiteside that included an analysis of posts she had liked or shared on social media that Lui said showed she held animus toward police. Lui also criticized the district’s use of social emotional learning as “an extremely deceptive indoctrination system.” If schools want to address students’ mental health, he said, the best approach is “to involve parents if there’s an issue.”“But focus the kids on academics,” Lui said. “Focus them on something productive and useful so that they feel competent and confident that they’re doing well in school. They shouldn’t be questioning their gender identity and worrying about marching and worrying about social justice.”A crowd carrying signs protesting SEL gathers ahead of a Carmel Clay School Board meeting on May 17, 2021. MJ Slaby  / IndyStar via USA Today NetworkThe district declined to make Whiteside available for an interview. In response to the criticism, administrators sent a letter to parents on Sept. 30 noting that she is married to a police officer and that her work in Carmel “has genuinely saved students’ lives.”Carmel Clay Schools also defended the district’s reliance on social emotional learning programs in a statement issued by a spokeswoman, Emily Bauer. The lessons can be as straightforward as having elementary school students draw self-portraits to portray their strengths, Bauer said, or initiating group projects or discussions to help students learn how to better communicate.The district said it completed 101 suicide screenings from the beginning of the school year through Oct. 18, more than twice as many as in the same period last year.“This rhetoric that the mental health coordinator and mental health services are dangerous really sets us back,” McNally said. “We’re supposed to be moving forward to remove the stigma of mental health services.” ‘A lever for equity’Some critics said they believe social emotional learning, first introduced in some schools beginning in the 1990s, has become entwined with progressive values.Many point to CASEL, a nonprofit organization that is considered the leading authority on social emotional learning. After the protests for racial justice last year, CASEL updated language on its website to describe social emotional learning as “a lever for equity” that “affirms diverse cultures and backgrounds” and plays a role in eliminating “deep-seated inequities in the education system” — all phrases that conservatives have branded this year as critical race theory.Niemi, CASEL’s president, said the backlash to the language around equity reflects a misunderstanding of social emotional learning, which is meant to adapt to whatever issues specific students might be struggling with, whether it’s stress, bullying or racism.“When you’re in a classroom where racial issues are heightened, it is necessary for kids to have the skills to understand who they are, how to relate to other people, how to get along, how to solve problems,” Niemi said. “It’s not about telling them what to think or telling them how to feel.”A survey of 2,000 parents released this year by the Thomas B. Fordham Foundation, a conservative-leaning think tank, found that people broadly supported the ideas behind social emotional learning. However, the support dropped when surveyors used the terms “social emotional learning,” “soft skills” and “whole child development.”SEL often involves “a lot of jargon and ideas that may sound kind of ivory tower or foreign to a lot of parents,” said Adam Tyner, who analyzed the survey for the foundation. “It doesn’t surprise me that some of those parents expect the worst.”Some parent groups have made more radical claims about social emotional learning, echoing baseless conspiracy theories popular among followers of QAnon.At an event at a church in Whiteland, Indiana, last month hosted by the activist group Purple for Parents Indiana, Rhonda Miller, the group’s president, said grade school lessons centered on emotions are meant to prepare children for sex trafficking by teaching them to be accepting of LGBTQ identities and introducing them to books about sex, gender and sexuality.“The schools are too dangerous,” Miller told the audience, according to a video of the meeting posted online. “They are doing exactly what they were designed to do. They’re not broken. When you go back and you look at the history of public education, it’s doing exactly what it was designed to do, which was to take our system down from within.”Purple for Parents has been working with a state legislator to introduce a measure that would outlaw social emotional learning in Indiana schools. The group didn’t respond to a request for comment.Parents raise privacy concernsIn Fairfax County, Virginia, where parents have spent months protesting the district’s diversity and equity initiatives, activists affiliated with Parents Defending Education have shifted the focus of their outrage in recent months to surveys that the school system has been sending to students as part of its social emotional learning initiatives.The activist group has raised alarm that the Northern Virginia district of 178,000 students allocated $1.8 million in federal Covid-19 emergency funds to a five-year contract with Panorama Education, a Boston-based company, to survey students districtwide about their emotional well-being. The district said the survey will help it address mental health challenges worsened by the pandemic.The surveys, which parents can opt their children out of, ask questions like “Overall, how much do you feel like you belong at your school?” Surveys intended for middle and high school students ask about their sexuality and gender identities, information that the company says is meant to help schools identify whether certain groups of students are struggling more than others. Southlake: A viral video, a diversity plan, and an election that changed an affluent Texas townSept. 3, 202137:17Panorama said the surveys — used in more than 21,000 schools across the country — are designed to help educators track students’ well-being, identify those who may be struggling and suggest interventions to help them. Although some of the surveys ask about students’ experiences with racism, Panorama said the questionnaires are “not a tool for teaching critical race theory,” adding that it “does not market, sell, or rent any student’s personal information” to any outside companies.Fairfax County Public Schools said survey answers are accessible only to educators who are directly involved with the students who responded and aren’t shared with the state or any company other than Panorama. But Nomani, the vice president of Parents Defending Education, said schools shouldn’t be relying on outside companies and algorithms to address students’ mental and emotional well-being. And she said she doesn’t believe it’s appropriate for schools to survey children about their sexuality.“What we need to do is to separate the authenticity of social and emotional learning from the activist, divisive agendas of profiteer consulting groups that are basically using our children to increase their bottom line,” she said, suggesting that the money spent to hire companies like Panorama could instead be used to hire more school counselors and therapists.‘Shame on them’Some conservative groups have explicitly targeted school-based anti-suicide initiatives this year, particularly those aimed at helping children younger than 12, arguing that the efforts distract from academics and introduce mental health issues to children who aren’t struggling.Utah Parents Unite, an activist group that says it’s fighting indoctrination and mask mandates in schools, urged its members to lobby against a bill to expand suicide prevention programs to elementary schools, where, the group said, “suicides are not happening.” (National data obtained by NBC News show that the number of children ages 6-12 who visited children’s hospitals for suicidal thoughts or self-harm has more than doubled since 2016.) “It’s not age appropriate,” Utah Parents Unite wrote of suicide prevention in elementary school, “and it’s not a topic we need to introduce into the minds of young children.” Despite the objections, the Utah Legislature passed a bill that was signed into law in March. Parent activists elsewhere have continued to make the argument, including in Southlake, a suburb 30 miles northwest of Dallas that was the subject of an NBC News podcast about the community’s fight over a school diversity plan. Neither Southlake Families PAC, which sent an email to supporters in September claiming that “social emotional learning is critical race theory,” nor Eddins, the mom who accused counselors of “promoting suicide,” were willing to be interviewed. In response to questions about the Carroll school system’s support for social emotional learning and whether it was appropriate for school counselors to focus on anti-suicide efforts, Karen Fitzgerald, a spokeswoman, said the district “is focused on what is in the best interest of all students.”Edmiston, the Carroll parent whose child struggled with depression after classmates teased him over his sexuality, said the district needs more counselors and programs centered on the mental well-being of students, not fewer. NBC News isn’t naming her son, because he is a victim of harassment.“I personally cannot understand why a parent would not want their child to understand — even if their child doesn’t have any mental health issues — ... what depression looks like, what anxiety looks like,” Edmiston said. “That doesn’t make sense to me, as a mom, as someone who’s a part of society.”Edmiston said that classmates started teasing her son about his sexuality last school year after he came out as bisexual, and that by September, the harassment had escalated. Her son, a sixth-grader, said he had told a friend at school that he wanted to die. Afterward, according to her son, some of his classmates responded by grabbing a rope from gym class and stringing it over a goalpost like a noose at recess.In an interview, Edmiston’s son said he started struggling with depression when he was 10 and has relied on therapists to cope. He said comments by parents claiming that most young children don’t need emotional support at school were “highly insolent.”“I’ve had to have help with my mental health,” he said. “And if there’s other people who are having to struggle like me, or even worse, and a parent can’t recognize that because they think a child is younger and can’t have those feelings, then shame on them.”As for Edmiston — starting this month, she said, she’s sending her son to a private school.If you or someone you know is at risk of suicide, please call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 800-273-8255, text TALK to 741741 or visit SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources for additional resources.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Covid is surging in Europe. Experts say it’s a warning for the U.S.. As Europe finds itself at the center of the Covid-19 pandemic once again, experts say it should serve as a warning to the U.S. and other countries about the coronavirus’s unremitting nature. Case numbers have soared across the continent — more than 50 percent last month — and the worrying trend has continued this month as winter begins to bite.Dr. Hans Kluge, the director of the World Health Organization’s Europe region, warned Nov. 4 that the region was "back at the epicenter of the pandemic," and his words proved prescient. The WHO said Friday that nearly 2 million cases were reported across Europe in the previous week — the most the region has had in a single week since the pandemic began.In recent weeks, Germany reported record daily numbers of new infections, with more than 50,000, according to data from Johns Hopkins University.  The Netherlands also reported more than 16,000 cases — the country’s most since the pandemic began — prompting the government to begin a partial lockdown Saturday that is set to last at least three weeks. As case numbers surged toward the end of last month, Belgium reimposed some Covid restrictions, including a requirement to wear masks in public places. People also have to show the country’s Covid-19 pass to enter bars, restaurants and fitness clubs. The passport shows that they have been fully vaccinated, have had recent negative tests or have recently recovered from the disease.The country nonetheless recorded more than 15,000 daily cases last Monday.Despite the surge, daily death rates in all three countries have remained relatively stable compared with past spikes, and experts have credited high vaccine uptake for weakening the link between the numbers of cases and hospitalizations and deaths.Download the NBC News app for breaking news and politics"Luckily, the high vaccination coverage limits the death toll and hospitalizations there to a large extent," Tom Wenseleers, an evolutionary biologist and biostatistician at KU Leuven, a university in Belgium, said Wednesday in an email.Belgium, which reported hundreds of deaths at the start of the pandemic and then again last autumn, when a second wave of cases forced a national lockdown, has had its "hospital capacity tested" in recent weeks, Wenseleers said. But overall deaths appear largely to have been decoupled from high case rates, he said.  'Truly disastrous'However, the same cannot be said for Eastern Europe, where, he said, the situation is "truly disastrous."Over the last three weeks, Romania, with 591; Bulgaria, with 334; and Latvia, with 64, have reported record daily death numbers, according to Johns Hopkins data. Case numbers have also surged. People on a street near Alexanderplatz in Berlin. Covid-19 infection rates have climbed dramatically in Germany in recent weeks.Sean Gallup / Getty ImagesSaying the surge was "worrying," Wenseleers said he believed low vaccine uptake and high vaccine hesitancy were largely to blame."It’s not due to lack of vaccines," he said, noting that the joint procurement of vaccines at the European Union level meant all 27 member states "were able to buy equivalent quantities of vaccines.""Despite having access to vaccines, those countries did not manage to convince their population to get vaccinated," he said. RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store At least 1 in 3 people in countries in eastern Europe do not trust the health care system, compared to an average of 18 percent across the EU, a European Commission poll known as the Eurobarometer found, Reuters reported.Romania and Bulgaria are among the countries with the lowest rates of vaccine uptake across the continent, according to the EU’s vaccination tracker.The latest data showed that less than 23 percent of the adult population in Bulgaria had been fully vaccinated, while just over 25 percent had had at least one shot. In Romania, just under 34 percent of the population above age 18 had been fully vaccinated, while almost 38 percent had had at least one dose.A woman holds a poster at an anti-Covid vaccination protest in Sofia, Bulgaria, last month.Hristo Rusev / Getty ImagesThe Eurobarometer poll showed that respondents in both countries were among the least likely to express enthusiasm for getting vaccinated.The vaccination tracker also showed that other Eastern European countries have low vaccination rates compared to their Western neighbors.That "means that high case rates there translate [into] a very high death toll," Wenseleers said.Danny Altmann, a professor of immunology at Imperial College London, said that as the first winter with the delta variant approaches, he was "not sure if people in Eastern Europe appreciate how punishing the pandemic continues to be in the time of delta."Protesters hold a poster reading "Stop compulsory vaccination" at a demonstration against "compulsory" vaccination in Riga, Latvia, in August.Gints Ivuskans / AFP via Getty Images"It’s unremitting," he said. With some Eastern European countries "at the extreme end of vaccine hesitancy," he added, "there’s no possibility of dealing with this pandemic under these conditions."In Austria, which has long been a bridge between east and west, the government ordered a nationwide lockdown for unvaccinated people Sunday to slow the fast spread of the coronavirus.The move means unvaccinated people older than 12 will be banned from leaving their homes from midnight Sunday, except for basic activities like working, food shopping, going for walks — or getting their shots.“It’s our job as the government of Austria to protect the people," Chancellor Alexander Schallenberg told reporters Sunday in Vienna. “Therefore we decided that starting Monday ... there will be a lockdown for the unvaccinated.”Epidemiologist Eric Feigl-Ding, a senior fellow at the Federation of American Scientists, said the high death rates should be “a warning” for other countries with low vaccination rates.While he said he believed the most effective approach is multipronged, including coronavirus measures like mask-wearing and social distancing, he said vaccines and booster shots are critical to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Wenseleers agreed, saying people in the U.S. should take heed of the situation unfolding across Europe.People wait in line to get their shots at a "marathon of vaccination" at the National Library in Bucharest, Romania, last month. Daniel Mihailescu / AFP via Getty ImagesU.S. states both with high and low vaccination rates could take Europe’s case numbers as "a sign that the U.S. might still see resurgences, as well," he said.On both sides of the Atlantic, "convincing as many people to get vaccinated should be the top priority," along with "setting up booster campaigns" for those most at risk, he said.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Nonbinary millennial is front and center in HBO Max dramedy 'Sort Of'. Bilal Baig understands the weight and responsibility that comes with being the first queer South Asian Muslim actor to lead a Canadian primetime TV series. But the queer and transfeminine performer, who uses gender-neutral pronouns, said trans and nonbinary creators are still faced with the pressure of depicting an entire community with a single character or ensemble.“I’m somebody who has consumed a lot of trans and nonbinary content in an effort to see myself in media and art somewhere, and I think we can only start to take real risks in our art making when we know there are multiple representations out there of these communities,” Baig told NBC News in a phone interview. “I just think it helps expand our consciousness of who is a part of these communities and how diverse we actually are.”“Sort Of,” a groundbreaking new dramedy series set in Toronto, does just that. Co-created by Baig and Fab Filippo (“Queer as Folk”), the series — which premiered this fall on CBC in Canada and has now arrived on HBO Max — follows Sabi Mehboob (Baig), a gender-fluid millennial who straddles various identities as a bartender at an queer bar/bookstore, the youngest child in a Pakistani family and the nanny of a wealthy downtown family.When Sabi’s best friend, 7ven (Amanda Cordner), presents them with an opportunity to live in Berlin, a historically queer mecca, Sabi instead decides to stay and care for the kids they nanny, whose mother, Bessy (Grace Lynn Kung), has just gotten into a serious accident. In the process, Sabi feels like every aspect of their life is in transition, leading to a fascinating exploration of race, culture, sexuality and gender identity.Sabi’s evolution “is very subtle,” Baig said. “I think they budge an inch in their life over the course of this first season, but that inch budging actually opens them up to a sea of possibilities. They start in such a guarded place, and the walls just come down by a fraction, and I think opening yourself up in this way means that there’s so many different things that can come from being able to embrace who you are and feel a little bit more comfortable in your skin.”Baig and Filippo first met in 2018, when they both appeared as actors in a play called “Theory” at Toronto’s Tarragon Theatre. The two bonded over a shared desire to create their own work and, after the play ended, conceptualized the idea of a half-hour comedy series that centered on a character loosely inspired by Baig.Amanda Cordner and Bilal Baig in "Sort Of" on HBO Max.HBO MaxBut before agreeing to sign on to their first TV project, Baig asked Filippo an incisive question: “Why should I, a brown nonbinary millennial who feels like they might be transitioning, make a story about me with you?” After taking some time to consider the uncertainty that he was feeling at the end of his 15-year marriage, Filippo returned and said that he, too, was going through a transition. Simply put, he wanted to create a show where every character, not just Sabi, is “transitioning and evolving” — a notion that resonated deeply with Baig, who “loved hearing a cis person use the word ‘transition.’”Over the course of the eight-episode first season, Paul (Gray Powell), the father of the kids Sabi watches, is forced to confront his own shortcomings as a husband, father and employer; his own ideas of masculinity; and the microaggressions that have hurt Sabi and Paul’s own family. “I think it’s about how to actually work with people and collaborate and let go of some control. I think we’re really asking some questions around how we share this global world together, like Sabi and Paul together, and what it means for them to coexist,” said Baig, who later added that creating a character like Paul was a way to get cisgender men like him to connect with the show and, in turn, develop more empathy for trans and nonbinary people in general.Meanwhile, Raffo (Ellora Patnaik), Sabi’s 50something Pakistani Muslim mother, also discovers that she has been largely unaware of her own child’s transition and spends her newfound free time attempting to reconnect. As a result, she must reconcile her love for Sabi with the more traditional values held by the men in her family, including her husband, Sabi’s father.Cassandra James and Bilal Baig in "Sort Of" on HBO Max.HBO MaxIt’s a unique dynamic that was discussed extensively in the writers’ room, which included multiple queer South Asian writers, Baig said. “We just wanted to see a relationship that really felt like there were no villains between Sabi and Raffo, that neither of them are actually antagonistic towards each other.”“It really is this one-step-forward, two-steps-back kind of dance between the two of them until they get to this place of really committing to each other, no matter what,” Baig added. “I think that is exciting in terms of what that means for her, what that means for a South Asian woman of her age to really examine what it means to be a mother and then what it means to commit to children — particularly Sabi — who don’t fit in the norm and where that will take her.”From the moment that Baig and Filippo pitched this series (first to Sienna Films, a production company based out of Toronto, and then to the CBC), producers and executives made it clear that they wanted Baig to create a world that not only felt truthful to their own experiences, but also felt universal to a lot of others. For Baig, this meant creating a lead character that “wasn’t textbook sassy with finger snaps and perfectly articulated reads on people,” they said. “I’ve just seen enough of that in queer and trans content that it does start to perpetuate this notion that all of us must be like this. [So] what if we went the total opposite direction and presented a character who’s a little more inward and not so sassy?”RecommendedOUT NewsOUT NewsFormula One racing star wears LGBTQ Pride helmet at Qatar Grand PrixOUT NewsOUT NewsTransgender people in 'survival mode' as violence rises, anti-trans bills become lawAnd while they serve as the lead actor, co-creator and executive producer, “the show was never just a singular story,” Baig said. “Our writers’ room was full of people of different ages, genders, sexualities and skin colors, so we wanted to make a space where people felt like they could also bring their perspectives and their lived experiences into the fold.”After fleshing out Sabi’s world, Baig worked with the creative team to cast trans and nonbinary actors in such roles and to prioritize the casting of LGBTQ actors in roles that were not specifically scripted as such. In the complicated conversation of which actors should be allowed to play which parts, Baig said that trans actors should unequivocally play trans characters, “because, to me, it sends a really harmful message when we cast cis people in those roles. In my level of experience as a trans person consuming content, I see nuance and authenticity being missed when cis people playing those parts.”But it gets a little more complicated “when we’re talking about queerness, because there is a fluidity to queerness that doesn’t feel the same as in the trans world for me,” they added. “There’s so many people in my life who don’t identify 100 percent as straight and definitely don’t identify 100 percent as queer. I’m in a space where I’m open to people defining queerness for themselves and bringing that to their work. But the bottom line for me is a show like this wouldn’t work if it didn’t feel real and authentic, so we were just searching for that all the time in our casting.”Bilal Baig, Kaya Kanashiro and Aden Bedard in "Sort Of" on HBO Max.HBO MaxShortly after the show premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival, Baig revealed that, in a case of life imitating art, they decided to come out to their own immigrant parents, who knew very little about their career and gender identity.“We’re slowly moving through it. I think we’re in this place [where] I’m just trying to gently let them into more of my truth,” they explained. “I think they’re curious, and I think it’s also a lot of information. It was difficult for sure, and I think it will take some time before they can really settle in with this show and with seeing their child in this new way. But if I put myself in their shoes, I can see how this was a big shift.”At the end of the day, aside from making people laugh and “feel cozy and warm when they’re receiving this story,” Baig hopes that “Sort Of” will become part of the slight but steady advances that Hollywood has recently seen in onscreen trans and nonbinary representation.“When trans and nonbinary people aren’t a part of conversations, aren’t acknowledged as actual people, that literally is the definition of dehumanizing or erasing human existence,” Baig said. “To bring this show to so many people all over the world proves that we do exist and that we are complicated people who have relationships with cis folks and non-cis folks and children and adults — we really are a part of the fabric of this world.”“I really feel like I’m a part of something bigger,” they added. “What I’m hearing back from communities in Canada who have now accessed all eight of the episodes [is] there’s a real, fierce appreciation for the nuance, because I think it changes lives. People can use shows like ‘Sort Of’ to help parents or friends or lovers understand them better, and that is so powerful.”“Sort Of” is now streaming on HBO Max.Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Formula One racing star wears LGBTQ Pride helmet at Qatar Grand Prix. World champion race car driver Lewis Hamilton will wear an LGBTQ flag on his helmet for the upcoming Grand Prix in Qatar on Nov. 21. His new headpiece showcases the Progress Pride Flag, which includes black and brown stripes to honor queer communities of color, as well as light blue and pink colors to honor the transgender community. The back of the helmet reads “We Stand Together.”“Equal rights is a serious issue,” Hamilton said at a Formula One press conference Thursday. The 36-year-old British racer, who is Black, has been very vocal about human rights issues and has dedicated much of his platform to speaking out against human rights violations. Sunday's race will be the first Formula One tournament in Qatar after the country signed a 10-year deal with the racing league, according to BBC Sport. However, the upcoming race has raised concerns over human rights and equality in the Arab nation. “I do think as these sports go to these places, they’re duty-bound to raise awareness for these issues and these places need scrutiny and needs the media to speak to speak about these things,” Hamilton said Thursday.Qatar has been the center of numerous human rights violations. Homosexuality is illegal in the country and can lead to jail time. Courts governed by religious law can technically punish Muslim people in same-sex relationships by death, but there is no evidence that the punishment has been used, The Independent reported earlier this year. The Middle Eastern country has also been under fire for its treatment of migrant workers. Migrant hotel workers gearing up for the 2022 World Cup have worked long shifts at less than $2 an hour, with little to no time off, The Guardian reported Thursday. “I just feel that if we are coming to these places, we need to be raising the profile of the situation," Hamilton said at the conference. In July, the champion racer called out anti-LGBTQ laws in Hungary ahead of the Hungarian Grand Prix. Hamilton called the laws “cowardly” and “unacceptable” and urged Hungarian citizens to vote in an upcoming referendum, Insider reported. Human rights groups, including Amnesty International, have raised concerns over so-called sportswashing, when a country tries to use sports or major sporting events to distract the international community from human rights violations and mistreatment. Amnesty International called on the Qatari government to address its record of human rights violations before the 2022 FIFA World Cup, the world's premier soccer tournament. RecommendedOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop Culture'Sort Of' depicts transitions as an inevitable part of lifeOUT NewsOUT NewsTransgender people in 'survival mode' as violence rises, anti-trans bills become law"FIFA must act now to ensure that the 2022 World Cup is a tournament to be proud of, and not one tainted by labor abuses," Stephen Cockburn, the organization's deputy director of global issues, said in a statement earlier this year.Formula One, in a statement on its website, said it is “committed to respecting internationally recognized human rights in its operations globally.” The racing league also outlined steps that it will take to ensure it is respecting human rights in its activities, including respecting the rights of its employees and monitoring the impact of its events. “There’s a long way to go,” Hamilton said. Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & Instagram Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
These 8 U.S. cities failed an LGBTQ equality evaluation. Eight cities in the United States scored a zero out of 100 on the 10th annual Municipal Equality Index, which evaluates cities and towns based on the level of LGBTQ inclusion found in their local laws, policies and services.LGBTQ advocacy groups Human Rights Campaign and Equality Federation evaluated 506 municipalities — including the country’s 50 state capitals and 200 largest cities — on 49 criteria for the index. The criteria included nondiscrimination protections, policies for municipal employees and city leadership. This year’s zero-point earners span from South Carolina to Wyoming, and they all came in at zero on last year’s index, too. But on the flip side, 22 percent of cities earned a perfect score, up from 8 percent in 2012, the report’s inaugural year. RecommendedOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop Culture'Sort Of' depicts transitions as an inevitable part of lifeOUT NewsOUT NewsFormula One racing star wears LGBTQ Pride helmet at Qatar Grand Prix“If you’re scoring a zero, it’s because you’re making that choice. There are definitely some low-hanging fruit ways to get off of that zero place,” said Cathryn Oakley, the founding author of the index and the state legislative director for the Human Rights Campaign. “That is a statement on their end about how they’re willing to engage in these issues.”Here are the eight cities that scored a failing grade on this year’s Municipal Equality Index: Florence, AlabamaDowntown Florence, Ala. Robin Zeigler / Getty ImagesLocated in the northwest corner of Alabama, Florence sits on the Tennessee River, has a population of about 40,000 and is home to the University of North Alabama. The city made headlines in 2017, when several members of white nationalist groups, some dressed in Ku Klux Klan robes, staged a protest during northwest Alabama’s first Pride parade.Jonesboro, ArkansasDowntown Jonesboro, Ark.larrybraunphotography.com / Getty ImagesJonesboro, with a population of nearly 80,000, is Arkansas’ fifth largest city. It sits in the northeastern part of the state and is home to Arkansas State University. Earlier this year, a Pride Month book display — which included the children’s book “The GayBCs” — ignited a backlash at a public library in the city, The Jonesboro Sun reported. Southaven, MississippiThe Southaven Municipal Complex in Southaven, Miss.Google MapsSouthaven sits on the border of Mississippi and its northern neighbor, Tennessee, and is just 13 miles from Memphis. The city, which has about 55,000 residents, made news in 2019 after a same-sex couple said they were kicked out of a local Baptist church because the women wouldn’t end their “forbidden” marriage and “repent.”Broken Arrow, OklahomaThe historic Rose District of Broken Arrow, Okla. Denis Tangney Jr. / Getty ImagesLocated just outside Tulsa in the northeastern part of the state, Broken Arrow is the fourth largest city in Oklahoma, with a population of about 113,000. Oklahoma is the only state to have two cities earn zero points on this year’s Municipal Equality Index. Moore, OklahomaVeterans Memorial Park in Moore, Okla.Google MapsMoore, a city of about 63,000 residents, is part of the Oklahoma City metropolitan area, which sits in the middle of the state. Moore made national news back in 2017 after Ralph Shortey, a “family values” Republican who had served in the Oklahoma Senate, was found with a 17-year-old male in a local motel (Shortey was eventually sentenced to 15 years in prison on child sex-trafficking charges). Clemson, South CarolinaTillman Hall on the campus of Clemson University in Clemson, S.C.Maddie Meyer / Getty ImagesHome to Clemson University, this small South Carolina city, with a population of 17,700, sits in the northwest part of the state near the borders of both Georgia and North Carolina. While the city of Clemson scored a zero out of 100 on this year’s Municipal Equality Index, the university scored a 3 out of 5 on the LGBTQ nonprofit Campus Pride’s annual index. The university also opened Lavender Place, an LGBTQ “living-learning community,” in August. Pierre, South DakotaThe State Capitol in Pierre, S.D.Getty Images/iStockphotoWith a population of roughly 14,100, Pierre is the second-least populous state capital in the country, following Montpelier, Vermont. Home to the state’s legislature, the city hosts many of the state’s protests concerning LGBTQ issues. In January, Pierre made national headlines when a group of LGBTQ advocates protested against a proposed law that would ban people from changing the sex designation on their birth certificates. A South Dakota House committee later rejected the bill in February.Rocks Springs, WyomingRock Springs, Wyo. Jacob Boomsma / Getty Images/iStockphotoRock Springs is a city in Sweetwater County, Wyoming, with a population of about 23,500. Despite scoring a zero out of 100 on this and last year’s Municipal Equality Index, a Rock Springs church made history after hosting what it called the state’s first LGBTQ pride worship service in 2019, the Casper Star-Tribune reported.Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Why the APA's apology for promoting white supremacy falls short. At the end of October, the American Psychological Association released an official apology for being “complicit in contributing to systemic inequities, and [having] hurt many through racism, racial discrimination, and denigration of people of color.” The apology sought to comprehensively denounce the eminent institution’s history of promoting white supremacy within the United States and position the association to effectively remedy these harms through commitments to anti-racist psychological practices. The APA also noted Black psychologists were ignored when they tried to raise these issues over half a century ago.The apology sought to comprehensively denounce the eminent institution’s history of promoting white supremacy within the United States.These more than 200 Black psychologists would go on to found the country’s first and oldest independent ethnic psychological association, the Association of Black Psychologists, in 1968. As members of that association, we feel the need to speak up once again. The APA’s apology is a far cry from what is needed. We cannot expect the association to truly right its wrongs and end damaging practices in psychology when it leaves much of the ongoing harm unexamined and cherry-picks its way through history. This risks actually perpetuating the past damages the association is now trying to rectify.While the apology details many of the past racist practices in psychology, it largely omits a key portion of this history: how the fields of psychology and psychiatry colluded with the state to suppress rights, liberties and, in many cases, political freedom. Largely, this looked like the creation and maintenance of state hospitals that often disproportionately and indefinitely confined Black people in particular. Indeed, this history led the former president-elect of ABPsi, Bobby Wright, to conclude that the discipline had historically been leveraged to wage war against Black communities.How these women are helping to break the stigma of therapy for Black womenSept. 8, 202009:59Based on a belief that a Black person’s desire for freedom was evidence of mental illness, hospitals were built across the country to enforce social control over Black people. For instance, the Central Lunatic Asylum for Colored Insane, the first state psychiatric hospital for Black people, forcibly institutionalized thousands of Black people in Virginia beginning in 1870. Hospital archives revealed that Black people were taken from their communities and enslaved on the belief that freedom produced mania and forced labor was an adequate treatment.A century later, these practices were still common. For example, the Ionia State Hospital for the Criminally Insane in Michigan justified the lifelong confinement of Black men through diagnoses of “protest psychosis” until it was closed in 1977. Beyond disrupting the freedom and humanity of generations of Black people, the legacy of these institutions still contributes to medical mistrust among our communities.RecommendedOpinionOpinionIn one epic speech, Kevin McCarthy perfectly summed up the GOPOpinionOpinionBlurred footage of Christian Hall shooting shows how police try to evade accountabilityAn inability to challenge the harm caused by such psychiatric institutions has allowed many of these practices to continue. To this day, the APA provides training accreditation to state and forensic hospitals where patients, especially Black patients, endure misdiagnoses and marginalization. Forensic psychiatric hospitals in particular still disproportionately confine Black people. Not only does this deprive Black patients of their freedom, but it also places these communities at increased risk of death or serious illness during the height of the Covid-19 pandemic.RelatedOpinionOpinionHow a shake-up at medicine's old guard is forcing racism into the lightFurther, the APA’s decision to limit its apology to the U.S. ignores how the field has been used to harm people across the world. For example, the apology refuses to acknowledge the 2015 Hoffman report, which indicted the APA for helping the Bush administration optimize torture techniques for detainees at Guantanamo Bay. These techniques traumatized hundreds of individuals while the APA largely ignored the escalation in Islamophobia and bigotry experienced by Arab, Middle Eastern and Northern African peoples in the U.S. By failing to understand that many of the people they were apologizing to identify as part of a diaspora, the APA limited its capacity to address harm done.In recent years, we have seen Black youth suicide rates steadily increase. At the same time, the desire for culturally grounded mental health support is on the rise. Within this context, the APA’s inability to fully grapple with its history and how it continues, in its silence, to maintain racial inequity in access, misdiagnosis and maltreatment in mental health care is more than troubling.Despite this history, the APA continues to be the primary organization for establishing codes of ethics, lobbying state licensing boards, certifying and educating and training clinicians in the field of psychology. As opposed to continuing to modify this one organization’s response to its own damage, it’s time for the APA and government bodies to recognize the authority that other psychological associations have, particularly when it comes to working with underserved populations.RelatedOpinionOpinionWe want to hear what you THINK. Please submit a letter to the editor.We are in a moment where cultural anxieties around understanding racism’s historical and contemporary role in U.S. society is a determining factor in elections and other forms of social and civic engagement. As psychologists charged with tending to the mental health of our communities, we must hold ourselves and our peers to higher standards. As we shift away from these histories of denigrating and dehumanizing practices, we should take this opportunity to co-create the kinds of healing practices, geopolitical understandings and psycho-cultural social systems that can guide us toward a more humanizing field. This is a time of reckoning — and everyone is needed in the nonhierarchical planning of our restoration.Subscribe to the THINK newsletterReTHINK the news cycle with timely op-eds, in-depth analyses and personal essays delivered weekly to your inbox.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'More Bubbas, no Black pastors': Attorney for man accused of killing Arbery decried as racist. Before the murder trial began for the three white men accused in the killing of Ahmaud Arbery, who was Black, race was expected to be a major theme in the case.Jurors were asked if they supported Black Lives Matter, if they had participated in any racial justice demonstrations and if they considered the Confederate flag to be racist. All but one Black person was struck from the jury. Eleven of the 12 jurors selected are white.The topic of race, however, was hardly broached during testimony before the prosecution and defense rested their cases last week.But allegations of racism have persisted, directed not at the men accused in Arbery's killing, but at the attorney representing one of them.Kevin Gough, an attorney for William "Roddie" Bryan, has been condemned for trying to have "high-profile African Americans" thrown out of the courtroom, derided for his complaints that the jury didn't contain enough "Bubbas or Joe six-packs" and admonished by the judge for equating Black faith leaders with Klansmen.Defense attorney Kevin Gough on Thursday. Sean Rayford / Getty ImagesLee Merritt, who is representing Arbery's mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones, said Gough's statements, outside the ears of the jury, have become "more targeted, more persistent and more racist."On Nov. 11, Gough tried and failed to prevent "high-profile African Americans" like the Revs. Al Sharpton and Jesse Jackson from being in the courtroom, alleging they would influence the jury."We don't want any more Black pastors coming in here," Gough said in court, a day after Sharpton sat in the public gallery with Arbery's mother.That same day, he questioned what would happen "if a bunch of folks came in here dressed like Colonel Sanders with white masks sitting in the back" — apparently equating African American civil rights and faith leaders to the KKK. The judge admonished the remark Monday as "reprehensible.""I don't think he sees Black people as particularly civilized, so he doesn't understand that we can show up without causing a mistrial," Merritt said. "That we can be controlled and supportive without being rambunctious."Merritt on Thursday joined hundreds of mostly Black pastors outside the Glynn County Courthouse in Georgia, where they gathered in response to Gough's request to keep them out of the courtroom.Merritt said he believes Gough is "agitating the Black community" on purpose to cause a mistrial.David Henderson, a former federal prosecutor who is now a civil rights lawyer and CNBC contributor, said he believed Gough's comments to be both racist and incompetent."It's hard for me to differentiate between how racist I think it is compared to how incompetent I think it is," Henderson said. "I know that's a strong word to use; I don't think I can avoid it in his situation."Gough's client is a neighbor of father and son Gregory and Travis McMichael. The men are accused of chasing Arbery in separate pickup trucks Feb. 23, 2020, through the Satilla Shores neighborhood where they lived. Travis McMichael got out of his truck and briefly fought with Arbery before he fatally shot him at close range. Bryan filmed the fatal encounter on his cellphone. The defense has said the men suspected Arbery was a burglar.RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store Before his comments targeting Black pastors and civil rights leaders, Gough came under scrutiny for trying to ban peaceful demonstrators from gathering outside the courthouse to call for justice for Arbery.He also threatened to file a so-called Bubba motion, Merritt said. "Bubba" is a term Gough used to describe white men older than 40 who do not have a college degree. He said the jury needed more Bubbas."He's making these absurd motions, and the goal, I think, in part, is to intimidate the family," Merritt said. "Most of his motions have been directed at the family of the victim in the case. And so, I think the other part is that he knows that he'll get a reaction from the Black community."The Rev. James Woodall, the former state president of Georgia's NAACP chapter who has closely watched the trial, said Gough's challenge of the presence of prominent civil rights leaders in the courtroom "is a desperate attempt to make it appear that the defendants are not being given a fair trial."He said he agreed with the court that "such references have no place in judicial proceedings and are reprehensible."Woodall, a public policy associate at the Southern Center for Human Rights who has met Arbery's family, said he was not surprised by Gough's behavior."This is a highly publicized trial in a small, rural community," Woodall said. "Emotions are high, and the stakes are higher."Gough, who did not return multiple phone and email requests for an interview, earned his law degree from the University of Georgia. He grew up on Long Island in New York and was elected multiple times as the chair of the Republican Party in Glynn County.In 2012, he became the Brunswick Judicial Circuit public defender. He was fired from that role in April 2016 for a host of reasons including having been "derelict" in his duties as a circuit public defender, refusing to abide by the agency's directions and not representing his clients appropriately, according to his letter of removal from Bryan Tyson, who was then the executive director of the Georgia Public Defender Council."Your own agenda has overshadowed any other issues that may exist," the letter said.Tyson described the Brunswick office as one with a culture of "fear and intimidation," according to statements during Gough's appeals hearing.Henderson said he didn't have high hopes for Gough after the attorney suggested his client wasn't smart enough to speak on his own behalf during an interview with CNN's Chris Cuomo last year. Bryan had not yet been arrested."My client is a mechanic with a high school education, and if you've ever been to the high schools around here, that's not necessarily saying much, OK?" Gough said at the time. "And I don't mind if the board of education doesn't like it."Henderson said he walked away thinking "that's the worst that I've ever seen a lawyer do representing their client in terms of how he presented him to the point of insulting his client's intelligence and his education."Gough has only gotten more offensive as the trial has gone on, Henderson said.He said he believes Gough is picking up on "the fact that attention is being turned on to the case in a way that could be detrimental to his client because people are demanding justice.""He simply doesn't know how to talk about race, which is a problem that America has and has had, period," Henderson said.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
White Kansas City officer convicted in Black man’s 2019 death. KANSAS CITY, Mo. — A judge on Friday convicted a white Kansas City police officer of involuntary manslaughter and armed criminal action in the fatal shooting of a Black man, in a case in which prosecutors said police planted evidence.Jackson County Judge Dale Youngs issued the bench ruling against Officer Eric DeValkenaere in the death of Cameron Lamb, 26. Lamb was shot while backing into his garage on Dec. 3, 2019, after chasing his girlfriend’s convertible in a stolen pickup truck.DeValkenaere testified during the trial that he fired after Lamb pointed a gun at another detective, Troy Schwalm, and that he believed his actions saved the life of his partner. On the stand, DeValkenaere said: “I’m thinking, ‘I can’t let this happen, I can’t let him shoot Troy.’”RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store Prosecutors, however, argued that police lacked a warrant to be on the property and staged the shooting scene to support their claims that Lamb was armed. Before he was shot, prosecutors said, Lamb had his left hand on the truck’s steering wheel and his cellphone in his right hand.Another officer who was the first to arrive at the scene after the shooting testified during the trial that he didn’t see a gun on the ground below Lamb’s left arm, which was hanging out of the window of the truck. Later, though, a gun was there in police photographs.Two bullets were found in Lamb’s pockets at the morgue, but crime scene technicians didn’t find them at the scene. And prosecutors also raised questions about whether Lamb, who was right-handed, could have used his left hand to pull a gun due to an earlier injury. The defense argued that he could have.The verdict came after a bench trial, which was held before the judge without a jury at DeValkenaere’s request.The killing of Lamb, a father of three, was often invoked during racial injustice protests in Kansas City last year. And it was among several cases cited by a group of civil rights organizations in a petition urging U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland to investigate the Kansas City Police Department. The indictment in the case came days after Lamb’s death garnered renewed attention stemming from his family’s meeting with then-President Donald Trump in 2020.In the past year, prosecutors have brought criminal charges against five white Kansas City police officers for allegedly using excessive force against Black people. DeValkenaere was the only officer charged in an on-duty killing.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Black and Latino 'King Richard' director Reinaldo Marcus Green talks dads, sports. They're considered two of the most powerful players in tennis history.The Black and Latino movie director Reinaldo Marcus Green wants to take viewers back to the moment before Venus and Serena Williams became champions — and all they had was the ambitious plan of a determined father who wore short shorts and a cowboy hat on a tennis court in the city of Compton, in Southern California. Green is the director of “King Richard,” which premieres nationwide Friday and tells the story of Richard Williams, the father of Venus and Serena (played by Will Smith). Together with his wife, Oracene ‘Brandy’ Williams (played by Aunjanue Ellis), he sets out on a family journey from humble beginnings to the threshold of tennis fame and fortune. “To the outside world he was quite controversial and outspoken and colorful,” Green said about Williams in an interview with NBC News. After meeting the family and hearing their story, the director became interested in showing another dimension of Williams’ character. Director Reinaldo Marcus Green at the Sundance Film Festival in 2018.Taylor Jewell / Invision / AP“He was a dad who just tried to do right by his kids, the best way he could with the tools that he had. And nobody is perfect,” Green said. “He’s learned lessons along the way. He had to, at the end of our film, understand that his daughters were growing up and what do you do when that moment happens. Do you squeeze tighter or do you let go?” Green, whose father is Black and mom Puerto Rican, was born in the New York City borough of the Bronx and grew up in Staten Island and other parts of the city. Where he lived was not too different from Compton, Green said.  After Green's parents divorced, his mother and father chose to have  him and his brother live with their dad. "They really wanted us to have a father figure in the house," Green said. "It was important for my mom as well." The director said he can’t avoid comparing his father — who was raising two sons to become major league baseball players — with Williams.     “We grew up with a similar father ... I literally grew up on a baseball diamond. I played travel ball and all-star baseball," said Green, who also played in college. "My dad wore those short shorts too. So I knew what it’s like growing up with that parent that other folks think is a little out there, but you in your heart know is a special guy.” Green wanted to bring that level of complexity and authenticity to viewers when telling the story of two Black sisters who became champions in a sport that has been inaccessible to many diverse children.   The movie is a unique window into the early lives of the Williams sisters, the director said. Viewers will see them take their first steps toward becoming professionals at a young age when their parents were creating a blueprint for all of their future successes in tennis and beyond.  “They are ambassadors for their community,” Green said. “Tennis is only one aspect of what they’ve done.” Expanding diversity in the courts Carlos Mendez, the founder of the Multicultural Tennis Association, remembers seeing tennis courts when he was growing up in his  predominantly Latino neighborhood in East Los Angeles. But the courts were all locked up. The Mexican American father sees common ground with Williams, who created a tennis plan for his daughters just 12 miles away in Compton. “I found a lot of parallels and similarities when I watched the movie ‘King Richard’,” Mendez said in a video interview. “For me, with my daughter, it was pivotal that I encouraged her as a Latina to do something outside of our tradition, our comfort zone.” Carlos Mendez, founded the Multicultural Tennis Association and says he can relate to the movie “King Richard.”Courtesy Carlos Mendez 
Mendez said that he wanted his daughter to grow up with the opportunity to play tennis. But when his daughter started at a country club as the only Latina out of 30 kids, he says that the initial goal of sharing his love for tennis with his family grew into sharing the sport with other members of his community. “We don’t have a lot of kids that look like me or like my kids playing out there,” he said. “Less than 6 percent of college tennis players are Hispanic, compared to over 25 percent who play soccer.” Mendez founded the Multicultural Tennis Association in Las Vegas, and he's now in Chicago, where they've expanded the association with the sponsorship of the Mike Tyson Cares Foundation and are offering free programs in inner-city parks in partnership with the Chicago Parks District.RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store But beyond the mission of making tennis more affordable and accessible, Mendez says there also has to be a cultural shift. “In our culture, we really don’t encourage our young ladies to go out there and really compete,” he said. “We need to break down that barrier and allow kids to fill up those tennis courts.” Like Williams in the film, Mendez believes that the key to success is balancing both education and sports. “As a parent, it’s important for me to have a well-rounded youth," he said. "And not just think that they’re going to be the next champion, because what happens if they don’t become professional tennis players?” Demi Singleton, Will Smith and Saniyya Sidney in a scene from "King Richard."Chiabella James / Warner Bros. Entertainment"Stories being generated for us" When asked about the importance of visibility on screen, Green says that more and more diverse stories are being told. But viewers don’t want to simply see movies that only check off diversity boxes. “What you may see now is let’s put a Black person in the lead, or let’s get a Latino,” he said. “But it’s not written for us. It’s written for someone else and it’s being slotted. As opposed to stories being generated for us. And I think hopefully that’s the next wave of films.” Green says that starts with Black people and Latinos writing and telling stories about themselves, and having the opportunity to be both in front and behind the camera.   “We’re on the long journey because we want meaningful, sustainable change,” he said about creating authentic Black and Latino movies. “Rather than it just being of the moment. Hopefully our films will feel timeless. And not just let’s do it now and let’s do it paint by numbers.” Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Author Karen Tei Yamashita wins lifetime literary achievement award. Karen Tei Yamashita was awarded the 2021 Medal for Distinguished Contribution to American Letters by the National Book Foundation on Wednesday. Yamashita is the 34th recipient of the award since it was created in 1988. Past recipients include Joan Didion, Toni Morrison, Maxine Hong Kingston and Stephen King. "A bold and groundbreaking writer, Yamashita's deeply creative body of work has made an enduring impact on our literary landscape," the foundation's chair, David Steinberger, said in a statement. In her acceptance speech, Yamashita said the award was especially significant to her community, given how the past year has been plagued by anti-Asian violence and hatred. "Asian American literature is, at heart, a literature of politics and resistance," Yamashita said. Yamashita has written eight books, all published by the Minneapolis publishing house Coffee House Press. Her works include a book of short stories about being Japanese American, "Sansei and Sensibility," and "Through the Arc of the Rain Forest," a novel about a Japanese ex-pat living in Brazil amid an environmental crisis. "I’m here because Coffee House has envisioned the long distance of a writer’s journey, [they] know that books take time to be read and to be shared," Yamashita said, adding that the publisher always kept her books in print, which gave her readership time to grow. In 2010, Yamashita's "I Hotel," a novel set in San Francisco's Chinatown in the 1960s and '70s, was a finalist for the National Book Award. The title won the 2011 California Book Award and was a finalist for the Asian American Literary Award for fiction in 2011. RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store "Karen Tei Yamashita is such a legend," author Jean Chen Ho tweeted in response to Yamashita's acceptance speech on Wednesday. "When I read 'I Hotel' in undergrad I remember just having my entire brain reorganized about what a novel is and can do."Yamashita currently serves as a professor emeritus at the University of California, Santa Cruz, where she researched Japanese immigration to Brazil and Asian American literature.She attended Carleton College in Minnesota and also studied at Waseda University in Tokyo. She was born in Oakland and raised in Los Angeles, according to the National Book Foundation. Both of her parents were incarcerated at Topaz internment camp during World War II.In addition to a bronze medal, the lifetime achievement award comes with $10,000. Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Univ. of Maryland slammed for separating Asian students from 'students of color' in graphic. The University of Maryland is facing backlash after an administrative graphic separated students into two categories — “students of color, minus Asians” and “white or Asian students.” The graphic was part of a presentation by university President Darryll Pines, who was sharing the incoming class’ diversity data with the student body senate. The school says it intended to highlight students who have been underrepresented on campus. Data on the slide spanned a five-year period, including information like UMD’s total number of applicants, with average SAT scores and grade point averages. But a point of contention for some students and a larger audience on Twitter is the race breakdown of yearly incoming first-years. Numbers listed under the “students of color, minus Asians” category were meant to represent the students with the lowest historical presence at the school, and it did include some Pacific Islanders, the university said in a statement provided to NBC Asian America. “The data in this specific section was intended to show student populations that have historically represented 11 percent or less of our campus community -- Black/African Americans, American Indians or Native Alaskans, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander and Hispanics,” the statement said. Students said the graphic perpetuates ideas like the model minority myth, which claims that Asians are inherently successful and close to whiteness. It also erases distinctions between groups within the Asian American and Pacific Islander umbrella, many of which are generally lower-income and underserved, they told The Diamondback.“[The university uses] us when they want to be diverse, and then not when they don’t want to,” Anish Kakarla, a UMD student and president of the South Asian Student Association, told the student newspaper The Diamondback.RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store As the debate continues online, the university clarified that it does include Asians when describing students of color in data or otherwise.“When we refer to students of color, we include Asian students and Asian Americans,” the university said. Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Shohei Ohtani of Los Angeles Angels wins American League MVP award. Double-threat Shohei Ohtani of the Los Angeles Angels was named the American League's Most Valuable Player on Thursday, making him only the second Japanese player to win the award.Ohtani, often compared to MLB great Babe Ruth because of his ability to pitch and hit at an elite level, was the unanimous pick over the Toronto Blue Jays' Vladimir Guerrero Jr. and Marcus Semien in voting by the Baseball Writers’ Association of America.“MVP is something I was shooting for, obviously, I think any player is as long as they’re playing baseball professionally,” said Ohtani via a translator. “But I was more appreciative of the fact that American fans — just the USA baseball — was more accepting and welcoming (of) the whole two-way idea compared to when I first started in Japan.“I have always dealt with a lot of doubters, especially from my days in Japan but I try to not let that pressure get to me.”“This is my first time winning MVP so that is special alone but getting it unanimously makes it that much more special and helps me get more motivated to keep on putting up good numbers next season.”In his first full MLB season as both a hitter and pitcher, Ohtani had a .257 batting average, 46 home runs and 100 RBI to go along with a 9-2 record and 3.18 earned-run average in 23 starts on the mound.The 27-year-old is the first Japanese player to win the award since Ichiro Suzuki earned the honors in 2001 as a member of the Seattle Mariners.The Tokyo Tower will be illuminated in Los Angeles Angels colors on Friday to celebrate Ohtani’s accomplishment, MLB said in a statement.“Growing up I watched Ichiro and he also won MVP and was someone I looked up to and got me actually wanting to play in the Big Leagues one day,” said Ohtani. “Hopefully I can be that type of figure to the kids watching me right now and hopefully one day I could play with one of those kids watching me. That would be really special.”A mix of power and speed rarely seen on Major League diamonds, Ohtani’s 46 homers were just two off the MLB lead shared by Guerrero and Kansas City’s Salvador Perez.On the mound he overwhelmed batters with a 100 mph fastball and was speedster on the base path stealing 26 bases.The MVP was just the latest in a season packed with honors for Ohtani, who was also named the 16th recipient of the special Commissioner’s Historic Achievement Award.The honor goes to a group or person who has made a major impact on baseball and is presented at the commissioner’s discretion.“Shotime,” as Ohtani is known in the United States, was also named among the 100 most influential people of 2021 by the Time magazine.Ohtani’s selection is the sixth time an Angels player has earned MVP honors. He joins Mike Trout (2014, 2016, 2019), Don Baylor (1979) and Vladimir Guerrero (2004), father of runner-up Vladimir Guerrero Jr.“It’s been something special to witness what you’ve accomplished as a teammate. You have put together a season of your own… WELL DESERVED, #SHOTIME!!! #MVP,” tweeted Trout immediately after the announcement.Philadelphia Phillies Bryce Harper was named the National League MVP for the second time. He won the award in 2015 with the Washington Nationals.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
New Asian American Muppet prompts CPAC president to call for defunding PBS . Matt Schlapp, the president of the Conservative Political Action Committee, has drawn criticism from Asian Americans and others across social media this week after he called for “Sesame Street” to be defunded for introducing its first Asian American Muppet. Schlapp, a conservative lobbyist, tweeted a news story about the coming debut of a Korean American character, Ji-Young. The Muppet has been praised for letting Asian American children see a character like themselves on screen, but Schlapp slammed the host network, PBS, which receives both government and private-sector funding. “What race is Ernie is Bert?” Schlapp tweeted Monday. “You are insane PBS and we should stop funding you.”Schlapp doubled down Thursday on “Fox and Friends First,” claiming PBS and “Sesame Street” are “trying to bring race into Ernie and Bert.” “I grew up watching, and it wasn’t ever about race. It was about learning lessons and learning to read and learning tolerance,” Schlapp said. “And they want to inject race.” He also went on to jab at the Muppets’ take on gender. “And by the way, this whole question about gender into everything, one of the Muppet characters had a son, and the son wanted to be a daughter, and they just won’t stop with their push for woke politics,” Schlapp said. Elmo introduces newest ‘Sesame Street’ character, Ji-YoungNov. 15, 202103:52The Muppets have alluded to nonbinary characters in the past, but it was unclear which episode Schlapp was referring to. In an episode of “Muppet Babies,” the popular Muppet Gonzo, known for a love of stunt performance, dons a gown for Miss Piggy’s ball, making their debut as Gonzo-rella. In an email to NBC News, Schlapp did not deviate from his position. He also took shots at National Public Radio (NPR), a publicly funded nonprofit media outlet, accusing the organization, as well as PBS, of wanting to "be in arms in the socialist movement." “Sesame Street needs to go back to the time when a show was devoted to a letter in the alphabet, and not the latest woke fad," he wrote. "We all loved Bert and Ernie without the foggiest idea of the racial demographic they may have represented. Afterall, Ernie is orange. The taxpayers deserve a big rebate. If PBS and NPR want to be in arms in the socialist movement, they need to pay their own way.”A spokesperson for “Sesame Street” did not immediately respond to request for comment. Ernie with Ji-Young, the first Asian American Muppet, on "Sesame Street."Noreen Nasir / APJi-Young, an avid electric guitar player and skateboarder, will make her first appearance as part of a special titled “See Us Coming Together” on Thanksgiving Day. Alan Muraoka, who plays the owner of Hooper’s Store on the show, said that like many Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, she will straddle two cultures. RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store “She’s a musician, she plays electric guitar, she’s a girl of the very modern American fabric,” he said. “She recognizes the culture through her relatives — her grandmother, through her mother — and through the food she eats and loves.”The show will also delve into other real and yet difficult issues relating to Ji-Young’s identity, including anti-Asian racism. During the special, another child tells her to “go home” in an offscreen incident. Friends and adults come together and help her understand that she’s “exactly where she belongs,” according to a statement about the episode.  “It’s necessary for the next generation of kids to understand these issues, because they’re real issues and they’re issues that I don’t see going away in the foreseeable future,” Muraoka said.  Schlapp’s comments came on the heels of criticism from Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, who accused “Sesame Street” of spreading “government propaganda” this month after the character Big Bird spoke about getting vaccinated against Covid-19. Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
A hit song wins a Latin Grammy. One of its songwriters is in a Cuban prison. . A group of Cuban musicians, including one imprisoned in Cuba, won song of the year at the Latin Grammy awards on Thursday for their song "Patria y Vida"  — garnering even more international attention for a song that's become an anthem for Cuba's opposition.Banned in Cuba, "Patria y Vida" is a song that transcends politics and culture. Amid the guitar and rhythmic beat, it's an emotional song whose lyrics denounce the harsh realities Cuban face on an everyday basis —  including censorship, lack of food and the sadness of mothers whose children have migrated from the island. "For me, this song has been the emotional awakening for Cuban society," Yadam González, one of the song's authors and producer who was on stage Thursday, said in a phone interview with NBC News on Friday.González said the song has " served as a bridge for Cubans to have a way to reflect their pain and their desire for change." At the Grammys, the award winners dedicated the song to Cuba's political prisoners. The group Gente de Zona, Yotuel of the group Orishas, and singer-songwriter Descemer Bueno collaborated on the song with two rappers in Cuba, El Funky and Maykel Osorbo, whose real name is Michael Castillo. Both rappers are part of an artists’ collective in Cuba known as the San Isidro Movement, who have protested against the Cuban government’s censorship.Castillo is being held in a maximum-security prison in Cuba after his arrest in May. He went on a six-day hunger and thirst strike in late October to protest his imprisonment and Cuba’s crackdown on free expression. Activists have said that Castillo is sick. “Homeland and Life” is a play on the famous revolutionary slogan “Patria o Muerte” (Homeland or Death), a term that has been used by Cuba’s government for decades. The title is symbolic and full of meaning for those who oppose the Communist government. Acts of dissent, banned in Cuba, have grown during the past year. During the July 11 historic antigovernment protests that swept through the island people could be heard shouting “Patria y Vida” and some wrote the words on signs.RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store González, who left Cuba for Denmark in 1996 and now resides in Miami, said that when he heard the words "Patria y Vida" being shouted during July's protests, he felt "very proud to be part of the emotions Cubans were feeling. "In this case, I refer to Cubans in a very personal way, because my parents still live in Cuba," he said.The group performed at the Latin Grammys dressed in white, in solidarity with activists in Cuba who had called for a nationwide protest on Monday. The protest never happened after authorities surrounded activists’ homes, preventing them from leaving while keeping a significant police presence on the streets. Instead, activists dressed in white and hung white sheets outside their homes in a sign of peace.Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
U.S. group helps Mexican teens get coronavirus shots in California. SAN DIEGO — A group in San Diego along with San Diego County stepped in to help their neighbors in Mexico.A group of Mexican teens traveled by bus to California on Thursday to get vaccinated against the coronavirus as efforts get underway across Mexico to get shots in the arms of teens.About 150 kids from Tijuana were bused to the Mexican consulate in San Diego on Thursday where county nurses administered the Pfizer vaccine.The pilot program in San Diego aims to get shots in the arms of 450 youths ages 12 to 17 before it ends in late December. The adolescents from Tijuana were selected by Mexican social service organizations, including those who work with the children of parents deported from the United States.Mexico has resisted vaccinating minors ages 12 to 17, in part because the government focused on older adults believed to be more vulnerable. Mexico also has not had enough vaccine supply for most of its minors, who account for one-third of its population. The country this month is preparing to start vaccinating only teens ages 15-17.Among the teens who got vaccines in California was 14-year-old Leslie Flores, who said she was nervous but also happy about getting the shot.“Because this way I can protect myself and my family,” Leslie said.RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store The county donated the doses. The teens will return in about three weeks for a second shot.All of the adolescents have a U.S. visa or passport, but they were unable to come to the United States before now to get the vaccine because they did not have an adult able to cross the border with them, said Carlos González Gutiérrez, the Mexican consul in San Diego.Adrian Medina Amarillas, Baja California’s secretary of health, praised the effort.“Baja California is experiencing a third wave” of infections, he said. “There is no doubt that this will help.”The program will be evaluated in early 2022 and officials will decide then whether it needs to be continued.Hundreds of parents in Mexico have taken legal action against the Mexican government to demand the right to be able to give the vaccine to their children. Overall, about 84 percent of Mexico’s adult population has had at least one dose of the vaccine.The effort comes less than two weeks after the United States fully reopened its borders, and Mexican officials see it as another step toward ensuring the border stays that way. Border businesses were decimated by the 18-month closure to tourists and shoppers.About 80 percent of the adult populations in both San Diego County and in Baja California have received at least one dose of the vaccine.The first mass vaccination of Mexican minors happened last month along the Texas border when more than 1,000 children from the Mexican border state of Coahuila were bused to Eagle Pass, where they got their first shot of the Pfizer vaccine administered by members of the Texas National Guard. The youths ages 12 to 17 are the children of workers at border assembly plants known as maquiladoras.In May and early June, more than 26,000 maquiladora workers in Baja California were vaccinated at the San Ysidro border crossing in San Diego.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'Silence is not acceptable': Latino poet Martín Espada wins National Book Award . The image reverberated across the country and the world — the intertwined bodies of a father and his little girl, facedown in the waters of the Río Grande, who drowned trying to cross the border into the United States. For poet Martín Espada, it was what happened after the photo came out that spurred him to write a poem that became the title of his book "Floaters: Poems,"  which garnered the prestigious National Book Award for poetry Wednesday."Can you imagine looking at that photograph and seeing a conspiracy?" he said in a phone interview from his home in Massachusetts on Thursday. After reports surfaced of a member of a Border Patrol Facebook group questioning whether the photo was "doctored" because he had "never seen floaters like this," Espada wrote a poem about Óscar Alberto Martínez Ramírez and his daughter Valeria.  "It was a way to humanize the dehumanized, taking their name back," Espada said, "... to demand that we see these people as people. That theme runs throughout the book." In announcing Espada's award, poet A. Van Jordan said the poems in "Floaters" "remind us of the power of observation, of seeing everything that’s in front of us, what’s behind us ... This is a collection that is vital for our times and will be vital for those in our future, trying to make sense of today."Espada, who said he was still "stunned" about the announcement, described the award as not just a recognition of his work, but also "a recognition of all the people in my work" — those whom he gives a voice to in his poems."Letter to my Father," which he describes as his favorite poem in the book, came after Hurricane Maria struck Puerto Rico "and I was here in western Massachusetts, looking on helplessly," he said. His father, Frank Espada, a renowned photographer and activist whose photographs are in the Smithsonian Institution and the Library of Congress, was born in the Puerto Rican mountain town of Utuado. The town was devastated during the hurricane and was constantly in the news. "I saw this destruction and I began to talk to my father — my father had already been gone, dead since 2014," he said. "I was talking to his ashes in a box, wrapped in a Puerto Rican flag, and began to tell him what was happening, as if he could still hear me.""I was telling him what was happening to Puerto Rico, to Utuado, Trump throwing paper towels," Espada said, referring to then-President Donald Trump, "and how I wished he could come back and make things right. That became the poem 'Letter to my father' — I promised that one day I would go and spread his ashes in Utuado." A professor at the University of Massachusetts Amherst and a Pulitzer Prize finalist for his 2006 book, "Republic of Poetry,"  several of Espada's poems in "Floaters" pay homage to a generation of groundbreaking Latino activists in New York City. One is a tribute to the poet, activist and former Museo del Barrio director Jack Agüeros and another to Luis Garden Acosta, an activist and former Young Lord who founded a seminal, youth-centered community health center, El Puente de Williamsburg, in Brooklyn, where Espada was born.  “They saw through the fog and clouds and saw there was something on the other side," Espada said about Agueros' and Garden Acosta's work. "Don't we need that now?"Their lives are also a reminder of the need to connect to the lives and issues around us. "Without community, what does it mean to be a writer?" he said. The book includes a series of love poems, "dedicated to my wife, who is a teacher and poet in her own right," Espada said. "My father’s presence, my wife's presence, are represented in every single page."When asked how the last few years of wrenching political changes, climate events and a pandemic impacted his writing, Espada was reflective."I am sometimes struck speechless. You sometimes wonder if words are going to be enough," he said. "But then you write the next poem. What choice do we have? Silence is not acceptable." Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
