GOP Rep. Devin Nunes to leave Congress to lead new Trump media company. WASHINGTON — Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif., one of former President Donald Trump's most loyal defenders, is leaving Congress to become CEO of the Trump Media and Technology Group, NBC News confirmed Monday."Congressman Devin Nunes is a fighter and a leader. He will make an excellent CEO of TMTG," Trump said in a statement released by the company. "Devin understands that we must stop the liberal media and Big Tech from destroying the freedoms that make America great. America is ready for TRUTH Social and the end to censorship and political discrimination.”The San Joaquin Valley Sun previously reported that Nunes was not seeking re-election.RecommendedCongressCongressFormer D.C. Guard official accuses Army generals of lying to Congress about Jan. 6 responsePolitics NewsPolitics NewsDavid Perdue joins Georgia governor's race, setting up GOP showdown with KempNunes, who is in his 10th term representing a district in California's Central Valley, was chairman of the Intelligence Committee for four years until Democrats took control of the House after the 2018 midterm elections. From that post, he staunchly defended Trump against allegations that Trump conspired with Russia to win the Oval Office."As the top Republican on the House Intelligence Committee, with the entire weight of the legacy media and Washington establishment bearing down on him, Devin stood by his convictions on behalf of his constituents and hardworking Americans across the country," House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., said in a statement Monday. "And every step of the way, Devin was proven right. There is no better person prepared to compete head-to-head and lead an alternative to the big tech and big media cartel that has carried water for the Democrat Party for years than Devin."Nunes, 48, a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee, was a contender to lead the powerful tax-writing panel beginning in 2023 if Republicans were to win back the House in the midterm elections.He is heading for the Capitol exit despite optimism among Republicans, based on historical trends and the GOP's gains in elections in Virginia and New Jersey last month, that they will take control of the House when voters go to the polls in November.His political fortunes came into doubt after the state's independent redistricting commission released draft maps last month that would have jeopardized his re-election chances.Once an advocate for temperance within his party, Nunes developed a reputation as one of Trump's most pugilistic allies on Capitol Hill. When he wasn't fighting Democratic lawmakers, Nunes tackled his Twitter critics and national media outlets — including NBC Universal — in a string of lawsuits, some of which are still pending.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Justice Department closes inquiry into murder of Emmett Till, finds no proof accuser lied . A federal investigation that re-examined the murder of Emmett Till ended Monday after the Justice Department failed to find proof that a key figure in the case lied, a senior level law enforcement official said.Till, a Black teenager from Chicago, was brutally beaten and shot in the head in 1955 after a white woman, Carolyn Bryant Donham, said he whistled at her and touched her in a Mississippi store. He was only 14 at the time of his death. J.W. Milam and Roy Bryant, Donham’s husband at the time, were acquitted of Till’s murder by an all-male, all-white jury in Mississippi that deliberated for just over an hour before it returned a not guilty verdict. Both men, who have since died, told a magazine journalist that they committed the crime, offering a detailed account of the gruesome slaying. August 2020: Emmett Till’s family reflects 65 years after his deathAug. 28, 202005:26Deborah Watts, Till’s cousin, said in 2017 that investigators were looking into whether Donham admitted to lying about the incident. A previous federal investigation opened in 2004 and a subsequent grand jury inquiry went nowhere, as prosecutors noted that the statute of limitations for criminal charges had passed.Donham was reported to have recanted her story to the author Timothy B. Tyson, telling him she lied about the incident.Emmett Till.AP file“Nothing that boy did could ever justify what happened to him,” she was alleged to have told Tyson while describing her “sorrow” for Till’s mother.But Donham denied to federal investigators that she lied in her testimony, a source with knowledge of the case said, and there were inconsistencies with statements made by Tyson. Justice Department officials plan to release a memo after they brief Till's family in Chicago, the source added.Tyson stood by his reporting, describing Donham as unreliable in an emailed statement. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news'I didn't know how to say no': Ghislaine Maxwell accuser testifies in courtU.S. newsU.S. newsColorado sheriff's office slammed for post of Santa getting concealed handgun permit"Carolyn Bryant denies it and avoids talking about it like it was the plague," he said. "I am standing in the public square telling the truth as I see it based on solid evidence." He said his interview with Donham revealed nothing new because "we have long known she was lying." Tyson noted that his book also included dozens of pages of documented evidence, including evidence the FBI collected when it reopened the case in 2004. "Let us just look at the evidence as if I had never talked to Carolyn," Tyson said. "That she lied in court does not depend on her admission of it to me, not at all." Till's murder shocked the nation, acting as a catalyst for the civil rights movement. Thousands of people attended his funeral, where his mother insisted on an open casket to show the brutality of his killing.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'I didn't know how to say no': Ghislaine Maxwell accuser testifies in court. A second woman who says Ghislaine Maxwell “groomed” her for sex with Jeffrey Epstein testified Monday that for one of the encounters she was pressed to wear a “schoolgirl outfit” while she served him tea.“I didn’t know how to say no,” the woman, identified in court as Kate, testified at Maxwell’s sex trafficking trial in New York City. “I had never been to Palm Beach or Florida before. I had no idea where the house was. And I wasn’t sure if I said no if I would have to leave or what the consequence would be for not doing it.”Kate, who says she was 17 when Maxwell recruited her in Paris to give Epstein massages that soon turned into sexual encounters, testified on day six of Maxwell’s much-anticipated sex trafficking trial.Maxwell, Kate said, dazzled her with glamour and told her Epstein could help her with her musical career. She said Maxwell boasted that she was friends with future President Donald Trump and Britain's Prince Andrew.“She told me lots of amazing things about her boyfriend, that he liked to help young people and it would be great to meet him,” Kate said of Maxwell. “She said I would love him. I was lonely, and she seemed like she had a lot of connections.”Witness "Kate" is questioned by prosecutor Lara Pomerantz during the trial of Ghislaine Maxwell, left, in New York on Monday. Jane Rosenberg / ReutersKate, who is now 44, told the court she wound up having sexual encounters with Epstein at his homes in New York City and London and on his private island in the U.S. Virgin Islands.Unlike the previous accuser, who has been identified by the pseudonym Jane and who said she flew on Epstein’s private planes, Kate said Maxwell arranged for her to travel on commercial flights.A former model and musician, Kate said she had hoped to stay friends with Maxwell but lost contact with her around age 24.Kate is one of the four underage girls Maxwell is accused of helping Epstein recruit and sexually abuse, mostly in the 1990s.Previously, Jane told the court that she was just 14 when Maxwell taught her how to sexually satisfy Epstein and that they trafficked her to other powerful men.However, in this case, U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan stipulated to the jury that Kate was over the age of consent when the first alleged sexual contact with Epstein occurred, so it was not illegal.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsColorado sheriff's office slammed for post of Santa getting concealed handgun permitU.S. newsU.S. newsHouston police officers hit and kill pedestrian on sidewalk during vehicle pursuitBut Nathan said prosecutors could use Kate’s testimony to corroborate the patterns of Maxwell’s and Epstein’s alleged behaviors described by other witnesses.On cross-examination, Kate said she came from a well-off London family and that her stepfather had a private plane. She said she dated older men and admitted, “As long as I can remember I was ambitious.”Kate also admitted she stayed in touch with Epstein even after he was convicted in 2008 of procuring a person under 18 for prostitution and other charges. She acknowledged sending him pictures and emails while he was in a private wing of a Florida county jail and signing them, “Love always, Kate.”Maxwell, 59, a British socialite, has pleaded not guilty to all  six charges against her. Her defense team contends that she is being prosecuted because the government cannot go after Epstein, a convicted sex offender who hanged himself in a Manhattan lockup two years ago while awaiting trial for sex trafficking.“Ever since Eve was tempting Adam with the apple, women have been blamed for the bad behavior of men,” defense attorney Bobbi Sternheim said in her opening statement. “She is not Jeffrey Epstein. She is not like Jeffrey Epstein.” Prosecutors, however, contend that Maxwell played a key role in procuring women for Epstein, a multimillionaire financier who was close to Ohio billionaire Leslie Wexner, buddies with Trump and Prince Andrew, and friendly with other boldface names, like former President Bill Clinton. There are no allegations of trafficking against Clinton, Trump and Wexner.Virginia Roberts Giuffre, who isn’t part of this case, has alleged in a civil lawsuit that Maxwell trafficked her to Prince Andrew when she was 17. He has denied the allegations.Jane testified last week that she was 14 when Epstein introduced her to Trump. She did not allege any improper behavior by the ex-president.Kate was followed on the stand by FBI Special Agent Kelly McGuire of the Child Exploitation and Human Trafficking Task Force. She guided the jury through photos of Epstein’s Manhattan mansion, including shots of the private massage room where prosecutors allege that many acts of sexual assault took place.Also, apparently to show just how much Epstein trusted Maxwell with his money, prosecutors had JPMorgan Chase executive Patrick McHugh testify that Epstein transferred $30.7 million to Maxwell over eight years. Maxwell’s trial in the Southern District of New York is expected to go on for at least five more weeks.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Toyota joins race to build batteries in the U.S. . Toyota will invest $1.3 billion to build a new electric vehicle battery “megasite” near Greensboro, North Carolina, a facility set to employ 1,750 workers when it opens in 2025, the automaker announced Monday.Initially dependent upon overseas suppliers, automakers are now shifting their strategy, ramping up production of electric vehicles and localizing battery production. The shift means U.S. capacity could grow enough to power 10 million vehicles or more by 2030.While the move reflects a measure of political pressure, manufacturers also want to sidestep the logistical nightmare they have faced this year with shortages of mostly foreign-made semiconductors.“The future of mobility is electrification and the Greensboro-Randolph Megasite is the ideal location to make that future a reality,” Ted Ogawa, CEO of Toyota Motor North America, said Monday, hailing the area’s infrastructure and skilled workforce. The new factory will launch with four separate lines, each producing enough lithium-ion batteries to power 200,000 electrified vehicles, the automaker said. There will be room to add two lines later, bringing total capacity up to 1.2 million vehicles per year.Exactly what that means wasn’t revealed, however. Where some competitors, including General Motors and Volkswagen, are shifting entirely to battery-electric vehicles, Toyota plans a mixed approach. Congress is considering an extra $500 in tax credits for electric vehicles with U.S.-made batteries.By 2030, battery-electric vehicles are forecast to make up 15 percent of its sales — about the same as traditional gas models. The Japanese giant was a pioneer in the development of electrification, and expects traditional and plug-in hybrids to make up about two-thirds of its volume. Hydrogen fuel-cell would make up the rest.Long-range electric vehicles like the upcoming Toyota bZ4X require anywhere from 60 to more than 100 kilowatt-hours of batteries. Conventional hybrids, such as the Toyota Prius, get by on just a couple of kWh. Plug-in hybrids come in somewhere in between.Toyota is by no means the only automaker adding battery production. In September, Ford said it will erect three lithium-ion battery plants: two in Kentucky and a third near Memphis, part of the new Blue Oval City, a 6-square-mile complex where it will build the next-generation F-150 Lightning electric pickup. All together, they will have 129 gigawatt-hours of annual capacity — enough for 1 million electric trucks, Ford CEO Jim Farley told NBC News.General Motors, meanwhile, just opened its first battery plant in Lordstown, Ohio, to supply batteries for the new GMC Hummer pickup. Three other North American battery plants will follow. GM plans to have 30 BEVs on sale by 2025. By comparison, only 15 of the 70 electrified vehicles Toyota is planning to sell by 2025 will be pure BEV. The rest will be hybrids of one form or another.Tesla operates the massive Gigafactory in Reno, Nevada, and is adding capacity at a new assembly plant in Texas.Stellantis and Mercedes-Benz are among other manufacturers signaling plans to add battery plants in North America. Battery suppliers such as South Korea’s LG Chem are staking out a presence. Some analysts anticipate total capacity could top a terawatt-hour, or 1,000 gigawatt-hours, by 2030 — enough for 10 million BEVs.RecommendedBusiness NewsBusiness News900 Better.com employees learn their jobs are being eliminated in a Zoom callDonald TrumpDonald TrumpTrump new media deal draws SEC scrutiny of one company involvedUntil now, most automotive batteries have come from Asia, primarily China and South Korea. “What we have seen over the last 24 months is automakers getting much more proactive about building their own batteries as expectations for EV” sales growth, said Stephanie Brinley, principal auto analyst with IHS Markit.Automakers want to move production as close as possible to their assembly plants, Brinley added, “because the supply chain has become a real problem,” as the ongoing shortages of semiconductor chips has demonstrated.“Building things close to where you need them makes a lot of sense,” Brinley said. “You really don’t want to rely on a supply chain where all your batteries are shipped.”There’s also a political angle. President Joe Biden has said he wants to reduce dependence on China, and Congress is considering revised sales incentives for electric vehicles, including an extra $500 in tax credits for those with U.S.-made batteries.But automakers do face challenges getting into the battery business. Among other things, they’re racing to tie down supplies of key raw materials that also may come from abroad, such as lithium, nickel and cobalt.Over the longer term, manufacturers need to ensure their new plants have the flexibility to switch over to next-generation batteries like solid-state cells. That technology promises to deliver longer range, shorter charging times and lower costs.Ford officials believe they will be able to convert their new battery plants once solid-state technology is ready for mass production, and Toyota, GM and other manufacturers are also designing their plants to switch over.Nissan last month said it aims to start producing solid-state batteries in 2026 and most of its competitors hope to follow before the end of the decade.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Hawaii at risk of 'catastrophic flooding' from storms, National Weather Service warns. The Hawaiian Islands could face "catastrophic flooding" this week from a storm system moving over the archipelago, the National Weather Service in Honolulu said.In an update Sunday, the weather service said a "kona low," a type of seasonal cyclone in the Hawaiian Islands, would linger just west of Kauai with a slow westward drift until Wednesday. It warned that the storm could bring "widespread heavy rainfall...capable of producing catastrophic flooding, and strong southwest winds." The weather service said early Monday that flash flood warnings continued for a number of areas, including Kaunakakai, Ualapu’e and Mauna Loa. Meanwhile, a flash flood warning was extended for Maui, where video posted to social media Sunday night showed heavy rain.A high wind warning was in effect for the summits of Mauna Kea and Mauna Loa on the Big Island through Monday morning, as well as over Haleakala on Maui. National Park Service employees observed winds of nearly 90 mph Monday on Haleakala. A blizzard warning also remained in effect for the highest summits of Mauna Kea and Mauna Loa. As residents across the islands braced for the storm, Hawaii County Mayor Mitchell Roth declared a state of emergency Sunday "due to the threat of imminent disaster."RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news'I didn't know how to say no': Ghislaine Maxwell accuser testifies in courtU.S. newsU.S. newsColorado sheriff's office slammed for post of Santa getting concealed handgun permitMaui County public schools canceled classes Monday, and Kamehameha Schools, a private school system, said it would close its Hawaii Island and Maui campuses, preschools and offices. In a Twitter thread Sunday, Gov. David Ige said preparations were underway for emergency officials to respond to any impacts."This storm has the potential to cause major flooding, landslides, road closures and damage to homes," Ige warned. "Now is the time to make sure you have an emergency plan in place and supplies ready should you need to move away from rising water." He said residents should also "make sure that your neighbors have what they need as well, adding, “Our community is always stronger when we work together to ensure that we’re all protected."The weather service said conditions were expected to start improving by late Tuesday, with drier air spreading into the western islands Wednesday. Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Chris Cuomo, fired from CNN, is leaving his SiriusXM radio show. Fired CNN host Chris Cuomo said Monday that he will "no longer be doing" his SiriusXM radio show, just days after he lost his high-profile cable news spot.Cuomo is normally the host of "Let's Get After It with Chris Cuomo" at noon ET on SiriusXM, but former ABC News and NBC News reporter Brian Ross was behind the microphone when the show aired Monday.About an hour after the two-hour program ended, Cuomo announced that he was leaving, saying he needed "to take a step back and focus on what comes next." "The way my time ended at CNN was hard," Cuomo tweeted. "While I have a thick skin, I also have a family, for whom this past week has been extraordinarily difficult." He hinted at a return in some form of media: "I will miss our conversations a great deal —  but I look forward to being back in touch with you all in the future." Cuomo's radio silence earlier Monday took listeners by surprise as Ross went on the air in his place. Ross said at the top of the show that he was substituting for Cuomo: "And good Monday afternoon to you. This is Brian Ross, from the Law and Crime Network, sitting in today for Chris Cuomo.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news'I didn't know how to say no': Ghislaine Maxwell accuser testifies in courtU.S. newsU.S. newsColorado sheriff's office slammed for post of Santa getting concealed handgun permitRoss ended his two-hour segment by thanking various staffers and promoting another show —  but he did not give any indication about who would be behind the microphone Tuesday.SiriusXM said in a statement, "Following Chris Cuomo’s statement that he is leaving his SiriusXM show, 'Let’s Get After It' will no longer air. We thank Chris for his work at SiriusXM." It did not elaborate on who would take over the noon spot. CNN fired Cuomo on Saturday after new details emerged about his efforts to help his brother, then-New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, who was fighting sexual harassment allegations that eventually led to his resignation. A former junior colleague of Chris Cuomo's at CNN also came forward last week to accuse him of an unspecified act of sexual misconduct.The unnamed accuser came forward after having heard Cuomo’s on-air statements in response to the allegations against his brother, saying he has always cared about issues of sexual harassment.The accuser's attorney, Debra Katz, said in the statement that when her client heard “the hypocrisy of Chris Cuomo’s on-air words and disgusted by his efforts to try to discredit these women, my client retained counsel to report his serious sexual misconduct against her to CNN.” Katz also represents Andrew Cuomo accuser Charlotte Bennett.“My client came forward at this time because she felt in sharing her story and related documentation, she could help protect other women. She will continue to cooperate with CNN’s investigation into her allegations,” Katz said.Chris Cuomo's representative, Steven Goldberg, said in a statement, "These  apparently anonymous allegations are not true."Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Columbia student attacked in NYC park yelled ‘Help! I have been stabbed!’ before dying. After Columbia University student Davide Giri was stabbed in the abdomen last Thursday, officials say he ran from a New York City park and yelled, "Help! I have been stabbed!" before collapsing and dying shortly thereafter.The dramatic details of the unprovoked, violent homicide were revealed Sunday in the murder indictment of 25-year-old suspect Vincent Pinkney. Manhattan District Attorney Cy Vance Jr. charged Pinkney with second degree murder, first degree assault, attempted first degree assault and attempted second degree murder.Davide Giri.Columbia UniversityThe indictment alleges that video surveillance footage from the area of Morningside Park shows the suspect approaching Giri, 30, from behind and making “a stabbing motion.”NYPD officers arrested Pinkney less than an hour after Giri and a second victim were stabbed minutes apart in northern Manhattan's Morningside Heights neighborhood, home to the main campus of Columbia University.New York International Football Club, an amateur soccer league, said Giri was returning from one of their practices when he was fatally stabbed.The team called Davide "the nicest and brightest person on the team" and vowed "we will play and win for you because this is what you wanted.""You are a Legend, Davide. We Love You," read a message posted to the team's Twitter account.  Columbia University revealed that the second victim, Roberto Malaspina, who was initially reported by police to be a 27-year-old tourist who survived a stabbing, is in fact a new member of the school community — a visiting scholar newly arrived from Italy with plans to study for several months at Columbia University School of the Arts.The indictment said Malaspina is hospitalized nearby after he "sustained several stab wounds to the back and torso including one that punctured his internal organs."A third victim alleged that they survived an attempted assault in which Pinkney brandished a knife and lunged repeatedly and "nearly stabbed" them.Pinkney was arrested in northern Central Park and is next due in court on Dec. 8.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news'I didn't know how to say no': Ghislaine Maxwell accuser testifies in courtU.S. newsU.S. newsColorado sheriff's office slammed for post of Santa getting concealed handgun permitPinkney's attorney, Jorge Santos, did not immediately respond to a NBC News request for comment.In a statement to the school's community, Columbia University President Lee C. Bollinger called Giri's passing "unspeakably sad and deeply shocking, as it took place only steps from our campus" and urged students to seek support from each other and professionals. Giri's murder occurred almost exactly two years after another Columbia student died in a robbery-homicide in the vicinity of Morningside Park.Undergraduate student Tessa Majors was stabbed in the park in Dec. 2019 after allegedly fighting her teenaged attackers. Security footage depicted her final moments as she staggered up a large set of stairs leading from Morningside Park toward the school seeking help.16-year-old Luchiano Lewis pleaded guilty to murder and robbery charges and was sentenced to nine years to life in prison for Majors' slaying in October.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Colorado sheriff's office slammed for post of Santa getting concealed handgun permit. A Colorado sheriff’s office has apologized for posting an “insensitive” image of Santa Claus getting a concealed handgun permit just days after four people were killed in the Michigan school shooting. The El Paso County Sheriff’s Office, based in Colorado Springs, tweeted an image Friday of a man who appeared to be Santa, with white hair, a white beard and red overalls, at the sheriff’s office with the caption, “Guess who came in to receive his concealed handgun permit today?” The caption included the statistic that the sheriff’s office has issued 49,750 concealed handgun permits and that 2,560 more are waiting to be issued.A photo posted on Twitter by the El Paso County, Colo., Sheriff's Office with the caption "Guess who came in to receive his Concealed Handgun Permit today?"El Paso County Sheriff's OfficeBut the message didn’t sit well the public, especially in the wake of the Oxford High School shooting.A Twitter user condemned the post, saying, “I’m sitting here in downtown Oxford, MI, waiting for the candlelight vigil to start to pay tribute to 4 students who were murdered by a handgun smuggled into the school. But by all means, tell kids Santa carries a concealed weapon.”Another questioned the motivation for the post, asking, "What is your message to children here?Santa has a legally concealed weapon? For protection against elves, reindeer, children who take a peek on Xmas eve? There is enough anxiety among children already.” Another Twitter user wrote: “The families of the kids slaughtered in Oxford, MI would like a word. My daughter, who’s best friend is fighting for his life due to a self-inflicted gunshot wound, would like one as well. This is a reason this keeps happening.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news'I didn't know how to say no': Ghislaine Maxwell accuser testifies in courtU.S. newsU.S. newsHouston police officers hit and kill pedestrian on sidewalk during vehicle pursuitAnother Twitter user called out the agency by saying: “This really is in poor taste, EPSO."I’m sure it wasn’t meant to be anything other than fun, but with yet another school shooting this week, and loads of children worried about that, posting this furthers their fears. And turns parents off," the user wrote. "Please reconsider and apologize."The tweet was shared over 3,000 times.Three hours later on Friday, the sheriff’s office apologized. "EPSO intended to highlight our staff in the Concealed Handgun Permit Office, not to be insensitive," it wrote. "Santa correlates to the month of December and we thought he would help to recognize our hard working staff."El Paso County is no stranger to gun violence. Six people who died in what investigators believe was a murder-suicide at a birthday party in Colorado Springs this year were targeted by a family member’s disgruntled boyfriend, police said at the time.The post isn’t the first to have riled users after last week's school shooting. A Kentucky lawmaker came under fire for his own Christmas post that highlighted guns, which critics slammed as offensive. Rep. Thomas Massie, R-Ky., shared a family Christmas photo on Twitter in which each family member held a long gun. The caption for the holiday message read, “Merry Christmas! ps. Santa, please bring ammo.” Rep. Katherine Clark, D-Mass., tweeted: “Aren’t we in the season of peace and goodwill? What a repulsive, violent message especially in a week when we lost 4 students to gun violence in Michigan. Instead of wishing for ammo, how about working for gun safety so all our kids can be home for the holidays?”A 15-year-old boy and his parents were arrested in the Michigan shooting. All have pleaded not guilty.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Anne Frank memorial targeted with anti-Semitic messages during Hanukkah. A park near the Anne Frank memorial in Boise, Idaho, was vandalized over the weekend with anti-Semitic graffiti, marking the second time in a year that the area has been targeted by what officials called “abhorrent” messages.The most recent incident was discovered in the Boise River Greenbelt on Dec. 4, the last Saturday of Hanukkah, Boise Police Chief Ryan Lee said. "We are reaching out to Jewish leaders in our community to let them know we will not stand for such hateful and abhorrent behavior in our city,” Lee said.The graffiti was quickly removed, the police department said in a statement.“The antisemitic messages contained in the graffiti found along the Greenbelt put a literal and figurative stain on our community,” Mayor Lauren McLean said on Twitter. “This will not be tolerated.”A tunnel near the Anne Frank Memorial in Boise, Idaho was vandalized with graffiti recently and is in the process of being cleaned.BoisePD via TwitterIt wasn’t clear whether authorities had identified a suspect. A Boise police spokeswoman did not immediately respond to a request for comment.The memorial, an educational park in downtown Boise founded in 2002 and run by the Wassmuth Center for Human Rights, was desecrated last year with Nazi swastika stickers that included the phrase, “we are everywhere.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news'I didn't know how to say no': Ghislaine Maxwell accuser testifies in courtU.S. newsU.S. newsColorado sheriff's office slammed for post of Santa getting concealed handgun permitDan Prinzing, the center's executive director, told NBC affiliate KTVB that the "cowardly statements" left in the park this weekend were part of an attack made "under the cover of darkness.""But what disturbs me even more is the blatant coddling of extremism in broad daylight," he told the station, pointing to state officials who have compared the wearing of a yellow star — as Jews were forced to do in Nazi-occupied Europe — to vaccine and mask mandates meant to guard against Covid-19."What did we expect the impact of that will be?" he said. "It has emboldened the hate now that we see occurring."December 2020: Anne Frank memorial vandalized with swastika stickersDec. 12, 202003:21The Boise memorial is reportedly the only one dedicated to Holocaust victim Anne Frank in the United States. She and her family spent 761 days hiding from Nazis in a secret annex in Amsterdam. After they were discovered, she was sent to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp, where she died at age 15.Her diary was first published in 1947. 
Medina Spirit, who failed drug test after winning 2021 Kentucky Derby, dies during workout. Medina Spirit, who failed a drug test after he won the Kentucky Derby this year, died during a workout Monday morning in California.The horse collapsed in training at Santa Anita, his trainer, Bob Baffert, confirmed.Baffert said his "entire barn" was devastated by the 3-year-old colt's death."Medina Spirit was a great champion, a member of our family who was loved by all, and we are deeply mourning his loss," Baffert said in a statement. "I will always cherish the proud and personal memories of Medina Spirit and his tremendous spirit. Our most sincere condolences go out to Mr. Amr Zedan and the entire Zedan Racing Stables family." Kentucky Derby winner Medina Spirit is bathed following a training session for the upcoming Preakness Stakes at Pimlico Race Course on May 11, 2021, in Baltimore.Rob Carr / Getty Images fileCalifornia's Horse Racing Board said Medina Spirit was just finishing his workout when he collapsed at the finish line. He died instantaneously, the board said."All horses that die within facilities regulated by the California Horse Racing Board undergo postmortem (necropsy) examination at a California Animal Health and Food Safety diagnostic laboratory under the auspices of the University of California, Davis," the racing board said.An official cause of death awaits the results of the examination and toxicology reports.The horse tested positive for betamethasone after the Kentucky Derby on May 1. Betamethasone is a legal medication that is not permitted on race days. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news'I didn't know how to say no': Ghislaine Maxwell accuser testifies in courtU.S. newsU.S. newsColorado sheriff's office slammed for post of Santa getting concealed handgun permitBaffert denied accusations that he had drugged the horse after a split urine test, saying the drug was in Medina Spirit’s system because of a topical ointment.The controversy left a stain on the legacies of Baffert and Medina Spirit. Baffert was suspended from the Churchill Downs track for two years in June. Baffert sued for additional testing to prove that the betamethasone had come from the ointment, Otomax. The horse was not officially disqualified at the time of his death as the investigation was ongoing.Santa Anita has also been subject to investigation in recent years. California Gov. Gavin Newsom ordered an independent review after 29 horses died at the racetrack in 2018 and 2019. A report published last year by the California Horse Racing Board cleared the track of criminal wrongdoing, saying there was no evidence of animal cruelty or unlawful conduct. June: Kentucky Derby winner Medina Spirit fails second drug testJune 2, 202102:18The board did, however, recommend a series of changes after necropsies found that many of the horses who died at Santa Anita had pre-existing issues. Some of the recommendations included a standardized protocol for when to move races off, additional veterinary examination, digitizing veterinary records for the horses and more frequent testing of track surfaces.CORRECTION (Dec. 6, 2021, 9:25 p.m. ET): A previous version of this article misspelled the first name of the governor of California. He is Gavin Newsom, not Gavon.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'Latinx' can be 'counterproductive' among Hispanic voters, poll finds. A new poll of Hispanic voters finds the term “Latinx” does not resonate among them and 40 percent say use of the word bothers or offends them.The poll was conducted in mid-November by Bendixen & Amandi International, a Democratic firm focusing on Latino outreach. It found that 30 percent of Hispanic voters  — 24 percent of Democrats and 43 percent of Republicans — are less likely to support a politician or political organization using the word.“The numbers strongly suggest that the use of this term may actually be counterproductive, as opposed to productive, because only 2 percent of Hispanic voters nationally embrace the term,” said Fernand Amandi, the firm's principal, who's worked on a number of national and presidential campaigns.  The term Latinx was created as a gender-neutral alternative to Latino or Latina. It has gained some traction during the past several years among politicians, academics and corporations and is more common among younger and progressive Latinos, but it's not used widely in the community, according to Pew Research.Around 57 percent of the voters surveyed in the new poll said they are not bothered by the word. When broken down by party affiliation, 60 percent of those who identify as Democrats said Latinx does not bother them, while 43 percent of Republicans say they are not bothered.But Amandi said, “up to 40 percent are saying that this term, either bothers or offends them, which in my mind suggests the potential costs outweigh the benefits.”Among political candidates or elected officials, the term is used primarily by Democrats in mailings as well as social media, and even in speeches. The term is also used by more progressive and center-left political organizations.“I think one has to be careful in saying, ‘this is the silver bullet reason for why Republicans are making inroads,’” Amandi said. “But what I think the data makes clear is that this is not helping  Democrats potentially maximize this critical voting bloc for that, and their electoral chances.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news'I didn't know how to say no': Ghislaine Maxwell accuser testifies in courtU.S. newsU.S. newsColorado sheriff's office slammed for post of Santa getting concealed handgun permitA majority of voters — 68 percent — said “Hispanic” is the term that comes closest to describing their ethnic background. Around 21 percent chose the term “Latino” and only 2 percent said “Latinx” is what best describes them.Even when broken down among age groups, the majority of respondents said they prefer “Hispanic.”“Hispanic” was favored more among those born in the U.S. — 71 percent versus 61 percent of those born in another country. Around 33 percent of those polled who are foreign born prefer “Latino.”Other polls in the past have came up with similar findings about the term Latinx; a Pew Research Center poll conduced in August 2020 found that about 1 in 4 Hispanics had heard of the term and 3 percent used it. The new poll was conducted among 800 Latino registered voters in the United States and the interviews were conducted in both English and Spanish. The margin of error is 3.46 percent.Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Man threatened to shoot up New York City Pride March, FBI says. Federal prosecutors arrested a man Monday who they said threatened to attack this year's New York City Pride March with "firepower" that would “make the 2016 Orlando Pulse Nightclub shooting look like a cakewalk." Officials from the FBI and the New York Joint Terrorism Task Force announced that Robert Fehring, 74, was charged with mailing dozens of letters threatening to assault, shoot and bomb LGBTQ-affiliated individuals, organizations and businesses, including New York City's annual Pride festival.After executing a search warrant at his home in Bayport, New York, last month, law enforcement agents recovered photographs from a Pride event on Long Island this year, two loaded shotguns, hundreds of rounds of ammunition, two stun guns and a stamped envelope addressed to an LGBTQ-affiliated attorney containing the remains of a dead bird, federal prosecutors said.“Fehring’s alleged threats to members of the LGBTQ+ community were not only appalling, but dangerous, despite the fact he hadn’t yet acted on his purported intentions,” Michael J. Driscoll, the assistant director-in-charge of the FBI's New York Field Office, said in a statement.A criminal complaint released Monday said Fehring had sent more than 60 threatening letters to members of and organizations affiliated with the LGBTQ community since 2013 and as recently as September. In many of the letters, he describes LGBTQ individuals as worse than the “bottom of the pig-pen” or states that “even animals know better” than to engage in same-sex activity, according to the complaint.Notably, the complaint stated that Fehring threatened that there would “be radio-cont[r]olled devices placed at numerous strategic places” at the 2021 New York City Pride March with “firepower” that would “make the 2016 Orlando Pulse Nightclub shooting look like a cakewalk,” referring to the massacre at the gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida, which left 49 people dead and dozens injured.NYC Pride, which runs New York City's Pride march, "received threatening letters earlier this year and reported them," the organization's executive director, Sandra Pérez, told NBC News in an email. RecommendedOUT NewsOUT NewsHundreds rally in support of trans student outed in a bitter electionOUT NewsOUT NewsDictionary.com anoints allyship word of the year for 2021"We are cooperating in any way we can, and we remain committed to the safety and well-being of the LGBTQIA+ community," she added.Prosecutors also detailed an incident in which Fehring allegedly sent a letter threatening the organizer of the Long Island Pride event in East Meadow, New York. The letter called the organizer a "freak" and stated, in part, "You are being watched. No matter how long it takes, you will be taken out…. high-powered bullet…. bomb….knife…. whatever it takes.”Last month, Fehring waived his Miranda rights and allowed federal prosecutors to interview him, according to the complaint. During the interview, he acknowledged that he authored certain letters under investigation and that he had a general animosity toward the LGBTQ community, according to the complaint. There is "a sick overdose of that stuff being shoved down  everybody's face on the paper, on the TV and all over the place and I'm not a fan of any of the homosexuality, homosexual thing," he said. Fehring is expected to make his initial appearance in court Monday afternoon.Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & Instagram Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
A white man shot his Black neighbor in Missouri, claiming self-defense. Neighbors tell a different story.. The fatal shooting of a Black man in a trailer park is rocking a rural community in Missouri as neighbors who say they witnessed the killing dispute the police narrative of events.Justin King, a 28-year-old Black and Filipino man, was shot Nov. 3 at 11:45 a.m. in the small town of Bourbon, located about 73 miles southwest of St. Louis.Police say he was shot by the owner of a home he was trying to break into, but witnesses and family members say he was shot in "cold blood" by a man he called his friend.King succumbed to his wounds at the scene. The 42-year-old white neighbor who shot him was taken into custody and later released. Justin King and his daughter.Courtesy John KingThe Crawford County Sheriff's Department said King was shot "after forcing entry into a neighboring residence where an altercation took place." The homeowner "feared for his life" and shot King, the department said in a news release.The department said evidence, video surveillance and statements "preliminarily corroborate the homeowner's account of the events."But family members of King and five people who live in the trailer park told NBC News they doubt that narrative.Three neighbors told NBC News the shooter was a man who had expressed a desire to kill someone, has a history of violence and was known to use racial epithets. Several neighbors said King and the shooter were friends. Nimrod Chapel Jr., the president of the Missouri NAACP, who is representing the King family, said Justin King was shot outside the neighbor's home and had not entered it, contrary to the sheriff's account."The only person that says it's a home invasion is the guy that shot my son," King's father, John King, told NBC News. "And all the neighbors are saying, 'No, you shot him in cold blood outside.'""He had no shirt on, only pajama bottoms. So how was he a threat?" John King said. "Justin was shot in cold blood outside in broad daylight."Under Missouri's "castle doctrine" law, individuals are allowed to use deadly force against intruders without the duty to retreat, based on the notion that their home is "their castle."The shooter, whose name has not been made public and who is not facing charges, did not reply to NBC News' request for comment. What happened on Nov. 3Neighbors described King as a happy-go-lucky man who always offered a helping hand. He had moved to Bourbon from St. Louis recently to be close to his 9-year-old daughter, Harlee. Lesa Stiller, the manager of the trailer park, said she saw King outside heading toward the neighbor's trailer moments before the shooting. All of a sudden, she heard a "pop, pop, pop.""And right at that last pop, I saw Justin slowly stagger backwards real slow with his hands up in the air," near the outdoor front steps of the shooter's trailer, Stiller recalled. She noted that she didn't see King enter the trailer itself and that King and the shooter lived across from each other."I heard him say, 'I thought we were friends.' And [the neighbor] said, 'We were!' and he just slowly walked back," she said. Another neighbor, Katie Bosek, described King as "a gentle man who helped everybody." She said he helped her search for her dogs that went missing the same day as the shooting. Later that day, King and the neighbor who shot him worked together to fix her car, she said."They both got under the hood together. They're just cutting it up laughing as they're doing it," she said. She claimed she saw King and the neighbor walk off together. She said she heard three gunshots about 15 minutes later and rushed to the window to see King lying on the ground. Trina Willson, who lives several trailers behind the shooter, said: "He knew Justin. You would think that if your friend was coming into your house, you'd be like, 'Hey, man, what are you doing?' Why do you automatically resort to pulling out a gun and shooting him? How can this even possibly go down as self-defense?"Chapel noted that the neighbor and King had cameras at their homes. Police have not released any video footage from the incident to the public or the family but said they have "viewed all videos at our disposal." The Crawford County Sheriff's Department said it intends to share the footage "upon the final case review by the county prosecutor."King's death has torn apart the close-knit community in the small town of Bourbon, home to 1,600 residents."It's been crazy here since that. We've never had nothing like that in this little small town since I've been here in 20 years," Earl McCoy, another neighbor, said. "We take care of each other in here. It's been eerily quiet here. It was like a ghost town."A history of threatening violence and racist languageThree people who live in the park said the neighbor who shot King had threatened violence before.Stiller said the neighbor was known to show off his gun — including once at a party she threw on Oct. 30."He never went anywhere without that .32 in his belt," she said.Bosek recalled that King told her months before the shooting that the neighbor had threatened to shoot him. "Justin came over about two months prior to all this happening. He was like, 'You know he threatened to shoot me? Yeah, that dude threatened to shoot me,'" she said. "Justin was such a good guy. He would always forgive people and keep going back."McCoy said the shooter "had guns all over his house.""The last time I talked to [the neighbor] was at a party on Halloween when he showed everybody his little pistol," McCoy said. "He said, 'I don't fight no more; I shoot motherf------.'"King's father believes the shooting was an act of "racially motivated hate" and said his son was the only Black person in that trailer community.Two neighbors also said the shooter was known to use racial slurs."He was always open with the N-word. He never said 'Black man,'" Stiller said."He would blurt [racial epithets] out. He wouldn't call it to Justin if he was standing around me and Justin because he knows I'd knock his a-- off," McCoy said.The neighbor who shot King has a criminal record involving violence. He was arrested in June 2017 and charged with second-degree assault and unlawful use of a weapon while intoxicated, both felonies, according to court records. Court records do not show if those charges were dismissed. The Crawford County court clerk declined to comment, and the Crawford County prosecutor's office did not respond to NBC News' request for comment on those charges.  Federal law generally prohibits people from possessing firearms if they have been convicted of a felony, according to Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. Further, Missouri also prohibits possession of a firearm by any person convicted of a felony under Missouri law.Outrage over the handling of the case John King said he was outraged to see sheriff's deputies escorting the shooter back to his trailer the day after his son's death. The family, along with local activists, are calling out the sheriff's department and demanding a thorough investigation."I feel, like, betrayed by all the police," King’s mother, Eva Bruns, said. "They're not being fair. I don't know if it's because of color or because of the way the killer is." "In the investigation, nothing has been done," she said. "Twenty-four hours later and he's out of jail. I don't know what kind of justice that is."Crawford County Sheriff Darin Layman said in a statement that all the information shared thus far in the case is "accurate in relation to our investigation and findings.""Our office has not uncovered any evidence to support the idea that this was a racially motivated incident," he said. "We have contacted the FBI regarding this investigation and requested their assistance in processing a portion of the evidence collected."The FBI in Missouri declined to comment on the case.Now the family is focusing on getting answers on what happened in the build-up to King's death.  "The family wants to make sure that whoever is responsible for the death of their son is held accountable," Chapel, the King family’s lawyer, said. "But right now we just settle for the disclosure of the truth."So far, no lawsuit has been filed in the case, but Chapel said, "I wouldn't rule anything out at this point."A statewide issue of failing to investigate the deaths of Black menChapel said the lack of action in King's case is part of a statewide problem when it comes to investigating the deaths of African Americans, pointing to the cases of Tory Sanders and Derontae Martin.Sanders, 28, a Black inmate at a rural jail, died in May 2017 under similar circumstances to George Floyd, after a white law enforcement officer pressed his knee on his neck, according to a wrongful death suit filed by his family. Missouri Attorney General Eric Schmitt declined to file charges in his death. Martin, 19, was found dead from a gunshot wound to the head on April 25 at the home of a white man who had posted racist memes on social media. Authorities concluded that he died by suicide, but in July, a jury of six people ruled during a coroner's inquest hearing that Martin was killed by violence. "That's Jim Crow justice," Chapel said. "This is a statewide issue. In Justin's case, they allege that there's an investigation, but then they produce the results of the investigation before the investigation is complete. What kind of police work is that?"Missouri's NAACP chapter issued a travel advisory in 2017 that remains in effect today warning people to travel with caution in the state because "race, gender and color-based crimes have a long history in Missouri.""What Missouri needs is to have some federal oversight to ensure that law enforcement is trying to treat people in the way that the Constitution demands, whether you're the alleged perpetrator of a crime or victim of a crime — that you have the same rights regardless of skin color," Chapel said. On Nov. 16, the Crawford County Sheriff's Department said the investigation into King's death is still open and evidence is being processed and sent off for lab analysis. The department also said an informal case review was conducted with the Crawford County prosecutor's office, and there will be follow-ups with witnesses and evidence collection.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Éric Zemmour been called racist and dangerous, and he's running for president of France . PARIS — Éric Zemmour does not mind comparisons to Donald Trump. “We are not the same but we have points in common,” the far-right TV pundit, who Tuesday declared his candidacy for French president, told NBC News at a recent book signing outside Lyon. “He is very American and I am very French, almost to the point of being a caricature.” In fact, a central plank of his political vision echoes Trump’s “Make America Great Again” message: “I want a French France,” he has said. A woman walks past a poster of Éric Zemmour, a political pundit who has emerged as a new leader of the country’s formidable far right.Rafael Yaghobzadeh for NBC NewsSlight and charismatic Zemmour, whose parents were French Algerian Jews, may be very French, but the media frenzy surrounding him and his background as an outspoken star of the small screen is drawing parallels to the former American president’s meteoric rise. A recent video of Zemmour pointing a sniper rifle at journalists in Paris has been watched by millions. His controversial opinions on women and France’s role in World War II have shocked many.  But his leitmotif is immigration and Islam. “We will not let ourselves be dominated, subjugated, conquered, colonized,” he said in a video announcing his candidacy Tuesday.“We will not let ourselves be replaced,” he added, a nod to the “great replacement,” a conspiracy theory which posits that European, white and Christian populations are being supplanted by nonwhite immigrants from Africa and the Middle East, particularly Muslims. It has been adopted by white supremacists, and linked to mass shootings in the United States and New Zealand. Seemingly out of nowhere, Zemmour, 63, has electrified France’s presidential race. The neatly-dressed firebrand has hammered home warnings of a country in decline and exploited sentiments thriving well beyond its shores to emerge as a new leader of the country’s formidable far right, while still appealing to more mainstream conservative voters. More than one poll has predicted he could overtake Marine Le Pen, the doyen of the hard right, to reach the final round of the election in April and go head-to-head with President Emmanuel Macron.“I think people are not enough afraid of him — they don’t think he can make it,” said Gaspard Gantzer, a former strategy and communications adviser to the last Socialist president of France, François Hollande. “Nobody thought that Trump could win.”Modest beginningsZemmour spent much of his early childhood in Drancy, a modest Parisian suburb whose high-rise social housing and private apartment blocks dwarf the small detached properties set back behind iron railings below. Éric Zemmour grew up in the culturally and ethnically diverse Parisian suburb of Drancy. Rafael Yaghobzadeh for NBC NewsThe population of this sprawling suburb reflects the waves of immigration over the years, including those who arrived from southern Europe and former African colonies like Algeria. His parents, widely reported to be named Roger, an ambulance driver, and Lucette, a housewife, moved to France from Algeria in 1952. Storefronts tout everything from French patisserie to kebabs, the streets are clean if not beautiful, and the houses neatly kept. In one central bar, men congregate around a television checking the numbers they’ve drawn in a lotto-style game against those on the screen.The extent of Drancy’s diversity is difficult to grasp exactly because France’s commitment to universalism, which subsumes other identities into Frenchness and encourages immigrants to integrate, largely prohibits the government census from counting people by race or religion.It is this Frenchness that Zemmour wants to preserve, and what has led him to label Islam as “incompatible with France.” On a recent visit to his home suburb televised by TV channel CNews, he confronted a woman who was wearing a headscarf. “You’re not doing as the French do,” he told the woman, who was introduced as Rachida, a naturalized French citizen, and who had just insisted that she is French. “I work, I pay my taxes, I raise my children,” she responded. “See the woman that I am, not the piece of fabric on my head.” “I see only the fabric on your head, because you only show that … you say to everyone, ‘I’m Muslim,’” Zemmour responded.  “If he wins, the risk is civil war,” said Hamid Chabani, a deputy mayor of Drancy. Rafael Yaghobzadeh for NBC NewsHamid Chabani, a deputy mayor of Drancy and the founder of a Franco-Berber cultural center in the suburb, said Zemmour’s rhetoric was dangerous and risked emboldening the most extreme members of the Muslim community in France. The Berbers are an indigenous people of North Africa.“It’s Islamism that’s not compatible with France, it’s the terrorists who aren’t compatible with France,” he said in his office in Drancy’s municipal building, which is framed by a neat square complete with bright bedding plants and a fountain. “We have the right to have a religion.”“If he wins, the risk is civil war,” Chabani said, adding that he doubted Zemmour would win.France has one of the largest Muslim populations in Europe, a legacy of its colonial domination of large parts of Africa and the Middle East. In recent years, it has also been bloodied by deadly terrorist attacks, many of which were carried out by homegrown radical Islamists. Zemmour says he makes a distinction between Islam and Muslims and says everyone has the right to practice their religion. He says he has nothing against foreigners, but prefers French people, and asks that immigrants assimilate. He wants to oblige parents to give their children “French” names rather than foreign ones such as Kevin or Mohammed. He has warned repeatedly of the “great replacement,” an idea popularized by the French writer Renaud Camus.Asked by NBC News whether the “great replacement” was in fact a conspiracy theory, Zemmour demurred, describing it as an “unstoppable” demographic process. Some in Drancy believe he speaks cold hard truths even if they say he sometimes goes too far. Michelle Ardinge, a French citizen born in Madagascar who now runs a funeral home in the suburb, said she agreed with most of what Zemmour said on immigration.“We’re a cosmopolitan country, but still at home you shouldn’t feel invaded by foreigners who don’t respect anything,” she said.“It is necessary to refuse the language that the media imposes,” said Zemmour, seen here shaking hands with supporters as he arrives at a promotional event for his new book "France hasn't said its last word."Chesnot / Getty ImagesBut Zemmour’s controversial opinions have also landed him in hot water. Last month, he went on trial for inciting racial hatred for calling unaccompanied child migrants “thieves,” “killers” and “rapists” on TV last year.Zemmour said in a statement that the proceedings were nothing more than a further “intimidation attempt” and that he would not attend the trial because he believes political debate should not take place in courtrooms.His lawyer, Olivier Pardo, told RMC radio that the charges don’t hold up: “He’s wanted for ‘racial hatred,’ for inciting racial discrimination with regards to unaccompanied minors, but as far as I know, unaccompanied minors are neither a race, nor a nation, nor an ethnicity.”‘Immeasurable good luck’ While espousing Frenchness, Zemmour’s own roots come from further afield. He was born in Montreuil in the eastern suburbs of Paris; his parents had moved to metropolitan France from Algeria — a colony that gained its independence in 1962 after 132 years of French rule. Zemmour has said his parents “idolized” France and that he and his family, whose surname means olive tree in Berber, successfully assimilated to the French way of life. In his most recent book,  he writes that he always thought it “immeasurable good luck” to be able to become the compatriot of the likes of René Descartes and Gustave Flaubert. He has spoken about how growing up, he wore a skullcap in the synagogue but not on the street, and how his name was Éric outside and Moses inside the place of worship.As for his own beliefs, Zemmour has said he’s doubtful about the existence of God but that he goes to the synagogue when he wants to re-immerse himself in the rites of his childhood and to remember his parents. He has shocked many with his claims that France’s wartime Vichy regime, which teamed up with the country’s Nazi occupiers, “protected” French Jews while handing over foreign ones. Around 76,000 Jews are estimated to have been deported from France to the death camps during World War II. The majority went through a camp in Drancy, situated less than a mile from the modest apartment block where Zemmour grew up. Protesters hold a banner that reads "Marseille Anti-Fascist" during a visit to the city by French far-right media pundit Eric Zemmour.Christophe Simon / AFP via Getty ImagesToday, a somber sculpture of figures lying across one another, a symbolic rail carriage and a museum mark the site of what was then an antechamber to Auschwitz concentration camp. But it took time for France to reckon with this dark chapter in its history. In 1995, then-President Jacques Chirac acknowledged that France had “handed over those under its protection to their executioners,” finally owning up to the country’s role in the Vel d’Hiv round-up, a mass arrest of Jews by French police in 1942. France’s chief rabbi, Haïm Korsia, has described Zemmour as anti-Semitic and racist. In response, Zemmour accused Korsia of being a “court Jew” who wanted to deliver his scalp to Macron.  For Serge Klarsfeld, a historian and Nazi hunter, it is what Zemmour says about Muslims that is most alarming. “He speaks like Hitler,” Klarsfeld said. “He has a beastly vision of society and what he says is either it’s them or us.” Some blame the media for giving oxygen to Zemmour’s ideas. A recent poll found that 2 in 3 French people are concerned that a “great replacement” could happen in France. But Zemmour’s supporters say efforts to protect the French people and their interests do not make Zemmour  — or them — racist. As for the charge of anti-Semitism, they point to the fact that he is Jewish and say he will protect Jews against insults and attacks by Islamists. Press contacts around Zemmour did not respond or declined to field requests for comment regarding allegations that the TV pundit’s speech is racist, sexist, Islamophobic and anti-Semitic, as well as clarification about his run-ins with the French justice system.Among his most vocal supporters is a group of young people, Génération Z, who have a strong online presence and are led by a cherub-faced president, Stanislas Rigault. Sitting on the terrasse of a Parisian cafe, the 22-year-old former law student described Zemmour as “the brains” of the French right and said he was the only person capable of synthesizing the working-class electorate of Le Pen, with those who usually vote for the conservative Les Republicains. “It’s those two electorates that could lead to victory in the end,” he added.Stanislas Rigault, President of Zemmour support group "Generation Z".Joel Saget / AFP via Getty ImagesRecent polls consistently put Macron ahead of right-wing candidates, but that hasn’t stopped supporters from throwing their weight behind Zemmour.    Other fans include a group of teachers who recently wrote an Op-Ed in a conservative daily in which they lamented the influence of “progressive propaganda” on schools and called for reform founded on “merit, excellence and authority” — a transformation they say only Zemmour has the courage to pull off. The authors believe standards in French schools are in decline, children are no longer taught to love their country, teachers no longer have enough authority, and ideology is seeping its way into the classroom, a spokesman for the teachers, Guillaume Bessières, said recently over coffee. “He wants to keep ideology away from the classroom,” Bessières said of Zemmour, adding that Zemmour differentiates between teaching and raising children. It’s up to parents to orientate children morally and politically, Bessières said. “When schools take charge of raising children, and even the ideology of children, for us it’s a danger,” he added. But for others, it is Zemmour himself who poses a threat. A recent poll found that he is the most rejected political personality in France, with 70 percent of eligible voters considering him “racist,” 66 percent “misogynist” and 67 percent considering him “dangerous.” Zemmour has denied being a misogynist or racist. Recent polls have also shown Le Pen to be Macron’s principal rival once again, overtaking Zemmour. Separately, on Friday, lawyers announced that Zemmour and one of his political aides, Sarah Knafo, would launch legal proceedings after Closer magazine claimed they were expecting a baby. But the polemicist won’t give up without a fight — and like Trump, one place that starts is by pushing back against the media. “It is necessary to refuse the language that the media imposes,” Zemmour said recently. “Trump does that in his own way and I do it in mine.”Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'Magic dirt': How the internet fueled, and defeated, the pandemic's weirdest MLM. The social media posts started in May: photos and videos of smiling people, mostly women, drinking Mason jars of black liquid, slathering black paste on their faces and feet, or dipping babies and dogs in tubs of the black water. They tagged the posts #BOO and linked to a website that sold a product called Black Oxygen Organics.Black Oxygen Organics, or “BOO” for short, is difficult to classify. It was marketed as fulvic acid, a compound derived from decayed plants, that was dug up from an Ontario peat bog. The website of the Canadian company that sold it billed it as “the end product and smallest particle of the decomposition of ancient, organic matter.” Put more simply, the product is dirt — four-and-a-half ounces of it, sealed in a sleek black plastic baggie and sold for $110 plus shipping. Visitors to the Black Oxygen Organics website, recently taken offline, were greeted with a pair of white hands cradling cups of dirt like an offering. “A gift from the Ground,” it reads. “Drink it. Wear it. Bathe in it.” BOO, which “can be taken by anyone at any age, as well as animals,” according to the company, claims many benefits and uses, including improved brain function and heart health, and ridding the body of so-called toxins that include heavy metals, pesticides and parasites. By the end of the summer, online ads for BOO had made their way to millions of people within the internet subcultures that embrace fringe supplements, including the mixed martial arts community, anti-vaccine and Covid-denier groups, and finally more general alternative health and fake cure spaces. And people seemed to be buying; parts of TikTok and Instagram were flooded with #BOO posts. The businessman behind Black Oxygen Organics has been selling mud in various forms for 25 years now, but BOO sold in amounts that surprised even its own executives, according to videos of company meetings viewed by NBC News. The stars appeared aligned for it. A pandemic marked by unprecedented and politicized misinformation has spurred a revival in wonder cures. Well-connected Facebook groups of alternative health seekers and vaccine skeptics provided an audience and eager customer base for a new kind of medicine show. And the too-good-to-be-true testimonials posted to social media attracted a wave of direct sellers, many of them women dipping their toes into the often unprofitable world of multilevel marketing for the first time. But success came at a price. Canadian and U.S. health regulators have cracked down on BOO in recent months, initiating recalls and product holds at the border, respectively. And just as an online army of fans powered BOO’s success, an oppositional force of online skeptics threatened to shut it down. Just before Thanksgiving, the company announced in an email it was closing up shop for good. Sellers packed video calls mourning the death of their miracle cure, railing against executives who had taken their money and seemingly run, and wondering how they might recoup the thousands of dollars they paid for BOO that never arrived.The announcement was the apparent end of one of the most haltingly successful companies to ride a wave of interest in online and directly sold alternative medicines — immunity-boosting oils, supplements, herbs, elixirs and so-called superfoods that, despite widespread concerns over their efficacy and safety, make up a lightly regulated, multibillion-dollar industry. In a world where consumers flock to alternative health products, BOO seemed to provide an answer to the question: Just how far are people willing to dig to find their miracle cure? A social post from Black Oxygen Organics and a Facebook post from a fan of the "magic dirt."Obtained by NBC NewsWhat is BOO?Monica Wong first learned about BOO in May. The 39-year-old was scrolling Facebook from her home in Brentwood, California, and saw a Facebook ad that caught her eye: A woman in a bright green shirt emblazoned with a marijuana leaf holding a sign that read, “F--- Big Pharma!” alongside a kind of treatment that promised to “detox heavy metals.” Wong had been looking for such a product, for her boyfriend and herself, and while the price was steep, a little internet research convinced her that the health effects would be worth it. Wong clicked on the ad and bought some BOO. Wong said that for two months she dissolved a half-teaspoon of the black stuff in a glass of water and drank it every day. But unlike people in her new BOO Facebook group who posted miraculous testimonials of cured diseases, weight loss, clearer skin, whiter teeth, regrown hair, reclaimed energy, expelled worms and even changes in eye color (from brown to blue), Wong didn’t feel like any toxins were leaving her body. In fact, she started having stomach pains. “I can’t say it was the BOO for sure,” Wong said she remembers wondering as she went to the hospital for tests, “but wasn’t it supposed to heal my gut?”How the internet defeated multi-level marketing fad that sold bags of dirt for $110Dec. 3, 202103:29Wong quit taking BOO and told the head of her Facebook group, a higher-ranked seller who earned commission off Wong’s participation, about her new pains. When asked why she didn’t alert others, Wong said the group administrators, BOO sellers themselves, censored the comments to weed out anything negative. “They’d never let me post that,” she said. These online groups are filled with true believers, acolytes who call it “magic dirt.” (That’s not to be confused with the same trademark name of an unrelated brand of potting soil.) They post that they are drinking, cooking, soaking, snorting and slathering BOO on their bodies and giving it to their families, children and pets. “Who would have thought drinking dirt would make me feel so so good?” one person in a 27,000-member private Facebook group posted, her face nuzzling a jar of black liquid. Another user posted a photo of a baby sitting in a bathtub of water colored a deep caramel. In the caption, she shared that the baby had contracted hand, foot and mouth disease — a virus that mainly affects children and causes painful sores. “Tiny is enjoying his Boo bath!” she wrote. “We’re happy to say our bottom feels happier and we’re in a better mood!”  Many such posts are dedicated to tactics for getting kids and loved ones to take BOO. “Boo brownies for the picky family,” one poster offered. Testimonials like these make up the majority of posts in dozens of Facebook groups, set up and overseen by BOO sellers, with hundreds of thousands of collective members, where BOO is heralded as a miracle drug. Teams of sellers in these private Facebook groups claim that, beyond cosmetic applications, BOO can cure everything from autism to cancer to Alzheimer’s disease. Conveniently in these times, BOO proponents say it also protects against and treats Covid-19, and can be used to “detox” the newly vaccinated, according to posts viewed by NBC News. None of the posters contacted by NBC News returned a request for comment. But there may be an incentive for the hyperbole. The MLM boomBlack Oxygen Organics products can’t be bought in stores. Instead, the pills and powders are sold by individuals, who theoretically profit not only off their sales but off those of others they recruit. It’s the type of top-down and widening profit-modeled business, known as multilevel marketing or MLM, that has led critics to label BOO and products like it pyramid schemes. Participation in MLMs boomed during the pandemic with 7.7 million Americans working for one in 2020, a 13 percent increase over the previous year, according to the Direct Selling Association, the trade and lobbying group for the MLM industry. Wellness products make up the majority of MLM products, and, as the Federal Trade Commission noted, some direct sellers took advantage of a rush toward so-called natural remedies during the pandemic to boost sales. More than 99 percent of MLM sellers lose money, according to the Consumer Awareness Institute, an industry watchdog group. But according to social media posts, BOO’s business was booming. In selfies and videos posted to Facebook, Instagram and TikTok, women lather BOO on their faces and soak their feet in sludge-filled pasta pots while, they claim, the money rolls in. Black Oxygen Organics’ compensation plan, like most MLMs, is convoluted. According to their company handbook, sellers, called “brand partners,” can earn income in two distinct ways: through retail commissions on bags of BOO they sell, and through recruiting other sellers, from which they earn additional commission and bonuses. The more recruits a seller brings in, the more quickly the seller rises in the ranks — there are 10 titles in the company, from brand partner to director to CEO, with compensation packages growing along the way.A common strategy for MLM participants, including BOO sellers, is to create Facebook groups to collaborate and attract new customers.“I earned $21,000 in bonuses in my first 5 weeks!” one post read. “I am a single mom, 1 income family, this business was the best decision!!!”Black Oxygen Organics’ vice president of business development, Ron Montaruli, described the craze in September, telling distributors on a Zoom call viewed by NBC News that the company had attracted 21,000 sellers and 38,000 new customers. Within the last six months, sales had rocketed from $200,000 a month to nearly $4 million, Montaruli said, referring to a chart that showed the same. (Attempts to reach Montaruli were unsuccessful.)Facts around the company’s actual income are as hazy as the mud it sells, but the secret to dealing dirt seems to be Facebook, where sellers have created dozens of individual groups that have attracted a hodgepodge of hundreds of thousands of members. The largest BOO Facebook groups, including one with over 97,000 members, are led mostly by MLM jumpers, the term for people who sell a range of MLM products. The groups have also attracted more general alternative health consumers, as well as people seemingly suffering from delusional parasitosis, a condition characterized by the misguided belief that one’s body is being overrun by parasites. Users in these groups mimic activity in anti-parasite internet groups by dosing according to phases of the moon and posting photos of dirty water from foot baths or human waste from toilets asking others to identify a mystery worm. Facebook did not respond to requests for comment on the BOO groups or whether their claims violated the company’s content policies.User testimonials about the Black Oxygen Organic dirt posted to social media.Obtained by NBC NewsIn the last several months, the groups have seen a rise in members from anti-vaccine and Covid-denial communities, including prominent activists who sell the product to raise funds for anti-vaccine efforts.A profile of one top seller featured in BOO’s semiregular glossy magazine, “The Bog,” noted that Covid had drawn more people to the industry. “It’s been kind of a blessing,” the seller said. While it undoubtedly attracted sales and built teams, Facebook also created a unique problem for Black Oxygen Organics: Those testimonials might have violated federal law that requires efficacy claims be substantiated by “competent and reliable scientific evidence.” They also attracted attention, not only from customers, but from health professionals, regulatory agencies and a group BOO executives have dubbed “the haters.” After a summer of unbridled success, the internet backlash began. The rise of MLMs online prompted criticism from some people who have created informal activist groups to bring awareness to what they say are the predatory practices of MLM companies and organized campaigns to disrupt specific businesses. Many of the groups use the same social media techniques to organize their responses.Online activists who oppose MLMs formed Facebook groups targeting BOO for its claims. Members of these groups infiltrated the BOO community, signing up as sellers, joining pro-BOO groups, and attending BOO sales meetings, then reporting back what they had seen to the group. They posted videos of the company meetings and screenshots from the private BOO sales groups and urged members to file official complaints with the Federal Trade Commission and the Food and Drug Administration. YouTube creators made videos debunking BOO peddlers’ most outrageous claims, ridiculing BOO executives and making public recordings of the private company meetings. Ceara Manchester.Courtesy of Ceara ManchesterCeara Manchester, a stay-at-home mother in Pompano Beach, Florida, helps run one of the largest anti-BOO Facebook groups, “Boo is Woo.” Manchester, 34, has spent the last four years monitoring predatory MLMs — or “cults,” in her view — and posting to multiple social media accounts and groups dedicated to “exposing” Black Oxygen Organics.“The health claims, I had never seen them that bad,” Manchester said. “Just the sheer amount. Every single post was like, ‘cancer, Covid, diabetes, autism.’”“I don’t feel like people are stupid,” Manchester said of the people who purchased and even sold BOO. “I think that they’re desperate or vulnerable, or they’ve been preyed upon, and you get somebody to say, ‘Hey, I’ve got this product that cures everything.’ You know when you’re desperate like that you might listen.”The mudmanBlack Oxygen Organics is the brainchild of Marc Saint-Onge, a 59-year-old entrepreneur from Casselman, Ontario. Saint-Onge, BOO’s founder and CEO, did not respond to calls, texts, emails or direct messages.But decades of interviews in local press and more recently on social media offer some details about Saint-Onge, or, as he likes to be called, “the mudman.” Saint-Onge describes himself as an orthotherapist, naturopath, kinesitherapist, reiki master, holistic practitioner, herbalist and aromatherapist. As he said in a video posted to YouTube that has since been made private, his love of mud began as a child, chasing bullfrogs around Ontario bogs. Years later, he went on to practice orthotherapy, a kind of advanced massage technique, to treat pain. He said he packaged dirt from a local bog, branches and leaves included, in zip-lock baggies and gave them to his “patients,” who demanded the mud faster than he could scoop it. Saint-Onge said he was charged by Canadian authorities with practicing medicine without a license in 1989 and fined $20,000. “Then my clinic went underground,” he said on a recent podcast. He has sold mud in some form since the early 1990s. Health Canada, the government regulator responsible for public health, forced him to pull an early version of his mud product, then called the “Anti-Rheuma Bath,” according to a 1996 article in The Calgary Herald, because Saint-Onge marketed it to treat arthritis and rheumatism without any proof to substantiate the claims. Saint-Onge also claimed his mud could heal wounds, telling an Ottawa Citizen reporter in 2012 that his mud compress healed the leg of a man who had suffered an accident with a power saw, saving it from amputation. “The doctor said it was the antibiotics,” he said. “But we believe it was the mud.”In the ‘90s Saint-Onge began selling his mud bath under the “Golden Moor” label, which he did until he realized a dream, “a way to do a secret little extraction,” in his words, that would make the dirt dissolve in water. In 2015, with the founding of his company NuWTR, which would later turn into Black Oxygen Organics, Saint-Onge said he finally invented a dirt people could drink.In 2016, he began selling himself as a business coach, and his personal website boasted of his worth: “I sell mud in a bottle,” he wrote. “Let me teach you to sell anything.” The troublesIn September, Montaruli, BOO’s vice president, led a corporate call to address the Facebook groups and what he called “the compliance situation.” “Right now, it’s scary,” Montaruli said in a Zoom call posted publicly, referring to the outlandish claims made by some of BOO’s sellers. “In 21 years, I have never seen anything like this. Never.” “These outrageous claims, and I’m not even sure if outrageous is bad enough, are obviously attracting the haters, giving them more fuel for the fire, and potential government officials.” Montaruli called for “a reset,” telling BOO sellers to delete the pages and groups and start over again. One slide suggested alternatives for 14 popular BOO uses, including switching terms like ADHD to “trouble concentrating,” and “prevents heart attack” to “maintain a healthy cardiovascular system.”A common strategy for MLM participants, including BOO sellers, is to create Facebook groups to collaborate and attract new customers.Obtained by NBC NewsAnd so in September, the Facebook groups evolved — many went private, most changed their names from BOO to “fulvic acid,” and the pinned testimonials from customers claiming miracle cures were wiped clean, tweaked or edited to add a disclaimer absolving the company from any liability. But that wasn’t the end of the company’s troubles. While individual sellers navigated their new compliance waters, regulatory agencies cracked down. Days after Montaruli’s call, Health Canada announced a recall of Black Oxygen Organics tablets and powders, citing “potential health risks which may be higher for children, adolescents, and pregnant or breastfeeding women.” Further, the regulatory agency noted, “The products are being promoted in ways and for uses that have not been evaluated and authorized by Health Canada.”“Stop taking these products,” the announcement advised. Inventory for U.S. customers had already been hard to come by. In private groups, sellers claimed the product had sold out, but in the company-wide call, Montaruli confirmed that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration was holding its products at the border.Jeremy Kahn, an FDA spokesperson, declined to comment. A day after the publication of this article, the FDA issued an advisory against taking BOO. In the public notice, the FDA said it had been pursuing a recall when the company closed.Saint-Onge did not respond to requests for comment from NBC News. Phone messages and emails sent by a reporter to the company, its executives and its legal counsel were not returned. What’s in BOO?BOO is not the only dirt-like health supplement on the market. Consumers have the option of dozens of products — in drops, tablets, powders and pastes — that claim to provide the healing power of fulvic and humic acid.Fulvic and humic acids have been used in traditional and folk medicines for centuries, and do exhibit antibacterial qualities in large quantities. But there is little scientific evidence to support the kinds of claims made by BOO sellers, according to Brian Bennett, a professor of physics at Marquette University who has studied fulvic and humic acids as a biochemist.“I would say it’s snake oil,” Bennett said. “There is a lot of circumstantial evidence that a pharmaceutical based on the characteristics of this material might actually work, but I think eating handfuls of soil probably doesn’t.” Beyond the questions of the health benefits of fulvic acid, there’s the question of just what is in Black Oxygen Organics’ product. The company’s most recent certificate of analysis, a document meant to show what a product is made of and in what amounts, was posted by sellers this year. Reporting the product makeup as mostly fulvic acid and Vitamin C, the report comes from 2017 and doesn’t list a lab, or even a specific test. NBC News spoke to six environmental scientists, each of whom expressed skepticism at the quality of BOO’s certificate. Assuming the company-provided analysis was correct, two of the scientists confirmed that just two servings of BOO exceeded Health Canada’s daily limits for lead, and three servings — a dose recommended on the package — approached daily arsenic limits. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has no comparable daily guidelines.In an effort to verify BOO’s analysis, NBC News procured a bag and sent it to Nicholas Basta, a professor of soil and environmental science at Ohio State University.The BOO product was analyzed for the presence of heavy metals at Ohio State’s Trace Element Research Laboratory. Results from that test were similar to the company’s 2017 certificate, finding two doses per day exceeded Health Canada’s limit for lead, and three doses for daily arsenic amounts. Growing concern among BOO sellers about the product — precipitated by an anti-MLM activist who noticed on Google Earth that the bog that sourced BOO’s peat appeared to share a border with a landfill — pushed several to take matters into their own hands, sending bags of BOO to labs for testing.The results of three of these tests, viewed by NBC News and confirmed as seemingly reliable by two soil scientists at U.S. universities, again showed elevated levels of lead and arsenic. Those results are the backbone of a federal lawsuit seeking class action status filed in November in Georgia’s Northern District court. The complaint, filed on behalf of four Georgia residents who purchased BOO, claims that the company negligently sold a product with “dangerously high levels of toxic heavy metals,” which led to physical and economic harm. Black Oxygen Organics did not respond to requests for comment concerning the complaint. “The doctor said it was the antibiotics,” said Marc Saint-Onge, BOO’s founder and CEO. “But we believe it was the mud.”Obtained by NBC News‘A heavy heart’The lawsuit hit at an inopportune time, just as the company had “reformulated” its products and added a new label on the powder that now specifies the product is “not for human consumption.” “Things are starting to settle a little bit,” BOO executive Montaruli said in a video meeting explaining a change from tablet to capsules and a relabeling of the powder. The powder is “strictly for cosmetics,” Saint-Onge said on the call, a recording of which was shared with NBC News by an attendee. In the BOO groups, the company’s sellers were undeterred. “You can continue to use the powder as you choose in your own home,” the admin of one Facebook group wrote to members announcing the product update. “Know that it is the same powder.” “We cannot TECHNICALLY tell customers to use the product internally,” Adam Ringham, a “Royal Diamond CEO” (BOO’s highest seller title), told his group. “WE CAN HOWEVER — tell them that the powder is THE EXACT SAME as before … ”Ringham did not return requests for comment.Just as the BOO sellers were planning their Black Friday sales, the rug was pulled out from them again, this time, seemingly, for good. Two days before Thanksgiving, an email landed in the inboxes of BOO customers and sellers. “It is with a heavy heart that we must announce the immediate closing of Black Oxygen Organics,” it read. Details in the note were sparse, but Black Oxygen executives and employees offered an explanation in company Zoom meetings that afternoon. According to BOO President Carlo Garibaldi, they had weathered the FTC complaints, the FDA seizures, the Health Canada recalls and the online mob. But the “fatal blow” came when their online merchant dropped them as clients. With no actual product in stock for the last two months, sellers had been urging customers to “preorder” BOO. Now, the throng of customers responding to the nonconsumable “reformulation” by asking for their money back had spooked their payment processor.“This is our baby,” Garibaldi said, flashing his Black Oxygen elbow tattoo to the screen. “We needed this to go on forever.” Saint-Onge appeared briefly, holding his head in his hands. “This was my limit,” he said. Members of anti-BOO groups celebrated. “WE DID IT!!!!!!” Manchester, the group administrator, posted to the “Boo is Woo” Facebook group. “I hope this is proof positive that if the anti-MLM community bans together we can take these companies down. We won’t stop with just BOO. A new age of anti-MLM activism has just begun.”In a separate Zoom meeting unattended by executives and shared with NBC News, lower-rung sellers grappled with the sudden closure and the reality that they were out hundreds or thousands of dollars. “I am three weeks to a month away from having a baby and I’ve been depending on this money to arrive in my bank account,” one seller said through tears. “It’s the only income we have.”The future of BOO is uncertain. Tens of thousands of bags remain in warehouses, according to Black Oxygen executives. Sellers are unlikely to receive orders, refunds or commissions. The federal lawsuit will continue, Matt Wetherington, the Georgia lawyer behind the proposed class action lawsuit, said. But in the land of MLMs, failure is just another opportunity. Saint-Onge may have walked away from this cohort of customers, but for those who sold it, BOO was more than just a product; it was a way of believing. Now, the thousands of BOO acolytes still convening in BOO Facebook groups are funneling into a new Facebook group, named “The Solution,” and turning their outstretched hands toward a new direct-sales company, one that BOO’s top sellers claim offers an even purer fulvic acid product and a colloidal silver as well.“Thanks for all your continued support,” The Solution’s admins wrote in a welcome post. “Moving forward is all we can do.”Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Strip searches, trauma, isolation: Trans men describe life behind bars. By the time he ended up in the custody of the Texas Department of Criminal Justice on insurance and theft charges, Tahj Graham was 33 and had been living as a man for nearly half his life. Born in 1985 as the youngest of three kids, Graham soon realized he was not like other children who had been assigned female at birth. “As early as 5 years old, I knew that something was different,” Graham, 36, said in a phone call from his home in Mansfield, a suburb between Dallas and Fort Worth.He came out as a teenager, started taking hormones at 17 and had his breasts removed when he was 20 in a procedure known as “top surgery.” Once he had undergone a medical transition, Graham said, he passed completely as a man. “Unless it was someone that I was dating, I never disclosed being trans,” he said. As he was transitioning, Graham’s life also moved forward in other ways. He started working toward a college degree, taking classes at other schools before enrolling in the University of Texas at Austin in 2006. After he tried out a couple of other majors, he finally settled on religion. “I was given a Bible at age 7,” he said, and faith was “just something I always felt.”Tahj Graham with the Bible he kept with him at the Texas Department of Criminal Justice women's prison in Gatesville.Allison V. Smith for NBC NewsHe had dreams of starting his own ministry and distributing Bibles around the world. However, in 2016, Graham was arrested for insurance fraud and was also under investigation for wiring himself about $90,000 from an ex-girlfriend’s bank account without her permission. In 2018, he pleaded guilty to both charges and was sentenced to three years in prison.First, he was sent to a men’s prison — until, he alleges, guards started to perform invasive strip and cavity searches and he raised the alarm. “I was then transferred to a women’s unit, where the big nightmares occurred,” he wrote in an email. Over the next few months, he endured “voyeuristic strip searches by female staff,” was forced to grow out his hair and was sexually harassed by other prisoners, he said. “So many incidents occurred at the female unit I nearly lost count.”Currently and formerly incarcerated transgender people, like Graham, are increasingly coming forward to discuss their difficult experiences behind bars, and over the past few years, news outlets have devoted considerably more space to their stories. The reporting, however, has focused primarily on trans women, who are incarcerated at a higher rate than any other segment of the LGBTQ community. Transgender men are also incarcerated at disproportionate rates: According to the 2011 National Transgender Discrimination Survey by the National Center for Transgender Equality and the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, about 10 percent of trans men have spent time in jail or prison — approximately twice the rate of U.S. adults overall.Assault, retaliation and abuse: Life as a transgender woman in a men's prisonFeb. 26, 202006:20Incarcerated transgender men encounter many of the same issues as their transfeminine peers — including high rates of solitary confinement and sexual assault and denial of gender-affirming care and gender-appropriate clothing. But they also face “unique issues that are separate from what trans women experience,” said Aaron El Sabrout, the advocacy manager of Black and Pink, a nonprofit group based in Nebraska that supports LGBTQ people in prison. “Trans women have hypervisibility,” he said, whereas “trans men, most people think we don’t exist.”Trans men’s experiences, however, are not uniform. Every city, county and state, as well as the federal government, has broad authority to establish its own policies about the treatment of trans prisoners. For that reason, the conditions experienced by these men vary significantly across the country. Individual prison environments and leadership also affect what someone may experience behind bars.Verbal and physical harassmentIn March 2018, Graham turned himself in to the Texas Department of Criminal Justice to begin serving his sentence. Although he had transitioned medically years before and “passed” as a man in his daily life, Graham did not fit neatly into the binary categories of “male” or “female,” and for that, he said, he paid. On his first day in custody at the men’s prison where he was first sent, two correctional officers began to strip search him inappropriately, he said. “The officer asked me to lie down on a table, then told me to spread my legs and hold them open,” Graham said, adding that he was then instructed to pull his genitalia back so the officer could “get a better look.” He said he could see that the officer was getting an erection. When the search was over, Graham said, he told a counselor at the facility what had happened. After an invasive exam at the nurse’s office, “they moved as fast as they could to get me out of there,” he said. Graham also filed a sexual abuse complaint about the incident, which, he said, was never pursued by the Texas Department of Criminal Justice. (With Graham’s permission, NBC News requested a copy of Graham’s medical file and complaint history. The department denied the request; Graham was able to provide copies of several records he had.)After having spent several weeks at an Austin jail, Graham was transferred to a women’s prison run by the Texas Department of Criminal Justice. But rather than offer him greater safety and security, the women’s prison “was a million times worse,” he said. Upon his arrival, Graham said, he underwent a strip search in view of a large group of incarcerated women. “They forced me to bend over and open up my legs to make sure I didn’t have a hidden penis,” he said. Graham recalled experiencing near-constant verbal abuse from staff members from then on. In a grievance form he filed while he was incarcerated, Graham described an incident in which an officer became enraged at him, screaming, “You were born a f------ girl, you’re at a woman unit.”  “I do not expect an officer to berate me and argue with me and declare as if they’re God in front of other offenders,” Graham wrote in the May 2019 complaint, according to a copy provided by Graham and reviewed by NBC News. Tahj Graham holds the Texas offender card he used for identification at the Texas Department of Criminal Justice women's prison in Gatesville.Allison V. Smith for NBC NewsIn its response, the Texas Department of Criminal Justice said there was “no evidence to support” Graham’s allegations and concluded, “No further action is warranted.” The department said it is unable to comment on Graham’s grievances because they are not public.Robert Hurst, a spokesman for the department, also declined to comment on Graham’s account of the strip search and directed NBC News to the department’s written policy regarding the Health Appraisal of Incoming Inmates. According to additional policy documents provided by Hurst, Texas Department of Criminal Justice officers are not required to refer to transgender people by their preferred pronouns.  Giovanni Gonzales, 31, is incarcerated at the Central California Women’s Facility in Chowchilla, just north of Fresno. He said in a phone interview that he has dealt with transphobic harassment from prison staff members. In spring 2021, when Gonzales was working at the prison’s clothing exchange, his supervisor on the site — an employee of the facility — consistently made discriminatory remarks, he said. “He makes comments to me that are inappropriate. He always refers to me as a she. He refuses not to,” he said. In July, Gonzales said by email that he had been barred from going to work. He filed an official complaint, but his boss denied Gonzales’ account, and prison officials ultimately determined that his complaint was unsubstantiated, he said. “The cameras have no audio — how convenient for them — so all he had to say was no he didn’t disrespect me,” Gonzales wrote in an email.Terry Thornton, the deputy press secretary for the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, said that the department has a policy mandating respectful communication and that it has developed training specifically to help staff members better engage with incarcerated people who are transgender or nonbinary. “Repeatedly or intentionally using inappropriate pronouns or any other type of derogatory comments about a person’s gender is a violation under PREA, constitutes staff-on-offender sexual harassment, and subjects the staff member to discipline,” she said in an email, using the acronym for the federal Prison Rape Elimination Act.Gonzales, who grew up in San Jose, California, said his childhood was not easy. He knew he was different but did not have the language or the framework to pinpoint why. “I didn’t understand. I didn’t know about gender dysphoria,” he said.It was only once he was in prison that he started taking testosterone. “I had to wait a whole year to get on the shots, because I got in trouble a lot,” he said. “I wanted this so bad I got [myself] together.” Gonzales has now been on testosterone, also known simply as “T,” for five years.'Forced to be someone we are not'In addition to what he said was routine verbal and physical harassment from prison staff members, Graham also said he was prevented from dressing and grooming himself in a way that aligns with his gender. Correctional officers told Graham he would get written up unless he grew out his hair, and they forced him to shave his beard, which he had permission to maintain on religious grounds, he said. He also alleged that they told him he was required to wear women’s underwear and a bra, even though he had had his breasts removed.Tahj Graham at home in Mansfield, Texas, on Sunday.Allison V. Smith for NBC NewsSeveral other trans men incarcerated in Texas and contacted by NBC News said they had encountered officers who required them to wear sports bras and women’s underwear, as well as to grow out their hair to longer than 2½ inches or risk “catching a case” — getting written up for breaking the rules. According to advocates and currently and formerly incarcerated people, trans men in the state have no routine access to boxer shorts and are unable to buy chest binders, which are used by those who have not yet had top surgery to flatten their breasts. “I’ve tried to request boxers and chest binders and was denied, which made my depression worse,” Angel Ochoa, 49, another incarcerated trans man in the state, said in a letter. Asked to clarify the state’s position on clothing for transgender people, Hurst, the Texas Department of Criminal Justice spokesperson, said, “Inmates are to dress according to the sex assigned to them at birth.”Ochoa said he was a tomboy growing up and started dressing as a boy when he was 12. His family supported his transition from the start, he said. “I was loved by my mom and grandmother and accepted as a boy.” Ochoa, who has been incarcerated since the 1990s, said he has faced humiliating and degrading treatment in the prison system. “The most pressing issue is us being forced to be someone we are not,” he said, adding that he was made to grow out his hair, which was shaved bald when he entered prison. “They say it’s a ‘security precaution.’ ... It’s just a way to hurt us.” According to data recently obtained through a public information request, 980 transgender women and 113 transgender men were in Texas Department of Criminal Justice custody in 2019. A policy document provided by the department states that “inmates are housed according to their genital status.”Nell Gaither is the president of the Trans Pride Initiative, a Texas-based nonprofit group founded in 2011 that has communicated with over a thousand transgender people incarcerated in the state. Gaither said it is her impression that in recent years the Texas Department of Criminal Justice has been less aggressive in forcing trans men to wear sports bras or grow out their hair but that it reflects a shift in priorities and culture rather than a change in policy. Facial hair continues to be a problem, she said, because trans men “can’t get enough razors to keep cleanshaven, then ‘get cases’ for having beards.” She also said that one significant impact of Covid-19 on trans prisoners has been the delay or lack of access to gender-affirming hormones.But the situation can vary significantly from state to state and even city to city. In California state prisons, for example, trans men in women’s prisons can buy the same hygiene items available to people in men’s prisons and are provided with male clothing. They can also purchase chest binders, though the $40 or $50 price tag puts the option out of reach for many individuals. In Georgia state prisons, trans men in women’s facilities can shave their heads and grow out their beards, but, except for boxers, they are only able to obtain clothing from the female order form.Ronnie Fuller, 42, is incarcerated at Georgia’s Arrendale State Prison in Alto, about an hour northeast of Atlanta. He said he has identified as male since he was a kid but did not always know what those feelings meant.“I didn’t know what ‘transgender’ was until I came to prison, and that was years within my sentence,” he said. Ronnie Fuller said he has identified as male since he was a kid but did not always know what those feelings meant.Courtesy Ronnie FullerFuller has been incarcerated since 2004, and for his first decade behind bars, the state refused to provide hormones to trans people who had not been prescribed them before they entered the prison system. In 2015, the policy changed. “When the option became available here in the prison, I jumped on the opportunity,” Fuller said of obtaining hormones.Since then, the prison administration has made other small concessions, including allowing trans men to buy boxers, he said. However, he and others are still unable to get chest binders, and he said the prison turned down an offer from a volunteer who was willing to donate them. Prison staff members “give us male hormones, boxers and believe that is enough,” he said, adding that being unable to obtain a chest binder and get gender-affirming surgery has affected him “emotionally, mentally and physically.”Fuller said that with so many barriers to obtaining gender-affirming care, he believes prison is the worst place to begin a medical transition. RecommendedNYC Terrorist AttackNYC Terrorist AttackMan threatened to shoot up New York City Pride March, officials sayOUT NewsOUT NewsHundreds rally in support of trans student outed in a bitter election“I have experienced more judgment and discrimination behind these walls than I have ever experienced on the outside,” he said in a letter. The Georgia Corrections Department did not respond to requests for comment made by phone and email.'It should not be so hard to get normal treatment'As a result of lawsuits successfully litigated across the country, most transgender prisoners in the U.S. now have the right to obtain gender-affirming hormones, regardless of whether they had been prescribed them before they were incarcerated. However, according to advocates, prisoners rights attorneys and currently and formerly incarcerated people, while the policies may exist on paper, hormones are often difficult to obtain in practice. Trans people behind bars said it can take months or even years for them to obtain gender dysphoria diagnoses and be evaluated by endocrinologists or other specialists, resulting in delays in treatment that are distressing and perplexing to those seeking care. Graham was in custody of the Texas Department of Criminal Justice for about six months before he was given access to the gender-affirming hormone treatments he had been receiving before his incarceration, according to Graham and prison records he provided. Fuller similarly said that while he was approved to be evaluated for hormone treatment in April 2017, it took well over a year for him to get his first endocrinologist appointment. “It should not be so hard to get normal treatment, whatever that may be,” Fuller wrote in a letter.Furthermore, while the U.S. has taken steps to ensure that trans prisoners have access to gender-affirming hormones, the vast majority of jurisdictions still do not allow incarcerated people meaningful access to gender-affirming surgery, said Danny Waxwing, an attorney at Disability Rights Washington, who has represented many trans prisoners in the state. For trans men, that means not being able to undergo top surgery for the duration of their sentences.Jason Yoakam is suing the Virginia Department of Corrections.Courtesy / Lambda LegalIn August, the LGBTQ civil rights group Lambda Legal sued the Virginia Corrections Department on behalf of an incarcerated transgender man, Jason Yoakam. The organization said the suit is among the first filed on behalf of an incarcerated trans man for the denial of treatment for gender dysphoria. “Under the Eighth Amendment, prison systems are required to provide adequate medical care,” said Richard Saenz, a senior attorney and criminal justice and police misconduct strategist at Lambda Legal. “This lawsuit is necessary because for a number of trans people behind bars, even those who are provided some care, [they] are often not provided adequate medical and mental health care.”“All medically necessary treatment is available,” a Corrections Department spokesperson told the Washington Post in August. “Treatment decisions are made on a case-by-case basis. In addition to medical treatment, individual and group therapy is also available. We follow the community standard of care.” The case is currently scheduled for mediation.A handful of states, including California and Washington, have policies that make it possible for trans people to obtain gender-affirming surgery while incarcerated. However, according to prisoners interviewed by NBC News, the process for evaluating who qualifies for the procedure is flawed and inadequate. Giovanni Gonzales, the California prisoner, said neither he nor his doctor has played a key role in determining whether he qualifies for top surgery on the grounds that it is medically necessary. Instead, the decision is made by a committee responsible for evaluating trans prisoners across the state, he said. Under Corrections Department policy, primary care providers on the institutional level are tasked with passing along requests for surgery to a statewide body known as the Gender Affirming Surgery Review Committee. The committee, which is made up of medical and mental health experts who have not treated the prisoner, then votes on whether to approve or deny the request. Gonzales and others interviewed by NBC News expressed frustration that the committee exists at all, since no parallel committee exists for individuals seeking to obtain treatment deemed medically necessary by their physicians — for example, people who need to have their breasts removed due to a cancer diagnosis. “My doctors don’t have a say in my surgery. It’s these doctors that go on this committee that don’t have nothing to do with me,” Gonzales said. With the support of his psychologist, Gonzales initially made a request to obtain surgery in November 2018. He was issued a denial several months later and filed a lawsuit afterwards alleging that the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation was violating his constitutional rights. In February, more than two years after he filed suit, his request for surgery was finally approved. No 'simple' housing solutionIn addition to facing barriers in obtaining their preferred clothing, as well as gender-affirming health care, incarcerated trans men also say they struggle when it comes to housing. As NBC News documented in an investigation last year, the vast majority of trans people in the U.S. are incarcerated in prisons that match their birth sexes or genitalia, rather than their gender identities, even though doing so without considering safety concerns or prisoners’ preferences is illegal under the Prison Rape Elimination Act. That reality has put many trans women in danger of sexual assault, violence and harassment.El Sabrout of Black and Pink said that transgender men would not necessarily be safer if they were housed in men’s facilities, as opposed to being housed according to their sex assigned at birth. However, he added, that does not mean they do not experience physical or sexual violence in women’s prisons. Graham said women on his unit would undress and climb into his bed at night saying they were going to have sex with him or would try to look at his body while he was showering, even though he was supposed to be permitted to shower alone. Prison staff members did not take steps to keep him safe, he said. After staff members were alerted to one particular incident, he spent about 10 days in “safekeeping,” a form of isolation also known as protective custody. Incarcerated trans people often end up in protective custody for their purported protection, because they are uniquely vulnerable to sexual and physical assault when they are in the general population. But the conditions in protective custody generally mirror the conditions faced by those in disciplinary isolation. When he was in safekeeping, Graham said, he was fed through a door and had very limited access to showers or his property. After a third time in safekeeping, Graham said, he was fed up and vowed never to end up there again.Tahj Graham at home in Mansfield, Texas, on Sunday.Allison V. Smith for NBC NewsTrans men may also be unfairly identified as threats to other inmates and punished, said El Sabrout, who said others “perceive them as threatening” and “dangerously sexual,” particularly when they begin taking testosterone. Ochoa said he was once placed in solitary confinement after he was accused of having a sexual relationship with a correctional officer.“Anyone can say anything about you and it’s believed, especially if you’re a trans guy,” said Ochoa, whose prison records were not independently reviewed by NBC News.When they were interviewed, most incarcerated trans men said they would not want to be transferred to a men’s prison. Some, including Graham, said they would prefer to be placed in transgender-specific housing units, an approach that was previously used by Immigration and Customs Enforcement and some city jails to house trans women, while others said they would not feel comfortable in those environments. “Special units can cause you to feel isolated,” Ronnie Fuller, the trans man incarcerated in Georgia, wrote in a letter, adding that he “would feel like I am not being treated as a human but as an outcast.”El Sabrout said trans women and trans men may end up behind bars at disproportionate rates for broadly the same reasons — including discrimination, a heightened risk of interpersonal violence, homelessness and reliance on the survival economy. Yet because the issues they face on the inside are somewhat different, the solutions to improve their conditions may be different, too. In recent years, some advocates and legislators across the country have focused on passing legislation or changing prison rules to allow trans people to be housed according to their gender identities or in the facilities where they feel safest. Battles to enact such policies have been won in some states, including California and New Jersey, enabling trans women in all stages of transition to be transferred from men’s to women’s prisons. According to data provided by the California Corrections Department, 315 people housed in male institutions have requested to be housed in female institutions since the state began implementing its new policy, and 10 people housed in female institutions have requested to be housed in male institutions. None of the requests to transfer to men’s facilities has thus far been approved. “Some trans women have been successful at getting transferred to women’s prisons, and that improves their health outcomes,” said El Sabrout. “But there’s not quite so simple a solution for transmasculine people.”Minimizing harm, maximizing safetyWhile research on transgender men in prison is limited, currently and formerly incarcerated trans men and their advocates cite many of the same potential solutions to improve the experience of transmasculine people behind bars — whether they are in men’s or women’s prisons. The solutions include access to the same clothing, hygiene products and grooming standards as cisgender men; the availability of gender-affirming items, including chest binders; expanded access to gender-affirming health care, including hormones, surgery and mental health services. Relatively simple interventions, such as allowing trans people to participate in peer support groups, can also make a significant difference in their wellbeing, sources said. Waxwing, the attorney who works for Disability Rights Washington, said prison systems must ensure access to mental health and medical providers who are experienced and competent in caring for transgender people. If the expertise is not in-house, he said, prison administrators need to bring in providers from the community.   “Oftentimes working with community-based providers can be an important transitional step for agencies and minimize harm to trans patients as policy changes and training are implemented over time,” he said.  Waxwing also said not enough is being done to understand and implement changes that would enable trans men to be housed in men’s facilities.  “At the present moment, many trans men will be safer, and would prefer to remain, in facilities designated for women,” he said in an email. “What systems rarely, if ever, ask of trans individuals, though, is what they could be doing differently to address their safety and other needs such that being housed according to their gender identity could be a viable option.”Another important step, El Sabrout said, would be to make the Prison Rape Elimination Act substantively enforceable. Currently, states that fail to comply with the law risk forfeiting 5 percent of prison-related federal grants, a sum so small that its impact on corrections budgets is negligible. In addition to provisions regarding how to house trans people, the law also requires facilities to allow trans prisoners to shower privately and to limit when cavity and strip searches can be conducted and by whom. “Actually making PREA regulations and standards meaningful is really important,” he said.For Richard Saenz, the Lambda Legal attorney, keeping trans prisoners safe is not just about where they are housed but how they are housed. Prisons “have a constitutional duty to keep everyone in their custody safe and should implement policies that actually do that,” he said. “They shouldn’t rely on the use of ‘protective housing,’ where those restrictions are the same as solitary confinement and could cause additional harm to the person seeking help.”In addition, simply enacting official policies mandating that corrections staff members use transgender inmates’ preferred pronouns would improve their lives, he added. That is what he said his client, Jason Yoakam, is being denied at Virginia’s Fluvanna Correctional Center.“Departmental staff, with the exception of mental health staff providing treatment, are trained to refrain from using pronouns altogether,” Benjamin Jarvela, the Virginia Corrections Department’s deputy director of communications, said in an email. Asked about the Yoakam lawsuit, he said, “All inmates are provided access to the community standards of medical and mental health care, in keeping with the constitutional mandate to provide the necessary care.”'I won’t give up'For many incarcerated trans men, the battle to improve their conditions of confinement is ongoing.“I won’t give up and encourage others not to either,” Ochoa wrote in a letter. Other trans men have taken the fight for justice to a national stage. In the last national election cycle, Ronnie Fuller, who is serving a life sentence, launched a campaign to run for president. “I never thought about politics as a kid and nor did I ever hear my family talk about it,” he said. “It was not until I was in prison that I witnessed and experienced injustices and saw the turmoil in society that I started to speak out.”Since he was released in late 2019, Graham has been rebuilding his life. He is back in school, working toward completing his college degree, and he was recently promoted in his customer service role at a high-end retail company. But he said the 19 months he spent in prison is not quite behind him. Hearing the sound of keys jangling, he said, drives him into a panic. Tahj Graham with his girlfriend, Isha Williams, at home in Mansfield, Texas, on Sunday.Allison V. Smith for NBC News“I went into that prison sentence knowing I’d done something wrong,” he said. “My punishment was that sentence, and they inflicted a whole other level of trauma that wasn’t ordered.”Graham is also not as optimistic as some of the other currently and formerly incarcerated trans men about the possibility of change in the prison system — at least not in Texas. “It’s going to take time and attention and somebody giving a damn for the transgender population to be properly handled,” he said. “And that’s nobody” at the Texas Department of Criminal Justice.Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Former D.C. Guard official accuses Army generals of lying to Congress about Jan. 6 response. WASHINGTON — A former D.C. National Guard official has accused two Army generals of lying under oath in congressional testimony about the military's response to the Jan. 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol.The officer, Col. Earl Matthews, wrote in a 36-page memo to the House committee investigating the attack that Gen. Charles Flynn, who was the deputy chief of staff for operations on Jan. 6, and Lt. Gen. Walter Piatt, the director of the Army staff, "repeatedly misrepresented, understated, or misled" the House Oversight Committee and the Defense Department's inspector general.Matthews, who on Jan. 6 was the top attorney to Maj. Gen. William Walker, then the commanding general of the D.C. National Guard, alleged that Piatt misled Congress about the guard's "capability, readiness and motivation" to respond on the afternoon of the riot.D.C. National Guard commander discusses 'unusual' delay for approval to help during Capitol riotMarch 3, 202103:21Matthews also alleged that the generals "falsely claimed" that the National Guard didn't have the training and the resources to shift quickly from traffic control to civil disturbance operations, and he said they were "absolute and unmitigated liars" for their characterization of events."Flynn falsely stated that the Army Staff (which is supposed to be running the global operations of the U.S. Army) had to devote 30 to 40 officers and non-commissioned officers to get 154 ill-prepared DC Guardsmen to Capitol Hill," Matthews wrote in his memo. "This assertion constituted the willful deception of Congress. It is not just imprecision, it is lying. Senior Army officers lied about little stuff."Matthews' memo was first reported by Politico. Flynn and Piatt didn't respond to messages from Politico seeking comment.Army spokesperson Mike Brady told NBC News that the Army's "actions on January 6th have been well-documented and reported on, and Gen. Flynn and Lt. Gen. Piatt have been open, honest and thorough in their sworn testimony with Congress and DOD investigators.""As the Inspector General concluded, actions taken 'were appropriate, supported by requirements, consistent with the DOD's roles and responsibilities for DSCA, and compliant with laws, regulations, and other applicable guidance," Brady said in the statement, referring to Defense Support of Civil Authorities. "We stand by all testimony and facts provided to date, and vigorously reject any allegations to the contrary. However, with the January 6th Commission's investigation still ongoing, it would be inappropriate to comment further."Matthews said in his memo that the statements "contributed to the deficiencies" in the Pentagon inspector general's report.For example, the inspector general's report said Ryan McCarthy, then the secretary of the Army, was on a key call at 2:30 p.m. on Jan. 6 with Walker and other participants, including the chiefs of the Capitol Police and Washington's Metropolitan Police Department. The report, Matthews said, claims that McCarthy spoke for about five minutes on the call when, in reality, he was unavailable because he had gone to meet with acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller.Despite the pleas of Steven Sund, the Capitol police chief at the time, Piatt said on the call that he wouldn't advise McCarthy to deploy the D.C. National Guard to the Capitol at that time, Matthews wrote. Piatt said in the phone call that "the presence of uniformed military personnel could inflame the situation and that the police were best suited to handle the situation," Matthews wrote.RecommendedPolitics NewsPolitics NewsGOP Rep. Devin Nunes to leave Congress to lead new Trump media companyPolitics NewsPolitics NewsDavid Perdue joins Georgia governor's race, setting up GOP showdown with Kemp"Piatt and Flynn stated that the optics of having uniformed military personnel deployed to the U.S. Capitol would not be good," he continued.The senior Army leaders instead recommended using guard members to relieve D.C. police officers of traffic duties to allow more of them to aid in the Capitol response.The generals have denied that they said the guard shouldn't be deployed to the Capitol.Piatt wrote in response to a written question from House Oversight Committee Chair Carolyn Maloney, D-N.Y., in June, "At no point on January 6 did I tell anyone that the D.C. National Guard should not deploy directly to the Capitol."Flynn, the brother of Michael Flynn, who was briefly former President Donald Trump's national security adviser, testified, "I never expressed a concern about the visuals, image, or public perception of sending the D.C. National Guard to the U.S. Capitol."Megan Reed, a spokesperson for the inspector general, defended the office's report in a statement."We stand behind the conclusions in our review of the Department of Defense's role, responsibilities, and actions to prepare for and respond to the protest and its aftermath at the U.S. Capitol campus on January 6, 2021," Reed said.CORRECTION (Dec. 6, 2021, 10:43 p.m. ET): A previous version of this article misidentified the military activities an Army spokesperson referred to in a quotation. The spokesperson was referring to Defense Support of Civil Authorities, not the Defense Security Cooperation Agency.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Four killed in plane crash minutes after takeoff from central California airport. VISALIA, Calif. — Four people were killed when a single-engine plane crashed in heavy fog minutes after takeoff from a small airport in central California, authorities said.Emergency crews responded shortly after 6:30 p.m. Saturday to reports of a crash in a field just west of Visalia Municipal Airport, according to the Tulare County Sheriff’s Office.Detectives and deputies from the Tulare County Sheriff's Office at the&nbsp;scene of the&nbsp;crash involving a small plane&nbsp;near Highway 99 in Visalia, Calif.
Joshua Yeager / Visalia Times-Delta via USA Today NetworkSheriff’s Sgt. Jesse Cox told reporters it took first responders some time to locate the wreckage because of darkness and dense fog.There were four people aboard the Beechcraft Bonanza, according to the Federal Aviation Administration. Four people were killed in the crash, Cox said. The victims were not immediately identified.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news'I didn't know how to say no': Ghislaine Maxwell accuser testifies in courtU.S. newsU.S. newsColorado sheriff's office slammed for post of Santa getting concealed handgun permitAround four minutes elapsed between takeoff and the first 911 call, Cox said. It wasn’t immediately known where the plane was headed.The FAA and the National Transportation Safety Board will investigate.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Hundreds rally in support of trans student outed in a bitter election. Hundreds of residents in Hastings, Minnesota, took to the streets over the weekend to rally in support of LGBTQ youth after an official’s transgender child was publicly outed. The demonstrations in support of the child come after Concerned Parents of Hastings, a Facebook group for conservative parents, publicly outed Kit, 8, in the wake of a bitter school board election, KARE-TV, an NBC affiliate based in Minnesota, reported. The child’s mother, Kelsey Waits, was running for re-election to the town school board in November when opponents of her campaign outed her child, who is nonbinary and uses gender-neutral pronouns. In light of the rally, Waits said she is proud that the community is denouncing the harassment. “Seeing so many people rally behind a child is particularly meaningful. … It meant a lot to [Kit],” Waits told NBC News on Monday. “It was amazing. I would not have expected almost a thousand people to come out for my kid.”The rally highlighted dozens of LGBTQ speakers, groups and elected officials who rallied in support of transgender children. This comes as transgender youth face a wave of anti-trans bills limiting their participation in school sports and use of bathrooms and locker rooms that align with their gender identity.In a tweet on Saturday, Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz voiced his support for the Waits family. “Everyone deserves to live in a state that values them for who they are — especially our kids,” Walz, a Democrat, wrote.One of the participants at the rally, Ren Olive, a 30-year-old transgender person, said they want Kit to continue being themself even in the face of transphobic bullying. “My message to Kit is to don’t give up,” Olive told KARE-TV. “We’re here, we’re loud, we’re queer and we have your back.”Before her child’s gender identity was publicly disclosed, Waits said her family “spent years trying to be incredibly private.” Following the incident, Kit has been misgendered by classmates and is experiencing more anxiety and fear, Waits said in a statement. Waits said this is the latest in a string of harassment facing the family. She hopes the demonstrations can hold the harassers accountable and prevent future incidents. “If we moved away and didn’t say anything, the bullies would have won,” Waits said. “What does that teach? That teaches that they can do all of these things and that there are no repercussions and that no one is going to push back against them, and that just makes them bully harder for the next person.”RecommendedNYC Terrorist AttackNYC Terrorist AttackMan threatened to shoot up New York City Pride March, officials sayOUT NewsOUT NewsDictionary.com anoints allyship word of the year for 2021One of the administrators of the Concerned Parents of Hastings Facebook group issued a statement on Tuesday denying that they harassed the family. “Many members were confused about why they were mentioned in relation to the harassment that the Waits family had received in this town,” the administrator wrote in a Facebook post,  according to a photo Waits shared with NBC News. “Many of them said they had no idea Kelsey has a transgender child, let alone bullied her or her child.” The administrator added that the controversy stems from Wait’s position on the school board. “The only reason Kelsey’s parental decision was a concern to the members was because she was not just an average mom, but someone who was running for a position where she would be in charge of making decisions for other parents’ children,” the administrator wrote in the same post. “Most parents in the group believe that a child needs to be mature enough to make life-altering decisions.” Following the demonstrations, Waits said residents are reckoning with the community’s lack of action on this issue. “It’s woken a lot of people up to their silence,” she said. “A lot of leaders in the community were aware of what was happening and did not say anything because they didn’t want it to impact them. Now they are seeing the damage that silence can cause.” While it’s unclear whether Waits will seek legal action, she is weighing her options with the support of the Minnesota-based advocacy group Gender Justice. As a result of the alleged harassment, Waits said her family is fleeing the city. “We need to keep this work moving forward in this community for everyone who does not have the option to leave,” Waits said. “This was the final event for us, but really this neighborhood, this house, there is a lot of trauma here. A lot of negativity has been brought into our home, and we need a fresh start for our own mental health.” Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Dictionary.com anoints allyship word of the year for 2021. Allyship, an old noun made new again, is Dictionary.com’s word of the year.The look up site with 70 million monthly users took the unusual step of anointing a word it added just last month, though “allyship” first surfaced in the mid-1800s, said one of the company’s content overseers, John Kelly.“It might be a surprising choice for some,” he told The Associated Press ahead of Tuesday’s unveiling. “In the past few decades, the term has evolved to take on a more nuanced and specific meaning. It is continuing to evolve and we saw that in many ways.”The site offers two definitions for allyship: The role of a person who advocates for inclusion of a “marginalized or politicized group” in solidarity but not as a member, and the more traditional relationship of “persons, groups or nations associating and cooperating with one another for a common cause or purpose.”The word is set apart from “alliance,” which Dictionary.com defines in one sense as a “merging of efforts or interests by persons, families, states or organizations.”It’s the first definition that took off most recently in the mid-2000s and has continued to churn. Following the summer of 2020 and the death of George Floyd, white allies — and the word allyship — proliferated as racial justice demonstrations spread. Before that, straight allies joined the causes of LGBTQ oppression, discrimination and marginalization.“This year, we saw a lot of businesses and organizations very prominently, publicly, beginning efforts to promote diversity, equity and inclusion. Allyship is tied to that. In the classroom, there is a flashpoint around the term critical race theory. Allyship connects with this as well,” Kelly said.In addition, teachers, frontline workers and mothers who juggled jobs, home duties and child care in lockdown gained allies as the pandemic took hold last year.Without an entry for “allyship,” Kelly said the site saw a steep rise in lookups for “ally” in 2020 and large spikes in 2021. It was in the top 850 searches out of thousands and thousands of words this year. Dictionary.com broadened the definition of “ally” to include the more nuanced meaning. The terms “DEI” and “critical race theory” made their debuts as entries on the site with “allyship” this year.What it means to be an authentic ally has taken on fresh significance as buzz around the word has grown louder. One of the aspects of allyship, as it has emerged, is how badly it can go.Among the example’s of how to use the word in a sentence cited by Merriam-Webster is this one written by Native activist Hallie Sebastian: “Poor allyship is speaking over marginalized people by taking credit and receiving recognition for arguments that the unprivileged have been making for their entire lives.”RecommendedNYC Terrorist AttackNYC Terrorist AttackMan threatened to shoot up New York City Pride March, officials sayOUT NewsOUT NewsHundreds rally in support of trans student outed in a bitter electionAs global diversity, equity and inclusion executive Sheree Atcheson wrote in Forbes, allyship is a “lifelong process of building relationships based on trust, consistency and accountability with marginalized individuals and/or groups of people.” It’s not, she said, “self-defined — work and efforts must be recognized by those you are seeking to ally with.”Allyship should be an “opportunity to grow and learn about ourselves, whilst building confidence in others,” Atcheson added.Among the earliest evidence of the word “allyship,” in its original sense of “alliance,” is the 1849, two-volume work, “The Lord of the Manor, or, Lights and Shades of Country Life” by British novelist Thomas Hall: “Under these considerations, it is possible, he might have heard of Miss Clough’s allyship with the Lady Bourgoin.”Kelly did some additional digging into the history of allyship in its social justice sense. While the Oxford English Dictionary dates that use of the word to the 1970s, Kelly found a text, “The Allies of the Negro” by Albert W. Hamilton, published in 1943. It discusses extensively the potential allies of Black people in the struggle for racial equality:“What some white liberals are beginning to realize is that they better begin to seek the Negro as an ally,” he wrote. “The new way of life sought by the liberal will be a sham without the racial equality the Negro seeks. And the inclusion of the Negro in the day-to-day work, in the organization, the leadership and the rallying of the support necessary to win a better world, can only be done on the basis of equality.”On the other side of allyship, Kelly said, “is a feeling of division, of polarization. That was Jan. 6.” Allyship, he said, became a powerful prism in terms of the dichotomy at a chaotic cultural time during the last two years.Other dictionary companies in the word of the year game focused on the pandemic and its fallout for their picks. Oxford Languages, which oversees the Oxford English Dictionary, went for “vax” and Merriam-Webster chose “vaccine.” The Glasgow, Scotland-based Collins Dictionary, meanwhile, plucked “NFT,” the digital tokens that sell for millions.While Merriam-Webster relies solely on site search data to choose a word of the year, Dictionary.com takes a broader approach. It scours search engines, a broad range of text and taps into cultural influences to choose its word of the year.Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & Instagram Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Acceptance significantly reduces suicide risk for intersex youths, report finds. LGBTQ youths who are also intersex — an umbrella term that describes those whose reproductive or sexual anatomy does not fit the typical definitions of “male” or “female” — have a higher risk of suicide when compared to LGBTQ youths who are not intersex, according to a new report.But researchers say there is hope, because the data also show that one thing can help significantly reduce the risk: acceptance.The Trevor Project, a national youth suicide prevention and crisis intervention group, released the research Friday in a report that explores the mental health and well-being of intersex LGBTQ youths.It found that the intersex respondents face disproportionately high rates of mental health challenges. For example, 48 percent of LGBTQ intersex youths surveyed as part of the Trevor Project’s 2021 National Survey on LGBTQ Youth Mental Health reported that they seriously considered suicide in the previous 12 months, compared to 41 percent of LGBTQ youths who are not intersex. Nearly one-fifth (19 percent) of LGBTQ intersex youths reported that they had attempted suicide in the previous 12 months, compared to 14 percent of LGBTQ youths who are not intersex. That rate was even higher for younger LGBTQ intersex youths: Nearly 1 in 4 (24 percent) youths 13 to 17 years old reported having attempted suicide in the previous 12 months, compared to 14 percent of LGBTQ intersex youth ages 18 to 24. “We already know that the rates of mental health challenges are higher for LGBTQ youth compared to cisgender, straight youth, so when we compare intersex youth to the already high rates among LGBTQ youth, we know that they’re increasingly high,” said Myeshia Price, a senior research scientist at the Trevor Project.The research found that there are a few risk factors for poor mental health among LGBTQ intersex youths. For example, 18 percent reported having been subjected to conversion therapy, a discredited practice that seeks to change someone’s sexual orientation or gender identity, with 12 percent reporting that the efforts were aimed at changing their gender identities.LGBTQ intersex youths who said someone had tried to persuade them to change their sexual orientations or gender identities reported more than twice the rate of previous-year suicide attempts (22 percent) compared to intersex youths who did not (9 percent).The report noted, however, that the recommended “treatment” for intersex people often includes medical procedures and socialization from a young age that could be considered conversion therapy.“For intersex people, this may happen in such a systemic way, involving every person in the youth’s life, and starting from birth, that intersex youth may not even be aware that it is happening,” the report says. “This may lead intersex youth to under-report their experiences with conversion therapy and other change efforts by adults in their lives.”In response to activism by intersex people, some doctors have recently started re-evaluating standard medical protocol, which has historically included surgery and hormonal therapy to change intersex youths’ appearances. Robert H. Lurie Children’s Hospital of Chicago, Lurie Children’s Hospital in Boston and New York City Health + Hospitals announced this year that they would stop performing some intersex surgery on children.     Price said part of the reason the Trevor Project focused the research on mental health is that intersex youths are often medicalized from birth and that as a result most of the available research focuses on how medical procedures affect them.“I think it’s important to understand that intersex youth are so much more than their bodies,” Price said. “By understanding them as individuals and as people we believe that this report gives more attention to things that may be more important to them than the sort of medicalized approach to looking at who they are.”The report found that other risk factors for poor mental health include discrimination, housing instability and food insecurity. More LGBTQ intersex youths reported having experienced discrimination based on their sexual orientation or gender identities (64 percent) in the previous year compared to LGBTQ youth who are not intersex (59 percent). Those who reported having experienced discrimination reported twice the rate of attempting suicide (22 percent) compared to LGBTQ intersex youth who had not experienced it (11 percent).More LGBTQ intersex youths reported having faced food insecurities in the previous year and/or homelessness, including from being kicked out or having run away, when compared to LGBTQ youths who are not intersex. Those who reported food insecurities and/or homelessness reported nearly three times the rate of previous-year suicide attempts, at 30 percent and 34 percent, respectively, compared to those who did not report food insecurities or facing homelessness, at 12 percent and 10 percent.The report recommends policies, both in schools and for government-issued identification, that are not built on the sex or gender binary of male and female, because both intersex and many transgender youths do not fit into those categories. “We talk about gendered bathrooms and locker rooms and the sports-participation binary and documents that only allow for male or female sex or markers, and these are all sort of inherently excluding the reality that intersex people exist in the first place,” Price said. Sports policies that allow anyone to participate, gender-neutral bathrooms and inclusive sex-education curriculums that recognize intersex people signal to youths “that we see you, we know you’re here and we accept you for who you are,” Price said. Price added that the report offers hope, because it found that acceptance and affirmation significantly reduce the risk of suicide for LGBTQ intersex youths. Those who had at least one parent who was accepting of their sexual orientations or gender identities had 55 percent and 45 percent lower odds, respectively, of having attempted suicide in the previous year. Transgender and nonbinary intersex youths whose pronouns were respected by all of the people they live with had 64 percent lower odds of reporting suicide attempts. “The best thing that we could do for intersex youth is to be accepting and provide that protective and supportive environment for them,” she said.Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & Instagram Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Racial pay gaps are an issue in every industry. Nowhere is it worse than in influencer marketing, a new study says. . A study published Monday suggests that Black content creators make significantly less money than their white counterparts.The report, titled “Time to Face the Influencer Pay Gap,” looked at issues of annual income, size of followings, the amounts influencers were offered for deals and more. It was published by the public relations firm MSL U.S. in partnership with The Influencer League, an influencer education organization. The research tapped into more than 400 U.S.-based influencers on a wide range of platforms, according to a news release. Participants were ask to report their follower counts, race and income from brands.“Issues of systematic injustice have plagued Influencer marketing for years — and been largely ignored for far too long,” Diana Littman, the CEO of MSL U.S., said in a statement. “Our research shines a spotlight on the present state of influencer marketing and charts the path forward for both the agency and our industry."Influencing is still the Wild West of the marketing world, where regulations are almost nonexistent and algorithms, sometimes created with inherent biases that engineers might be blind to, can make or break a career.Even after platforms acknowledged that their algorithms had inherent biases and worked to fix them, Black creators say they still feel they have to work twice as hard as their white counterparts.The study found that the pay gap between white influencers and influencers who are Black, Indigenous or other people of color is 29 percent. When the research focused specifically on white and Black influencers, the margin widened to 35 percent. About 77 percent of Black influencers fall into the "nano" or "micro" influencers category because their followings are less than 50,000, the study said. About 59 percent of white influencers fall into that category.The average annual compensation for nano and micro influencers is about $27,000, the study found. While Black influencers make up a significant proportion of the micro and nano influencer tier, only 23 percent are considered part of the "macro" influencer sphere, meaning they have more than 50,000 followers, the study reported. Forty-one percent of white influencers were found to be in the macro category.Average annual earnings for macro influencer are upward of $100,000, the study reported. Nearly half of Black influencers in the survey said their race contributes to marketing offers that are below market value. Fifty-nine percent of Black influencers said talking about issues of race negatively affected their incomes, but only 14 percent of white creators said the same. "The gap this study uncovered in influencer marketing vastly overshadows the gaps in any other industry," D’Anthony Jackson, a digital and influencer strategist at MSL, said in a statement. "The gap this study uncovered in influencer marketing vastly overshadows the gaps in any other industry.”At the close of the study, researchers offered three suggestions to make the influencer marketing industry more equitable: bridging the pay gap through initiatives like sponsorship and education; boosting pay transparency, to which end MSL U.S. said it commits to develop and release an influencer pay index; and advocating for creators of color to help restructure marketing.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Morgan Wallen's country music redemption arc is a sad sign of the times. Less than a year after a video went viral of country singer Morgan Wallen repeatedly shouting a racial slur, he’s announced an eight-month, sure-to-sell-out cross-country tour. As a country music fan, I’m disappointed. But I wish I could say I'm also surprised.As a country music fan, I’m disappointed. But I wish I could say I was also surprised.After the leaked video of Wallen hit TMZ, the country music machine acted uncharacteristically swiftly. For a genre steeped in a history of racism, confederate flags and good ol’ boy sensibilities, country music collectively decided that the N-word was a step too far. Within days, Wallen was scrubbed from radio stations, erased from streaming playlists, dropped by his booking agent, suspended from his label, and declared ineligible for the Academy of Country Music Awards.For a moment, it seemed like the industry might be interested in doing the hard but important work of addressing the structures and attitudes that have long enabled racism, both overt and subtle. For a moment there was hope that country music might try to be an inclusive musical community. But what could have been an opportunity for soul-searching for one of Americans’ favorite genres has mostly dissipated, overshadowed, arguably, by the personal redemption story of Morgan Wallen.Morgan Wallen to return as ‘SNL’ musical guest after breaking protocols in OctoberDec. 5, 202001:17From its origins, country music has long defined itself as white. In the 1920s, the commercial recording industry segregated Southern music, a genre that at the time was liked and played by white and Black folk alike. The industry instead decided to define “Black music” as race music, and “white music” as old-time or hillbilly music. As the decades went by, country music continued to double down on white identity, eventually interweaving it with “God Bless the USA” patriotism that led to the canceling of The Chicks (then The Dixie Chicks) in 2003.When it comes to opportunities for artists who are anything other than male and white, the game is still mostly rigged. One study showed that from 2000 to 2020, only 3.2 percent of artists signed to major country labels were artists of color, and only 2.3 percent of radio airtime was devoted to music by artists of color. Look no further than the day’s Top 10 country songs on Apple Music to see how that plays out. On the day this article was written, nine of the songs on the list are sung by white men (with one song by Taylor Swift, and Carrie Underwood pitching in on a duet). Three of the Top 10 songs are sung by one man: Morgan Wallen.RelatedOpinionOpinionCountry music radio has ignored women for years — and we have the data to prove itIn February, before the TMZ video, Wallen was also top of the charts. His newly released second album, “Dangerous: The Double Album,” had been sitting pretty at No. 1 since landing the month prior. After the video became public, the popularity of “Dangerous” soared, and within a couple of days sales skyrocketed more than 500 percent.“Dangerous” went on to be one of the biggest albums of 2021 — in any genre. Meanwhile, those within country music criticized Wallen’s use of racist language but split into factions about what it said about their business: Some, like artist Kelsea Ballerini, tweeted that Wallen’s words did “not represent country music” (she has since backtracked on that tweet, calling it a “misstep” and the situation with Wallen an opportunity to educate herself about racism in the industry). Others, like Mickey Guyton, one of the genre’s few mainstream Black artists, had a different take. “When I read comments saying ‘this is not who we are' I laugh because this is exactly who country music is,” Guyton tweeted.When I read comments saying “this is not who we are” I laugh because this is exactly who country music is. I’ve witnessed it for 10 gd years. You guys should just read some of the vile comments hurled at me on a daily basis. It’s a cold hard truth to face but it is the truth. pic.twitter.com/l3h18Z1ARU— Mickey Guyton (@MickeyGuyton) February 3, 2021 Initially, Wallen did apologize, go to rehab, and swear that redemption was possible — or at least, remorse. He says he also gave $500,000 to Black-led groups (but that figure is now under scrutiny). But quietly, and rather quickly, country music welcomed Wallen back into the club. By May, the Country Music Association, one of the genre’s most powerful forces, decided that while Wallen would not be allowed to attend its awards’ ceremony in November, he would still be eligible for nomination (and nominated he was). By June, most radio stations were playing his music again. In July, Wallen was interviewed by Michael Strahan on ABC's “Good Morning America,” sounding very much like a guy sorry he was caught, not sorry for what he did.“I was around some of my friends, and we say dumb stuff together,” Wallen told Strahan. Adding, “In our minds it’s playful.” When Strahan asked Wallen if he thought country music had a race problem Wallen replied, “I haven’t really sat and thought about that.”RecommendedOpinionOpinionThe risk in relying on new Covid pillsOpinionOpinionMedia doesn't have a 'liberal bias.' It has a money-making bias.Clearly.RelatedOpinionOpinionCountry music has a race problem. And a woman problem. This Grammy nominee proves it.Wallen’s lack of introspection is far from the only issue here. As Guyton said, “this is exactly who country music is.” Guyton, whose music firmly expresses her identity with songs like “Black Like Me,” has not been supported by country radio. The relative success of other Black country artists — like Jimmie Allen and Kane Brown — is an exception, not a marker of significant industry change. Darius Rucker, one of the highest-profile Black country artists out there right now, has spoken openly about his own struggles to fit in with the country faithful. “Hate mail is part of my life,” he told The Wall Street Journal. “People don’t want me to be singing country music.”Making inroads along the backroads of mainstream country is challenging, but the good news is that many organizations and people (particularly Black women) are committed to blazing new, more inclusive trails. Artist Rissi Palmer runs the podcast “Color Me Country,” where she highlights underrepresented voices in the genre. Journalist Andrea Williams has tirelessly reported about racism in the industry for years.Organizations like Black Opry, Country Any|Way, and Color of Change are fighting to make country more inclusive for artists who are not just white and straight and male. “The CMA is making itself complicit in an industry that habitually devalues and dehumanizes Black people and our extensive contributions to country music,” Color of Change wrote recently, also taking to task the CMA’s all-white board, and criteria that upholds systems exclusionary to both women and people of color. That Jimmie Allen won New Artist of the Year at this year’s CMAs, only the second Black artist to do so, is great — but as Williams tweeted, “Very not surprised that the CMA sees the Blackening of its Awards stage as a marker of real progress, when they coulda drawn a hard line on the N-word and didn’t do that.”RelatedOpinionOpinionWe want to hear what you THINK. Please submit a letter to the editor.As Wallen prepares to head back on tour, his redemptive arc appears to be, at least in the eyes of the country music establishment, complete. He’s done his time, said he’s sorry, and now his show can go on. The conversation is focused on Wallen’s achievements — what he learned, where he’ll be playing, if he’s changed. Country music was given a real, obvious chance to grow, to welcome new voices, to draw a hard line on racism and discrimination. Instead, it allowed the status quo to triumph, driven by the desires of a hard-line, conservative base that relishes what Wallen seemingly represents.So, does country music have a race problem? It’s looking like the powers that be “haven’t really sat and thought about that.” And they don’t want to any time soon.Subscribe to the THINK newsletterReTHINK the news cycle with timely op-eds, in-depth analyses and personal essays delivered weekly to your inbox.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Lewis Hamilton could make history in riveting F1 season finale. Grand Prix racing, the world's pre-eminent motorsport, is potentially headed for an extraordinary moment: The last Formula 1 race of 2021 could firmly establish Lewis Hamilton as the greatest competitive driver of all time.On Sunday, Hamilton, the British star of team Mercedes-AMG Petronas, won the Saudi Arabian Grand Prix, tying Red Bull Racing Honda's Max Verstappen in championship points for the season and setting up a tiebreaker for the ages at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix on Sunday, Dec. 12.Formula 1 said that, even though the two are tied on points, Verstappen "technically maintains the lead" because he has one more victory this season than Hamilton. Nonetheless, the driver who finishes faster next week will in all likelihood take the 2021 championship.With a victory, Hamilton would surpass Michael Schumacher, the retired German legend, when it comes to world titles. Both have seven. Verstappen has never won the title.Hamilton has also made headlines off-track in the last few years, speaking out about human rights, gender inequality, racism and homophobia. He received a knighthood as part of Queen Elizabeth II's New Year's honors list for 2021.However, his presence in Saudi Arabia has sparked criticism, with the human rights group Amnesty International accusing the country of using the Grand Prix as a "PR stunt" to "deflect attention from its brutal crackdown on activists and human rights defenders.”For his part, Hamilton said at a news conference ahead of Sunday’s race that he felt “duty-bound” to raise concerns about Saudi Arabia’s record on human rights. “The sport has taken a choice to be here,” he said. “And whether it’s right or wrong, while we are here, it’s important we do try to raise awareness.”In the days ahead of November’s Qatar Grand Prix, Hamilton also announced that he would wear an LGBTQ flag on his helmet to highlight human rights in a country where homosexuality is illegal.Jean Todt, president of the Fédération Internationale de l’Automobile, Formula 1’s governing body, told CNBC in remarks that aired Friday that it isn’t FIA’s role to “get involved with political issues." He said he believed that being in Saudi Arabia, despite its record, encourages dialogue. Bahrain protests ahead of Formula One raceApril 17, 201300:44 Hamilton won Sunday despite facing sometimes chaotic race conditions. His car and Verstappen's made contact during the race, and Verstappen was later penalized."I’ve been racing a long time, but that was definitely, that was incredibly tough," Hamilton said after the race.It was Hamilton's third win in a row, a streak that has given him momentum despite Verstappen's tying the Formula 1 record for most podium (first-, second- or third-place) finishes in a season. Verstappen took the championship points lead in May with a win in Monaco. On Sunday he finished second.Red Bull has also fallen behind Mercedes, by 28 points, for the annual constructors' title, given to the top team.Hamilton told trackside reporters Sunday that he planned to keep his head down and focus on winning in Abu Dhabi. Lewis Hamilton prepares to drive at the F1 Grand Prix on Sunday in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.Lars Baron / Getty ImagesYet two drivers being tied for the world title with only one race to go in the season has happened only once before in Formula 1 history, when Emerson Fittipaldi emerged victorious over Clay Regazzoni after the last flag of 1974 dropped.Hamilton already has the most Grand Prix wins, 103 to Schumacher's 91, as recognized by Guinness World Records. But at 36, Hamilton, from Stevenage, England, is more than 10 years older than the sport's freshman drivers. When Hamilton started in the 2000s, he competed against Schumacher. Today he races against the German's son, Mick, who drives for Haas.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news'I didn't know how to say no': Ghislaine Maxwell accuser testifies in courtU.S. newsU.S. newsColorado sheriff's office slammed for post of Santa getting concealed handgun permitIt seems clear Hamilton has been thinking about his legacy, particularly because when he became the youngest driver to win a world championship, in 2008, he was Formula 1's first and only Black driver.Today he still is.After taking note of the sport's lack of diversity, particularly among drivers, Hamilton launched the Hamilton Commission in 2020 to address barriers to motorsport for people of color.That year, amid global protests over the murder of George Floyd by police, he became an outspoken supporter of Black Lives Matter. At the Austrian Grand Prix that year he took a knee in a Black Lives Matter T-shirt. Most of his fellow drivers joined him.As part of his contract with the Mercedes team, Hamilton ensured the organization would invest in his support of diversity and inclusion for motorsport.His concerns are coming from a personal place. There were times when he was a child, competing in karting, when he and his father faced racial epithets at tracks.Lewis Hamilton during the F1 Grand Prix of Saudi Arabia at Jeddah on Sunday. Lars Baron / Getty ImagesGo-cart startWhen he was a 10-year-old karting champ, Hamilton, whose father got him a go-cart and helped him hone his skills at an early age after recognizing his passion for the sport, met Ron Dennis, a top Formula 1 team boss at the time. Three years later Dennis pledged to support Hamilton's racing career so long as he continued to go to school in earnest.It's that kind of support that Hamilton wants to create for others."Being the first Black anything is a proud and lonely walk," he told Gayle King of CBS "This Morning" in late 2020. "We were always the only Black family on the scene."At the height of his career, Hamilton said, "I realized that that has barely shifted" as he vowed to focus on creating new opportunities in a sport that has historically developed its talent with the help of households that could afford constant travel, expensive gear and personal trainers. "There's been an awakening and an opportunity to use your voice," he told King.On Friday the Hollywood Reporter said a bidding war had erupted over a motorsport-related project involving some of the industry's biggest names as well as, possibly, Hamilton's.Asked last year by King if he's pondered retirement, the racer said, "I love doing what I’m doing, and honestly winning this seventh world title is an incredible thing, but I think we’ve still not won this fight for racial equality."The athlete with a global fan base and a highly ranked income has become the face of a sport that is trying to rekindle its relationship with American motorsport fans while also expanding its fan base in the Middle East.Lewis Hamilton has used his status as Formula 1's lone black driver to raise awareness on the need to diversity the sport.Bryn Lennon  / Formula 1 via Getty ImagesFormula 1 returned to the United States in 2012 after a five year absence by launching the U.S. Grand Prix at the Circuit of the Americas in Austin, Texas.In the last two years, Formula 1 has allowed Netflix viewers inside some of those racing teams that each spend hundreds of millions of dollars a year on drivers, engineering, equipment, and marketing.The show, "Formula 1: Drive to Survive," has been popular with racing fans, and The New York Times said it has "ignited" the sport. Sports business guru Joe Pompliano tweeted Sunday that it's got nothing on the Grand Prix season's spectacular ending."Netflix is great … ," he said. "But Lewis Hamilton and Max Verstappen being tied for the World Drivers Championship with just one race to go is the best marketing for Formula 1 in years."Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Kal Penn to produce, star in biopic of beloved NBA Hall of Fame ‘superfan’. Actor Kal Penn announced he’ll produce and star in a biopic about Toronto Raptors superfan Nav Bhatia.“Superfan,” the upcoming film by Stampede Ventures, will chronicle the story of Bhatia, played by Penn, who began going to Raptors games in 1995 and went to every single home game until the coronavirus pandemic in 2020. “His story of perseverance & unity is incredible, & I’m super excited to bring his super fan story to the (super?) big screen,” Penn tweeted. Kal Penn talks engagement to partner of 11 years, new bookNov. 1, 202106:08Bhatia, a local celebrity in Toronto, became the first fan to be inducted into the NBA Hall Of Fame this year and the first fan to be awarded a championship ring. “I went to every game. I cheered the most. Everyone noticed this turbaned guy,” he said in a 2014 TEDtalk.“I’m speechless. To have the opportunity to continue to tell my story with such esteemed producers is a dream. Then to find out Kal Penn has been brought on to play me is even more surreal,” Bhatia told Deadline.Bhatia, who is Sikh, grew up in India and later immigrated to Canada. Despite his mechanical engineering degree, Bhatia told CTV News he “couldn’t get a job because of the turban and beard.”He eventually found work as a car salesman, going on to become one of the most successful salesmen and dealership owners in Canada. During his TEDtalk, Bhatia said he endured racial slurs and even had employees resign when he entered management.Basketball became a passion for him and he now spends more than $300,000 a year to allow underprivileged children from across Canada to attend Raptors games. “I want these kids to integrate with each other during the young age so they don’t have to go through what I went through 30 years ago and it’s working,” he said during the TEDtalk.He also funds and organizes two Raptors home games each season to “change the perception of Sikhs in the mainstream” — one that celebrates Diwali and another that celebrates Vaisakhi (the Sikh New Year), giving many Canadians an opportunity to celebrate together. “I’ve been researching and following Nav’s incredible story ever since I saw him at a Raptors game the year we started filming "Designated Survivor" in Toronto,” Penn told Deadline. “The crowd loves him — to see what a source of pride he is for Canadians — and all basketball fans, really — makes me smile. His story is one of unity, which I’m especially excited and proud to bring to life.”Penn is an actor known for his roles in the “Harold & Kumar” franchise, “How I Met Your Mother” and “House.” He recently published his memoir, “You Can’t Be Serious,” in which he detailed his life and announced his engagement with his partner of 11 years. He was also a former White House staff member in the Obama administration for two years.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Harvard adds caste bias protections for graduate student workers . Harvard University is the latest U.S. school to add measures protecting caste-oppressed students following a push from graduate workers and a national organization. Since March, South Asian graduate student organizers have tried to point out to the university's administration what they say is a real problem on campuses across the U.S.: discrimination based on the Hindu caste system. Those born into lower castes, known as Dalits in India's deeply rooted hierarchies, have faced violence and oppression on the subcontinent for thousands of years. Though the system is now illegal in India, its impact is still far-reaching and can manifest themselves in a lack of social and economic mobility. With the increase in South Asian immigration to the U.S. since the 1980s and '90s, the hierarchies have been carried overseas. Twenty-five percent of Dalits in the U.S. report having faced verbal or physical assault, according to research by Equality Labs, an organization dedicated to ending white supremacy and casteism. One in 3 Dalit students also reported experiencing prejudice that affected their education, the study found. Students trying to combat this on their campuses say they run into barriers in the process, particularly a sheer lack of knowledge among administrators.Aparna Gopalan, a South Indian doctoral student at Harvard and a member of the Graduate Student Union, has been part of negotiations since March to add more protected classes to the union’s contract. She says she found herself in board rooms filled with white administrators who had no foundational grasp of the caste system. “They had no idea what caste was,” Gopalan said. “I don’t think they really understood. At one point, they asked, ‘Why isn’t caste just protected under nationality?’ and I was flabbergasted. We were operating on a very basic level.”But after months of talks between the union and the administration, as well support from Equality Labs, the Graduate Student Union's contract was ratified this week and caste was added as the only new protected category.Harvard declined to comment other than confirming the contract has been ratified. Gopalan said that after the provision was approved, Dalit students began to come forward with their own experiences of discrimination, including by South Asian supervisors and instructors who would give their work less attention than that of upper caste students. Slurs and microaggressions from other students were also common. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news'I didn't know how to say no': Ghislaine Maxwell accuser testifies in courtU.S. newsU.S. newsColorado sheriff's office slammed for post of Santa getting concealed handgun permit“We need for every student covered under this contract to be aware that this is even in there,” Gopalan said. “No one can come forward if they aren’t explicitly aware that this is protected.” Slurs are just the beginning of what Dalit students across the country have experienced on campus, said Thenmozhi Soundararajan, executive director of Equality Labs. The longtime Dalit rights activist has advocated for young people facing sexual harassment, housing discrimination, diminished opportunities and physical assaults. "This important step recognizes first that we, too, exist at Harvard and that our experiences matter," said Raj Muthu, a Dalit Harvard alum and a member of Equality Labs' coalition. "As an alumni, I have certainly witnessed expressions of disdain and hostility directed towards members of oppressed castes, students and faculty."Dalits on campus might also feel like they don't belong in South Asian circles that are heavily pervaded with casteism or dominated by upper caste students. "Overall as a student from a caste-oppressed community, there is a deep sense of alienation and not belonging in South Asian settings," he said. "It’s a very isolating experience because as immigrants we try to seek refuge in our own ethnic communities."But progress may be on the horizon. Through Equality Labs, Soundararajan has supported student bodies as they push their administrations to protect the caste-oppressed among them. Harvard is only the latest to add a measure, with the University of California, Davis, and Colby College both taking similar steps in the last few months. “These aren’t overnight wins,” she said. “These are the results of many leaders going through the administrative process and building power toward caste equity.”She’s sure that there are more to come. “I see the change,” she said. “There hasn’t been a university that hasn’t wanted to do this.” After Black Lives Matter protests in the summer of 2020, Soundararajan said schools became much more open to inclusive language. With high profile institutions beginning to adopt caste protection into official documents, she thinks others will soon follow suit. For Gopalan, Harvard’s new contract with the union is the beginning of change, not the end. “This is just the Grad Student Union,” she said. “We would like every union to have it at Harvard. We would like the university itself, outside of just workers, to put it in their handbooks.”Those affected by caste oppression know it’s a struggle that has long been invisible to non-South Asians in the U.S. Soundararajan hopes these university-level changes can be the first steps in a broader conversation. “It makes sure that our civil rights are being respected,” she said. Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Philly teenager, victim of brutal, racially-motivated train attack, speaks out. Christina Lu, a Philadelphia high school student who was one of the victims of a brutal, racially motivated attack earlier this month, spoke out for the first time Tuesday. The 18-year-old was with a group of students on a SEPTA train, Philadelphia’s public transit, when she saw a 14-year-old freshman, who is Asian, being attacked on his way home from school. When Lu tried to intervene, the group of attackers threw her to the ground and began kicking and beating her. Police say the assailants, four teenage girls, used racial slurs during the incident. Lu gave a speech to a crowd outside a municipal building Tuesday afternoon as a crowd rallied demanding accountability from SEPTA and an end to anti-Asian hate, according to a video from CBS Philly.“You all have inspired me,” she said. “Everyone has been calling me a hero, but I am not. I’m just an ordinary girl from an ordinary family who saw people in need of help and so I tried to help.”The four girls who allegedly perpetrated the attack, all under the age of 17, were charged with aggravated assault, ethnic intimidation, criminal conspiracy, simple assault, recklessly endangering another person and disorderly conduct.The mother of one of the girls spoke to NBC10 Philadelphia anonymously, saying her daughter is 12 years old and had run away from home two weeks prior to the attack. “I was extremely hurt … I needed to meet with you guys publicly so that you know that my family is very sincerely apologetic about what happened to that child because we all pray that our children make it home safe from school,” she said.She said she tried to reach out to the families of the victims to apologize personally. A report released last year by the Stop AAPI Hate Youth Campaign revealed that one quarter of Asian American and Pacific Islander young adults have been targets of racism since the start of the pandemic. The discrimination most commonly came in the form of verbal harassment, cyberbullying and shunning, with students being followed home, coughed on and called racial slurs. “I will continue to stand up against bullying and violence and help people in need,” Lu said in her speech on Tuesday.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'The Latin American Cookbook' highlights, celebrates region's vast diversity. Putting together an entire nation’s distinctive dishes is a daunting process for anyone. Then imagine doing it for 22 countries and you get a sense of what went into creating “The Latin American Cookbook.”Just a single dish — say garlic shrimp or grilled street corn — can vary in assembly from neighborhood to neighborhood, region to region and nation to nation.“How to capture this in one dish and say, like, ‘This is the recipe’ has been one of the toughest things I’ve done in my life,” says Virgilio Martínez, a Michelin star-winning chef whose restaurants include Central in Lima, Peru.What Martínez and his collaborators have created is a beautiful and thoroughly researched book with 600 iconic recipes that offer a snapshot of the spirit of Latin American cuisine.There is a dazzling array of dishes, from sea urchins in salsa verde from Chile and a black turkey stew from Belize and Mexico, to a Venezuelan pasta casserole and Ecuadorian potato pancakes. There are recipes for several mole sauces, the classic Pisco Sour, a Dulche de Leche Thousand Layer Cake and the wonderfully named Chilean Disco Fries.The book is broken down not by nation but by ingredients, including vegetables, corn, pork, lamb and goat, roots and tubers, and fish and seafood. It celebrates such regionally distinctive ingredients as the edible flower loroco, the bluish fungus huitlacoche and unripe bananas known as guineos.Martínez and the volume’s co-writer, food and travel writer Nicholas Gill, consulted home chefs, farmers, food journalists, village elders, bakers and restaurant owners across Latin America. Martinez took what he’d learned at his Mater Iniciativa — an interdisciplinary gastronomic and cultural research organization dedicated to conserving and sharing Peru’s biodiversity — and applied it throughout Latin America.“The process was absolutely daunting,” says Gill. “The landscape stretches from the Rio Grande to the tip of Patagonia. That’s a massive swath of the Earth.”But it meant often delicious field work, from sampling hot bowls of beef soup in Bogota to downing a dish of fish and acai berry beside the Amazon River. “The Latin American Cookbook,” from Phaidon Press, is stuffed with fascinating dishes that expand the food vocabulary beyond the continent’s more famous offerings like empanadas, arepas, tamales and caipirinhas.The authors celebrate the diversity of ingredients and what makes one dish different from a sister recipe, often spotlighting its quirks and the stories behind it. While most Latin American countries do embrace common ingredients like corn and beans, the vastness is hard to simplify.“I’m from Peru, and I’m very different to a Brazilian. I mean, we have things in common. I have more in common with a Mexican than a German, right?” said Martínez. “The idea is not to try to push one Latin American identity because there are too many.”Martínez says Latin Americans tend to improvise in the kitchen, perhaps a reflection of many regions going through tough economic times, with some ingredients unavailable and others too expensive. “Improvising them, making what you can with what you have, is part of Latin American culture,” he says.The authors know that home chefs may substitute some of the more hard-to-find ingredients with more common ones and they encourage it. What they wanted to do was codify the most authentic version of the dish.“We tried to specify the ingredients as much as possible. We tried not to dumb them down,” says Gill. “For instance, if there was a special tuber that really gives it a different flavor, we tried to name that specific tuber, even though someone in another part of the world probably isn’t going to find it.”In addition to his restaurants, Martínez is dedicated to documenting Peru’s bountiful produce and experimenting with nature’s gifts to discover culinary uses. In many ways, the new cookbook is also a way to preserve the past.“We need to support our farmers and support people that are producing the food. And we need to promote some ingredients that probably will be forgotten in a few years time,” he says.Gill hopes the book can also be a guide for people — post-pandemic, of course — to visit the continent and embolden them to try new dishes. “We wanted to inspire travel, and for people to go to these places and understand them,” he says.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Bob Dole's standing with Latino voters reflects changing Republican Party. In 1977, a Republican senator from Kansas joined the newly formed Congressional Hispanic Caucus as an “honorary member.” In the 1980s, he voted for amnesty for undocumented immigrants. In the 1990s, he ran for president while embracing anti-immigrant measures.Such was the complicated legacy of Bob Dole — who died Sunday at 98 — with the Latino community. During Dole’s political heyday, the Latino population tripled, and immigration emerged as a hot-button issue among conservatives. While his national campaigns failed to draw strong Latino support, Dole’s passing is an opportunity to reflect on the politics of a Republican from a different era.Former Senator Bob Dole dies at 98Dec. 5, 202102:37“He was a real leader in the Senate, and he was very effective,” said Linda Chavez, a senior fellow at the Niskanen Center, a moderate conservative think tank. She worked with Dole during the Reagan administration, when she was director of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. “He was always willing to reach across party lines, reach out to Democrats. He was the kind of person whose door was always open, and he would listen to you.”Dole, a staunch conservative, is difficult to categorize by the standards of the contemporary Republican Party. In 1982 he played an instrumental role in extending the Voting Rights Act, and in 1983 he was a co-sponsor of the bill to make Martin Luther King Jr. Day a legal holiday. In 1987, he introduced a bill in the Senate proposing a referendum in Puerto Rico on statehood. In 1986, he voted in support of President Ronald Reagan’s landmark amnesty program for undocumented immigrants.As NBC News reported, Dole "did not shy away from a muscular use of government at home and abroad,"  supporting an expansion of  the federal food stamp program, pushing the Americans With Disabilities Act in 1990 and sending U.S. troops to foreign conflicts. Then, in 1996, Dole ran for the Republican nomination for president.At the time, the Republican Party was going through a period when it adopted an anti-immigrant message, said Stephen Nuño-Pérez, an associate professor of politics and international affairs at Northern Arizona University. “It was the aftermath of Proposition 187 passing in California,” Nuño-Pérez said, referring to a measure that would have barred undocumented immigrants from using state services. “Dole was probably the first modern Republican candidate who was subject to that acid test, to show he could be ‘tough’ on immigration. Dole tacked hard to the right on immigration to win over the base of his party.”Dole’s 1996 presidential campaign website warned about “illegal aliens” and “a flood of undocumented immigrants who sap precious American tax dollars and undermine the nation’s security.” As a candidate, he supported Proposition 187’s limits on educating children of undocumented immigrants. He backed making English the official language of the U.S., called for ending most bilingual education and opposed affirmative action. While the approach helped Dole win the nomination, it did not help him with most Latino voters in the general election, Nuño-Pérez said, adding the campaign did not put much emphasis on Hispanic voters. Dole lost the election, getting just 21 percent of the Latino vote. “Latino Republican leaders generally liked and respected Dole,” said Geraldo Cadava, the author of “The Hispanic Republican” and a professor of history at Northwestern University. “But to the average Latino voter in the Southwest or Florida, Dole was not really a known quantity.”Some Latino voters were probably attracted to Dole because of his party affiliation, his military background and his support of the U.S. embargo on Cuba, but that was not enough to overcome what was then a damaged Republican brand among Latinos. Cadava said the Republican Party was then “reckoning with two competing impulses.” The Latino population was rising — it grew from 9.6 million in 1970 to 28.4 million in 1996 — at the same time that the party’s base was coalescing around anti-immigrant sentiment. “Dole was the face of the party at a time of nativist sentiment, and he paid the price for that with Latinos,” he said. In 1996 Dole voted for legislation that overhauled immigration enforcement and made more people eligible for deportation. President Bill Clinton signed the measure into law. In his later years, Dole remained somewhat politically unpredictable. In May 2016, he was one of the few establishment Republicans to endorse Donald Trump. “I’m a Trumper,” Dole told USA Today this year, while adding that there was no doubt that Trump lost the 2020 race. Yet in the same interview, he called President Joe Biden “a great, kind, upstanding, decent person.”“Bob Dole truly had an amazing life,” said Mary Sanchez, a syndicated columnist with the Tribune Content Agency. “He was a member of the ‘Greatest Generation,’ he served in the war, served in Congress, saw so much happen, from the civil rights era to now.” For her, Dole’s legacy is exemplified by the Dole Institute of Politics at the University of Kansas, which is devoted to celebrating public service and promoting civil discourse. The institute hosted Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor in 2011, for example.Sanchez, a former reporter for The Kansas City Star, said, “Dole was in many ways what people wanted a traditional Republican to be.” She added that, among Latinos in Kansas, there is a “generational divide” between those who are old enough to recall his legacy and those who are unfamiliar with it. For some Latinos, Dole’s passing feels like the end of an era. “Probably the only person who I would compare him to is the late John McCain,” Sanchez said. Chavez said: “He was a warm and engaging person, with a real affinity for the Hispanic community. He had a very dry sense of humor. I think a lot of people who did not know him did not realize what a caring person he was.”Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Latinas in trucking are finding their place — in the driver's seats of 18-wheelers. Vanessa Rivas was the girl who found her dolls boring and liked trucks. So, as the coronavirus pandemic fed her anxieties about losing her auto financing job, she learned how to be a truck driver.There was plenty of time to study, because motor vehicle offices were closed by Covid-19. Convincing her parents was the bigger obstacle. Dad said "no," and Mom said "never." But Rivas, 34, of Los Angeles, went for it anyway."My dad had to understand it’s not a man’s world anymore when it comes to trucking," said Rivas, who is training to get her license.Just 6.6 percent of truck drivers are women, but Latinas are increasingly joining the overall workforce in other industries. They number about 12.5 million, about 16 percent of all working women, according to the Labor Department. While many people dispute claims that there’s a shortage of truck drivers, the jobs are billed as good opportunities for Latinas and other women. The reality is much more complicated in an industry in which high turnover is often attributed to poor wages and treatment.  Rivas is working her auto finance job while she continues trying to get her license to drive trucks.Alyson Aliano for NBC News"My dad had to understand it’s not a man’s world anymore when it comes to trucking," said Rivas, who is still training to get her license.Alyson Aliano for NBC NewsWhat might seem like a growth opportunity for someone working at the minimum wage in a service industry job actually comes with hidden costs and risks of assault and harassment. Making $80,000 a year or more is a strong draw, but higher salaries could mean longer hours and days away from family. It could also take years to reach that level of pay.The Latinas who spoke about their experiences said taking up trucking has brought them notable benefits along with challenges.“You can change your life and make great money at this job, and you are going to feel like you have a job with purpose,” said Desiree Wood, the president of Real Women in Trucking, which promotes safety, mentorship and industry transparency for women in trucking.But Wood warned that some companies claim that there is a driver shortage to bring in more women and minorities “who are desperate to get out of fast-food work or other kinds of work where they’re not really making a living wage.”  The unemployment rate for Latinas ages 20 and older at the end of October was 5.5 percent, with about 57.8 percent of all Latinas participating in the workforce, according to Bureau of Labor Statistics data.Latinas’ median weekly earnings were $705 last year, putting them at the bottom of the earnings scale. Median weekly earnings for Asian men — at the top — were $1,447, the BLS reported.Congress is trying to give the industry a push in hiring more women. The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, which President Joe Biden signed Nov. 15, orders the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to create a volunteer advisory board to boost hiring and retention of women in trucking. In the meantime, Rivas is still working her auto finance job while she tries to get her license to drive trucks.  She said she has been told she can make $2,000 to $3,000 a week, depending on how many hours she's willing to work, and $3,000 to $4,000 if she drives out of state. "I didn't know that much money in one week can happen," she said.Skeptical parents, encouraging friendsLatinas who have entered the trucking industry say the new careers have meant better pay and that they have taken them from jobs they found unfulfilling and given them a sense of empowerment and accomplishment. Although some encountered resistance from spouses or other relatives, they said male friends, fellow students (who were overwhelmingly male) and significant others generally encouraged them to get into truck driving, joined them on the road or helped them with training."I didn't know that much money in one week can happen," Rivas said.Alyson Aliano for NBC News / Alyson Aliano for NBC NewsAs Covid lockdowns have eased, employment among Latinas is recovering faster than among Hispanic men, said Mónica García-Pérez, an economics professor at St. Cloud State University in Minnesota, who specializes in labor economics.So far, trucking isn’t attracting Latinas nationwide, but there may be regional increases in areas with concentrations of warehouses and distribution centers, García-Pérez said.Those re-entering the workforce appear to be filling jobs in fields that have been more male-dominated, such as packing and shipping, she said.Antoinette McIntosh, 42, was working as a financial adviser at an East Coast bank when the market crashed in 2008. Her job and her six-figure salary disappeared overnight. Antoinette McIntosh.Courtesy Antoinette McIntoshA good friend, Robert Montgomery, who later became her fiancé, told her to cash in on her love of driving and join him at his company as a truck driver. The company they worked for paid for her transportation to Salt Lake City and training in exchange for the couple’s working for the company for a year. “I’ve been in it ever since,” said McIntosh, who is Black and Puerto Rican and lives in the Cleveland, Mississippi, area. She has been a truck driver for 15 years.McIntosh's father also had been a truck driver, and her parents “did everything they could to keep me out of a truck,” she said. Trying to fulfill their wishes, she went to college, double-majored in psychology and social work and “made everyone else happy.” McIntosh now makes more than she did at her bank job, she said.“What a lot of people don’t tell you is this pays you better than a white-collar job in a lot of businesses, so it’s not so much of a stigma anymore,” McIntosh said.Shifting in the pandemicRosio Villagrana, 35, got her Class A truck driver’s license on July 30. The company that hired her told her it hadn’t had a female truck driver for several years, she said.She had worked in and managed a pawn shop for about a decade. But her friends' work driving semi-trailer trucks had long intrigued her. With time on her hands and feeling restless confined to work and home early in the pandemic, Villagrana decided to give truck driving a try.“Why not?” she recalled saying. “I’m so for women empowerment. I feel like we are capable of what we do, plus more, especially in this male-dominated industry.”Ultimately, her goal is to be an owner-operator and one day own her own fleet of trucks. Tracy Barajas, 27, of Corona, California, has been driving trucks for three years. She had worked in online fashion stores and as a dispatcher for a plumbing company.Tracy Barajas of Corona, Calif., has been driving trucks for three years. Courtesy Tracy BarajasHer boyfriend, Oscar Hernandez, and cousins, who were truck drivers, inspired her to make the jump into trucking, she said.Barajas said she had lived paycheck to paycheck before she got into trucking. She had briefly attended community college with plans to be a psychologist. In trucking, she and Hernandez, who drive as a team and log their journeys online, have individually saved tens of thousands of dollars, and she makes four times her previous income, she said.“I never in my head would have thought that I would be able to or I would be in truck driving,” Barajas said. Steering through sexism, danger and scamsAll of the positive accounts notwithstanding, trucking can be a dangerous profession, and it can affect marriages and families. Not everyone experiences a financial windfall.McIntosh said her marriage ended over trucking. Her spouse at the time she started didn’t want her driving trucks. She also lost money when she leased a truck from her employer. Costs for maintenance, gasoline, inspection and registration tags, insurance and other expenses were deducted from her paycheck, McIntosh said. She was falling short even when she increased her workload.McIntosh ended up joining a class-action lawsuit against the company, which settled with her and other drivers over the leasing arrangement.McIntosh used to travel with her fiancé, Montgomery. On a trip in Wisconsin in June, he suffered a massive heart attack while they were in their truck cab. He died in her arms, she said.She continues to drive, in part, to keep a promise to help support his brother who has autism, she said. Barajas was rear-ended by a drunk driver while she was driving a truck in Colorado in February 2020. Soon after the accident, her company reduced her and her boyfriend's wages by 10 cents and terminated their benefits, including their health care plan and their 401(k) retirement benefits. Barajas and her boyfriend switched to driving for FedEx in May 2020 and are making a good living again.Wood, of Real Women in Trucking, said that as more Latinas start driving trucks, there is a need for caution. Women are often paired with male drivers they don’t know for training, and that’s where “a lot of women fall through the cracks," she said. Some are raped or harassed and then retaliated against when they report the incidents, she said.The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration has been studying harassment and assaults of women and minority truckers.None of the Latinas who were interviewed said they had experienced any physical sexual harassment or assaults. Barajas said she gets hateful and sexist comments on her YouTube page for being a woman who drives a truck. But the comments that stick with her are from women who say she inspires them, she said. Student drivers also can be exploited because they work for low wages while they are in training, Wood said. She warns women not to enter company-sponsored training, although the women interviewed for this article said they had good experiences. The American Trucking Association, the trade and lobbying group for major trucking employers, reported that the annualized turnover rate for truck drivers last year was 90 percent, a point less than it was in 2019. For smaller fleets, it was 69 percent, down from 72 percent. A lot of the turnover happens in truckers’ first year, Wood said. Rivas said she has been told she can make $2,000 to $3,000 a week depending on how many hours she's willing to work and $3,000 to $4,000 if she drives out of state. Alyson Aliano for NBC NewsMany companies pay drivers based on how many miles they drive. The rate per mile can vary by experience. Drivers also might not drive enough miles to earn the money they thought they’d make.In May 2020, median pay for heavy and tractor-trailer truck drivers was $47,130 a year, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. That means half of such drivers made more and half made less.Ellen Voie, the president of Women in Trucking, said private fleets have lower turnover. Walmart has said that its average annual pay for its drivers is about $87,500 and that they earn training pay and pay when they aren’t driving. Voie said the biggest predictor of turnover is whether drivers feel misled about what they were promised. “​​The carriers who can match that reality with what they’re promising the driver will keep the drivers, but the ones who oversell or don’t live up to what they’re selling are the ones where the drivers get discouraged and leave,” Voie said.  Voie advised women to ask questions, such as whether a truck driving school is credible and will hold proper trainings and which carriers "walk the walk." She advised asking whether carriers give drivers the promised miles, what kind of time at home they provide and what pay raises and safety bonuses they offer. McIntosh advises Latinas getting into trucking to learn the industry first, drive for a company, increase their savings, pay off bills at home and be diligent about understanding the costs associated with leasing trucks. The women acknowledge that there are pitfalls and barriers to consider, which may dissuade others from following them into the industry. But Barajas said the small number of women in the field shouldn’t be one of those reasons.“Who cares if it is a male-dominated industry?” she said. “I would say just take the leap. Do it.”Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
