Top Harris aide Symone Sanders expected to leave in second high-level departure from VP's office. WASHINGTON — Symone Sanders, a senior adviser and the chief spokesperson for Vice President Kamala Harris, is expected to leave her position at the end of the month, a White House official and four other sources familiar with the matter told NBC News.Her departure would mark the second high-level exit from Harris’ office in recent weeks. Ashley Etienne, the vice president's communications director, announced last month that she would leave in December.A White House official said Wednesday that Sanders had "served honorably" for three years, first as a part of President Joe Biden's 2020 campaign and then on the transition team before joining the vice president's office.Clyburn: Harris criticism could be 2024 “mischief”Nov. 16, 202112:08The official said the president and vice president were "grateful" for Sanders' work on behalf of the administration and called her a "team player" who will be missed.Sanders' plans beyond the vice president's office were not immediately known.Politico and CNN previously reported Sanders' departure.Although it is not uncommon for White House aides to leave a year into a new administration, the two senior-level departures come as Harris has struggled to define her role as vice president. In recent weeks, Harris has had to navigate a number of unflattering media stories that have portrayed a difficult internal work dynamic and have raised questions about her future as a party leader should Biden decide to not seek re-election in 2024.RecommendedLatinoLatinoTrump's border separations left children, parents with severe trauma, study findsU.S. newsU.S. newsAbortion rights advocates in Mississippi strategize for a post-Roe worldSanders has been one of the more vocal defenders of the vice president, particularly on topics such as Harris's work on immigration with the countries known as the Northern Triangle. Sanders repeatedly pushed back on Republican attempts to tie Harris to the migration crisis at the U.S.-Mexico border.With both Sanders and Etienne leaving, some outside allies of the vice president are hoping Harris can use the opportunity to bring in new leadership to help with what they view as a much-needed reset going into a midterm election year. Some allies have said 2022 will be an important opportunity for Harris to define her place in the administration and the party as a whole.It is unclear who will fill the top communications roles in the vice president's office. In September, Harris brought on Lorraine Voles and Adam Frankel, two veteran Democratic strategists, to help with her communications strategy.
Jan. 6 committee recommends contempt charge against ex-Trump DOJ official. The House committee investigating the Jan. 6 riot at the Capitol voted unanimously Wednesday night to advance a measure to refer former Trump Justice Department official Jeffrey Clark to his previous employer for criminal contempt of Congress, but is also giving him one last chance to testify.Committee chair Bennie Thompson, D-Miss., said Wednesday evening that Clark's attorney notified him on Tuesday night that his client "now intends to claim Fifth Amendment protection" against self-incrimination."This is, in my view, a last-ditch attempt to delay the Select Committee’s proceedings. However, a Fifth Amendment privilege assertion is a weighty one," Thompson said."I have informed Mr. Clark’s attorney that I am willing to convene another deposition at which Mr. Clark can assert that privilege on a question-by-question basis, which is what the law requires of someone who asserts the privilege against self-incrimination. Mr. Clark has agreed to do so."Despite the development, the bipartisan committee voted to refer Clark for contempt, which Thompson suggested might not proceed if Clark cooperates, noting the committee's action is "just the first step of the contempt process.""We want the facts, and we need witnesses to cooperate with their legal obligation and provide us with information about what led to the January 6th attack," Thompson said.The panel's vice chair, Rep. Liz Cheney, R-Wyo., said the committee "will not finalize this contempt process if Mr. Clark genuinely cures his failure to comply with the subpoena this Saturday."Clark, who as acting head of the Justice Department's civil division played a key role in then-President Donald Trump’s effort to overturn the 2020 election, drew Thompson's ire last month when he refused to testify or hand over subpoenaed documents.Thompson at the time called Clark's failure to cooperate "unacceptable" and said the House committee was in need of "the information that he is withholding and we are willing to take strong measures to hold him accountable to meet his obligation.”In a letter to Clark in October, Thompson said the panel's investigation "has revealed credible evidence that you attempted to involve the Department of Justice in efforts to interrupt the peaceful transfer of power."NBC News reported in January that Trump had considered replacing then-acting attorney general Jeffrey Rosen with Clark, who was willing to help Trump push his claims of widespread voter fraud in an effort to overturn the election results.A nearly 400-page report released by the Senate Judiciary Committee in October found that Clark had pushed Rosen and his top deputy in late December "to publicly announce that DOJ was investigating election fraud and tell key swing state legislatures they should appoint alternate slates of electors following certification of the popular vote. He did so following personal communications with Trump, including at least one meeting that Clark attended in the Oval Office without the knowledge of DOJ leadership."RecommendedWhite HouseWhite HouseTop aide to Kamala Harris expected to leave White House in second high-level departure from VP's officeLatinoLatinoTrump's border separations left children, parents with severe trauma, study findsClark later told Rosen if he didn't do want Trump wanted, Trump would fire Rosen and put Clark in his job, the report said. Rosen refused to relent, and Trump's efforts were stymied after DOJ leadership warned of mass resignations if Trump followed through with the plan, according to the Senate report.In January, Clark told The New York Times, which had first reported on Trump's efforts at DOJ, that "There was a candid discussion of options and pros and cons with the president. It is unfortunate that those who were part of a privileged legal conversation would comment in public about such internal deliberations, while also distorting any discussions."If the panel decides to finalize the referral, the measure would head to the House floor, where lawmakers would vote on whether to send the criminal referral to the U.S. attorney's office in Washington, D.C.The House Rules Committee is scheduled to meet on Thursday morning to consider the resolution recommending the House hold Clark in contempt. Approval from the committee is a necessary step before the measure can come to the floor.Mark Meadows now cooperating with Jan. 6 committeeDec. 1, 202100:26The Jan. 6 panel's criminal contempt recommendation is its second so far.The bipartisan House committee recommended former Trump adviser Steve Bannon be referred for criminal prosecution in October after he refused to appear for a deposition or hand over any documents, citing executive privilege.The House later signed off on the measure, and Bannon was hit with two charges of contempt by the U.S. Attorney's office in Washington, D.C.. He has pleaded not guilty.Unlike Bannon, Clark appeared on Capitol Hill for scheduled subpoenaed testimony, but declined to answer any questions, citing executive and other privileges."As the Select Committee has repeatedly pointed out to Mr. Clark, his claims of executive privilege are wholly without merit, but even if some privilege applied to aspects of Mr. Clark’s testimony or document production, he was required to assert any testimonial privilege on a question-by-question basis and produce a privilege log setting forth specific privilege claims for each withheld document. Mr. Clark has done neither," the committee said in a report released Tuesday recommending he be found in contempt.Thompson said last month the panel was also considering a referral against Trump's former White House chief of staff Mark Meadows, who did not appear for his scheduled Nov. 12 deposition. But on Tuesday, Thompson said Meadows "has been engaging with the select committee through his attorney.""He has produced records to the committee and will soon appear for an initial deposition," the committee chair said, cautioning that the committee panel "will continue to assess his degree of compliance with our subpoena after the deposition."
Chris Cuomo calls his suspension from CNN 'embarrassing'. CNN host Chris Cuomo said Wednesday that he never meant to compromise any colleagues by advising his brother and that his suspension from the network was "embarrassing."He addressed his indefinite suspension on his SiriusXM show, "Let’s Get After It with Chris Cuomo."“Hey everybody. It’s Chris Cuomo. Let’s get after it," he said to start the program. "Quick note about the obvious. I’ve been suspended from CNN. ... You know this already. It hurts to even say it. It’s embarrassing, but I understand it. And I understand why some people feel the way they do about what I did. I’ve apologized in the past. I mean it. It’s the last thing I ever wanted to do was compromise any of my colleagues. And do anything but help.“I know they have a process that they think is important. I respect that process,” he added. “So I’m not going to talk about this any more than that. So for right now, let’s just get after it, and there’s plenty to do on that score.”CNN suspends Chris Cuomo indefinitelyNov. 30, 202103:36CNN suspended Cuomo on Tuesday after an investigation by the New York attorney general showed in more detail how he helped his brother, former Gov. Andrew Cuomo, defend himself against sexual misconduct allegations.The investigation by Attorney General Letitia James raised “serious questions” about Cuomo’s conduct, the network said in a statement this week.“When Chris admitted to us that he had offered advice to his brother’s staff, he broke our rules and we acknowledged that publicly,” the statement said. “But we also appreciated the unique position he was in and understood his need to put family first and job second. However, these documents point to a greater level of involvement in his brother’s efforts than we previously knew. As a result, we have suspended Chris indefinitely, pending further evaluation.”Andrew Cuomo, who was facing the possibility of impeachment, resigned in August. He has denied any wrongdoing.Chris Cuomo, who has hosted “Cuomo Prime Time” since 2017, has previously said that advising his brother was a family matter and that it was appropriate because he was not directly reporting on Albany, the state capital, at the time.Documents released Monday revealed that Cuomo offered to help his brother find out how many women were accusing him of sexual harassment.Cuomo said the advice he gave his brother was based on telling the truth.“I am worried about my brother and worried that this is being handled the best way it can,” he said of their discussions. “And my feeling was that, to my basic mantra, you need to tell the truth and get in front of these if you have something to say. And if you have something to own, you need to do that, as well.”Andrew Cuomo announced his resignation as governor on Aug. 10, saying: “I never would intentionally disrespect a woman, treat any woman differently than I would want them treated, and that is the God’s honest truth."
Jacqueline Avant, wife of music legend Clarence Avant, fatally shot in Beverly Hills home. LOS ANGELES — Jacqueline Avant, the wife of the music executive known as the "Godfather of Black Music," was shot and killed in the couple's home early Wednesday.Beverly Hills police responded to calls about a shooting at the home of Jacqueline and Clarence Avant at 2:23 a.m., they said in a statement. Police said the victim was taken to a nearby hospital by paramedics but did not survive. A spokesperson for Netflix confirmed that Jacqueline Avant, 81, had been shot and killed. Netflix Co-CEO Ted Sarandos is her son-in-law.It is unclear whether Clarence Avant was home.Potential suspects were not at the scene when officers arrived, police said."Jacqueline was an amazing woman, wife, mother, philanthropist and a 55-year resident of Beverly Hills who has made an immeasurable positive contribution and impact on the arts community," the family said in a statement read by Beverly Hills Police Chief Mark Stainbrook. "She will be missed by her family, friends and all of the people she has helped throughout her life." Investigators and forensic specialists were processing the scene Wednesday afternoon, Stainbrook said. All potential motives are being investigated, including a possible robbery attempt, he said. "A lot of times people think of home invasion when it comes to robbing or burglarizing a residence," Stainbrook said. "And so obviously someone went into the home. We just don't know what for, what the purpose was or the motive was behind it." It appeared that a security guard was on duty, Stainbrook said. Investigators are collecting and reviewing video. “The Black Godfather” documentary explores the life of influencer Clarence AvantJune 1, 201907:46Jacqueline Avant, who once modeled in the Ebony Fashion Fair, married Clarence Avant in 1967, and the couple had two children together. Their daughter, Nicole Avant, credited her mother with helping keep her father balanced in the 2019 documentary "The Black Godfather." “Well, they’ve been married for 52 years, and my mom is really the one who brought to my father and our family the love and passion and importance of the arts and culture and entertainment,” she said in the film. “While my father was in it, making all the deals, my mother was the one who gave me, for example, my love of literature, my love of filmmaking, my love of storytelling.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'She said her mother was "the umbrella" in her father's life. Serving as a manager, producer and mentor, Clarence Avant has been credited as the influencer who helped launch the careers of some of the most notable Black musicians of all time, including Bill Withers. He was inducted into the Rock ’n’ Roll Hall of Fame this year, with Lionel Richie giving a speech honoring him during the ceremony. Richie called him a "teacher" and "master communicator." "What he did for us, the sons and daughters of the Afro-American community, he was the one that brought us to some understanding of what the music business was all about," Richie said. Former President Barack Obama said Avant was one of his favorite people in a video tribute that aired at the ceremony last month. "Clarence and others, they are really the bridge from a time where there was almost no opportunity to a time where doors began to open," Obama said. "They led the way: in politics, in business, in the arts, in saying, 'No, make room for us.'"
Jeffrey Epstein introduced me to Trump at 14, Ghislaine Maxwell accuser says. One of the four women who say they were “groomed” for sex by Ghislaine Maxwell testified Wednesday that the disgraced financier Jeffrey Epstein took her to meet Donald Trump when she was just 14.Testifying at Maxwell’s trial in New York City, the woman, who is being identified by the pseudonym Jane, said on cross-examination that she met the future president in the 1990s at Mar-a-Lago, his resort in Palm Beach, Florida.Jane didn’t allege any improper behavior by Trump and didn’t go into further detail about why she was at the resort.“Mr. Epstein introduced you to Donald Trump, correct?” Laura Menninger, Maxwell's defense attorney, asked.“Yes,” Jane replied.A courtroom sketch depicts defense lawyer Laura Menninger questioning witness "Jane" about previous inconsistencies in documents during the trial of Ghislaine Maxwell in New York City on Wednesday.Jane Rosenberg / ReutersJane also acknowledged that in 1998, she took part in a Miss Teen USA beauty pageant that was associated with Trump. It wasn’t immediately clear whether that was before or after the meeting at Mar-a-Lago.Trump’s spokesman didn’t immediately reply to a request for comment about whether Trump, who once called Epstein a “terrific guy,” has any recollection of meeting Jane.Following Epstein’s 2019 arrest, Trump told reporters that he was “not a fan” of him.Another woman, Virginia Giuffre, who isn’t part of the case, said in a civil lawsuit that Maxwell trafficked her to Prince Andrew when she was 17. He has denied the allegations. Under questioning by Menninger, Jane recalled being on one of Epstein’s private plane flights with Prince Andrew.Epstein’s longtime pilot, Larry Visoski, testified Tuesday that he remembers meeting Jane on one of his flights but that he didn’t know she was a minor.The flights became the focus of intense media scrutiny after it was discovered that Andrew and other boldface names, like former President Bill Clinton and Trump lawyer Alan Dershowitz, took trips on his planes. There are no allegations of trafficking against Clinton and Dershowitz.Maxwell, 59, a British socialite, has been accused of identifying and targeting vulnerable girls and young women and “grooming” them for sex with Epstein and other powerful men.Maxwell, who is on trial accused of helping Epstein recruit and abuse Jane and three other underage girls, mostly in the 1990s, has denied all of the accusations. She pleaded not guilty to the six charges against her.Maxwell’s lawyers contend that she is being “scapegoated” by federal prosecutors because they can’t try Epstein, a convicted sex offender who hanged himself in a Manhattan lockup two years ago while he awaited trial on charges of sex trafficking.Maxwell’s siblings echoed the claim that Maxwell has been unfairly targeted for prosecution has been. On Wednesday, her sister Isabel and brother Kevin were in the courtroom.Jane revealed that she crossed paths with Trump a day after she testified in graphic detail that Maxwell trained her how to “massage” and sexually satisfy Epstein.Jane also testified that she was regularly abused by Epstein and took part in orgies that included both Maxwell and Epstein at Epstein’s palatial homes in Palm Beach, Florida, and New York City and on his New Mexico ranch.When asked, Jane described the sex as “kissing, oral sex on each other, oral sex on Jeffrey, full-on intercourse.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'Jane found her credibility questioned repeatedly by Menninger.“Did you rehearse your testimony for direct questioning?” Menninger asked.“No,” Jane replied.Menninger then produced a thank-you note to Epstein that included the line “You rock my world” and asked Jane whether she wrote it.“Yes, embarrassingly,” she answered.Jane, under questioning by prosecutor Alison Moe, said that her family was strapped for cash and that Epstein paid some of their bills. She said she regrets taking the money.Burying her face in her hands and bursting into tears, Jane said that she was seeking closure and that she had no financial stake in the outcome of the trial."Hopefully, this just puts it all to an end and I can move on with my life," she said. Jane was followed on the stand by an ex-boyfriend, an actor who was identified by the pseudonym Matt. He said Jane told him what she said Maxwell and Epstein did to her. He said Jane also confessed to her mother why Epstein had given her money. “She told the mother the money was not free," Matt testified.Jane testified Tuesday that she was still mourning the death of her father when Maxwell and Epstein befriended her at age 14 at the Interlochen Arts Camp in Michigan.Epstein, who was a big donor to the prestigious program, also had a cabin near the camp.Jane said Maxwell acted like a big sister while, at the same time, luring her into sex trafficking. She admitted that she didn’t tell investigators about Maxwell’s alleged involvement until after Epstein died by suicide in 2019.“They did despicable things to me, and I didn’t want to talk about them,” she said Tuesday on cross-examination.Maxwell’s trial in the Southern District of New York started Monday and is expected to last six weeks.
Emotional Alec Baldwin says, 'I didn't pull the trigger' on 'Rust' set. A tearful Alec Baldwin said he "didn't pull the trigger" in the fatal shooting of cinematographer Halyna Hutchins, whose death rocked Hollywood and raised concerns about weapons on movie sets.In an interview with ABC News that is scheduled to air Thursday, Baldwin appeared baffled about how the shooting happened. "Well, the trigger wasn't pulled. I didn't pull the trigger," he said in a clip released Wednesday. "No, no, no, I would never point a gun at anyone and pull the trigger at them. Never." Hutchins, 42, was killed and director Joel Souza, 48, was wounded by a round apparently fired by Baldwin on the New Mexico set of the Western movie “Rust” on Oct. 21 at Bonanza Creek Ranch, in Santa Fe County, New Mexico, officials have said.“I have no idea" how it happened, Baldwin told ABC News' George Stephanopoulos. "Someone put a live bullet in a gun, a bullet that wasn't even supposed to be on the property." Baldwin said Hutchins was popular among her peers."She was someone who was loved by everyone who worked with [her] and liked by everyone who worked with [her] and admired" her, he said, his voice choking with emotion and as he wiped away tears. "I mean, even now I find it hard to believe that. It just doesn't seem real to me."Much of the attention has fallen on assistant director Dave Halls, who was fired from the film “Freedom’s Path” in 2019 after a gun unexpectedly discharged on the set in New Mexico, injuring a crew member, a producer for the film has said.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'Investigators said in a search warrant affidavit that Halls yelled “cold gun” on the “Rust” set before he gave Baldwin the weapon, indicating incorrectly that it didn’t have any live rounds.Halls' attorney has said that he didn't hand the gun to Baldwin and that checking to see whether it was loaded wasn't his responsibility.A representative for the Santa Fe County Sheriff's Office, which is investigating the case, declined to discuss Baldwin's interview Wednesday.Baldwin, an Oscar-nominated and Emmy-winning actor, said he's at a loss over how the tragedy unfolded, telling ABC News: "I think back and I think of what could I have done?" The full interview airs Thursday at 8 p.m. ET on ABC.
Suspect in deadly Waukesha holiday parade crash says he feels ‘demonized’. MADISON, Wis. — The man accused of driving his SUV through a Christmas parade in suburban Milwaukee, killing six people and injuring dozens, said Wednesday that he feels like he’s being “demonized.”Darrell Brooks Jr., in an interview with Fox News from the Waukesha County Jail, offered no details about a possible motive.“I just feel like I’m being monster — demonized,” Brooks said, according to the Fox report.According to a criminal complaint, Brooks drove his SUV into the parade in Waukesha on Nov. 21. Witnesses said he was swerving and appeared to be intentionally trying to hit people. He was arrested minutes later as he stood on the porch of a nearby house asking the homeowner to help him call a ride.Police said he had fled the scene of a domestic disturbance when he turned into the parade, although officers were not pursuing him at the time. He’s been charged with six counts of first-degree intentional homicide.8-year-old identified as victim in Waukesha parade horrorNov. 24, 202101:30Brooks’ mother Dawn Woods, released a letter Wednesday offering the family’s condolences to the victims.She said her son has long suffered from mental health issues and after he became an adult he lacked the insurance and finances to continue his medication and counseling, leading him to commit crimes.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'“Mental illness is real and the system is broken it can and must be fixed NOW, not next year or with a new legislation NOW. So many like Darrell that have fallen through the cracks because of a broken system that no one cared to address, can get the help they so desperately need,” Woods wrote in the letter, first obtained by WDJT-TV.At the time of the crash, Brooks was out on $1,000 bail in a Milwaukee County case in which he is accused of intentionally striking a woman with his car. He was charged in that case on Nov. 5.He’s also a defendant in another Milwaukee County case from 2020 in which he’s charged with shooting at his nephew and another person.
'Home Alone' house will be on Airbnb for one night only this month . "Home Alone" fans can now live their dreams of hanging out at the McCallister house this holiday season. Airbnb announced Wednesday it is renting out the iconic home from the 1990 film for one night only."Celebrate the season McCallister-style, ya filthy animals. For the first time ever, one crew of mischief makers can book a holiday in the timeless house where the Home Alone story began (without the interruption of pesky intruders)," Airbnb wrote in a post to Instagram. The home, located in the Chicago area, will be available to book starting on Dec. 7 for $25. Those who secure their stay at the home will be able to spend time there on Dec. 12. Guests will be welcomed by actor Devin Ratray, who played Kevin McCallister's older brother Buzz. Kevin McCallister was famously portrayed by Macaulay Culkin.Big brother Buzz McCallister will join thousands of Hosts on Airbnb by opening the doors to his family’s Chicago home as the ultimate gift this month.Sarah CrowleyIn addition to a picturesque Christmas home, guests will get to set booby traps, similar to Kevin's antics in the film, although AirBnB says those staying in the home won't have to worry about fending off intruders, like Culkin did in the film.Guests will also be treated "Chicago's finest pizza and a meet and greet with a real-life tarantula," according to Airbnb.A screening of the newest "Home Alone" film, titled "Home Sweet Home Alone," and released last month, will cap off the night. RecommendedLatinoLatinoBad Bunny tops Spotify's streaming charts for second year runningOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureThis month's watchlist, from lesbian nuns to an out-of-the-closet 'Matrix'Airbnb also said " in honor of the first-ever stay at the McCallister home" it will make a one-time donation to Chicago’s La Rabida Children’s Hospital.This isn't the first time Airbnb has offered an experienced tied to pop culture.Last month, the company announced it is renting out a recreation of Carrie’s iconic brownstone apartment from "Sex and the City."
Majority of mumps cases are among the vaccinated, CDC finds. Mumps cases continue to circulate in the U.S., largely among vaccinated people, including children.Cases of mumps, once a common childhood illness, declined by more than 99 percent in the U.S. after a vaccine against the highly contagious respiratory infection was developed in 1967. Cases dropped to just 231 in 2003, down from more than 152,000 in 1968. But cases began climbing again in 2006, when 6,584 were reported, most of them in vaccinated people. According to the report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, one-third of mumps cases in the U.S. from 2007 to 2019 were reported in children and adolescents. As many as 94 percent of those who contracted the illness had been vaccinated.“Before that, large outbreaks of mumps among people who were fully vaccinated were not common, including among vaccinated children,” said Mariel Marlow, an epidemiologist at the CDC who led the new study. “But the disease symptoms are usually milder and complications are less frequent in vaccinated people.”Experts aren’t sure why vaccinated people get mumps, but multiple factors appear to be affecting immunity in vaccinated people, including a lack of prior exposure to the virus, waning immunity and the circulation of genotypes the vaccine doesn’t contain. The mumps virus is spread through direct contact with saliva or respiratory droplets from the mouth, the nose or the throat of an infected person. An infected person can spread the virus by coughing, sneezing, talking or sharing drinks or during close-contact activities, such as sports. Nearly 91 percent of the U.S. population has had at least one dose of the two-dose measles, mumps and rubella, or MMR, vaccine, which is administered between 12 months and 6 years and is 88 percent effective against the disease. Cases in recent years have largely been driven by big localized outbreaks, although a peak in 2016 and 2017 included more than 150 outbreaks reported in 37 states and Washington, D.C., amounting to about 9,000 cases. Mumps cases decreased last year compared to the previous six years, but the illness continued to circulate in the U.S. despite distancing, lockdowns and masking. From April 1, 2020, to the end of the year, 32 health departments reported 142 mumps cases.Disruptions from the Covid-19 pandemic resulted in many children missing well-child visits and routinely recommended vaccines, including MMR, which could contribute to a future increase in cases or outbreaks.Mariel Marlow, CDC EpidemiologistThe numbers are still low, and they aren’t a reason to believe vaccines are no longer effective, said Joseph Lewnard, an assistant professor of epidemiology at the School of Public Health at the University of California, Berkeley.“We’re talking about an infection that almost every kid in America would get before they were 20. Compared to the pre-vaccine era, kids who get the MMR vaccine remain extremely protected against mumps,” Lewnard said.Breakthrough casesIn some people, antibodies from mumps vaccination decrease over time, reducing protection. Lewnard said older adolescents are most at risk during outbreaks among young people because they are more likely than younger children to have reduced immunity due to waning vaccine protection. “Protection is still high, but there will be some who lose protection within a decade or less even after they are vaccinated,” he said. Marlow said most people aren’t routinely exposed to mumps, so there is also less immunologic boosting — when people are exposed to mumps that boosts their immunity but doesn’t make them sick. Because mumps has continued to circulate globally during the pandemic, she expects cases and outbreaks of mumps nationally that could be worsened by a bigger unvaccinated population to continue. “We know that disruptions from the Covid-19 pandemic resulted in many children missing well-child visits and routinely recommended vaccines, including MMR, which could contribute to a future increase in cases or outbreaks,” she said.A third dose?Dr. Amesh Adalja, a senior scholar at the Center for Health Security at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, said the U.S. mumps vaccines contain genotype A strain, which no longer circulates in the U.S. But that doesn’t seem to make the vaccines less effective. “That’s one of the mysteries of understanding this is because when you give the genotype A vaccine during an outbreak, it still works,” he said. “We’ve seen that during outbreaks on college campuses, a third dose of MMR is enough to stop it.”RecommendedCoronavirusCoronavirusHospitals refused to prescribe ivermectin. Threats and lockdowns followed.California WildfiresCalifornia Wildfires'We're one cigarette away': Illegal weed farms are a wildfire risk in parched CaliforniaAdalja said combating new outbreaks may be as simple as shifting the MMR vaccine schedule from two to three doses. Adjusting the schedule is nothing new: The CDC's Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices initially recommended a single dose of the mumps vaccine for routine use in 1977 and upped it to two doses in 1989. In 2017, the panel suggested that a third dose of the MMR vaccine may be given to people at high risk of catching mumps during large outbreaks.“Maybe we will need to update the vaccine to make it more tailored to the strain we’re seeing, but this might not be necessary. The current vaccine still works very well, and when it doesn’t work, a third dose does,” Adalja said.
Women’s tennis tour suspends China events over Peng Shuai concerns. The head of the women’s professional tennis tour announced Wednesday that all WTA tournaments would be suspended in China because of concerns about the safety of Peng Shuai, a Grand Slam doubles champion who accused a former high-ranking government official in that country of sexual assault.Peng dropped out of public view after raising the allegations about former vice premier Zhang Gaoli in a Nov. 2 social media posting that was quickly taken down.“Unfortunately, the leadership in China has not addressed this very serious issue in any credible way,” WTA Chairman and CEO Steve Simon wrote in a statement distributed by the tour. “While we now know where Peng is, I have serious doubts that she is free, safe, and not subject to censorship, coercion, and intimidation.”Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai’s reappearance in video call raises more questionsNov. 22, 202102:07Simon repeated his call for a “full and transparent investigation — without censorship” into Peng’s accusations and took an unusually strong stand against China, which was supposed to be the site of several tennis tournaments next year, including the prestigious season-ending WTA Finals.“In good conscience, I don’t see how I can ask our athletes to compete there when Peng Shuai is not allowed to communicate freely and has seemingly been pressured to contradict her allegation of sexual assault,” Simon said. “Given the current state of affairs, I am also greatly concerned about the risks that all of our players and staff could face if we were to hold events in China in 2022.”Beijing is set to host the Winter Olympics beginning on Feb. 4, and International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach said late last month he spoke with Peng on a video call. The IOC did not release video or a transcript of the exchange and said only that Bach reported she said she was well.The IOC said in a statement last month that Peng appeared to be “doing fine” and said she had requested privacy. The IOC did not explain how the call was arranged, although it has worked closely with the Chinese Olympic Committee and government officials to organize the upcoming Olympics.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'Critics have suggested that Peng would not have called the IOC if she was truly free to speak.“If powerful people can suppress the voices of women and sweep allegations of sexual assault under the rug, then the basis on which the WTA was founded — equality for women — would suffer an immense setback,” Simon said. “I will not and cannot let that happen to the WTA and its players.”Zhang has retired from the government and has not responded to past requests for comment on the accusation. 
'We're one cigarette away': Illegal marijuana farms pose wildfire risk in California's parched national forests. LAKE ELSINORE, Calif. — After a 2½-mile trek through thick brush, Mourad Gabriel stepped into a small clearing. A month earlier, this half-acre swath of the Cleveland National Forest, nearly invisible from the air, had been an illegal marijuana grow estimated to be worth more than $1.2 million. The U.S. Forest Service’s law enforcement officers had hacked down the plants, but Gabriel and his team were there to cart out nearly 3,000 pounds of trash and to clean up something else the drug traffickers left behind: poison. Gabriel, a regional wildlife ecologist for the Forest Service, spooned swabs of pesticide into a military-grade testing device to identify chemicals used by illicit farmers, which kill the forest’s wildlife. Recalling a past bust, he said: “We had a dead bear, a turkey vulture that was dead consuming that bear, and then another turkey vulture that was dead consuming that turkey vulture and that bear.“We call it ‘The circle of death.’”The illegal grow site in Cleveland National Forest visited by NBC News on Oct. 6.NBC NewsBut another looming danger to animals — and to the human residents of one of the most populous areas in America — is fire. Just over the mountains from this grow is the sprawl of greater Los Angeles and its 19 million people. Advocates estimate that California’s national forests, four of which ring the Los Angeles basin, are home to 80 percent to 85 percent of the country’s illegal marijuana grows on public land. Every time traffickers start a grow on California’s drought-stricken federal forests, they put millions of people at risk. They use scarce water and sometimes set bone-dry woodlands ablaze. At least 13 wildfires in the past dozen years have been linked to grows.The Forest Service has long struggled to keep up — the agency has about one law enforcement officer for every 300,000 acres of forest — but since the coronavirus pandemic started, it has gotten even harder.In the past two years alone, grow operations in California have rerouted millions of gallons of water, caused a 125,000-acre wildfire in Big Sur and helped add at least one species to the endangered list. “This is an abuse of the natural resources and the land that we as an agency are stewarding for the public,” Gabriel said.Firefighters monitor a controlled fire to help slow the Dolan Fire in Big Sur, Calif., on Sept. 11, 2020.Nic Coury / AP fileDeadly risksThe marijuana cultivation season coincides with the peak of wildfire season, diverting officers who would be targeting the grows into investigating the blazes, supporting firefighters and evacuating civilians.But sometimes those missions overlap. Last year’s 125,000-acre Dolan Fire was started by a marijuana grower in the Los Padres National Forest.“It burned through an iconic international landscape — Big Sur. It killed 11 endangered condors,” said Rich McIntyre, the director of the Cannabis Removal on Public Lands Project, or the CROP Project, a coalition advocating for more resources to reclaim grow sites and catch growers. “It overran firefighters. I mean, it’s just a nightmare.”Because marijuana cultivators live at their grow sites for months at a time, they introduce hazards like cigarettes, open-flame stoves and wood fires to highly combustible forestland. The CROP Project has identified at least 13 wildfires across California in the past 12 years caused by people associated with grow sites. NBC News was able to independently document half a dozen of them. From a 12,000-acre fire in 2014 caused by sparks from the tailpipe of a vehicle driving to a grow site to a much larger conflagration in 2009, fires associated with illegal grows have burned at least 275,000 acres across California.The Forest Service estimates that the true toll is far higher, as the origins of wildfires can be difficult to investigate and confirm. Many of the pesticides that drug traffickers use, meanwhile, are so poisonous that they have been outlawed in the U.S. for decades. “These are some of the most toxic chemicals you could ever use on crops,” said Greta Wengert, the executive director of the Integral Ecology Research Center, or IERC, a nonprofit organization that studies the impact of grow sites on the environment and assists the Forest Service in its cleanup efforts. Some of the biggest threats are the pesticides and rodenticides that growers spread to poison animals that threaten their plants or campsites. The chemicals are so toxic, Wengert said, and used in such high concentrations that a number of officers and cleanup workers have been hospitalized for exposure.Greta Wengert swabs chemicals at the illegal grow site.Sydney Krantz for NBC News“You take a little bit of carbofuran here: couple drops, mix it with some tuna fish, put it on the edge of your grow, an animal comes in, eats it and dies within two minutes,” Wengert said. “There’s your poison bomb, right there.”That’s especially problematic because IERC’s research has shown how the deadly, illegal chemicals work their way up the food chain as animals feed on one another. “It’s passed on again and again,” Wengert said. The Cleveland National Forest site is home to both the endangered Arroyo toad and the endangered California condor. But Wengert is also concerned about how the chemicals might be ingested by people — whether in the marijuana they consume or from runoff into water supplies. Through snowmelt and other sources, national forests provide 50 percent of the state’s water. The Cleveland Forest site sits in a watershed that runs directly into the water supply of San Juan Capistrano, a city of 36,000. Wengert’s group is studying downstream exposure, and in several cases, has confirmed the presence of toxic chemicals in waterways immediately downstream of grow sites.“The next significant precipitation event is just going to slough all this off into the San Juan Creek,” said Gabriel, the wildlife ecologist, running the grow site’s loose soil through his fingers. “That creek right below us is going to not just contaminate critical habitat for the Arroyo Toad, but it’s going to go downstream to San Juan Capistrano.”A federal officer holds a rope to help the crew climb down a steep path in the forest.Sydney Krantz for NBC NewsNet gainTypically run by drug-trafficking organizations, an average grow site may have 2,000 plants and yield hundreds to thousands of pounds of marijuana worth millions. New strains have allowed traffickers to get more product per plant, making grows even more profitable, according to law enforcement. And losing a few sites a year to busts by the Forest Service is just the cost of doing business, said Special Agent in Charge Don Hoang, who heads Forest Service law enforcement for the region. "It’s a rule of probability. If they grow as many [sites] as they can, they know that we’re going to find a few of them. And then there’s stuff that we don’t find, and that’s where they make their profit.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'Setting up a grow site isn’t cheap. It takes time, planning and money to bring in the infrastructure and labor — from miles of irrigation pipe to thousands of pounds of fertilizers and armed workers who live at the grow site all season long. “One drug traffic organization can invest, let’s say, a quarter-million, a half-million dollars into one grow. And then pull out a 200 percent to 300 percent net gain from that,” Gabriel said. “I don’t think anybody’s investment portfolio could ever do that.”While some grow sites may be hiding just a mile or so off a main highway, others can take officers days to reach. Growers are typically armed, Hoang said, and they often have a tactical advantage when law enforcement comes in to try to break up their operation.The Forest Service’s law enforcement division has arrested more than 2,170 people for cultivating marijuana on national forest land in California since 2000. The Forest Service and partner agencies bust more than 200 such sites on public lands annually, but cleanups, like the one in Cleveland National Forest, are expensive. Federal officers attach illegal grow site water tubing to a helicopter cargo hook.Sydney Krantz for NBC NewsA helicopter transports part of the crew from Cleveland National Forest to a nearby parking lot.Sydney Krantz for NBC NewsThe team at the Cleveland National Forest site pulled out nearly a ton and a half of trash on one day in October, more than a mile of irrigation piping, 1,110 pounds of fertilizer and bottle after bottle of banned pesticide, removing much of the bulkier material from the forest by helicopter. It is one of more than 40 sites cleaned up on national forest land in California alone this year, at an average cost of $40,000 per site — before hazardous material disposal. But that’s just a drop in the bucket, Gabriel said. There are hundreds of sites a year spread across California’s 20 million acres of national forest alone — the Forest Service simply doesn’t have enough resources to tackle every one. There is no dedicated funding for the operations; the agency’s overall law enforcement budget has stayed about the same size for most of the last decade.“In reality, we need 20.2 to 23.2 million [dollars] for five to eight years to fully address the topic in California alone,” Gabriel said. “Essentially, we put in only 10 to 12 percent of what is truly needed annually.”Toxic fertilizer, grow pods and a backpack were left by marijuana farmers at the grow site.Sydney Krantz for NBC NewsThe technology to detect sites has improved over time, but the agency estimates that in a given year it detects about half of the sites on its land. And of the sites the agency detects, about a quarter are able to keep operating unhindered because the agency doesn’t have the resources to bust them before the traffickers harvest. The agency identifies dozens of grow sites annually that it is unable to get to before harvest.Overall, arrests for the grow sites have been on the decline since 2008, and the number of grow sites and plants eradicated in California’s national forests has dropped steeply in the past five years.With the proper resources, Gabriel said, the agency could eliminate marijuana grows within the next eight years. “We have the will to do this, and we’re ready to do this,” he said. “We leave them dirt, they don’t come back.”Mountains in Cleveland National Forest.NBC NewsOne campfire, one cigaretteAccording to the Forest Service, once a grow site has been cleaned up and restored to its natural state, growers tend not to come back. That’s why increasing funding for the cleanup efforts is so important, said McIntyre of the CROP Project.“They need a lot more juice. They need a lot more people. And they need funding to actually see this through,” said McIntyre, whose coalition includes lawmakers of both parties, scientists, law enforcement officials, environmentalists and legal marijuana organizations. “Without substantial funding, it’s whack-a-mole.”Some of the additional funding may soon be on its way. The infrastructure bill President Joe Biden signed last month included a substantial increase in Forest Service funding to fight and prevent wildfires. The House also increased money for the agency in its annual spending bill, with the Appropriations Committee specifically expressing support in its accompanying report for agency efforts to detect and remove the sites, but the Senate has yet to do the same. Bipartisan members of California’s House delegation have also proposed a bill that would increase criminal penalties for stealing water from federal lands.Black tubing, used to water the illegal marijuana plants, weaves through the forest floor.Sydney Krantz for NBC NewsThe alternative is dire, McIntyre said. “We are one campfire, one dropped cigarette, one getaway fire in a trespass grow away from a landscape fire that could burn a million acres. And when that happens, we lose that public resource for an entire generation.”
Still paying for antivirus software? Experts say you probably don't need it. Josh Brunty had spent more than a decade in cybersecurity — first as a digital forensics analyst for the West Virginia State Police, then as someone who taught the subject at Marshall University — when he discovered a shocking secret about his father, Butch.Butch Brunty was still paying money every year for third-party antivirus protection on his home computer, which his son felt hadn’t been necessary for most people for years.“He was talking about renewing his antivirus. I said, ‘Are you literally paying for antivirus?’” Brunty said. “I don’t know how he ended up doing it, but he ended up getting connected to Norton, spending, like, $60 a year.”Brunty’s father, like a lot of other people, hadn’t gotten the message that has become intuitive to many people who work in cybersecurity: There’s just no longer any reason for regular people to pay for antivirus software for their personal devices.It’s a shift that highlights not only how computer security has evolved in the past decade but also the way many people misunderstand the greatest threats to their computer security.Antivirus software still centers on its original use: looking for and mitigating software viruses. Because modern computer systems already do that, many programs now offer additional protections, like monitoring the dark web to see whether someone posts customers’ personal information, which experts find to be of little use.But the greatest threats most users face are no longer from viruses, particularly now that so much personal computing happens over the internet.Brunty said his dad also paid for a virtual private network, which routes a computer’s internet traffic through a third party. They were once considered vital to prevent nearby hackers from spying on online activity, but security experts now say that thanks to additional built-in security protections in most major browsers, virtual private networks are useful in only a handful of specific scenarios, like streaming video that is restricted in certain countries or getting around government censors like China’s “Great Firewall.”“He had no understanding of those two technologies, really,” Brunty said. “I think he just felt like if he spent the money, the investment of paying for it was going to protect him from everything.”Some antivirus programs can offer certain benefits, such as tools that help users avoid email-based phishing campaigns that steal sensitive login credentials. Others can help prevent identity theft.But most experts agree that the built-in antivirus protections on any major system — a fully updated Windows or Apple computer or an Android phone or iPhone — already protect against viruses just as well as the major programs people can pay for. It’s important, however, for users to keep their systems protected through automatic software updates offered by all major software providers.PatchworkIt wasn’t always that way. For much of Microsoft’s history, computer experts worried that Windows machines were susceptible to viruses, and there was no firm consensus about what third-party programs people needed to stay safe. But Microsoft Defender, the free and automatic antivirus program now built into Windows, has gotten so effective that it’s as good as anything customers can pay for, said Simon Edwards, the founder of SE Labs, a London-based company that compares and tests antivirus programs.“We test it regularly, and it’s one of the top products we’ve seen. It has improved a lot,” Edwards said. That doesn’t mean malicious software isn’t a threat. But newer devices tend to take care of most problems on their own. Hackers are constantly devising new ways to break into operating systems, and companies have to keep updating ways to stop them. Fortunately, the days of cybersecurity engineers’ writing patches for new, safer versions of software and just hoping users will update them is largely over.“It’s almost impossible these days to not have a fully patched Windows or Mac system, because they pretty much force updates,” Edwards said.RecommendedTech NewsTech NewsChina-based Covid disinfo operation pushed fake Swiss scientist, Facebook says CongressCongressFacebook whistleblower Haugen urges lawmakers to avert impasse on social media lawsWhile it’s a myth that Macs can’t get viruses, the myth is well-founded: Macs essentially had antivirus protections built into their operating systems from their early days. The same goes for iPhones and Android smartphones. The British government even tells its residents not to bother buying antivirus software for their phones, provided that they don’t needlessly endanger themselves by installing programs not vetted by an app store.Butch Brunty isn’t alone. A survey by Security.org, a cybersecurity advice website, estimated that nearly 45 million households pay for antivirus software. It also found that people are increasingly more likely to pay for antivirus software the older they are and that most have been using it for years. The dynamic has been observed in other parts of the technology world, such as people who continued to pay AOL for internet service even though they had other internet providers.McAfee, the once-ubiquitous Windows antivirus program, still has more than 20 million paying customers, a spokesperson said. More than half of the revenue the antivirus company Malwarebytes made last year came from personal users, a spokesperson for the company said. Other major antivirus companies, including Norton, ESET and Kaspersky, didn’t respond to emailed requests for such information.But trying to stay secure by relying on antivirus software misses the way hackers have evolved, said Bob Lord, who revamped the Democratic National Committee’s cybersecurity strategy for the 2018 and 2020 elections after the party was hacked by Russian intelligence in 2016.“When I look at all the personal account compromises I’ve seen over the past three years, I don’t think any of them were caused by malware,” Lord said. “They happened because the victims had poor password hygiene and didn’t have two-factor authentication on their accounts.”What to do insteadThe good news is that almost all of the tools everyone should be relying on to be more secure are free.Hackers today are most likely to target regular people by trying to take over their personal accounts for email, social media or financial websites. It’s easier to stop them when you know that their goal is “to impersonate you and take over an account you want to keep private,” said Harlo Holmes, the chief information security officer at the Freedom of the Press Foundation, where she advises journalists around the world about the best ways to protect themselves from hackers.That means using unique passphrases — several words together, which are easier to remember than a string of random characters — because the longer a password is, the harder it is for an automated program to guess. People should also protect every important account with two-factor authentication. That lets users use their phones as a second way to prove their identities to websites, which gives hackers an additional hurdle if they’re trying to get into one of their accounts.Experts recommend using an app like Google Authenticator or Authy when you set up two-factor authentication, rather than through a text message, which dedicated hackers can intercept.Extra featuresSome for-purchase antivirus products come bundled with additional benefits that address more modern concerns, like monitoring whether customers’ passwords have been included in a giant dump of stolen credentials or telling them whether criminals are sharing their personal information on the dark web.But most of the services either do little or are available elsewhere for free, said Susan Grant, the director of consumer protection and privacy at the Consumer Federation of America, a nonprofit group that serves as an umbrella organization for consumer advocacy groups.“There’s a limit to what that type of service actually provides,” Grant said. “They don’t prevent you from becoming an identity theft victim. They can’t prevent your information from ending up on the dark web, and they can’t remove it. They can just alert you.”The website Have I Been Pwned lets everyone check which of their accounts and passwords have been stolen and traded. The Federal Trade Commission offers a free guide for people who have had their identities stolen, as does the nonprofit Identity Theft Resource Center.“It may make people feel better to pay for such a service,” Grant said. But “the advice that you get is available from other sources for nothing.” 
“Y’all going to kill me?” Years apart, mother and son die in police restraints. This investigation was published in collaboration with The Marshall Project, a nonprofit news organization covering the U.S. criminal justice system, and the Mississippi Center for Investigative Reporting, a nonprofit news organization covering Mississippi. Sign up for The Marshall Project’s newsletter or follow it on Facebook or Twitter.GRENADA, Miss. — Robert Loggins wandered into a neighbor’s backyard and fell down, crying for help. A woman dialed 911, telling the operator, “Please hurry!”When police arrived at the home in this small town between Jackson and Memphis, Tennessee, in November 2018, they found a Black man facedown with his arms tucked beneath his body. An officer recognized Loggins, 26, who had battled both mental health and drug problems.Officers repeatedly asked Loggins to put his hands behind his back, police video shows.“Y’all going to kill me?” he asked.“Nobody’s going to kill you,” an officer reassured him.In less than an hour, Loggins was dead in yet another fatality linked to police use of a dangerous restraint technique that the Justice Department condemned in 1995. The agency, along with the International Association of Chiefs of Police, warned law enforcement officials that keeping people restrained facedown in what is known as the prone position increased the risk of death from asphyxia. “As soon as the suspect is handcuffed, get him off his stomach,” the report urged. If that’s not possible, the person “should be closely and continuously monitored.”The Justice Department also told officers never to use a hogtie — a form of prone restraint in which officers also attach wrists to ankles behind a person’s back. Many police departments have banned the practice because of its link to positional asphyxia.But as the story of the Loggins family shows, actually persuading law enforcement officers to stop using hogties and prone-position restraints has proved almost impossible in small-town Mississippi. ‘Excessive exertional activity’At 5:45 a.m. on Sept. 17, 2005, deputies in Carroll County, a rural area southwest of Grenada, responded to a call about a fight and found Loggins’ mother, Debbie, grappling with another woman. Debbie, 5-feet-4 and 220 pounds, had the woman in a headlock, Don Gray, the sheriff at the time, told reporters. When deputies tried to intervene, she became “verbally and physically combative,” he said, hitting one of the officers with his own flashlight. Deputies initially placed her in handcuffs and leg shackles.“It still was not enough,” Gray said. “They were trying to reduce the amount of her kicking. They had difficulty getting her into the car because she was putting her legs up and blocking them.” That’s when deputies decided to hogtie her, binding her arms and her legs together behind her back with an additional set of handcuffs and placing her facedown in the back seat of the squad car.Deputies said she “continued to squirm, kick and twist even after being hogtied,” according to a 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals decision in a lawsuit filed by her estate, which claimed that police violated her constitutional rights. Debbie Loggins, Robert’s mother, was hogtied by officers responding to a call about a fight in 2005.Courtesy Robert FordDuring the trip to the jail, she became quiet and may have stopped breathing, but the deputy driving her didn’t realize that, the court said. When they arrived, the deputy went to get assistance from a jailer. They found that she had no pulse. They began CPR and took her to a hospital, where she was pronounced dead at 7:37 a.m.Authorities didn’t respond to requests for comment. In court filings responding to the estate’s lawsuit, they have said the officers did nothing wrong. A lawyer for Carroll County said in the filings that the death “had little to do with the actions of the officers,” and a federal judge dismissed the estate’s lawsuit, saying the restraints were reasonable. An expert in law enforcement training, Seth Stoughton, a co-author of the book “Evaluating Police Uses of Force,” said officers erred in leaving her handcuffed in the prone position because of the danger of positional asphyxia, which occurs when a person is immobilized in a position that impairs breathing.“You may need to put someone into that position while they’re being handcuffed or while leg restraints are being applied, but you don’t keep them in that position afterward,” he said. “You definitely don’t hold them or transport them in that position.”Asked why hogtie deaths keep happening, Stoughton replied, “I wish I knew,” adding that the cases seldom draw administrative discipline, civil liability or criminal prosecution.In Mississippi in 2015, four police officers in Southaven, on the Tennessee border, pinned Troy Goode down, handcuffed him and called for an ambulance. He died after having been kept hogtied in the prone position for 90 minutes.After the 5th Circuit court ruled that “hog-tying a drug-affected person in a state of drug-induced psychosis and placing him face down in a prone position for an extended period constitutes excessive force,” a lawsuit brought by Goode’s family was settled in July for an undisclosed amount. A joint investigation by NBC News and The Marshall Project identified at least 23 deaths involving hogtying or similar restraints across the country since 2010. At least 13 of the people who died had mental illnesses or were in mental crisis.In the case of Debbie Loggins, the coroner’s chart suggested that bloodwork should be done to rule out positional asphyxia, but no such test results are reflected in the autopsy report. The late pathologist who conducted the autopsy, Dr. Steven Hayne, made no mention of positional asphyxia in his findings.Hayne ruled out trauma, drugs and alcohol, concluding that Loggins died because of advanced heatstroke, even though the sun hadn’t risen when she was arrested, the temperature was in the 70s, and officers transported her in an air-conditioned car.Instead, Hayne — whose autopsies have been called into question — concluded that her death was an accident, blaming her “excessive exertional activity.”‘It gave him a different outlook’As a child, Robert Loggins loved to draw and write poetry, said Jessica Hayes, his sister.His mother’s death when he was 13 years old devastated him, she said. “It gave him a different outlook on the world and the officers.”The tragedy was compounded by the death of his grandmother, who helped raise him. He began to struggle in school, family members said.He experienced mental and behavioral problems, getting psychiatric treatment. Marijuana and meth became an unfortunate escape for Loggins, said his father, Robert Ford. Loggins began committing burglaries and other crimes to fund his habit. He was 17 when he was arrested in 2010 for stealing four tires and wheels from a Toyota Camry. A judge sentenced him to 10 years in prison.In 2015, the parole board gave Loggins a second chance.Robert Loggins, who had mental health and drug problems, was restrained in a prone position by officers at the Grenada County Jail. He died less than an hour later.Courtesy Robert FordHe married, and he and his wife had a son. He earned his GED, worked a couple of jobs and began putting himself through community college, where he began to learn welding, his father said. He also won some local renown, writing and recording his own rap music.But drugs re-entered his life, his father said. He struggled to break the habit, enrolling in two different rehabilitation centers.In 2018, Ford visited his son in the Grenada County Jail; Loggins had been arrested for violating parole.“It’s kind of hard to talk about, but he was calling me, ‘Dad,’ and he was crying,” Ford recalled. “I told him, ‘Son, it’s going to be all right.’”When Loggins was freed several months later, Ford picked him up, and all Loggins could talk about was seeing his son in Oxford, about 50 miles north. Ford said he would be happy to drive him there at the end of the workweek.For Loggins, the weekend never came.‘My soul belongs to Jesus Christ’The 911 call early Nov. 29, 2018, recorded a neighbor saying, “Someone’s in the back of my house calling for help.”Five members of the Grenada Police Department responded, some of whom had known Loggins since he was young.In bodycam video obtained by the Mississippi Center for Investigative Reporting and The Marshall Project, officers repeatedly asked Loggins to put his hands behind his back. “My soul belongs to Jesus Christ,” he told them.“Take your hands from up under you,” an officer barked.“He’s my savior!” Loggins said.“Your ass belongs to us now,” an officer replied.When Loggins didn’t put his hands behind his back, police used a Taser eight times, according to Grenada police records. (Taser’s manufacturer warns that repeated blasts increase the risk of heart attacks.)“Give me a baton. Give me a baton,” an officer said.Officers then grabbed Loggins. Albert Deane Tilley, who had worked in the department for little more than a year in his first job in law enforcement, said Loggins bit him on the hand. Bodycam video showed officers striking Loggins with a flashlight.After handcuffing the 5-foot-8, 190-pound man, officers carried him to a carport, where, a report by the Mississippi Bureau of Investigation claims, “Loggins’ disorderly behavior” kept emergency personnel from conducting “a full medical assessment.”But bodycam video paints a different picture. As officers carry Loggins, an EMT can be heard saying, “He looks fine to me.”Jail video shows that at 5:59 a.m., officers carried Loggins upside down into the lobby of the jail. They left him on the floor, handcuffed and in the prone position.He seemed to be in distress, rolling from side to side, the shift supervisor, Sgt. Edna Clark, told the investigations bureau. “To me, he was trying to gasp for breath because he couldn’t breathe.”She said she asked officers to take Loggins to the hospital but was waved off. After Tilley was reported to have told the jailers that he needed his handcuffs back, at least four officers and jailers piled on top of Loggins at 6:04 a.m. to remove the cuffs from his wrists, video shows. When the officers got off Loggins more than three minutes later, he didn’t move. Clark noticed that he was bleeding and called 911. The dispatcher replied that EMTs had previously checked him.“He’s bleeding from his mouth. He’s bleeding from his legs,” she told the dispatcher. “I’m not going to take him.”At 6:14 a.m., Clark checked Loggins’ pulse and his breathing. She called 911 again.“This man has got no heartbeat, and he’s not breathing. I want them officers back over here. I want an ambulance,” she said. “Get them over here now.”A few minutes later, medical personnel arrived. They pounded on Loggins’ chest hoping to revive him, and when they couldn’t, they airlifted him to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead. He was 26 — seven years younger than his mother was when she died.Five officers were placed on administrative leave with pay, but there were no criminal charges and no known disciplinary action. The investigations bureau interviewed the officers, who denied any wrongdoing. Tilley told the bureau’s investigator, Mark Steed, that when the police first encountered Loggins, he was saying things that didn’t make sense, which made him believe he was under the influence.Tilley and Steed sparred about whether Loggins was hit with a flashlight, according to the transcript in the bureau’s report. At first, Tilley denied using his flashlight to strike Loggins and said no one else did, either.After being pressed to tell the truth, Tilley conceded that he had seen Loggins being hit — in the elbow.Tilley denied seeing any broken teeth, but photographs of Loggins after his death show that his teeth were, indeed, broken.Asked whether he put his knee on Loggins’ neck or head at the jail, Tilley replied: “Not to my recollection, no, sir. I don’t believe it was.”In the video, Tilley can be seen kneeling on Loggins, although it’s not entirely clear whether the deputy is kneeling on his neck or his upper back. Later, the officer can be seen sitting on Loggins. Tilley’s attorney wouldn’t comment on the matter.“What these officers seem to be saying is this man’s ability to breathe was less important to them than a pair of handcuffs,” said the lawyer for Loggins’ estate, Jacob Jordan of Tannehill, Carmean & McKenzie in Oxford.On Dec. 31, Loggins’ wife, Rika Jones, filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court, accusing the officers of assault and the medical personnel and the private jail operator of failing to provide him with proper medical treatment.Tilley’s lawyer wrote in response that there is no proof the officer caused Loggins’ death or acted with excessive force and that he is shielded by qualified immunity, a legal doctrine that says government workers can’t be held liable for what they do on the job, except in rare circumstances.Other officers also deny any wrongdoing. They are asking the judge to throw out the lawsuit, saying they are immune from such litigation because Loggins’ constitutional rights were never violated. “Loggins repeatedly failed to follow commands, would not display his hands, and even assaulted an officer,” they wrote in court filings. “The video shows only the use of force necessary to effectuate the arrest.”In its response, the private jail operator, Corrections Management Services, says its staff acted in good faith, with Clark advising police “multiple times that Loggins would not be accepted into the jail and that he needed medical attention.” Medical personnel have denied the suit’s allegations of failure to provide proper treatment.Robert Ford at a protest Aug. 21 outside the Grenada County Jail, where his son died in November 2018.Mississippi Center for Investigative ReportingTwo accidentsThe state medical examiner ruled Loggins’ death an accident, just like his mother’s. The alleged culprit? Methamphetamine toxicity.The chief medical examiner who conducted the autopsy, Dr. Mark LeVaughn, was placed on administrative leave in November 2020 as the result of an unspecified attorney general’s investigation. In January, he resigned. He couldn’t be reached for comment.The autopsy makes no reference to the jailhouse video, which isn’t in the case file. After viewing the video, as well as the autopsy report and photos, at the request of the Mississippi Center for Investigative Reporting, a forensic pathologist, Dr. Michael Baden, concluded that Loggins’ death was a homicide, saying the methamphetamine wasn’t a fatal amount.“They killed him by piling on top of him,” he said. “He absolutely died from some kind of asphyxia.”After the Mississippi Center for Investigative Reporting’s story about Loggins’ death appeared in April, with the video included, Democratic Rep. Bennie Thompson and other Mississippi leaders asked Attorney General Merrick Garland to have the Justice Department investigate. Loggins’ father said the FBI has interviewed him. (The FBI declined to comment.)This summer, Ford stood with other protesters outside the Grenada County Jail, calling for justice in his son’s case. If officers had taken Loggins into a cell to remove his handcuffs instead of piling on top of him while he was facedown, “he would be alive today,” his dad said. “He didn’t deserve to die like that.”
A ‘Bitcoin City’ in El Salvador inspired by ancient Greeks? Here’s a reality check.. Dressed in pristine white in front of an audience of investors and foreign visitors, El Salvador's president, Nayib Bukele, recently announced plans to create an oceanside "Bitcoin City" at the base of a volcano.Bukele said his new urban center was inspired by the legendary cities built by Alexander the Great — except El Salvador's would be fueled by cryptocurrency.How the switch to bitcoin currency will benefit El Salvador’s economy&nbsp;Aug. 3, 202103:24“This is not just a nice idea. It’s the evolution of humankind,” Bukele told the audience amid a display of lights, smoke machines, an AC/DC song and images that showed, among other things, his figure descending from a multicolored UFO, his face in maximalist proportions and a re-creation of the square that will be in the center of the new city. Seen from the air, the town square would show the Bitcoin sign. But several analysts and experts say it's impossible for a project of that magnitude to materialize in the coming years.No technical plan for the project has been disclosed. Bukele promised that it will be very close to the Conchagua volcano, whose geothermal energy will power bitcoin mining, as well as the city’s needs. “El Salvador has the natural resources to generate that energy, but it does not have the infrastructure. We must remember that we are one of the poorest countries in the region," said José Miguel Cruz, the director of research at the Kimberly Green Latin American and Caribbean Center at Florida International University. "That money could be invested in health and education." Bukele said his planned city will be totally ecological and that it will have almost total exemption from taxes: Only a value-added tax will be charged — 13 percent — of which 6.5 percent will go to issue bonds to build the city, and the rest of which will be managed by the municipality for public services and other urban needs. The incentives to attract investment to the country are a double-edged sword, analysts said, because the government lacks the institutional controls to detect and sanction money laundering activities related to bitcoins.“The Salvadoran government has been characterized by the systematic destruction of the institutions of political and financial control," Cruz said. "In addition, all projects with bitcoins are not transparent. So we do not know who guarantees that there are no money laundering operations."A plan 'for other people'Almost 125 miles away, Dalila Meléndez, 45, watched the event as if it were news from another world.“In Soyapango, nobody uses those bitcoins, neither my friends nor my neighbors, nor do they receive them in the store. They do not serve us, because here everything is still pure dollars," said Meléndez, who works in a factory in the enterprise zone of San Bartolo. "That [plan] of the president is for other people.” More than two months have passed since bitcoins began to circulate as legal currency in El Salvador, and a recent survey revealed that, when Salvadorans can choose which currency to pay with, 91.4 percent of people use the dollar, while only a 4.9 percent favor bitcoins.When a poll by the Center for Citizen Studies at Francisco Gavidia University asked Salvadorans about the decision to adopt bitcoin as the country's currency, 35 percent said they were in favor, while 40 percent were opposed. “The truth is that now everything is more expensive, everything in the basic basket has risen a lot. Oil, meat — this bitcoin thing has not helped us yet,” Meléndez said.'Desperation to seek financing' Despite Bukele's attention-grabbing event, many analysts didn't focus on the idea of ​​Bitcoin City but on another announcement: the issuance of “volcano bonds” in the bitcoin ecosystem worth $1 billion.According to a document Salvadoran government officials have distributed among potential investors, to which Noticias Telemundo had access, the operation of the bonds would be carried out in 2022, and half of the amount would go to buy bitcoins.The rest would be used to develop infrastructure in areas like energy and cryptocurrency mining. The bonds would run for 10 years at 6.5 percent interest; that is, if the proposal materializes, El Salvador would have to pay about $1.65 billion to investors.The announcement came as Bukele’s government was in negotiations with the International Monetary Fund for a loan of $1.3 billion to improve state finances, because, experts said, the country risks defaulting on sovereign bonds maturing in 2023.“Behind the announcement of the city and the volcano’s bonds, what I see is desperation to seek financing for its populist programs,” said Ricardo Castaneda Ancheta, an economist at the Central American Institute for Fiscal Studies.“El Salvador’s risk profile has skyrocketed to levels never seen before. If the country went out to place bonds in international markets, it would have to pay an interest rate of 14 or 15 percent — that is, it would be financial suicide. They are looking for alternatives in case the IMF [loan] is not achieved," Castaneda Ancheta said.Cristian Flores, the president's commissioner for strategic projects, said El Salvador’s foray into the world cryptocurrency scene has given the country an economic boost. He said the new city is one of a series of government projects developing in the southern region.“This year we achieved a 10-point growth. It's the first time in our history. That had never been achieved, and it's thanks to the economic strategy," he said. "In addition, a few days ago we had  more than 2,000 investors, and some had capital of up to $6 billion in bitcoins. Everything is part of a plan."Salvadorans struggle with bitcoin as official currencySept. 10, 202101:28After a visit to the country, however, the IMF warned that the country’s public debt could grow to 95 percent of its gross domestic product by 2026. It also said the use of bitcoin as legal currency entails serious risks because of the volatility of cryptocurrencies.“The government clings to that growth figure, but it's not real," said Carlos Acevedo, a former president of El Salvador's Central Reserve Bank. "It's a rebound due to the 8 percent fall of last year due to the pandemic. In addition, all projections estimate that in the next few years we will grow again between 2 and 2.5 percent. If it really were solid growth, we would have levels of 7 and 8 percent in the following years. But that won't happen."'A paradise for money laundering'Bitcoin was created to carry out transactions without the intervention of trusted third parties, such as central banks or financial institutions.That is one of its great attractions, and, paradoxically, it's what makes Bukele’s commitment so novel, because it means spending part of a country’s budget in a deeply speculative market — much more speculative than investing in commodities like oil, for example. “This is almost like a national casino. It is playing with public money, betting it without having any certainty. If there is a stroke of luck and it generates a lot of money, in the end it is not clear how it is going to be invested and distributed in the country," said Cruz of Florida International University. "But the worst thing is that bitcoin falls, and it is an irreparable loss for such a poor nation."RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'Another element that concerns experts is one of bitcoin's most touted advantages: allowing transactions using only digital identities, which gives users a certain degree of anonymity.Its increasingly widespread use has made bitcoin the preferred currency for many illicit activities, such as computer attacks, or for intricate digital networks of illegal trade in drugs and weapons and even to hire hitmen, according to reports.“At this time, the government does not have the ability to determine if a bitcoin comes from an investor who obtained it by mining, in legal exchanges or from someone who extorts or is engaged in drug trafficking. Criminals are going to find a fertile field, because there is no institutional framework — El Salvador could be considered a paradise for money laundering," Castaneda Archeta said.In addition, financial regulations weren't modified after the law that allows the circulation of bitcoins was approved, so “there is no legal framework” to detect and sanction illicit operations carried out with cryptocurrencies, Castaneda Archeta said.Flores, the commissioner, said El Salvador is out in front in the fight against corruption, and Bukele has demanded that the government’s finances “be clean.”“We have seen the development of cryptocurrencies and how control mechanisms have improved,” Flores said. “As a country, we know that it is necessary to be open to these investors, but they must always go through a filter, a knowledge process, that allows our laws to be applied. Everything in life improves and changes, so our laws will evolve as different cases arise.”But in July, the U.S. State Department publicized a list of senior officials in Central America deemed to be corrupt, including seven current and former top Salvadoran officials, among them Bukele’s labor minister, Rolando Castro; his Cabinet chief, Carolina Recinos; and his former justice and security minister, Rogelio Rivas.A city built from scratch? Bitcoin City is intended to be in an environment with many tourist attractions on nearby beaches, so it lacks the infrastructure to house thousands of people and dozens of companies.Flores said the south of the country will become a center for tourist, economic and technological development with the construction of the Pacific airport, the reactivation of the port of La Unión — a project that has never operated efficiently — the building of a shipyard and, of course, the new Bitcoin City. He said over $2 billion in private tourism investment is projected in the area of the Gulf of Fonseca.“The first thing we need is to have the capital, because urban projects of this size are sold in plans, and then you start to decide the timeline," Flores said. "I think that in the next five years we could have great advances in the works and — why not? — in 10 years, the developed project." In general, building a city is a slow process despite contemporary technological advances. Bitcoin City would require the creation of a municipality and the use of national land to start building infrastructure, including the possible expropriation of land. “It’s crazy to think that everything will be done in a few years. In fact, I don’t remember any project in a Salvadoran city that has been built from scratch in the last century, and this is going to cause problems for the people who live in those areas, because we are a densely populated country. So they will have to expropriate” land, Cruz said. Three days after the event on Mizata beach, the Salvadoran Legislative Assembly, dominated by the ruling party, approved a law that allows the expropriation of real estate for municipal works.The energy problemIn his presentation, Bukele emphasized that Bitcoin City will have “zero CO₂ emissions,” because the new urban center, as well as the cryptocurrency mining operations, will use geothermal energy.Investigations have warned of the vast environmental impact of bitcoin mining, because it can consume as much electricity as a medium-size country.“It is true that we are pioneers, because 25 percent of the energy that the country uses is of geothermal origin, but that has been achieved in more than five decades," said Carlos Martínez Cruz, a professor of electrical engineering at the University of El Salvador. "It is not installing a plant. And at once, we are going to get a well with 90 or 100 terawatts? That will never happen so fast."The government plans to use part of the capacity of a geothermal plant in the town of Berlin while the facilities are being built on the Conchagua volcano. But Martínez Cruz said that would create another problem that would end up affecting the environment.“They are going to use a plant that is already operational to use that clean energy in the cryptocurrency industry, but that is going to leave a lot of people without electricity, because we import electricity. So they are going to have to create plants that burn petroleum derivatives to cover the deficit, and that will increase pollution," he said. The new city will be in a very hot area, so mining not only will consume electricity as the computers are processing, but also require solutions to cool the equipment, which consumes much more energy, Martínez Cruz added.For entrepreneurs like Juan Mayén, the director of the Honduran company TGU Consulting Group, El Salvador is the promised land, a place where you can pay for a coffee or a pizza with an electronic wallet. He said he believes that will boost the use of cryptocurrencies in the region.“We recently installed the first bitcoin ATM in Honduras, but what the government of El Salvador is doing is very innovative," Mayén said. "I think Bukele is going to raise a lot of money with the bonds and the city. This can change things."Meanwhile, many Salvadorans, like Dalila Meléndez, distrust money they can't touch and continue to prefer dollars for their daily lives.“In my neighborhood, many people took the $30 from the Chivo wallet but then didn't use it anymore,” Meléndez said, referring to the digital bitcoin wallet the government created to promote the use of bitcoins. “I don’t understand much of it.” An earlier version of this story was published in Noticias Telemundo.
Europe’s border agency under fire for aiding Libya's brutal migrant detentions . This article was produced in partnership with The Outlaw Ocean Project, a nonprofit journalism organization based in Washington that focuses on reporting about environmental and human rights crimes at sea.Around 5 p.m. on Feb. 4, roughly 70 miles north of Libya, a white reconnaissance plane with a camera on its underside circled a raft that was carrying a hundred desperate migrants trying to cross the Mediterranean Sea to reach Europe. The surveillance footage from the airplane’s camera was transmitted live to an office in Warsaw, Poland, at the headquarters of Frontex, the European Union’s border patrol agency.Two hours later, a Libyan Coast Guard cutter caught up with the migrants and ordered them to stop, even though they were well outside of Libyan waters. According to several migrants who survived the experience, the armed officers then took the migrants on board, beat them savagely, and carried them back to the one place they did not want to go: Libya’s gulag of detention centers.  Aliou Candé.Courtesy Jacaria CandéTwo months later, on April 8, one of the passengers, a 28-year-old Bissau Guinean and father of three named Aliou Candé, was shot and killed in Libya’s most notorious detention center, Al Mabani.The Libyan Coast Guard’s discovery of the boat was no coincidence. A Frontex official confirmed what several investigations by European news organizations have already found: Officials in multiple E.U. countries routinely transmit Frontex’s aerial surveillance footage to the Libyan Coast Guard, which uses that information to pick up migrants and return them to a network of abusive detention centers in Libya.Efficient and brutal, the at-sea capture and on-land internment of these migrants is what European Union officials hail as part of a successful partnership with Libya in their “humanitarian rescue” efforts across the Mediterranean. But the true intent of this joint campaign, according to many human rights advocates, legal experts and members of the European Parliament, is less to save migrants from drowning than to stop them from reaching European shores.Since the migrant crisis started in 2015 and hundreds of thousands of people began crossing the Mediterranean Sea, European officials have relied heavily on the Libyans to stem the flow. Not only did the E.U. equip and train the Libyan Coast Guard, it also lobbied the United Nations maritime organization to recognize an enlarged search-and-rescue zone so that the Libyans could have wider reach off their coast. The E.U., led by Italy, has trained and equipped the Libyan Coast Guard to serve as a proxy maritime force, whose central purpose is to stop migrants from reaching European shores. Flying drones and airplanes over the Mediterranean, Frontex locates migrant rafts, then alerts the Italians, who, in turn, inform the Libyan authorities. Once captured by the Libyan Coast Guard, tens of thousands of these migrants are then delivered into a dozen or so detention centers run by militias.This collaboration has been the principal factor in a precipitous drop in the number of migrants reaching Europe: Around 20,000 migrants arrived in the first seven months of this year, down from 70,000 during the same period in 2016. Without the support of aerial reconnaissance from Frontex, the Libyan Coast Guard would in effect be searching with its eyes closed.  Though the Libyan Coast Guard routinely opens fire on migrant rafts, has been tied by the U.N. to human trafficking and murder and is now run by militias, it continues to draw strong E.U. support. In 2020, the E.U. shipped four new speedboats to the Libyan Coast Guard so that it could more effectively capture migrants and send them to the same detention centers that the U.N. has described as being involved in state-sponsored crimes against humanity.Growing evidence of collaboration with LibyaFrontex has long denied direct cooperation with Libya, which has been a failed state largely run by militias since NATO allies deposed President Moammar Gadhafi in 2001. Most migrants from the Middle East or Africa seeking to get to Europe launch from Libya because the passage is cheaper than from Morocco or Tunisia, and the trip across the Mediterranean from Libya is relatively short. Frontex has insisted its sole aim is to save lives, and a spokesperson for the agency said that it only directly alerts Libyan authorities of migrant boats in a true emergency.“International law obliges all vessels to provide assistance to any persons found in distress,” the Frontex press office said in a statement, in response to requests for comment on this article. “[Frontex] has never engaged in any direct cooperation with Libyan authorities.”But a mounting body of evidence collected by European journalists and nongovernmental organizations suggests otherwise. Bangladeshi migrants making their way from Libya to Europe are rescued by the crew of the Geo Barents, a rescue vessel operated by Doctors Without Borders in the central Mediterranean, on June 12, 2021.Ed Ou / The Outlaw Ocean ProjectLast year, for instance, Lighthouse Reports, a Dutch nonprofit journalism organization, documented 20 instances in which Frontex aircraft were in the vicinity of migrant boats later captured by the Libyan Coast Guard. In a dozen of those cases, Lighthouse determined, Frontex was the first to identify the boats, meaning that under international law, it was obliged to notify not just the Libyan Coast Guard, but the nearest vessel — government or commercial — so that a rescue might be promptly undertaken.“There is a clear pattern discernible,” Lighthouse researchers asserted. “Boats in distress are spotted, communications take place between European actors and the Libyan Coast Guard. No notice is given to nearby commercial shipping or NGO vessels despite its proximity to urgent situations where boats are in distress on the open sea.“While the real numbers could be far higher, this representative sample showed that Frontex was present and watching while at least 91 people went missing and are presumed to have drowned.”Frontex says that in emergency situations, it contacts any potential seaborne rescuer, including the Libyan Coast Guard, but says this does not imply it coordinates with Libya to pick up the migrants.The Al-Mabani detention center in Libya on May 18, 2021.Pierre Kattar / The Outlaw Ocean ProjectDocuments released in October following an open-records request by the European transparency group FragDenStaat show that Frontex even sends the locations of migrant rafts directly to the Coast Guard. In a WhatsApp exchange from June, Frontex wrote to a “Captain of the Libyan Coast Guard,” saying, “Good morning sir — we have a boat adrift [at these coordinates]... please acknowledge this message.” Frontex officials recently sent The Outlaw Ocean the results of an open-records request, which indicate that, from Feb. 1 to Feb. 5, around the time that Candé was at sea, the agency exchanged 37 emails with the Libyan Coast Guard.Hussein Baoumi, Amnesty International’s Libya researcher, said he was not surprised by Frontex’s continuing denial of a formal relationship with the Libyan Coast Guard. “They want to separate themselves from the dirtiest aspects of migrant containment,” Baoumi said. “It doesn’t matter. They are cooperating. They are directly complicit.”Behind the migrant prisons, E.U. moneyThe E.U. has also denied directly funding the gulag of migrant prisons in Libya, while consistently both conceding their barbarity and calling for improvements. But lawmakers and human rights advocates have called for the E.U. to end its work with Libya and take steps to rescue those caught up in the country’s migrant jails.But if the E.U. does not pay to build the detention centers or staff their guards, European money does pay for virtually everything else in the inhumane system where migrants are routinely tortured, raped, unlawfully held and sometimes murdered, The Outlaw Ocean Project and The New Yorker found in a 11-month investigation based on financial reports, interviews with European parliamentarians and U.N. officials and aid workers, E.U. purchasing documents, an open-records request to Frontex and the European Commission, flight-tracking data, and open-source platforms including Facebook and Instagram.Through Frontex drones and planes, the E.U. is first responsible for spotting the rafts and, via Italian and Maltese authorities, handing this intelligence over to Libya. Then E.U.-purchased boats operated by the Libyan Coast Guard capture the migrants and bring them back to shore.Migrants wait to be returned by Libyan Coast Guard off the coast of Garabulli, Libya, on Oct. 19, 2021.Anadolu Agency via Getty Images fileFunds from the E.U. and member states, sometimes routed through aid organizations, pay for most of what happens next, the investigation found by scouring public databases such as the E.U. Tenders Portal.  This money bought the shipping containers that double as port offices for the Libyan Coast Guard staff, and the touch-screen tablets used by aid workers who count the migrants as they disembark in Tripoli. The team examined public disclosures, interviewed European parliamentarians and combed through annual reports and audits of the E.U.’s Emergency Trust Fund for Africa, which indicated that money from the E.U. and its member states pays for much of what happens to migrants in Libya. Some of these efforts make the prisons more humane, but they also help sustain a brutal system, which exists largely because of E.U. policies that send migrants back to Libya.The project also studied the social media pages of Libyan authorities, sourcing images and video of the boats, SUVs, ambulances and buses provided by the European Union that are being used to intercept and transport migrants to the detention centers.The investigation found that the E.U. pays for every aspect of the migrant interception infrastructure in some way — from aerial surveillance to Libya’s boats, from the SUVs that intercept migrants in the desert to the buses that bring them from port to the gates of the detention centers. It even pays for the offices of the Libyan Coast Guard.A Libyan coastguard vessel carries migrants recovered off the coast of al-Khums, about 120 kilometres east of the capital, as it approaches the pier in Tripoli's naval base on Feb. 10, 2021.AFP via Getty ImagesSome of it may appear to be humanitarian assistance: the blankets, winter clothes, and slippers that migrants often receive upon arrival. The bathrooms at some of the detention centers as well as the showers, toilets, soap, hygiene kits, and toilet paper were bought with E.U. money. The same goes for the mattresses where the detained migrants sleep. When migrants in detention get sick, often the ambulances that take them to the hospital have been purchased by the E.U.But E.U. money also paid for the SUVs used by Libyan migration authorities to look for migrants if they escape detention or as they enter Libya in the south through the Saharan desert. Ultimately, experts and advocates said the abuses suffered by migrants would not be happening if E.U. money did not make it possible.“If the E.U. did not finance the Libyan Coast Guard and its assets, there would be no interception, and there would be no referral to these horrific detention centers,” said Tineke Strik, the Dutch member of the European Parliament who wrote the parliamentary report on Frontex.Asked about the involvement of the E.U. in Libyan abuses of migrants, Josep Borrell, the E.U.’s ​​High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, said the treatment of migrants is the sole responsibility of the Libyan government.Josep Borrell, the E.U.’s High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, left, and Libyan Foreign Minister Najla al-Mangoush attend a press conference in Tripoli, Libya, on Sept. 8, 2021.Hamza Turkia / Xinhua News Agency via Getty Images file“The [European] Commission does not support Libya’s detention system,” he said in a statement. “Accordingly, the E.U. Emergency Trust Fund for Africa does not fund the country’s detention centers. However, through its partners, the Commission does provide lifesaving support to detained migrants, including Voluntary Humanitarian Return to the country of departure, non-food items, medical assistance, cleaning, as well as fumigation and disinfection to prevent diseases from spreading inside the centers.”Migrants face a brutal detention systemIn May, I went to Libya’s capital, Tripoli, to report on the country’s gulag of migrant jails. I interviewed dozens of migrants who had been imprisoned at Al Mabani, one of the most notorious detention centers, in the heart of the city. They told me of cells so crowded the detainees had to sleep in shifts. They spoke of a special room where migrants were sometimes beaten while hung upside from ceiling beams. And they shared with me the audio message that Aliou Candé, the young migrant from Guinea Bissau who was captured in February, had recorded on a cellphone sneaked into the jail in which he made a final plea to his family to send the ransom he needed to be set free.Messages are scrawled on a wall in the Gharyan Detention Center in Libya.The Outlaw Ocean ProjectCandé was killed, the other migrants said, one of hundreds who died at the hands of guards and were buried in an overcrowded migrant cemetery in Tripoli.No one was punished for Candé’s death. E.U. officials called for an investigation, but then went silent.And then I got my own taste of Libya’s brutality. A week into my reporting on Candé’s killing, I was abducted from my hotel room and held for almost a week by Libya’s intelligence service, run by a militia called Al-Nawasi. I was blindfolded, two of my ribs were broken, and I was held incommunicado for five days before my eventual release. My crime? Reporting on migrants. My colleagues and I were later forced at gunpoint by our captors to sign a confession letter at the behest of the head of the Libyan intelligence service, a man named Maj. Gen. Hussein Muhammad Al-A’ib.Frontex “didn’t want to understand”Since Frontex is the tip of the spear, more attention is being paid to the role it plays and the legality of its involvement.A recent investigation by the European Parliament produced a litany of allegations against the agency — that it turned a blind eye to human rights violations committed by coast guard personnel from European countries and partner countries in Africa; that its own internal system for receiving and acting on complaints of misconduct was itself a failure; and that the agency’s head, Fabrice Leggeri, had failed to act on four years of warnings from his agency’s own top human rights official.Frontex issued a statement at the time saying that while it was not in violation of any human rights, it was willing to look into the criticism and the recommendations and try to “strengthen the respect of fundamental rights in all our activities,” in Leggeri’s words.Frontex director Fabrice Leggeri speaks in Rezovo, Bulgaria, on Sept. 15, 2021.Hristo Rusev / Getty Images fileBut in an interview with The Outlaw Ocean Project in late October, a senior Frontex official said Leggeri had engaged in a calculated and disingenuous game for years — insisting that “evidence” of misconduct by E.U. border agencies be produced before he would act, all while failing to ensure that complaints of such potential abuse were aggressively investigated. The senior official, who is not allowed to talk to reporters publicly and asked for anonymity, said it is no longer clear that Frontex is meeting its most essential obligation: making sure the rights of some of the world’s most vulnerable people are respected. The official said the angry and volatile emotions in Europe concerning the question of migration enforcement had eroded Frontex’s complete independence. “The influence of politics is a problem when you are handling the question of fundamental human rights,” the official said. “Even if its participation in returning migrants to Libya is indirect, Frontex may be violating E.U. law.”“No interest” in investigating the allegations, the official said of Leggeri and his other most senior aides. “It didn’t matter what you told them. They didn’t want to understand.” Presented with the findings of this investigation, Leggeri’s office denied repeated requests for an interview. Border agency faces European justiceThis year, two landmark cases are being brought by migrants against Frontex before the Court of Justice of the European Union, the E.U.’s chief judicial authority. The first case, filed in May, claims that Frontex has long been operating in violation of its obligations to report and halt criminal abuse of migrants seeking asylum in Europe. The case alleges that two migrants — a 17-year-old Congolese boy named Jeancy Kimbenga and a woman from Burundi who asked to remain anonymous — were part of a group of 13 that was rounded up by Greek authorities after arriving on the Greek island of Lesbos. They say they were forcibly transferred to a Coast Guard vessel and brought back out to sea before being abandoned on a lifeboat, eventually ending up back in Turkey.The allegations in the second case, filed in October, are even stronger. The case alleges that a Syrian family, with four children between the ages of 1 and 7, were deported from Greece in 2016 without being given access to an asylum procedure, and were returned to Turkey on a flight arranged by Frontex, with the four young children separated from their parents while Frontex staff looked on. The family was detained on landing in Turkey and now lives in northern Iraq.Portuguese Frontex crew members check coordinates as they monitor the Aegean Sea between Turkey and Greece for boats carrying refugees on March 30, 2016, near Mithymna, Greece.Dan Kitwood / Getty Images fileThe cases are the first time Frontex has been brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union. The agency dismissed the cases as “an activist agenda pretending to be a legal case.”The nonprofit group Human Rights Watch, in a report published last summer, issued a sweeping indictment of Frontex’s performance, its organizational culture and its leadership. “Frontex has repeatedly failed to take effective action when allegations of human rights violations are brought to its attention,” said Eva Cossé, Western Europe researcher at Human Rights Watch. “Its rapid growth into an executive agency of the E.U., with increased powers, funding, and legal responsibilities makes it all the more urgent for Frontex to put in place effective tools to safeguard fundamental rights.”Created in 2004, Frontex now has a budget of 541 million euros (about $619 million) and it employs more than 1,400 staff members, including a uniformed force of roughly 600 officers. The agency is governed by a management board consisting of representatives of the 25 E.U. member states and two members of the European Commission. In theory, there are a range of mechanisms by which Frontex could be held accountable, but it has rarely, if ever, faced any genuine sanction. Obtaining basic information from the agency, even for a member of the European Parliament, is difficult. Employees work in the situation room at the headquarters of the European Union border agency Frontex in Warsaw, Poland, on Sept. 29, 2015.Wojtek Radwanski / AFP via Getty Images file“We really have problems with the lack of transparency,” said Tineke Strik, a Dutch member of the European Parliament.In its analysis of the history of Frontex’s work, Human Rights Watch noted that under its own bylaws, the agency has the power to suspend or end the operations of E.U. border agencies found to have committed abuses against migrants. In its entire history, Human Rights Watch said, the agency has never done so.Leggeri, Frontex’s executive director, has repeatedly faced calls to resign in recent months. Protesters gathered outside Frontex’s offices in Brussels in June calling for the abolishment of the agency altogether. In a letter to his staff, Leggeri, who worked on migration enforcement as a member of the French interior ministry, called the protests a “hate campaign” and vowed legal action.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'In June, Human Rights Watch sent the agency’s top officials what it said was evidence of serious misconduct either committed or overlooked by Frontex in three European countries. It has yet to get a response. The organization accused Frontex of a cynical semantic game in avoiding responsibility for abuses taking place in both the Mediterranean and Aegean Seas.“Over the years, Frontex has relied on its coordinating role and lack of executive authority to evade human rights responsibility,” Human Rights Watch wrote. “In December 2020 Frontex Executive Director Fabrice Leggeri told the European Parliament there was no evidence of Frontex’s involvement in abuses in the Aegean and that only member states had the authority to make operational decisions, implying that Frontex could not be held responsible.”Frontex, under pressure, ordered an internal review of its operations. Its own investigators offered a withering critique of the agency’s systems for reporting problems in its ranks. The investigators said the agency needed to acknowledge its failures, and recommended what amounted to an overhaul of the agency’s culture concerning its responsibilities for identifying and acting on concerns about human rights violations. It suggested that Frontex record on video the enforcement work being done by E.U. member states and preserve the recordings for investigation.The European border agency Frontex is headquartered in the Warsaw Spire skyscraper, seen here on April 6, 2018, in Warsaw, Poland.Jaap Arriens / NurPhoto via Getty Images fileIn June, a migrants rights organization that had for years been part of an independent board of advisers to Frontex withdrew from the group. Saying it felt ignored and marginalized, the organization, the Platform for International Cooperation on Undocumented Migrants, said it had grown uncertain of Frontex’s role in “a civil society.”On yet another front, in January, the European Anti-Fraud Office opened an investigation into Frontex, looking at allegations of fraud, cases of illegally turning back migrants, and issues of workplace harassment, but the specific allegations have not been made public. Both Frontex and the European Anti-Fraud Office confirmed an investigation was taking place, but did not offer further details. “[They] are operating very carefully,” Strik said of investigators. “But I spoke to them in August and they hope to finish within a few months.”Outsourcing enforcement to a failed stateFrontex’s work with Libya is part of a much larger and more expensive European push to outsource immigration enforcement to third-party countries. The E.U. has sent billions to countries such as Libya, Niger, Tunisia and others, ostensibly to help them improve conditions in their countries and thus limit the need for people to flee. But tens of millions of those dollars have gone to toughen immigration legislation and empower enforcement agencies in those countries, according to a variety of studies by nongovernmental organizations.In July, Amnesty International issued its latest report on the state of migrants in Libya. It noted that the Libyan Coast Guard, often after being alerted by Frontex to migrants trying to make it to Europe, races to intercept the migrant boats and capture those aboard, sometimes firing guns at the rafts or dinghies, occasionally capsizing them. In February, for example, the Coast Guard fired on a raft, puncturing it and causing it to sink. Five people drowned as members of the Coast Guard filmed with their cellphones, the report said. A message is scratched out on a wall inside the Gharyan Detention Center in Libya.The Outlaw Ocean ProjectThe Libyan Coast Guard, really a hodgepodge of local port authorities, has for years been understood by the U.N. and other institutional observers to be working in concert with the country’s militias, many of whom are involved in human trafficking. Indeed, the head of the Libyan government agency overseeing the crackdown on migrants has admitted in a series of recent interviews that corruption exists within the ranks of the Coast Guard.The senior Frontex official who talked to The Outlaw Ocean Project said the agency should not do any sort of business with the Libyan Coast Guard, in part because Europe “didn’t have a clue” as to the integrity of those purporting to belong to the Coast Guard. Things were simply too broken and opaque in Libya, a divided and violent country still struggling to emerge from years of civil war, the official said.“It’s impossible,” the official said, “to have any vetting of who is who.”
9 months after the Texas freeze, the power grid remains vulnerable. This article was published in partnership with The Texas Tribune, a nonprofit, nonpartisan local newsroom that informs and engages with Texans. Sign up for The Brief Weekly to get up to speed on essential coverage of Texas issues.MIDLOTHIAN, Texas — After last winter’s freeze hamstrung the flow of electricity to millions of customers from one big Texas utility, the company’s CEO, Curt Morgan, said he’d never seen anything like it in his 40 years in the energy industry. During the peak days of the storm, Morgan’s company, Vistra Corp., Texas’ largest power generator, sent as much energy as it could to power the state’s failing grid, “often at the expense of making money,” he told legislators shortly after the storm.ERCOT faces Texas lawmakers after devastating power outagesFeb. 25, 202101:14But it wasn’t enough. The state’s grid neared complete collapse, millions of customers lost power for days in subfreezing temperatures, and more than 200 people died.Since the storm, Texas legislators have passed measures to make the grid more resilient during freezing weather. Signing the bill, Gov. Greg Abbott said, “Everything that needed to be done was done to fix the power grid.”But Morgan isn’t so sure. His company has spent $50 million this year preparing more than a dozen of its plants for winter. At the company’s plant in Midlothian, southwest of Dallas, workers have wrapped electric cables with 3 inches of rubber insulation and built enclosures to help shield valves, pumps and metal pipes.An employee of Vistra Corp.’s Midlothian Power Plant in Midlothian, Texas, adjusts the wiring of a power unit Oct. 15. Energy providers like Vistra are preparing their plants for extreme weather after the February winter storm.Shelby Tauber / The Texas TribuneNo matter what Morgan does, however, it won’t be enough to prevent another disaster if there is another severe freeze, he said. That’s because the state still hasn’t fixed the critical problem that paralyzed his plants: maintaining a sufficient supply of natural gas, Morgan said.Natural gas slowed to a trickle during the storm, leaving the Midlothian facility and 13 other Vistra power plants that run on gas without enough fuel. The shortage forced Vistra to pay more than $1.5 billion on the spot market for whatever gas was available, costing it in a matter of days more than twice what it usually spends in an entire year. Even then, plants were able to operate at only a small fraction of their capacities; the Midlothian facility ran at 30 percent during the height of the storm. “Why couldn’t we get it?” Morgan asked recently. “Because the gas system was not weatherized. And so we had natural gas producers that weren’t producing.”Twelve miles of pipes at Vistra Corp.’s Midlothian Power Plant in Midlothian, Texas, will be insulated and heated to maintain the internal temperature during extreme weather.Shelby Tauber / The Texas TribuneIf another major freeze hits Texas this winter, “the same thing could happen,” Morgan said in an interview.The predicament in Midlothian reflects a glaring shortcoming in Texas’ efforts to prevent a repeat of February, when a combination of freezing temperatures across the state and skyrocketing demand shut down natural gas facilities and power plants, which rely on one another to keep electricity flowing. The cycle of failures sent economic ripples across the country that cost hundreds of billions of dollars. The power and gas industries say they are working to make their systems more reliable during winter storms, and the Public Utility Commission, the state agency that regulates the power industry, finally acted on recommendations that federal regulators made a decade ago after another severe winter storm. But energy experts say Texas’ grid remains vulnerable, largely because new regulations allowed too much wiggle room for companies to avoid weatherization improvements that can take months or years. More than nine months after February’s storm — which could exceed Hurricane Harvey as the costliest natural disaster in state history — a lack of data from regulators and industry groups makes it impossible to know how many power and gas facilities are properly weatherized. Many energy providers, like Vistra, are preparing their plants for extreme weather to prevent a repeat of last winter's power problems.Shelby Tauber / The Texas TribuneFor millions of Texans, that means there is no assurance that they will have electricity and heat if there is another major freeze. “If we see a recurrence of the storm we saw last year, people should probably be worried,” said Adrian Shelley, the director of the Texas office of Public Citizen, a nonprofit consumer advocacy group.The stakes are high, and not just for Texas, the country’s top energy-producing state. Its winter preparedness, which affects customers as far away as California and Minnesota, is a test of the U.S.’s ability to deal with climate change, which is making weather more extreme, more unpredictable and deadlier. “Extreme weather events, such as the one in February 2021, are unfortunately becoming more commonplace and the electricity ecosystem needs to come together to plan for and prepare to operate under more extreme, longer duration, and wide area weather events,” Jim Robb, the president and CEO of North American Electric Reliability Corp., said in a statement. Robb’s nonprofit organization, which helps set reliability standards for the power industry, published a joint report with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission this month that detailed the failures of both the power and the natural gas industries to protect against February’s storm, despite recommendations by federal agencies after a similar disaster in 2011. That storm caused rolling blackouts across much of the state over three days — but no deaths — as then-Gov. Rick Perry asked Texans to conserve electricity. Although the natural gas industry has blamed electricity generators for the February blackouts — claiming gas slowed only after power was cut to their facilities — the report said freezing temperatures were the main cause of a sharp decline in natural gas in Texas and neighboring states in the early days of the storm that triggered a cascade of outages. ‘It’s a regulatory problem’But federal regulators have little say in how the Texas grid operates. The main Texas grid is an island, not connected to the country’s two major power grids. That is by design, the result of state leaders’ actions decades ago to avoid federal regulation and encourage free-market competition. Multiple state agencies, as well as a nonprofit organization, the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, or ERCOT, govern the grid’s operations, writing rules based on laws passed by state legislators.The legislators responded to February’s disaster by passing measures to improve the power system’s preparedness for winter. They established weatherization mandates but left it to state regulators to implement them. The Public Utility Commission followed with a rule enacting the weatherization requirements. But the rule allows power plants to request exceptions if they document their efforts to comply, explain why they couldn’t and submit plans to do so later. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'The Texas Railroad Commission, which regulates the natural gas industry, is working more slowly. A proposal published in September and expected to be finalized Wednesday lays out a timeline that would identify, map and impose weatherization mandates for gas producers that supply power plants by early 2023. It also seeks to prevent a repeat of a major paperwork error that resulted in dozens of natural gas providers’ having their power cut off during February’s rolling blackouts because they failed to declare themselves “critical infrastructure.” But the proposed rule, which the Railroad Commission said was written to reflect the language in the new state law, would allow gas companies to opt out of that classification and avoid having to weatherize their equipment. That infuriated many legislators, even though they’d voted for the law that allowed it after lobbying by the natural gas industry. Power is transformed into usable energy at the main switchyard of Vistra Corp.’s power plant in Midlothian, Texas.Shelby Tauber / The Texas TribuneThe result is that Texas has done “next to nothing” to weatherize its natural gas supply, said Doug Lewin, an Austin-based energy consultant.  “We don’t have a regulatory system in place that holds the industry accountable. That is the problem,” Lewin said. “It’s not a technology or engineering problem. It’s a regulatory problem.”Natural gas fuels a majority of power generation in Texas, especially in the winter. At one point during February’s storm, more than half of the state’s natural gas supply was shut down because of power outages, frozen equipment and weather conditions, ERCOT said, adding that at least 20 percent of all of the outages the week of the storm were due to power plants’ not getting enough gas.The natural gas industry, which has been among the most politically powerful in Texas for generations, has donated generously to the campaigns of governors, legislators and Railroad Commission members. That contributes to a culture in which gas companies have escaped strict weatherization mandates, energy experts and consumer advocates say.The Texas Oil and Gas Association, one of the most prominent energy lobbyist groups in Texas, defended the gas industry’s image in a public relations campaign after the storm. It also has had a heavy hand in deciding who sits on an informal advisory council that legislators codified after the storm to ensure that energy and electricity operations continue during extreme weather. Industry group: Natural gas system will be prepared for winterTodd Staples, the president of the Texas Oil and Gas Association, said gas companies already weatherize to varying degrees and “are working with a sense of urgency.”The best way to avoid a repeat of February is for power companies to get access to more stored gas ahead of a storm, he said in an interview.Staples said more than 1,000 facilities — out of more than 250,000 statewide — have filled out paperwork to be added to the list of “critical” facilities that won’t have their power cut off. That’s up from just 60 before the storm, Staples said.The number will continue to rise after the Railroad Commission enacts its weatherization rule, Staples said. Because not all gas facilities immediately need emergency power during storms, Staples said, the Railroad Commission should set up a system to prioritize which get power before others.  Vistra Corp.’s Midlothian Power Plant in Midlothian, Texas.Shelby Tauber / The Texas TribuneHe said the industry would be prepared for winter, including having more gas in storage. “If the power is kept on, natural gas will continue at a reasonable level,” Staples saidOncor, Texas’ largest electricity transmission and distribution company, which delivers power to 3.8 million homes and businesses, said that since the February storm it has received 1,061 forms from gas companies declaring their infrastructure as critical, a sign that they are likely to be weatherized and prepared to operate during a grid emergency. AEP Texas and CenterPoint Energy, which together service more than 3.6 million Texas households and businesses, said they have received 278 more forms from gas companies registering their facilities as critical.Several of Texas’ largest natural gas producers, including XTO Energy and Apache Corp., didn’t respond to calls or emails seeking comment on their weatherization efforts. Representatives of BP and Devon Energy declined to comment. And the Railroad Commission said it didn’t know how many natural gas companies are actually prepared for winter. An agency spokesperson said ERCOT would have the information. An ERCOT spokesperson declined to comment.As the Railroad Commission works on its weatherization rule, electricity companies — including Oncor, AEP Texas, CenterPoint and Texas-New Mexico Power Co. — have already begun criticizing the proposal. The companies filed a comment with the commission arguing that the proposed rule was too vague and that it “does not provide information electric utilities will need in order to efficiently and effectively incorporate natural gas facilities into their respective” emergency plans.Virginia Palacios, the executive director of Commission Shift, an organization that researches the Railroad Commission’s ties to the oil and gas industry, said the long process of creating weatherization rules has prevented Texas from preparing for this winter.“We are not going to have any assurances that operators are weatherizing for this winter,” she said. “And probably not for the next one.”
Student becomes fourth person to die in Michigan school shooting as suspect is identified, charged with murder. A 17-year-old student is the fourth victim to die in a shooting at Oxford High School in Michigan as murder charges were announced against the teenage suspect.The suspect, Ethan Crumbley, 15, was charged Wednesday with four counts of first-degree murder, one count of terrorism causing death, seven counts of assault with intent to murder and 12 counts of possession of a firearm in the commission of a felony.He is being charged as an adult and was arraigned later Wednesday.Oakland County Prosecutor Karen McDonald said at a news conference that the shooting Tuesday at Oxford High School was planned, "not just an impulsive act." "There is a mountain of digital evidence — videotape, social media, all digital evidence possible — and it absolutely, we are confident that we can show it was premeditation," she told reporters. 17-year-old boy becomes fourth victim in Michigan high school shootingDec. 1, 202101:52The charges came shortly after authorities announced that the fourth victim had died — Justin Shilling, 17. Shilling died around 10:45 a.m. Wednesday at McLaren Oakland Hospital in Pontiac, the Oakland County Sheriff's Office said. Authorities previously identified the three other students who were killed as Hana St. Juliana, 14; Madisyn Baldwin, 17; and Tate Myre, 16. Seven other people were seriously wounded and taken to hospitals, including a teacher, Sheriff Michael Bouchard said. Three had been were released by Wednesday afternoon, and two teenagers remained in serious condition.The shooting happened just before 1 p.m. Authorities said more than a hundred 911 calls came in to dispatch.  Investigators allege that Crumbley began shooting after he left a bathroom and that he remained in the school's hallway until he was detained. Undersheriff Michael McCabe had said the suspect was in custody within five minutes of deputies’ arrival. He suspect was denied bond and will be transferred to the Oakland County Jail, where he will be isolated from other inmates.McDonald talked Wednesday’s news conference about how students, teachers and staff members sought shelter as shots rang out. "When the shooting started yesterday, the students and teachers and staff in the school had to act quickly to save their own lives," she said."Law enforcement and all of the first responders had to act quickly to prevent more lives from being lost and get help for those who had been shot," McDonald said, adding that the suspect was being charged with terrorism because the people had to flee and hide."What about all the other children who ran, screaming, hiding under desks? What about all the children at home right now who can't eat and can't sleep and can't imagine a world where they can ever step foot back in that school?" she said. "Those are victims, too, and so are their families, and so is the community. And the charge of terrorism reflects that."Prosecutors considering charges against suspect's parentsThe handgun believed to have been used was recovered. Investigators said they believe the suspect's father bought the 9 mm Sig Sauer handgun Friday, Bouchard said.Bouchard said Wednesday morning on CNN that it is clear that the shooter "came out with the intent to kill people." "He was shooting people at close range, oftentimes towards the head or chest," he said. "It's just absolutely cold-hearted murderous. And our forensic team was working all night, and so far I believe they recovered over 30 shell casings. So we believe he fired at least 30 shots."RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'Eighteen live, unfired rounds were found after the suspect was detained. Police found seven in his pocket, and 11 more were discovered later in a magazine, Bouchard said. Bouchard said that the suspect's parents have asked for a lawyer and that, under Michigan law, authorities cannot speak with a juvenile without parental permission. "They have refused that permission," he said. "So we can’t get the motive from the suspect that we have in custody, but we think we’ve got a path to get a lot of supportive information as to how and why this occurred." Because they have not yet been able to question the suspect, investigators are still unclear about what motive he may have had, Bouchard added."There is nothing that he could have faced that would warrant senseless, absolutely brutal violence on other kids," he said.Crumbley's parents had been asked to speak with the school Monday and Tuesday, before the shooting, to discuss "concerning" classroom behavior, Bouchard said. He did not detail the discussions but said there had been no history that would have offered warning signs. The high school's anti-bullying coordinator told investigators that the school did not have records that the suspect had any history of being bullied. It did not appear that students were individually targeted. This is a breaking story; check back for updates.
First U.S. case of omicron variant is found in California. The omicron variant of the coronavirus has been detected in California, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced Wednesday.The CDC said in a statement that the California Department of Public Health and the San Francisco Department of Public Health confirmed the case in a traveler who returned from South Africa on Nov. 22 — three days before scientists in that country announced they'd detected the new variant.The person, an adult under age 50, developed symptoms a few days after arriving in the U.S. and got tested on Nov. 28, California Gov. Gavin Newsom said Wednesday. The test came back positive for Covid-19 on Monday, Nov. 29. "The individual, who was fully vaccinated and had mild symptoms that are improving, is self-quarantining and has been since testing positive," the CDC statement read. Close contacts of the person have been undergoing Covid tests and so far, no one has tested positive.The fact that the person had only mild symptoms is a testimony to vaccinations, Dr. Mark Ghaly, secretary of the California Health and Human Services Agency, said during a news conference."Vaccinations do a really important thing: protect against severe disease, against hospitalization and death," he said.During a separate news conference, Dr. Grant Colfax of the San Francisco Department of Public Health said the patient had received two doses of the Moderna vaccine, but had not received a booster shot. 'We are prepared': San Francisco health official responds to omicron variant found in U.S.Dec. 1, 202101:43It is another example of the importance not only of vaccination, but also of the booster shot, Dr. Anthony Fauci, head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said Wednesday at a White House news conference.Even though the current vaccines do not target variants such as delta or omicron, "you get spillover protection even against a variant that the vaccine wasn't specifically directed at," he said."If you're eligible for boosting, get boosted right now," Fauci advised.Newsom said the person with the omicron variant had received the Covid vaccine within the last six months, and therefore was not yet eligible for a booster shot.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'The omicron variant has a high number of mutations that suggest it may spread just as or more easily than the delta variant, which accounts for 99.9 percent of Covid cases in the U.S. Scientists have cautioned that it's still unclear whether omicron is more dangerous than other versions of the virus that has killed more than 5 million people worldwide. It is also unknown how well the vaccines and treatments would work against the variant. The World Health Organization said Monday that the global risk of the new variant is "very high." "Omicron's very emergence is another reminder that although many of us might think we're done with Covid-19, it's not done with us," WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a special session of the World Health Assembly.The U.S. last week restricted travel from South Africa and seven neighboring countries. The CDC is now also requiring all airline passengers traveling from those areas to provide their names and contact information while they remain in the U.S.On Thursday, President Joe Biden is scheduled to update the nation on his plan to combat Covid through the winter. It is likely to include a requirement that travelers entering from other countries get tested within a day of their flight."Anybody and everybody who’s coming into the country needs to get a test within 24 hours of getting on the plane to come here," Fauci said Wednesday. Meanwhile, public health experts continue to recommend tried-and-true ways of Covid protection: vaccination and a booster, wearing masks indoors and in crowded spaces, and continued physical distancing.Colfax, of San Francisco, said Wednesday that the city was not considering altering any restrictions.The variant has been detected in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Italy, Portugal, Germany, Belgium, Canada, Australia, Israel and Hong Kong, among other countries.While world leaders and health experts are urging people to get vaccinated as soon as possible, some countries are struggling to inoculate their populations due to lack of access.
What today's activists can learn from  AIDS advocacy group ACT UP. Jesse Milan, who has been an advocate for people living with HIV and AIDS for more than 30 years, said that one memory from 1992 has returned to him repeatedly over the course of his work and continues to inspire him — especially when people mention the activist group AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power.By 1992, nearly 203,000 people had died from the disease, including Milan’s partner. Milan was the chair of the Ryan White Planning Council in Philadelphia, which allocates funding for HIV care and prevention services. Whenever someone mentions ACT UP — which was formed in New York City in 1987 — “immediately what comes to mind is me sitting at the head of a table of a Ryan White Planning Council meeting with a vocal leader of ACT UP standing in front, pointing their finger at me directing that we should do more,” said Milan, who is now president and CEO of the national organization AIDS United, which fights to end the HIV epidemic. “I will never forget it. That’s how important ACT UP has been in holding people accountable for the work that we need to do. That image informs and inspires and guides me all the time.”The vocal leader pointing his finger was JD Davids, an advocate and writer. Milan, who has also been living with HIV for 39 years, said he and Davids continue to be colleagues and fellow advocates.“Just because you were held accountable and just because we were being urged to do more does not mean that we ever view those as negative,” he said, adding that, in fact, many public health and government officials appreciated that ACT UP brought the direct perspectives of people living with HIV. ACT UP formed out of the collective anger people felt in response to a lack of government action to address the AIDS crisis. The organization, led mostly by queer people, has come to have a worldwide impact on science, health care and how people organize to demand change.‘Transformed’ how queer people saw themselvesOn March 10, 1987, gay activist and playwright Larry Kramer gave a speech at the Lesbian and Gay Community Center in Manhattan and called for the creation of an AIDS activist group, according to ACT UP’s website. Two days later, more than 300 people showed up to a meeting to create ACT UP, which is now known as ACT UP New York. There were 148 chapters worldwide at its peak.One member of the New York chapter, Ann Northrop, described the group at a meeting in November 1989 as a “diverse, nonpartisan group of individuals united in anger and committed to direct action to end the AIDS crisis,” Rolling Stone reported at the time.Flashback: Radical AIDS activist group ACT UPOct. 19, 201601:05The organization became nationally known for its large demonstrations. For example, in September 1989, seven members of ACT UP infiltrated the New York Stock Exchange and chained themselves to the VIP balcony. They released a banner that read, “SELL WELLCOME,” which specifically targeted Burroughs Wellcome Co., a pharmaceutical company that sold AZT, the only approved drug for AIDS at the time. ACT UP demanded that the company drop the price of the drug — which cost $8,000 a year at the time — by 25 percent. Four days later, the company reduced the price by 20 percent, to about $6,400. And that was just one of ACT UP’s many achievements, according to Sarah Schulman, a journalist who was a member of ACT UP from 1987 to 1992 and authored the book “Let the Record Show: A Political History of ACT UP New York, 1987-1993,” which came out earlier this year.Protestors lie on the street in front of the New York Stock Exchange in a demonstration against the high cost of the AIDS treatment drug AZT, on Sept. 14, 1989.Tim Clary / AP fileThe group forced the pharmaceutical industry and scientists to change how they researched medications to prioritize the needs of people living with AIDS “instead of trying to get the largest market share,” she said. It also forced the Food and Drug Administration to make experimental drugs available to people who needed them, even if the drugs had not gone through an approval process. After a four-year campaign, it pushed the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Social Security Administration to change the definition of AIDS so that women with AIDS could access benefits and get into experimental drug trials. It also removed HIV as a pre-existing condition for private insurance, which Schulman noted suddenly made it available to up to 500,000 additional people.In New York City, specifically, ACT UP succeeded in a campaign to make needle exchange legal, and it started Housing Works for people living with AIDS who were experiencing homelessness. “I guess you could say that ACT UP really transformed the way that people with AIDS and queer people saw themselves and were received by the general public,” Schulman said.Mark Harrington, who joined ACT UP in 1988, was a member of its treatment and data team, which helped create “parallel track,” which allowed 35,000 people to get access to an AIDS drug before it was approved. Protesters take to the streets of New York's financial district on March 24, 1997. Some 300 protesters, marking the 10th anniversary of the forming of the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power (ACT UP), converged on the Wall Street area to call attention to the high price of AIDS drugs.Todd Plitt / AP fileThat achievement, among others, shows that ordinary people “have a right to participate in science, have the ability to make tremendous changes in the way that research and policy is done in this country and elsewhere around the world,” Harrington said. Harrington and a group of ACT UP members left the organization in 1992 to create the Treatment Action Group, a research and policy think tank that is fighting to end HIV, tuberculosis and hepatitis C. “By the time we left ACT UP, it already made a tremendous difference that I think set the foundation for the way the country and indeed many parts of the world have responded to HIV and even sometimes other pandemics,” Harrington said. He noted that, for example, much of the infrastructure that resulted in the Covid-19 vaccines was built on the architecture of AIDS vaccine research efforts of the last 30 years and epidemic outbreak work conducted at the National Institutes of Health. ‘Be relentless’Milan said his work is informed not just by his personal experience with Davids in Philadelphia, but also by ACT UP’s collective impact on activism. “ACT UP had a tremendous impact on galvanizing not only grassroots response, but demanding a national response to the epidemic, and they were fearless in approaching anyone in power who had an influence over what should be done, how it should be done and how it would be funded,” he said. The group held officials and organizations accountable, “and we’re still holding officials and organizations accountable today,” he said. “And that’s part of the important legacy of ACT UP.”No longer a death sentence: How living with HIV has changedJune 10, 202111:11ACT UP members used what they called the “inside-outside” strategy to force change, Harrington said, and it’s something many groups today continue to use, though not by name.First, activists learn everything they can about the issues that are relevant to the area they want to change. Harrington said the treatment and data team learned everything it could about clinical trials, for example, and other groups did the same for issues related to housing, safe-sex education and needle exchanges. Then they would come up with policy ideas around how to address those issues and meet with people in power to change policy. If those people refused a meeting or wouldn't give activists what they asked for, he said, they held nonviolent demonstrations and engaged the media.  “You may want to make a lot of noise about it and then you want to create basically conditions where the people who have the power to change the situation are more or less under a lot of pressure to listen to you, and then to get to know you and to start making the changes that you’re asking for,” Harrington said. In December 1989, more than 5,000 ACT UP demonstrators protested in front of St. Patrick's Cathedral in midtown Manhattan against Cardinal John O'Connor and the Catholic Archdiocese. The AIDS awareness group blamed the Cardinal for preventing access to lifesaving AIDS prevention information for students and abortion access for women.Viviane Moos / Corbis via Getty Images fileHe added that, unfortunately, it can take years for research or policy to change the underlying conditions for people living with AIDS or any other illnesses. He pointed to New York City, which announced on Tuesday the first supervised drug injection sites to prevent overdoses.“AIDS activists and harm reduction activists had been working on that for 30 years,” he said. “So it just happened yesterday, but it took 30 years to get a city anywhere in the U.S. to be able to have the political will to open it.”He said oftentimes that means change comes too late for people like his friend Scott, who developed AIDS-related complex — a phrase that’s no longer used that describes symptoms that indicate HIV infection prior to developing AIDS. Scott was unemployed and uninsured, and Harrington joined ACT UP because he wasn’t sure how to help him. Scott died in 1991. “He probably lived a little bit longer because of some of the early treatment advances that we made, but basically, it was too late for him, because the Reagan administration hadn’t done enough and they’d waited too long,” he said. “So there’s always a lot of losses along the way, and I guess the lesson is to keep at it, find some allies, get to know the issues. Try to get some allies inside of the policy and scientific communities, and be relentless.”
The most entertaining and bingeworthy queer content arriving in December. December is delivering powerful queer cinema, blockbuster hits, the revival of a beloved TV show and, of course, tons of holiday content. Here is a list of upcoming and recently released LGBTQ-inclusive shows and films to watch as the clock counts down to the end of 2021.'Queen of the Universe'A global drag adventure is headed to Paramount+. As many as 14 drag superstars, representing 10 countries, will battle it out in front of live audiences in the new “Queen of the Universe” singing competition. Contestants include familiar faces such as “American Idol” alum Ada Vox and “RuPaul’s Drag Race” all-star Jujubee. Sitting on the star-studded judging panel are Vanessa Williams, singer Leona Lewis, longtime “Drag Race” judge Michelle Visage and “All Stars” season three winner, Trixie Mattel.“Queen of the Universe” season one premieres on Paramount+ on Dec. 2.'Single All the Way'Philemon Chambers and Michael Urie in "Single All The Way".Philippe Bosse / NetflixNetflix is gifting audiences with its first gay holiday rom-com, “Single All The Way.” Concerned that he’ll be judged for being single, Peter (Michael Urie) recruits best friend, Nick (Philemon Chambers), to pose as his boyfriend during the holidays with his family. Peter quickly finds himself in a complicated love triangle when his mom sets him up on a blind date with her spin instructor (Luke Macfarlane). Get ready for Christmas-themed romantic hijinks from a cast of campy comedy legends who include Kathy Naijmy, Jennifer Robertson, Barry Bostwick and Jennifer Coolidge herself. “Single All the Way” premieres on Netflix on Dec. 2.'The Bitch Who Stole Christmas'RuPaul has assembled the largest-ever cast of “RuPaul’s Drag Race” alumni for “The Bitch Who Stole Christmas.” In the film, an overworked fashion journalist is sent to a holiday-obsessed town by her editor — played by RuPaul, naturally — in search of a big story. Anyone familiar with “Drag Race” acting challenges can guess what comes next: a ball, cutthroat housewives and a plot to overthrow Christmas. The 20 queens who signed on to drag up the holidays include Ginger Minj, “Canada’s Drag Race” host Brooke Lynn Hytes, Manila Luzon, Gottmik and the most recent “All Stars” winner, Kylie Sonique Love. Michelle Visage, Carson Kressley, Ross Matthews and Kim Petras also join in the festivities. “The Bitch Who Stole Christmas” premieres on VH1 on Dec. 2.'Benedetta'Paul Verhoeven’s "Benedetta" stars Virginie Efira.SBS ProductionsFrom Paul Verhoeven — the prolific director behind cult classics “Showgirls,” Basic Instinct,” “RoboCop” and more — “Benedetta” features 17th-century lesbian nuns, irreverent comedy and over-the-top nudity. When a young nun, Benedetta Carlini (Virginie Efira), is tormented by religious-themed erotic visions, she becomes entangled with a woman who has joined the convent to escape her abusive father. Together, they grab power and live in Sapphic bliss until Benedetta’s God complex threatens to ruin them both. The film is loosely based on Judith C. Brown’s 1986 nonfiction book “Immodest Acts: The Life of a Lesbian Nun in Renaissance Italy,” though Verhoeven seems to be more much more interested in farce than history.  “Benedetta” debuts in U.S. theaters Dec. 3.'Flee'Jonas Poher Rasmussen’s animated documentary “Flee”NeonThe animated documentary “Flee” centers on a man identified as Amin Nawabi, a refugee from Afghanistan who left his country for a new life in Denmark, as he shares a painful hidden past ahead of marrying his soon-to-be husband. The film, which won a grand jury prize at this year’s Sundance Film Festival, has generated a fair amount of Oscar buzz since it was announced as the official Danish entry. “Flee” was written by director Jonas Poher Rasmussen, in partnership with Nawabi, and executive-produced by actors Riz Ahmed (“Sound of Metal”) and Nikolaj Coster-Waldau (“Game of Thrones”), who voice the English-language version. “Flee” premieres in U.S. theaters Dec. 3.'Harlem'“Girls Trip” writer Tracey Oliver tells a more personal story in the new comedy “Harlem.” Meagan Good, Grace Byers, Shoniqua Shandai and Jerrie Johnson star as best friends navigating their 30s and chasing their dreams while living in the historic Black, New York neighborhood of Harlem. Johnson plays Tye, a tech entrepreneur with an alpha personality, who runs a successful queer dating app but struggles to be vulnerable in relationships. Tye is joined by fashion designer Quinn (Byers), singer Angie (Shandai) and adjunct professor Camille (Good). Behind the scenes, big-name producers such as Amy Poehler and Pharrell Williams and recurring guest characters like Whoopi Goldberg add even more star power.“Harlem” season one premieres on Amazon Prime Video on Dec. 3.'Coming Out Colton' Colton Underwood.Jerod Harris / Getty Images for TubiAfter multiple attempts to find love in “The Bachelor” universe, and a lot of speculation about his self-professed virginity, Colton Underwood came out as gay this year in an interview on “Good Morning America.” The former NFL player immediately received both praise and criticism, with some accusing him of attempting to capitalize on his sexuality. Netflix’s reaction was to give him an unscripted show, “Coming Out Colton.” The series chronicles the story of Underwood coming out, including the controversy it created.“Coming Out Colton” season one premieres on Netflix on Dec. 3.'And Just Like That' Cynthia Nixon, Sarah Jessica Parker and Kristin Davis.HBOAnd just like that, Carrie, Miranda and Charlotte are together again. In the new “Sex and the City” revival, the trio of now fiftysomething friends deal with life, love and friendship in New York City (again). Alongside the three returning actresses — Sarah Jessica Parker, Kristin Davis and Cynthia Nixon — a handful of beaus and best friends reprise their original roles. Though Kim Cattrall declined to rejoin the franchise as fan-favorite Samantha, stirring controversy. The cast of “And Just Like That“ is filled out with a slew of new members, including Sarita Choudhury, Nicole Ari Parker, Isaac Powell and Sara Ramirez, as a queer, nonbinary podcaster and comedian.“And Just Like That” season one premieres on HBO Max on Dec. 9.'West Side Story'Ariana DeBose, center, in a scene from "West Side Story."Twentieth Century StudiosSteven Spielberg’s highly anticipated adaptation of the Broadway musical “West Side Story” stars Rachel Zegler in her feature film debut as Maria and Ansel Elgort as Tony. The original musical was the brainchild of some of the 20th century’s biggest names in theater: writer Arthur Laurents, composer Leonard Bernstein, director-choreographer Jerome Robbins and lyricist-composer Stephen Sondheim (the film gives cinephiles and theatergoers an opportunity to mourn Sondheim’s death recently). And, for an extra dose of nostalgia, Rita Moreno, who won best supporting actor for her portrayal of Anita in the 1961 film adaptation, returns in a new role.“West Side Story” will be available on HBO Max and in theaters Dec. 10.'Claws'The claws are coming out for one more round. TNT’s crime series starring Niecy Nash is ending the year with its fourth and final season, closing the book on five manicurists in Florida who turn money laundering into a women-run crime empire. “Claws” — which also stars Carrie Preston, Judy Reyes (as lesbian enforcer “Quiet Ann”), Karrueche Tran, Dean Norris (as bisexual crime boss “Uncle Daddy”) and Evan Daigle (as Uncle Daddy’s boy toy, Toby) — will kick off the season with a two-hour premiere. “Claws” season four premieres on TNT on Dec. 19.'The Matrix Resurrections' Set 20 years after the last film in the franchise, “The Matrix Resurrections” finds Neo (Keanu Reeves) living as an everyday citizen, named Thomas A. Anderson, who is seemingly unaware of his past adventures as the Chosen One — and his time with Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss). When his old friend Morpheus shows up offering him the red pill, Neo will once again have to choose whether to open his mind to the Matrix. Joining Reeves and Moss, Jada Pinkett Smith reprises her role as Niobe, alongside a collection of new cast members, including Yahya Abdul-Mateen II, Jessica Henwick, Jonathan Groff, Neil Patrick Harris and Priyanka Chopra Jonas. Lana Wachowski, one half of the trans sister duo behind the original “Matrix” trilogy, directs the film, which she co-wrote with “Sense8” collaborators David Mitchell and Aleksandar Hemon. Last year, Lily Wachowski shared in a Netflix interview that the original series was intended to be a trans allegory: “The Matrix stuff was all about the desire for transformation, but it was all coming from a closeted point of view.” “The Matrix Resurrections” will be available on HBO Max and in U.S. theaters Dec. 22.'Vigil'Detective Chief Inspector Amy Silva (“Gentleman Jack” star Suranne Jones) is tasked with investigating a mysterious death aboard the HMS Vigil, a ballistic missile submarine. But the inquiry quickly puts her at odds with the officers onboard and the Royal Navy at large, and it becomes clear that something sinister is lurking deep beneath the ocean — where she also happens to be trapped. On land, Amy’s partner and love interest, played by “Game of Thrones” star Rose Leslie, doesn’t fare any better.  "Vigil” is a thrilling, claustrophobic crime drama that originally aired on BBC One but is making its way to the U.S. this month.“Vigil” will be available on Peacock on Dec. 23.'Parallel Mothers'Written and directed by Spanish auteur Pedro Almodóvar, “Parallel Mothers” is about two women, Janis (Penélope Cruz) and Ana (Milena Smit), who meet in the hospital while giving birth. The women are bonded by motherhood and tragedy, developing a relationship that fluctuates between maternal, platonic and sexual. In the background, a storyline about the brutality under Franco’s fascist regime plays out. While many male directors have attempted to make Sapphic romances, Almodóvar is one of the few to produce something as political, complex and moving — and Penélope Cruz never shines so bright as in an Almodóvar.“Parallel Mothers” opens in U.S. theaters  Dec. 24.'Queer Eye'The hosts of “Queer Eye” head to the Lone Star State for season six of the most affirming show on television. Bobby Berk, Tan France, Antoni Porowski, Jonathan Van Ness and Karamo Brown don denim and cowboy boots in the show’s first look from Netflix, teasing what will surely be a season to remember. The new iteration of the beloved early aughts makeover series has had a highly successful run since it first aired in 2018, grabbing nine Emmys to date.RecommendedOUT Community VoicesOUT Community VoicesWhat today's activists can learn from  AIDS advocacy group ACT UPOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop Culture'Jeopardy!' winner will be 1st trans contestant in Tournament of Champions“Queer Eye” season six premieres on Netflix on Dec. 31.In case you missed it…'Sort Of'Co-created by Bilal Baig and Fab Filippo (“Queer as Folk”), the groundbreaking series follows Sabi Mehboob (Baig), a gender-fluid, Pakistani Canadian millennial who straddles various identities as a bartender at a queer bar/bookstore.“Soft Of” season one is available on HBO Max.'Tick, Tick… Boom!'Lin-Manuel Miranda directs the film adaptation of Jonathan Larson’s play about a talented young composer living in New York. In a role previously played onstage by Miranda, Andrew Garfield stars as Larson, who died at the age of 35 and won a posthumous Pulitzer for his rock musical about losing friends to the AIDS epidemic, “Rent.”“Tick, Tick… Boom!” is available on Netflix.'Gossip Girl'The new iteration of “Gossip Girl” returned Thanksgiving Day, kicking off part two of its first season. Aki (Evan Mock) is navigating understanding his bisexuality after his father outs him on TV, while Max (Thomas Doherty) is coming to terms with having feelings for both Aki and his own girlfriend. Will this new love triangle slow down the Upper East Side’s resident playboy? “Gossip Girl” season one is available on HBO Max.
'Jeopardy!' winner will be 1st trans contestant in Tournament of Champions. Current “Jeopardy!” champion Amy Schneider is using her voice to help other transgender people.The engineering manager from Oakland, California, won her 10th consecutive game Tuesday night, earning her a total of $380,200, the eighth-highest total in regular season play. She has now become the first transgender contestant to qualify for the Tournament of Champions.Schneider also wore a transgender Pride flag pin on last week’s Thanksgiving Day episode to raise awareness.“I didn’t want to make too much about being trans, at least in the context of the show,” she wrote in a Twitter thread last week. “I am a trans woman, and I’m proud of that fact, but I’m a lot of other things, too!”“The fact is, I don’t actually think about being trans all that often, and so when appearing on national television, I wanted to represent that part of my identity accurately: as important, but also relatively minor," she added. "But I also didn’t want it to seem as if it was some kind of shameful secret. While it’s gratifying to know that people didn’t necessarily know I was trans until they read about it, I do want people to know that aspect of me. I think being trans is really cool!”She also said the Thanksgiving holiday marked the "right time" to wear the trans Pride pin, as the "community might be having a hard time right now." “Thanksgiving is a holiday that is all about family. And that can be hard for anybody who has been ostracized or otherwise cut off from their family ... a group which, sadly, still includes a disproportionately high number of trans people, especially trans youth and trans people of color."She also encouraged people to donate to causes that help the LGBTQ community.Schneider is not the first transgender person to win on “Jeopardy!” Last year, Kate Freeman became champion, just a few days after contestant Cody Lawrence wore a bisexual Pride flag pin.Schneider is the latest so-called “super champion” on the show this season, following in the footsteps of Matt Amodio and Jonathan Fisher.“It’s just so surprising,” Amy told Jeopardy.com about her run on the show. “You know, I’m not going to pretend that I didn’t think I could do good. But this has just been so much better than what I thought I would do.”RecommendedOUT Community VoicesOUT Community VoicesWhat today's activists can learn from  AIDS advocacy group ACT UPOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureThis month's watchlist, from lesbian nuns to an out-of-the-closet 'Matrix'This story first appeared on Today.com
World AIDS Day: Is the world closer to an HIV vaccine in the face of Covid-19?. As Covid-19 brought nearly every corner of the Earth to a halt early last year, researchers around the world scrambled to develop a vaccine to fend off the deadly respiratory coronavirus. And just several months later — in a process that normally takes years — several vaccines were ready for worldwide distribution.In comparison, about 40 years since the earliest reports of what became known as AIDS, scientists are still scratching their heads to develop a vaccine against the virus that causes the life-threatening disease — HIV.No longer a death sentence: How living with HIV has changedJune 10, 202111:11But as the anniversary of the first Covid-19 vaccine shots approaches, experts say the brisk development of the lifesaving and highly effective coronavirus vaccines may have brought researchers closer to cracking the code to develop an HIV vaccine.“There’s a lot of new energy and buzz among scientists looking at how quickly some of the Covid science got done,” said Rowena Johnston, the vice president and director of research at amfAR, an international nonprofit AIDS research group. “I think there’s been a lot of soul-searching about how the scientific enterprise can be improved so that we can better serve the people we’re trying to help.”Before the coronavirus vaccines, the most rapidly developed vaccine ever created — from sampling to deployment — was for the mumps in the 1960s. The process took about four years.The federal government has conducted five large-scale Phase 3 HIV vaccine trials, all of which have failed. Its third Phase 3 trial was notable for increasing the likelihood of HIV infection among those who were vaccinated.Scientists largely blame HIV’s unrelenting evolution inside the body.“The scale of mutations that HIV produces are beyond anything that’s even in the same realm of what coronavirus does,” Johnston said. “If you mapped out a genetic tree of all the different variants of HIV inside the body of one person, it’s about as equivalent of all the genetic variations of all the influenza virus of all people around the world during one year.”Therefore, HIV is always one step ahead of the antibody response that failed vaccines trigger in the body, said Dr. Ronald Desrosiers, a professor at the University of Miami’s Miller School of Medicine, who was one of the first scientists to study SIV — the monkey disease from which HIV is thought to have originated.“The antibodies that’s present in a person can neutralize the virus that was present three months ago, but it can’t neutralize the virus that’s replicating at the current time,” Desrosiers said. “It would be predicted to make development of a vaccine very, very difficult, and those predictions have come true.”But however elusive an HIV vaccine may be, scientists — including Dr. Anthony Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and the chief medical adviser to the president — say it is “likely” that one could develop from the pioneering technology used to make coronavirus vaccines.Two of the coronavirus vaccines, those made by the pharmaceutical companies Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna, were the first vaccines ever to successfully trigger immune responses using messenger RNA, or mRNA, a genetic material that our cells read to make proteins. The mRNA coronavirus vaccines have proven to be more effective at fending off the virus than the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, which resembles more traditional influenza vaccines and does not use mRNA.RecommendedOUT Community VoicesOUT Community VoicesWhat today's activists can learn from  AIDS advocacy group ACT UPOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureThis month's watchlist, from lesbian nuns to an out-of-the-closet 'Matrix'Moderna announced in August that it would soon launch a Phase 1 clinical trial for two new mRNA-based HIV vaccines, giving scientists fresh hope.“If it were just another way to deliver the vaccine ingredients, I would say it would probably have no chance of succeeding where others have failed,” Johnston said.However, what has piqued Johnston’s interest is that the mRNA coronavirus vaccine is delivered in the body through its lipid nanoparticles. Johnston said the lipid nanoparticles not only help deliver the drug but also act as an adjuvant, a substance that helps strengthen a drug’s effect. And in this case, the adjuvant stimulation effect is working at “a greater extent than any conventional vaccine,” she said.“When I learned that, it really did give me some hope that finally we have a really, truly a new concept to test in HIV,” she said. “So let’s put our optimistic hats on and hope that this might be the thing that gets us over the finish line.”Aside from the scientific advancements it sparked, some experts say, the coronavirus pandemic may also indirectly help the HIV vaccine effort by generating more interest in science.“The world has now increased its scientific literacy. I think the opportunity to build on that in HIV and make people more vaccine-aware and engage in vaccine research and introduction has grown exponentially,” said Mitchell Warren, the executive director of AVAC, a nonprofit organization promoting global HIV treatment.But others worry that the enthusiasm to stave off the coronavirus pandemic may have come at a cost to HIV research.When the pandemic pummeled the globe last year, many of the world’s leading HIV researchers shifted gears to the coronavirus. For instance, Johnson & Johnson tapped Dr. Dan Barouch of Harvard Medical School, who has studied HIV for over 15 years, to help develop its coronavirus vaccine.Overall, scientists who did not pursue Covid-19-related research initiated 36 percent fewer new projects last year compared to 2019, according to a study by Northwestern University that was published in October.“Sometimes people chase the exciting new thing, they follow the dollars. But we need to get people back to HIV, or there will be a price,” said the director of the Infectious Diseases Initiative at Georgetown University, Jeffrey S. Crowley, a former director of the White House Office of National AIDS Policy.Regardless of whether the coronavirus will lead to scientific improvements or setbacks, some scientists say defeating HIV will rely more heavily on commonsense global health practices. “Any pandemic is a day away, and we sort of learned that initially with HIV, but this pandemic has brought that home in an extremely strong way,” said Dr. Kenneth Mayer, a Harvard Medical School professor who is the medical research director of Fenway Health. “What happens in one part of the world doesn’t stay in that part of the world.”
Biden HIV/AIDS strategy calls racism ‘public health threat’. The Biden administration in its new HIV/AIDS strategy calls racism “a public health threat” that must be fully recognized as the world looks to end the epidemic.The strategy released Wednesday on the annual commemoration of World AIDS Day is meant to serve as a framework for how the administration intends to shape its policies, research, programs and planning over the next three years.The new strategy asserts that over generations “structural inequities have resulted in racial and ethnic health disparities that are severe, far-reaching, and unacceptable.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'To reduce the disparities, the strategy includes calls for focusing on the needs of disproportionately affected populations, supporting racial justice, combating HIV-related stigma and discrimination and providing leadership and employment opportunities for people with or who experience risk for HIV.The Biden administration in its new HIV/AIDS strategy calls racism “a public health threat” that must be fully recognized as the world looks to end the epidemic.The strategy released Wednesday on the annual commemoration of World AIDS Day is meant to serve as a framework for how the administration intends to shape its policies, research, programs and planning over the next three years.The new strategy asserts that over generations “structural inequities have resulted in racial and ethnic health disparities that are severe, far-reaching, and unacceptable.”To reduce the disparities, the strategy includes calls for focusing on the needs of disproportionately affected populations, supporting racial justice, combating HIV-related stigma and discrimination and providing leadership and employment opportunities for people with or who experience risk for HIV.
Prince Charles, Meghan Markle and the power of racist microagressions. Imagine that upon your engagement, instead of congratulations, you hear that your future father-in-law has begun musing about your future son or daughter’s complexion. Now imagine how that would feel if you were biracial and the first Black-identified person to marry into the modern British royal family, and none other than the next king of England was allegedly speculating about the race of your hypothetical children.Andersen claims Charles discussed the potential melanin levels of his future grandchildren over breakfast with his wife, Camilla.According to the new book “Brothers and Wives: Inside the Private Lives of William, Kate, Harry, and Meghan,” written by Christopher Andersen, Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex, didn't have to imagine how that might feel — she lived it. Among other tidbits, royals expert Andersen claims Prince Charles discussed the potential melanin levels of his future grandchildren over breakfast with his wife, Camilla.Charles’ spokesperson told reporters that the claim “is fiction and not worth further comment.” But we do know that this type of identity questioning is far too common for the multiracial demographic and that it often impairs one’s social belonging, which is key to feeling positively about yourself. In fact, recent research has shown that in a sample of 293 multiracial people, over 94 percent reported having experienced questions like “What are you?” as they relate to their physical appearance or skin color. And although not all multiracial people mind questions like those if they are asked out of genuine curiosity, these types of encounters can be dehumanizing and “othering.”Charles’ reported comments also shine a spotlight on racial microaggressions — a subtle statement or behavior, whether intentional or not, that communicates something negative and yet still ambiguous about a person of color. While they are often small and even seemingly insignificant, microaggressions cause significant psychological harm, research shows. And if you have ever heard a question like “Is your hair real?” or “Do you speak English?” or “Where are you from?” you also have most likely faced a racial microaggression.Author of new book about Prince Harry and Prince William opens upNov. 29, 202104:31The ambiguity of these encounters can create even more stress as recipients try to analyze and re-analyze motives and intentions. Coined by Harvard professor Chester Pierce in 1970, “microaggressions” are one of the more common forms of discrimination and prejudice today. Interestingly, although white people experience the fewest racial microaggressions regardless of where they might live, living in racially diverse contexts has been shown to reduce the microaggressions racial minorities face.Much has been made of the British royal family’s seemingly lukewarm embrace of Meghan Markle. Speaking with Oprah Winfrey, Prince Harry and Meghan also mentioned an incident involving speculation about skin color, but refused to name names. Prince William has countered by arguing that the royal family is “very much not racist.”And to be fair, Andersen, the book’s author, said on NBC's "TODAY" show that there may have been some distortion of Charles’ comments as it made its way through the royal grapevine. “I mean, here's this beautiful biracial American woman and the world's most famous redhead. I'm a grandfather. Of course we all do this, speculate on it. But it was turned into something very toxic,” he said. “It was weaponized by the 'Men in Gray' who run the palace organization.” This shifts the blame, in a sense, to the royal advisers (the “Men in Gray”), but it also increases the ambiguity surrounding Charles’ possible intentions.RelatedOpinionOpinionWhy Meghan terrifies the monarchyAnd why even question the skin color of your grandchild in the first place? I, too, am biracial Black/white and recently had twins. I faced the same types of questions while I was pregnant — “I wonder if they will be Black? I wonder how dark or how white they might be?” I couldn’t help but wonder why the potential complexion of my children was such a popular and seemingly acceptable topic.RecommendedOpinionOpinionThe fate of Roe v. Wade may hinge on one word. And it's not looking good.OpinionOpinionThe Lauren Boebert 'jihad squad' controversy is only getting worseI’m also not a member of the British royal family — but I do study biracial identity and perceptions for a living. This context colors my own interpretations of these types of comments, as the context of the monarchy surely influenced Harry and Meghan’s. It is not at all unsurprising that some in the monarchy might have been concerned about the possible darkening of the white royal lineage.Critical race theory argues this exact perspective — that race and racism are structural phenomena used to maintain the race-based power of white leaders. The unique dynamics of multiracial people further complicates this phenomenon. Labeling a multiracial person only as Black, for example, highlights the concept of monoracism, or the view that all people need to fit within neat, monoracial boxes, the same boxes that are used to maintain power and status.RelatedOpinionOpinionWe want to hear what you THINK. Please submit a letter to the editor.And this is how something that seems so innocently ambiguous like a microaggression can in fact be so incredibly powerful — there is simply nothing micro about the impacts that words like these can have. They shape our policies, our perceptions and treatments of others, and how we feel about ourselves.Subscribe to the THINK newsletterReTHINK the news cycle with timely op-eds, in-depth analyses and personal essays delivered weekly to your inbox.
Black golf fans mourn Lee Elder's death as Tiger Woods says injuries will limit his play. Andy Graham was stung by the news that one of golf’s trailblazers, Lee Elder, had died Sunday at 87. Then, Monday afternoon, Tiger Woods said in an interview that he would not compete any longer as a full-time player on the PGA Tour because of injuries from a car crash.“Two pieces of news that, as a Black golfer and fan of the sport, is hard to take,” said Graham, 68, of Dallas, Elder’s hometown. “I was inspired to play golf by Lee Elder. I literally began playing golf because of him. And Tiger, well, when I played so badly that I thought about giving up the game, he inspired me to keep going. So, for me, these two are linked.” Elder and Woods are inextricably connected for countless Black golfers and fans of the game, but for different reasons — Elder for being the first Black person to play at the famed Augusta National in the 1975 Masters, enduring death threats along the way, and Woods for emerging as perhaps the greatest player in history, inspiring an entire generation of new Black golfers.“It’s easy to think of one of them and also think of the other,” Graham said, “because Lee Elder opened the door and Tiger stepped through it.” Lee Elder talks to Tiger Woods before the final round of the 1997 Masters. Augusta National / Getty ImagesElder earned his tour card in 1968 — seven years after the PGA’s Caucasian-only rule was lifted. His perseverance, Woods has said, not only cleared a path for him to display his unique talent but also proved that Black golfers could play on the highest level. He won four times on the tour and eight more times on the PGA Seniors Tour, now called the PGA Champions Tour.And he did much of it even as racial slurs were hurled at him and he got death threats from white people who did not want the sport to be integrated. He also often had to change clothes in his car, because, as a Black man, he was not allowed in segregated clubhouses. But he was undeterred, driven by his passion for the game he picked up as a caddie in his youth. It was a monumental occasion when Elder was named one of the ceremonial starters for the Masters Tournament in April.“Lee Elder still hadn’t got enough credit as an icon breaking down the color barrier in a sport that was exclusive of Black people,” said avid golfer Robert Diggs, a lawyer in Atlanta. “But he was finally getting the recognition he deserved. So it’s unfortunate he passed away now.“And then you throw in Tiger not being able to play often, and it’s just sad,” he said. If Elder took Black golf to one level, Woods, 45, took it into the stratosphere, earning 15 major championships and a historic 82 career wins, more than any other male player. He posted a video last week on social media taking swings for the first time since his serious car accident in February, when he suffered multiple open fractures along his right leg, as well as damage to the ankle and trauma to the leg’s muscle and soft tissue.In an interview Monday with Golf Digest, Woods said: “I think something that is realistic is playing the tour one day, never full time, ever again, but pick and choose a few events a year and you play around that. You practice around that, and you gear yourself up for that. And you play. I think that’s how I’m going to have to play it from now on.“It’s an unfortunate reality, but it’s my reality. And I understand it, and I accept it,” he said.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'It is not as easy for all fans to accept, however. Woods was a one-man television ratings bonanza whose dynamic play revolutionized the game and drew new fans to the sport. “I’m sure his body can’t take it anymore,” Diggs said. “It just can’t. Sounds like that was a really bad accident on top of the other surgeries he’s already had. You hate to see him wind down his career like this, playing every so often. But he made history. He’s the greatest ever. And he made the sport cool for Black people.”Graham said: “Maybe it’s just me, but golf will not be the same without Tiger playing regularly. The day was going to come at some point, but he still had a lot left. I guess there will be a big  buildup every time he tees it up. But through his success, so many people were inspired to play a game that they didn’t have any interest in before him. He walked right in the path Elder and others created for him.”Khary Mitchell, who co-created the Facebook page Black Golfers Association and the website Honor 61 — which celebrates the legacy of Black golfers and seeks to continue its growth among  Black people — said Elder’s lasting mark as a golfer and as a man speaks to more than the game.“I can only hope that his spirit continues to embody the golfer in our day and age, especially in the African American community,”  he said. “There were more Lee Elders out there that never got a club in their hand to learn what it’s like to imagine a shot, hit that shot. There was always some sort of legal, financial or racial issue hindering our ability to be a part of golf.” And that continues today. Beside Woods, Cameron Champ and Harold Varner are the only Black mainstays on the PGA Tour. Recreationally, Blacks’ participation in the sport grew exponentially once Woods began dominating golf in the late 1990s.But it all goes back to Elder. “He allowed my dad to get excited about the game and allowed me to participate in the game,” Woods said on ESPN after he won the 2019 Masters. “He set a progression ... society needed.”Follow NBCBLK on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.CORRECTION (Nov. 30, 2021, 9:40 p.m. ET): A previous version of this article misstated a record attributed to Tiger Woods. Although he has won 82 golf tournaments, more than any other male player, he has not won more golf tournaments than anyone else. Kathy Whitworth won 88 tournaments on the LPGA Tour.
Philly teenager, victim of brutal, racially-motivated train attack, speaks out. Christina Lu, a Philadelphia high school student who was one of the victims of a brutal, racially motivated attack earlier this month, spoke out for the first time Tuesday. The 18-year-old was with a group of students on a SEPTA train, Philadelphia’s public transit, when she saw a 14-year-old freshman, who is Asian, being attacked on his way home from school. When Lu tried to intervene, the group of attackers threw her to the ground and began kicking and beating her. Police say the assailants, four teenage girls, used racial slurs during the incident. Lu gave a speech to a crowd outside a municipal building Tuesday afternoon as a crowd rallied demanding accountability from SEPTA and an end to anti-Asian hate, according to a video from CBS Philly.“You all have inspired me,” she said. “Everyone has been calling me a hero, but I am not. I’m just an ordinary girl from an ordinary family who saw people in need of help and so I tried to help.”The four girls who allegedly perpetrated the attack, all under the age of 17, were charged with aggravated assault, ethnic intimidation, criminal conspiracy, simple assault, recklessly endangering another person and disorderly conduct.The mother of one of the girls spoke to NBC10 Philadelphia anonymously, saying her daughter is 12 years old and had run away from home two weeks prior to the attack. “I was extremely hurt … I needed to meet with you guys publicly so that you know that my family is very sincerely apologetic about what happened to that child because we all pray that our children make it home safe from school,” she said.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'She said she tried to reach out to the families of the victims to apologize personally. A report released last year by the Stop AAPI Hate Youth Campaign revealed that one quarter of Asian American and Pacific Islander young adults have been targets of racism since the start of the pandemic. The discrimination most commonly came in the form of verbal harassment, cyberbullying and shunning, with students being followed home, coughed on and called racial slurs. “I will continue to stand up against bullying and violence and help people in need,” Lu said in her speech on Tuesday.
Korean pop group BTS talks anti-Asian racism in first live tour in 2 years. Members of the South Korean pop group BTS spoke out Sunday against anti-Asian racism after their first in-person concert since the pandemic.“When we talk about Asian hate, our path, all the awards and our music, we just hope that this can truly help every Asian in the world, especially who live in the countries abroad,” Kim Nam-Joon, known as RM, said at a news conference at SoFi Stadium in Los Angeles. “If there is something that we can help ... we’re always open. We’ll try to expand the variety and stop the discrimination and racism.”BTS performed two sold-out shows in Los Angeles over the weekend as part of its “Permission to Dance on Stage” concert series. The seven members of BTS — RM, Jin, V, J-Hope, Suga, Park Ji-min and Jungkook — also expressed gratitude for their fans’ support and the awards they have received, including artist of the year at the American Music Awards and their second Grammy nomination. K-pop stars BTS delight fans with return to in-person concertsNov. 29, 202101:28The concerts, which were sold out for months, were the band’s first shows since 2019. “Seeing the stadium filled with all the fans yesterday got me really emotional beyond words,” RM said. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'It’s not the first time BTS has spoken about the racism many Asians faced during the coronavirus pandemic. Band members this year addressed the discrimination they faced, saying in a statement on Twitter that some experiences made them feel “powerless.” “We cannot put into words the pain of becoming the subject of hatred and violence for such a reason,” the post said.BTS has also supported other social movements, including Black Lives Matter, to which it donated $1 million in June 2020. “We stand against racial discrimination. We condemn violence. #BlackLivesMatter,” the group tweeted. Within 24 hours of the donation, BTS fans had matched it.The BTS tour continues with concerts Wednesday and Thursday in Los Angeles.
Rapper Asian Doll facing backlash for hosting ‘Indian-themed’ party. The rapper Asian Doll is facing backlash on social media after announcing and selling tickets to her Indian-themed birthday party. The rapper, whose real name is Misharron Jermeisha Allen, grew up in Dallas and is not of South Asian descent. She announced the details of the party on her Twitter and Instagram on Sunday with a flyer set to Arabic background music. The party, called “Asian Doll Escapes to India,” will be held in Atlanta on Dec. 7. According to the online invitation, Indian clothes are required to enter. On her Instagram account, which has since been deactivated, she posted outfit inspiration pics that included Indian celebrities dressed in traditional kurtas and clips from Hindi movie dance numbers. The announcement gained traction, and eventually thousands of users began denouncing the party’s theme as blatant cultural appropriation. Some pointed to a now-deleted tweet Allen made in February in which she called Indian food “nasty.” “How is Asian Doll going to have a 'Indian' theme party which is so ignorant. But was just saying Indian food looked/tasted disgusting? Now I feel like the culture is a joke to her,” one person said. Others joked about her use of Arabic music to promote her “Bollywood” party, and some couldn’t help but laugh at how ridiculous and overt it all was. “LOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOL theme Bollywood music Arabic,” another person wrote. “[W]hy are some americans dense and this culturally unaware????”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'This isn’t the first time Allen has faced backlash for cultural appropriation, or the adoption or profiting from a minority culture. She’s known for pushing those boundaries, in fact. Those following the controversy were quick to note that even her stage name “Asian Doll” and her past use of traditional clothing were objectionable.Allen seemed to respond to the backlash on Twitter, saying that she doesn’t care what people say and that she’ll do what she wants “with no apologies.” She tweeted another announcement of the party on Monday morning, set to different music. Allen didn’t respond to NBC Asian America’s request for comment. 
For many Asian Americans, graphic novels are way to explore history, fight racism. In “The Legend of Auntie Po,” Shing Yin Khor uses watercolors and folklore to bring alive a late-19th century Sierra Nevada logging camp, where some of the country’s earliest Chinese immigrants lived and worked. Centered on the 13-year-old daughter of a Chinese cook, Khor’s middle-grade graphic novel, a finalist in this year’s National Book Awards, explores the hardships Chinese laborers experienced in the tumultuous years after the passage of the Chinese Exclusion Act.But rather than dwelling on the pain and setbacks the group faced, Khor offers hope and whimsy by focusing on the gains, like how Chinese workers developed friendships with Black and Indigenous loggers. A page from "The Legend of Auntie Po."Shing Yin Khor“When you start to examine the history of marginalized groups, it’s never just about trauma,” Khor told NBC Asian America. “We wouldn’t have ended up with generation upon generation of Chinese Americans in this country if it were complete and utter misery every single moment of the time.”Graphic novels, with their powerful blend of images and words, have grown in popularity as a literary genre to explore the legacy of racism and the complexity of the immigrant experience. And in recent years, Asian American writers are increasingly publishing works that reckon with the country’s racial injustices, past and present. Illustrated memoirs in particular surged during the Trump years. Thi Bui’s “The Best We Could Do,” which won an American Book Award in 2018, recounts her family’s flight from war-torn Vietnam to the United States. In her 2018 book “Good Talk,” Indian American writer Mira Jacob documents sobering conversations about race she has with her 6-year-old biracial son, including her own coming of age post 9/11 and her struggle to accept his Jewish grandparents’ support for then-President Donald Trump. And George Takei’s 2019 memoir, “They Called Us Enemy,” chronicles his childhood years in a Japanese American internment camp during World War II.A page from "The Legend of Auntie Po."Shing Yin KhorFor Jacob, writing in the comic form can be liberating. The discomforting juxtaposition between the painful conversations she recounts and her illustrations of the characters’ unchanging, emotionless faces beckons readers to think deeply about how people of color are treated in America. “I don’t want to be the person who’s holding onto all these emotions and asking you to care anymore,” she said. “I’d rather be the unemotional face telling you the enormous difficulty of trying to get through my life, and you get to hold it for once.” Tara Fickle, an associate professor at the University of Oregon who teaches Asian American literature and comics, said the growth of graphic memoirs can be partly attributed to the “coming of age” of certain Asian American subgroups that haven’t “historically received as much attention in mainstream narratives,” including the children of refugees, mixed-race Asian Americans and transracial adoptees.  “Graphic novels are part of a larger contemporary media landscape where we see debates over minority representation and self-authorization play out,” she wrote in an email. “Asian American graphic novelists have developed brilliant ways to expose and critique the microaggressions and everyday reality of growing up Asian American, as well as the broader historical and systemic forces that determine their specific racialization.”In some ways, the graphic novel is almost uniquely equipped for writers to explore the complexities of race, said Gene Yang, author of 2006's “American Born Chinese,” the first graphic novel to be nominated for a National Book Award.The combination of words and images, he said, allows writers to convey the wide spectrum of emotions and memories that often characterize the immigrant experience."Displacement."Kiku Hughes“A well constructed graphic novel can have the same intimacy as a diary,” he said. “Issues of identity can be so emotionally fraught, so it makes sense to talk about them using a visual medium.”While the rise of Asian American graphic novelists is a more recent phenomenon, Yang said, the group has had greater representation in comic books than perhaps any other storytelling industry. Jim Lee, a renowned Korean American artist who’s now the chief creative officer and publisher of DC Comics, created such iconic superheroes as Wildcat and Gambit. Japanese Canadian creator Mariko Tamaki contributed to two recent DC anthologies that reimagined Batgirl and Harley Quinn.  “If you ask any comic book fan for a list of their favorite artists, there’d be at least one to two Asian Americans,” Yang said. “You wouldn’t get that with filmmakers or actors.”"Displacement."Kiku HughesIn her 2020 novel “Displacement,” Kiku Hughes uses a science fiction staple to explore the intergenerational impact of incarceration on Japanese American families like her own. While on vacation in San Francisco, her teenage avatar is abruptly transported back in time to the 1940s concentration camp her late grandmother was sent to during the war. “I wanted to use the time travel device to put the reader in a place where the emphasis is not on historical fact,” Hughes said, “but on the personal experience of someone who went through it.” The graphic novel form is a particularly powerful tool to examine the legacy of incarceration, she said. Because official records are scarce and government-produced films were often seen as propaganda, Miné Okubo’s 1946 graphic novel “Citizen 1366,” an illustrated memoir about life in an internment camp, became one of the only existing visual renderings of camp conditions, including bathrooms, kitchens, clothing and the food they ate.“Reading her book made me feel like comics are the foundational medium with which the story has been told since the 1940s,” Hughes said.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'As more states consider legislation to integrate Asian American history into public school curriculums, some graphic novelists are hoping their works have a place in the classroom alongside history textbooks.  Khor hopes “The Legend of Auntie Po” encourages young people to look into the history behind the Chinese logging camps, which now receive only a footnote in textbooks.Growing up, Khor loved books about courageous young girls who led wild adventures: "Anne of the Green Gables" and "Little House on the Prairie." But the heroines were always white.“The moment I got a chance,” Khor said, “I just really wanted to write a story where a kid who’s pretty similar to me could be the star.”
Trump's border separations left children, parents with severe trauma, study finds. Children and parents separated at the border under the Trump administration experienced severe psychological trauma that some are dealing with long after being reunited, the first qualitative study of children and parents has found.The study by Physicians for Human Rights published in the peer-reviewed scientific journal PLOS ONE concluded that the separation of 31 parents and children whose cases the group reviewed “constitutes cruel, inhumane, and degrading treatment” and that the cases “rise to the level of torture” as defined by the United Nations Convention Against Torture.“In the cases reviewed, it is apparent that U.S. officials intentionally carried out actions causing severe pain and suffering in order to punish and intimidate mainly Central American asylum seekers to not pursue their asylum claims,” the study stated.Then-President Donald Trump’s "zero tolerance" policy, which separated thousands of children from their parents, was fully implemented in May 2018. Under the policy, the U.S. government took children from parents, not all who had crossed illegally, at the border and prosecuted the adults. Some parents were deported without their children.Facing heavy backlash, Trump signed an executive order reversing the policy about a month later. Clinicians who interviewed and evaluated the families reported that most of the individuals met diagnostic criteria for at least one mental health condition such as post-traumatic stress disorder, major depressive disorder or generalized anxiety disorder.Children exhibited behaviors described as age-appropriate regression, such as crying, not eating, having nightmares, sleeping difficulties, excessive parental attachment, clinging to caregivers, urinary incontinence and recurring feelings of fear after being reunited with parents.Two children who had long been reunited with parents still showed severe trauma symptoms and met mental health disorder criteria, the researchers said.One was a 6-year-old Guatemalan girl who met criteria for PTSD a year after being reunited with parents. An 8-year-old boy met criteria for PTSD and separation anxiety two years after reunification.“Neither had exhibited these symptoms prior to the separation event,” the researchers stated.All parents in the study arrived at the border having already suffered significant trauma because of targeted violence in their home countries.In almost all cases, the children had also experienced harm, including being drugged, kidnapped, poisoned and threatened with death or bodily harm by gang members.“Parents were confident that the journey to the United States would ensure protection for their children,” the study said.But parents and children told the researchers that U.S. officials treated them punitively. They said immigration officials forcibly removed their children from their arms and transferred parents to other facilities as they slept.Almost all told the researchers the officials would not tell them why they were being separated, where their family member was sent and whether or how they’d be reunited.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'Parents said they were mocked when they asked about their children.Three of the 19 parents exhibited suicidal thoughts.Clinicians who interviewed parents and children found no signs that the immigrants were exaggerating their mental health trauma or were trying to deceive others, as some immigration restrictionists have asserted, the study said."Physicians for Human Rights has long documented the detrimental effects of forced family separation on asylum seekers, and the findings of this study provide additional medical evidence that the psychological trauma could potentially be lifelong," Kathryn Hampton, deputy director of PHR's asylum program, said in a news release.The researchers found that in almost every case, therapy, removal from detention and prescription of psychiatric medicines was needed.The study is based on an analysis of affidavits from clinicians’ interviews and evaluations of children and parents. The affidavits from the interviews are used for legal cases, including asylum claims and lawsuits for damages caused by family separation.The study builds on the warnings and findings by pediatricians, mental health experts and government watchdogs.The decision to separate children from parents was agreed on by a show of hands in a meeting of Trump senior advisers led by former Trump adviser Stephen Miller, NBC News previously reported.The White House said last month that more than 1,000 families   separated at the border had not yet been reunited.President Joe Biden has expressed support for compensating separated families, some of whom are seeking damages from the government. The Trump White House killed a deal for mental health care for separated families, NBC News reported last year."It is our moral imperative to not only reunite these families, but to provide them with the support and services they need to heal," said Liza Acevedo, a Department of Homeland Security spokesperson. She said Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas has heard firsthand from parents about their pain and trauma "after being cruelly separated under the previous administration's zero-tolerance policy."Hampton said the study's findings should be considered as the administration negotiates settlements. But she also said the administration should widen its focus as it determined a dollar amount. Researchers recommended the government include mental health support for the parents and children who were separated. They also urged changes in how immigration authorities question them, including allowing children to remain with parents during asylum interviews or allowing them to take breaks to see their children. The Biden administration's task force created a website to assist families with reunification. A lawsuit has made some reunited families  eligible for behavioral health services. HHS and the task force also offering screenings and treatment for behavioral health conditions caused by the separations, Acevedo said.  The task force also is identifying funding for ongoing treatment and future services for the families, she said.
Honduras elected its first female president,  Xiomara Castro. TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras  — Honduras’ ruling party conceded defeat Tuesday in presidential elections held two days earlier, giving victory to leftist opposition candidate Xiomara Castro and easing fears of another contested vote and violent protests.Tegucigalpa Mayor Nasry Asfura, presidential candidate of the National Party, said in a statement that he had personally congratulated Castro, despite only about half the voting tallies being counted from Sunday’s election.The former first lady had 53% of the votes and Asfura 34%, with 52% of the tallies counted, according to the National Electoral Council. It has 30 days from the election to declare a winner.Honduras to elect its first female presidentNov. 29, 202102:40Asfura said he had met with Castro and her family.“Now I want to say it publicly,” the conservative candidate said. “That I congratulate her for her victory and as president elect, I hope that God illuminates and guides her so that her administration does the best for the benefit of all of us Hondurans, to achieve development and the desire for democracy.”U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken congratulated Castro minutes later.“The United States congratulates the people of Honduras on their election and Xiomara Castro on her historic victory as Honduras’ first female president,” Blinken said in a statement. “We look forward to working with the next government of Honduras.”Castro said via Twitter that Asfura had recognized her triumph. “People, I am not going to fail you!”Asfura’s recognition of the outcome was a relief to many Hondurans who had feared a contested election after a debacle in 2017 led to street protests that left 23 people dead. Following that vote, the government imposed a curfew and only three weeks later declared now-outgoing President Juan Orlando Hernández the winner despite the Organization of American States observation mission calling for an election re-do.Supporters of Xiomara Castro, presidential candidate of the Liberty and Refoundation Party celebrate at their headquarters in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, on Nov. 29, 2021. Jose Cabezas / ReutersFearing a similar prolonged vote standoff and social unrest, many businesses in Honduras’ capital had boarded up their windows for this election.Mabel Plata, a 28-year-old nursing student, said she appreciated Asfura’s recognition of the outcome. “It is a sign that he is a professional and polite person and went to see Xiomara for the good of the country.”Plata couldn’t remember another who did the same. “Most always claim to be winners and it’s hard for them to accept defeat.”Luis Guillermo Solís, former president of Costa Rica and head of the Organization of American States observation mission, said Tuesday in presenting the regional body’s preliminary report that Hondurans had overcome some technical difficulties to vote in great numbers.“Honduran society voted with conviction, happiness and responsibility in a context marked by the pandemic and violence, which was denounced opportunely by the mission,” Solís said. He said the mission had not received reports of other irregularities or fraud.Castro rode a wave of popular discontent with 12 years of National Party governance, which peaked in Hernández’s second term.She will face major challenges as the Central American country’s president. Unemployment is above 10%, northern Honduras was devastated by two major hurricanes last year and street gangs drag down the economy with their extortion rackets and violence, driving migration to the United States.On Tuesday, Vielka Yossira López folded jeans at a stand in the sprawling Comayaguela street market.The 24-year-old single mother of two said she didn’t vote, but hoped for change.“How am I going to lose a day of work to go vote,” López said. “I don’t work, I don’t eat.”When López contracted COVID-19, she wasn’t able to work for two months. In that time she sold her bed, her refrigerator, television and cellphone so she could buy food and diapers for her children, ages 3 and 6.López makes 200 lempiras, about $8.25 per day. She pays $1.60 of that just for transportation to and from work each day. Her 6-year-old has been out of school for more than a year.López is hopeful that when Castro becomes president she will bring with her a better understanding of what it takes to raise a family.“Hopefully there will be a change by having a woman,” López said. “She has children and everything.”Castro’s government could present challenges, but also opportunities for the Biden administration, which has sought to keep Hernández at arm’s length.Many Castro supporters remember the U.S. government’s initial sluggishness in calling the ouster of Castro’s husband Manuel Zelaya from the presidency in 2009 a coup, and then proceeding to work closely with the National Party presidents who followed. And from the U.S. perspective, Washington remembers how Castro and Zelaya cozied up to then-Venezuela President Hugo Chávez.Analysts say common ground between Castro and the U.S. government exists in at least three areas: immigration, drug trafficking and corruption. And with tense relations prevailing between Washington and the leaders of El Salvador and Guatemala, the U.S. government could use a productive relationship with Honduras.Despite opponents’ efforts to paint Castro as a communist, experts expect her to govern as a centrist with a desire to lift up Honduras’ poor while attracting foreign investment.A speech Castro made to her Liberty and Re-foundation party in June remains one her clearest expressions of how she will navigate the U.S. relationship.“In the first 100 days, we will execute and propose to the administration of President Joe Biden and Kamala Harris a plan to combat and address the true causes of migration,” Castro said.Castro describes Hondurans’ emigration in terms of flight to escape inequality, corruption, poverty and violence. That sounds a lot like Harris’ assessment of the root causes the Biden administration wants to focus U.S. aid on.But Castro also puts some of the blame on the U.S. government.“I believe the Biden administration has an enormous opportunity to address the issue of migration,” Castro said in the June speech. “First, recognizing that they have part of the responsibility for what happens in our country,” she added, noting the 2009 coup.Castro has hammered the outgoing Hernández administration for corruption. It was Hernández’s administration that let the Organization of American States’ anti-corruption mission in Honduras expire in 2020 after its work had touched some of the National Party’s lawmakers for alleged misuse of public funds.She has said she’s interested in having an international anti-corruption mission return to Honduras. That combined with a strong, independent attorney general, could begin to tackle one of the country’s most profound problems.U.S. federal prosecutors have put corruption under the microscope in drug trafficking cases that have reached up to high-ranking Honduran politicians. The most notable was the conviction of Hernández’s brother, a former federal lawmaker, on drug trafficking charges that earned him a life sentence in the United States.In a speech late Sunday night, Castro told supporters: “Get out war! Get out hate! Get out death squads! Get out corruption! Get out drug trafficking and organized crime!”Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.
A lifeline: Grants helped Latino nonprofit groups be pandemic 'first-responders'. The disbursement of millions of dollars to Latino nonprofit groups at the height of the Covid-19 pandemic last year enabled hundreds of organizations to serve as "safety nets" and provide direct assistance to Hispanic families, according to a new report.The Hispanic Federation, one of the nation's largest Latino nonprofit umbrella organizations, disbursed $20.6 million to more than 350 nonprofit groups and 798 small businesses through its Covid relief grant program. The funds were awarded between March 2020 and September this year, and about 73 percent of the beneficiaries served Latino and immigrant communities across the mainland United States and Puerto Rico.“We knew from the very beginning because of our experience with Hurricanes Irma and Maria in Puerto Rico that these community-based organizations were going to be the lifeline of communities,” Hispanic Federation President Frankie Miranda said. “These were the ones that would not be able to close their doors and were going to be asked to do more, although they were underresourced and underfunded.”The community-based organizations reached more than 2 million people and provided health care, food and housing assistance, among others.The local organizations, he said, "are incredibly important for communities and when these organizations disappear, it takes years for organizations to come back and be able to be re-established."One of the organizations that received a grant was the Redlands Christian Migrant Association in Immokalee, Florida, an agricultural region with many farmworker and migrant families. The association's primary goal is to provide education to children of farmworkers and low-income families, serving more than 6,000 children annually across the state.The $85,000 grant from the Hispanic Federation was for Covid vaccination efforts, rental and utility assistance, and educational programs. More than 200 families benefited from the funding, according to Isabel Garcia, the association's executive director.“Most of the families and farmworkers are the ones that are always the last and have always been the ones that are forgotten about,” she said. “They would get sick and they would not have any other income coming in, because if you don’t want to work in the field, you don’t get paid.”The Redlands Christian Migrant Association has helped relieve other financial stressors including gas and travel expenses for essential workers who missed work due to Covid, and covered child care service fees when schools were closed.“We really want to target the rural population that are the hardest to reach areas where you have the most neediest families,” Garcia said. “The funding we did really helps to provide those needed services that the families are needing during this time of hardship.”In Chicago, the nonprofit Latinos Progresando said through a statement that the Hispanic Federation funding "was the first to arrive," according to its founder Luis Gutierrez, and it was used for food and vaccination drives, as well as cash assistance for vulnerable residents. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'The initial funding for the Hispanic Federation’s Covid emergency grant program was $250,000 and was matched by “Hamilton” creator Lin-Manuel Miranda and other family members. The federation was established in New York City in 1990 by Luis Miranda, Lin-Manuel Miranda's father.  The report compiled and summarized data from an online survey of grantees during this summer.More than $10 million in grants for food assistance provided help to more than 550,000 people. At least 68 nonprofit groups launched food-related programs and 75 organizations expanded upon them. About $1 million in grant money went to 19 Latino health centers that provided more than 230,000 vaccinations in communities where fear of not having insurance or lacking legal status — even though vaccines are free and available to all regardless of immigration status — had kept some Hispanic and other families from getting shots.  The federation is hoping to disburse $7 million in additional funds by the end of the year, “While we have been able to do this, our organizations are still not getting a fair and equitable share of the funding that is out there. They continue to be disproportionately underfunded," the Hispanic Federation's Miranda said.
