Ghislaine Maxwell's trial starts Monday. Epstein victims say she was central to his scheme.. The long-awaited trial of convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein’s confidant Ghislaine Maxwell, getting underway Monday, can be likened to an iceberg — many of the unanswered questions about their alleged enterprise will remain hidden, for now.Maxwell, a British socialite who insists she is innocent, is not likely to face questions about allegedly helping Epstein arrange “dates” with women over the age of 18 for a constellation of rich and powerful men. She is also not likely to be questioned about the allegations from an alleged victim who said in a civil lawsuit that Maxwell trafficked her to Britain’s Prince Andrew when she was 17. He has denied the allegations. Nor is it likely the prosecution will be allowed to delve too deeply into the social and business relationships of Epstein, a multimillionaire financier, with other bold-faced names like former Presidents Bill Clinton and Donald Trump, and Ohio billionaire Leslie Wexner.Instead, U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan of the Southern District of New York has limited the scope of federal prosecutors by focusing the case against the British socialite-turned-suspect specifically on allegations that she helped Epstein recruit and abuse four underage girls mostly in the 1990s.“This is going to be a narrow slice of what happened,” said civil attorney Dan Kaiser, who represents several alleged Epstein victims though none involved in this particular trial. “This is a ring that ensnared dozens and dozens and dozens of girls. And Maxwell was an integral player. You could say she was Epstein’s chief operating officer.”Jury selection in Ghislaine Maxwell sex trafficking trial beginsNov. 16, 202102:51Opening statements in a trial that is expected to last six weeks begin Monday. And those four, now-grown, women will take the stand and testify against Maxwell, prosecutors have said. Epstein was found dead in August 2019 in a Manhattan jail while awaiting trial on sex trafficking charges. His death was ruled a suicide.“Maxwell was the center of that sex trafficking ring,” alleged Epstein victim Jennifer Araoz told NBC News after Maxwell was arrested in July 2020 at her luxurious hideout in Bedford, New Hampshire.NBC News generally does not identify rape victims, but Araoz went public in an interview in July 2019 during which she said she was 15 when Epstein raped her. She has sued Maxwell claiming that she and other staffers “conspired with each other to make possible and otherwise facilitate the sexual abuse and rape of Plaintiff.” Maxwell has repeatedly denied the accusations against her.Araoz is not one of the women expected to testify against Maxwell, all of whom will be identified at the trial only by their initials. She is represented by Kaiser.Maxwell’s older brother, Ian, has said his sister is a “patsy” and that federal investigators zeroed in on her only after Epstein hanged himself.“They lost him and so there has to be somebody to pay the price. There has to be the patsy. Ghislaine is paying that price and she’s paying it every day,” he said in a CBS News interview in November.Not true, prosecutors have said.“Maxwell played a critical role in helping Epstein identify, befriend and groom minor victims for abuse,” then-acting U.S. Attorney Audrey Strauss told reporters after Maxwell was arrested. “In some cases, Maxwell participated in the abuse herself.”At this trial, Maxwell faces six of the eight criminal counts tied to alleged efforts to entice minors to travel and engage in illegal sex acts, conspiracy to transport minors with intent to engage in criminal sexual activity, and sex trafficking conspiracy.If convicted on all counts, Maxwell, 59,who is being held without bail in a Brooklyn jail, could face years in prison.In a 24-page second superseding indictment, prosecutors alleged that from 1994 to 2004, Maxwell “assisted, facilitated, and contributed” to Epstein’s abuse of minor girls by recruiting them, grooming them, and ultimately sexually abusing the victims herself. The victims were as young as 14 years old when she and Epstein sexually abused them, prosecutors contend.Both Epstein and Maxwell knew that some of the victims were minors, the prosecutors say. And as part of her alleged scheme, prosecutors say, Maxwell worked with Epstein to entice the minor victims to travel to his luxury residences across the globe.The abuse allegedly happened at Epstein’s luxurious residences in Palm Beach, Florida; Santa Fe, New Mexico; and on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, prosecutors have said.Ghislaine Maxwell’s brother claims she’s mistreated in prisonOct. 29, 202104:37The youngest daughter of British press baron Robert Maxwell, who drowned in 1991, Maxwell also faces two counts of perjury tied to a deposition in a civil case in 2016. The indictment alleges that when Maxwell was questioned about her involvement in the alleged abuse and trafficking, she lied under oath.But Nathan has severed those perjury counts from this trial.Maxwell was arrested a year after Epstein was nabbed at a New Jersey airport after returning from Paris on a private jet.RecommendedObituariesObituariesCarrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, diesWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials sayAccording to a government motion opposing Maxwell’s request to be released on bail, her arrest had a bit of drama.After FBI agents breached the gate of her New Hampshire home and then directed her private security guards to open the front door, the agents allegedly spotted Maxwell trying to flee.“The agents saw the defendant ignore the direction to open the door and, instead, try to flee to another room in the house, quickly shutting a door behind her,” the court papers say.The agents forced open the door and ultimately found Maxwell inside the house, according to the court filing.Her lawyers argued in court papers that she was living in seclusion to protect herself and her family members from “unrelenting and intrusive media coverage.”In depositions in a civil case, Epstein’s former masseuses, staffers and associates have painted a portrait of Maxwell as the chief enabler of a serial sexual predator. Alleged Epstein victim Virginia Roberts Giuffre, in a September 2019 “Dateline” interview, stated that Maxwell lured her into the financier’s web.At the time, Giuffre said she was working as a locker room attendant at Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort and happened to be reading a book on massage therapy when she was “approached by this beautiful, well-spoken, well-mannered woman with an English accent, prim and proper.”“And she says it’s so funny that you’re reading a book on that, because I know this older gentleman who’s looking for a traveling masseuse,” Giuffre recalled. “He’s super rich. He flies around everywhere.”But by the end of her first visit to Epstein’s Palm Beach mansion, Giuffre said, Maxwell had manipulated her into having sex with her boss.And soon, Giuffre said, she found herself being trafficked by Maxwell and Epstein to rich and powerful men like Andrew.Whatever the outcome of the trial, the fact that Epstein is no more and Maxwell has been put on trial is already a comfort to some of their accusers.“Now that the ring has been taken down, I know that I can’t be hurt anymore,” Araoz said.CORRECTION (Nov. 26, 2021, 10:40 a.m. ET): A previous version of this article misstated the charges on which Jeffrey Epstein was convicted. He was a convicted sex offender, he was not a convicted sex trafficker. He was awaiting trial on sex trafficking charges.CORRECTION (Nov. 26, 2021, 3:40 p.m. ET): A previous version of this article misstated the number of criminal counts Maxwell currently faces at trial. She faces six counts, not eight.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
UNLV student dies after taking part in fraternity boxing match. A University of Nevada, Las Vegas, student died of brain injuries after he took part in a boxing match held by a fraternity to raise money for charity.The student, Nathan Valencia, 20, died from brain injuries he sustained after he took part in Kappa Sigma fraternity’s Fight Night on Nov. 19. He died four days later.An Instagram post by the fraternity lists Valencia's match as the "main event." The Fight Night took place off-campus, the university's president, Keith E. Whitfield, said in a statement.Nathan Valencia.Courtesy Richard Harris Law Firm"Soon after his fight, Nathan collapsed and was taken to a hospital. We are shocked and heartbroken as we mourn the loss of one of our own," Whitfield said in the statement.He said the university would make all resources available so the incident can be reviewed. He said the school will look at how off-campus events can be "as safe as possible.""Our deepest sympathies go out to his family, friends, and loved ones. I am sure words cannot describe their feeling of grief and emptiness. They are in our thoughts during this very difficult time," Whitfield said.Valencia's family are heartbroken, and "mistakes were made and safety precautions overlooked" during the boxing match, they said in a statement issued through lawyers Nick Lasso and Ryan Zimmer of the Richard Harris Law Firm."We will be completing a full investigation to determine how UNLV and the Kappa Sigma Fraternity could allow and promote an event like this to take place. College students should not be placed in a situation where they are pitted against each other for combat," the statement said.RecommendedObituariesObituariesCarrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, diesWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials sayFight Night takes place every year, the statement said. Proceeds benefit Center Ring Boxing, a youth boxing club, the fraternity said on Instagram."We will leave no stone unturned to determine how a 20-year-old ended up in a school-sanctioned amateur fight that cost him his life," the family's statement said.A vigil was held Saturday night on what would have been Valencia's 21st birthday, NBC affiliate KSNV reported.CORRECTION (Nov. 28, 2021, 10:15 p.m. ET): Headlines on a previous version of this article misidentified the college Nathan Valencia attended. It is the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, not the University of Nevada.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Carrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, dies. FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. — Carrie Meek, the grandchild of a slave and a sharecropper’s daughter who became one of the first Black Floridians elected to Congress since Reconstruction, died Sunday. She was 95.Meek died at her home in Miami after a long illness, her family said in a statement. The family did not specify a cause of death.Meek started her congressional career at an age when many people begin retirement. She was 66 when she easily won the 1992 Democratic congressional primary in her Miami-Dade County district. No Republican opposed her in the general election.Alcee Hastings and Corrine Brown joined Meek in January 1993 as the first Black Floridians to serve in Congress since 1876 as the state’s districts had been redrawn by the federal courts in accordance with the 1965 Voting Rights Act.On her first day in Congress, Meek reflected that while her grandmother, a slave on a Georgia farm, could never have dreamed of such an accomplishment, her parents told her that anything was possible.“They always said the day would come when we would be recognized for our character,” she told The Associated Press in an interview that day.In Congress, Meek championed affirmative action, economic opportunities for the poor and efforts to bolster democracy in and ease immigration restrictions on Haiti, the birthplace of many of her constituents.She also was known for her liberal opinions, folksy yet powerful oratory and colorful Republican bashing.“The last Republican that did something for me was Abraham Lincoln,” she told the state delegation to the 1996 Democratic Convention in Chicago.Meek joined her son Kendrick, a former state trooper and state senator, in a 2000 sit-in at then-Florida Gov. Jeb Bush’s office to protest an end to affirmative action policies. She had long argued in favor of such policies, since earning her master’s degree from the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor in 1948. At the time, Blacks were not admitted to graduate schools in Florida.Meek decided not to seek a sixth term in 2002. Her son Kendrick succeeded in winning her heavily Democratic district, a seat he held for four terms before an unsuccessful bid for the U.S. Senate in 2010.After leaving Congress, Carrie Meek returned to Miami and created a foundation to work on education and housing issues. She was also criticized for some of her business dealings.She lobbied for a biotech park that was planned for Miami’s impoverished Liberty City neighborhood but never materialized. County authorities eventually started a criminal investigation, and the park’s developer was arrested in October 2009 on charges that he stole nearly $1 million from the project.Congressional records showed that Meek was paid while her son sought millions of federal dollars for the project. Meek said she was paid as a consultant, and both mother and son denied their efforts were linked.Before entering politics, Meek worked as a teacher and administrator at Miami-Dade College.RecommendedWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials sayCold Case SpotlightCold Case Spotlight52 years later, the unsolved murder of a Penn State student on Thanksgiving weekend in 1969 remains a mysteryShe was elected to the Florida House in 1978, succeeding pioneer Black legislator Gwen Cherry, who had been killed in an auto accident. She became one of the first African Americans and the first Black woman to serve in the Florida Senate since the 1800sCarrie Pittman was born to Willie and Carrie Pittman in Tallahassee on April 29, 1926, and was the youngest of 12 children. Her father worked in nearby fields as a sharecropper and her mother took in laundry from white families.She graduated from Florida A&M University in 1946 with a degree in biology and physical education. The university named its building for Black history archives in her honor in 2007. She was a member of Delta Sigma Theta sorority.She accepted a position at Bethune Cookman College as an instructor and became the institution’s first female basketball coach. In 1958, she returned to Florida A&M as an instructor in health and physical education. She held that position until 1961.Meek continued her teaching career at Miami Dade Community College as the first Black professor, associate dean, and assistant to the vice president from 1961 to 1979.Then, she began her political career, representing Florida’s 17th Congressional District as a Democratic Florida State House Representative.In Congress, Meek was a member of the powerful Appropriations Committee and worked to secure $100 million in aid to rebuild Dade County as the area recovered from Hurricane Andrew.She retired in 2002 and shifted her focus to the Carrie Meek Foundation, which she founded in November 2001, to provide the Miami-Dade community with much-needed resources, opportunities, and jobs. Meek spearheaded the foundation’s daily operations until 2015 when she stepped down because of declining health.Meek is survived by her children Lucia Davis-Raiford, Sheila Davis Kinui and Kendrick B. Meek, seven grandchildren, five great-grandchildren and multiple nieces and nephews.Funeral arrangements are pending.In a statement, Miami-Dade County Mayor Daniella Levine Cava called Meek a “true trailblazer.”“She was never afraid to use her voice to speak out against inequality or to fight for the disenfranchised and the vulnerable — and her towering legacy will continue to shape our community and the nation for generations to come,” Levine Cava said.
Extremely strong magnitude-7.5 earthquake hits northern Peru. The U.S. Geological Survey says a strong earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 7.5 has struck in northern Peru.A USGS map shows the epicenter of Sunday's earthquake in northern Peru.USGSThe earthquake took place at 5:52 a.m. Sunday local time (5:52 a.m. ET). While it was extremely strong, it was relatively deep — measured at 112 kilometers — which usually reduces damage and casualties.The epicenter was 42 kilometers (26 miles) north northwest of the coastal city of Barranca.RecommendedObituariesObituariesCarrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, diesWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials sayA 14-meter tower in a protected four-century-old church collapsed shortly after the 7.5-degree quake recorded Sunday in northern Peru, according to local media and witnesses accounts.Video and photos posted online showed the historic tower, part of a 16th-century complex that was considered the oldest Catholic temple in the Amazonas region, reduced to a pile of stones, although the main atrium appeared to be still standing.Social media posts also showed damage in other locations, including in a church in southern Ecuador. The quake was also felt in Colombia.
Overdue book returned anonymously to Idaho library 111 years later. A children's book checked out from the Boise, Idaho, public library in 1910 vanished for 111 years only to be returned anonymously, library officials said.A copy of “New Chronicles of Rebecca” by Kate Douglas Wiggin, still in good condition, was recently returned to the Garden Valley District Library, about 51 miles outside of Boise, city library officials said. “The checkout desk noticed that it was rather old and it didn’t have any current markings, so they looked into it,” city library assistant Anne Marie Martin told NBC affiliate KTVB of Boise. A copy of "New Chronicles of Rebecca," a 1907 book by Kate Douglas Wiggin, was recently returned anonymously to a Boise library 111 years after it was checked out. Boise Public Library“I don’t think anybody here has seen a book” that’s been away for so long, she said.First published in 1907 as the follow-up to “Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm,” the book tells the tale of girl who’s verve inspires her aunts. It was adopted as a 1938 musical that starred Shirley Temple as Rebecca.After the Boise Public Library welcomed the book home, it was placed in its history room, where books can be browsed but not checked out.According to the library system, the book had originally been checked out from the Carnegie Public Library, a circa-1905 building on the National Register of Historic Places that is now devoid of books. Readers could keep books for two weeks before fines were triggered, a pocket inside the cover said. RecommendedObituariesObituariesCarrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, diesWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials sayThe book was more than 40,000 days overdue and could have amassed fines of 2 cents per-day adding up to more than $800, the Boise library said. But in the early twentieth century fines were capped at the purchase price of the book, which would have been $1.50, KTVB reported.The figures are hypothetical these days.Like other library systems, including New York City's, Boise has eliminated late fees. "It would be great if we could find out what happened, but that said, sometimes there are just mysteries in history," Martin said.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
WHO calls Omicron strain a ‘variant of concern’ as U.S. adds travel restrictions. 
Best Buy combines stores with warehouses to meet shopping demand. 
On the front lines with hotshot teams fighting wildfires in the West. 
The Taliban destroyed Afghanistan's ancient Buddha statues. Now they're welcoming tourists.. BAMIYAN, Afghanistan — The Taliban’s destruction of the Bamiyan Buddha statues in early 2001 shocked the world and highlighted their hard-line regime, toppled soon after in a U.S.-led invasion. Now back in charge of Afghanistan and eager to present a softer image, the militant group is running the site as a tourist attraction.For around $5, curious visitors can wander around and take photos of the giant holes in the cliff face where the ancient Buddha statues once stood. Under a white Taliban flag, soldiers man a booth and write out admission tickets.Sidiq Ullah, who is a supporter of the militant group, came to see the historic site this week with friends from Kandahar, around 350 miles southwest of Bamiyan. Now that the Taliban are in control, he said, he feels free to tour the country.“I was young when these were destroyed, about 7 years old, and since then it has been a dream to come and see what happened here,” he said. “I’m happy it was destroyed. I’m here to see the ruins actually.”The site of the Bamiyan Buddha statues. Wakil Kohsar / AFP via Getty ImagesCarved into the face of a cliff, the two 6th century Buddha statues — one 180 feet tall and the other 124 feet tall — towered over the valley.The area was a holy site for Buddhists on the ancient trading route between China and Europe known as the Silk Road. When the Taliban announced their plan to destroy the statues in 2001, they had come under heavy international pressure to keep them standing. But, labeling them un-Islamic, the group brought the statues down using heavy explosives.Since taking over the country again a few months ago, the Taliban have sought to present a more moderate face to the world despite a brutal crackdown in some areas. As the hard-line Islamic group navigates the economic and security challenges of governing the country after years of insurgency, it is also under pressure from international organizations to protect Afghanistan’s cultural heritage.“Bamiyan has always been a part of Afghanistan that the outside world has focused on,” said Llewelyn Morgan, the author of “The Buddhas of Bamiyan” and a professor of classics at the University of Oxford. “The Taliban know that and that’s why in their slightly inept way they are still trying to paint themselves as a constructive government.”A statue of the Buddha in Bamiyan in 1997, before the Taliban destroyed it. Jean Claude-Chapon / AFP via Getty ImagesCaves on the cliff face were once home to Buddhist monasteries and sanctuaries. Now those around the Buddhas are empty, while other caves farther away are home to families. Clothing flaps on laundry lines, children play in empty caves and some even have glass windows installed. UNESCO, or the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, declared the Bamiyan Valley a World Heritage Site in 2003.It worked with the U.S.-backed Afghan government to conserve what was left of the Buddha statues after the Taliban's destruction of the site. The organization had also backed a cultural center and museum in Bamiyan to “integrate local communities as well as to identify Bamiyan’s rich cultural backgrounds,” according to its website. With the Taliban in charge, its future was unclear. UNESCO didn’t respond to requests for comment. In the days after the militant group swept back to power in the summer, UNESCO issued a statement calling for the preservation of sites like it.“It is crucial for the future of Afghanistan to safeguard and preserve these landmarks,” the agency said.Though scaffolding remains in the niches where the Buddha statues once stood, the preservation work has now ended. Few visitors arrived when NBC News was at the site, despite the Taliban's stated willingness to welcome tourists.Abdullah Sarhadi, the area's governor who spent nearly four years as a prisoner in Guantanamo Bay, said that the Taliban have changed and that they will preserve historic monuments. For now, he is waiting to hear more from the upper levels of the Taliban government before making any changes to the site. “We want to show the world there is peace and security in Afghanistan now,” Sarhadi said.Gabe Joselow reported from Bamiyan, Afghanistan, and Rachel Elbaum reported from London.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
India has an eroding image of tolerance in the West. A recent cricket loss proves why.. When India meets its archrival Pakistan on the cricket field, even those who do not follow the sport sit up and watch. But at the opening match of the T20 World Cup late last month, they were in for a rare disappointment when the Pakistan team beat India for the first time in almost 30 years — and by a lot.In the aftermath of the crushing defeat, ethno-religious tensions boiled over in India, a Hindu-majority country that neighbors Muslim-majority Pakistan. Cricket fans hurled online abuse at Mohammed Shami, the Indian team’s only Muslim player, unfairly blaming him for the loss. In the state of Uttar Pradesh, three students from Kashmir, a Muslim-majority territory claimed by both India and Pakistan, who celebrated the win on social media were suspended from their college, arrested and charged with sedition.More than a dozen other Kashmiri students who cheered for Pakistan were assaulted on the night of the match at two universities in the state of Punjab, said Nasir Khuehami, the national spokesperson for the Jammu and Kashmir Student Association.  “This is not new,” Khuehami told NBC News. “Whenever politics is mixed with sports, these incidents happen.”Protesters in the city of Srinagar demand authorities drop charges against students who were celebrating the Pakistan cricket team's win in the Twenty20 World Cup.Tauseef Mustafa / AFP via Getty ImagesTensions between India’s Hindus, who make up about 80 percent of the country’s 1.4 billion people, and Muslims, who make up 14 percent, go back hundreds of years and worsened during British colonial rule. But under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a Hindu nationalist who took office in 2014, experts say there has been a sharp rise in discrimination and violence against Muslims that is polarizing society and undermining India’s reputation for religious tolerance.“India had a very good image internationally, as the world’s largest democracy and the country of tolerance,” said Christophe Jaffrelot, the author of the 2021 book “Modi’s India: Hindu Nationalism and the Rise of Ethnic Democracy.”“Now gradually this image is getting eroded in the U.S. and Europe.”This poses a challenge to the United States, which is strengthening its relationship with India as it seeks to counterbalance China. In September, President Joe Biden hosted the prime ministers of India, Australia and Japan at the first in-person meeting of the Quad, a strategic grouping of the four nations. U.S. lawmakers have expressed concern over the rights of India’s Muslims and other religious minorities, and legislation before Congress would require the State Department to create a special envoy for combating Islamophobia around the world, including in India. But on Nov. 17, the State Department declined to add India to its list of the world’s worst violators of religious freedom as recommended for the second year in a row by a U.S. federal commission. (India rejected the commission’s report in 2020, calling it biased.)“The U.S. and Europe need India vis-a-vis China,” Jaffrelot said. “So for the moment the questioning of human rights in India has no consequence.”Unresolved tensionsHindu nationalism, or Hindutva, “is a very monolithic and exclusionary political ideology that relies on a vision of Hindu identity as being North Indian, upper caste and patriarchal,” said Nikhil Mandalaparthy, advocacy director of Hindus for Human Rights, a U.S.-based group.Members of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), a militaristic group that has long espoused Hindu nationalism are known to march through the streets beating drums and blowing horns.AFP via Getty ImagesIn this version of India, he said, minorities “are sidelined and not allowed the same status of citizens.” Tensions between Hindus and Muslims were exploited by British colonial rulers to maintain their hold on power. But when India gained independence in 1947, the subcontinent was transformed by its violent partition into two states — Hindu-majority India and Muslim-majority Pakistan — setting off mass migration in both directions. At least 1 million people died and 18 million were uprooted during that period, according to the National Archives of the British government. That trauma was never fully addressed by Indian leaders, said Thomas Blom Hansen, author of the 1999 book “The Saffron Wave: Democracy and Hindu Nationalism in Modern India.”“Politicians tried to put a lid on all these tensions,” he said. “They wanted to create a multinational, multicultural, multi-religious state that has room for everyone.” While India is officially a secular state that enshrines the right to religious freedom in its constitution, Hansen said the BJP had created a narrative of Hindu victimhood that taps into a “deep reservoir of stereotypes and myths, anxieties and anger about Muslims that has always been there.” “They believe Hindus are oppressed in India and they are oppressed by the minorities, but nothing could be further from the truth,” he said. RecommendedObituariesObituariesCarrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, diesWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials sayAs prime minister, Modi has strengthened the economy, courted foreign leaders and ushered in some popular reforms. But critics say the Hindu nationalist policies of Modi and his Bharatiya Janata Party have only intensified since he won a second term as prime minister in 2019. Within months of that election win, the government stripped Jammu and Kashmir, India’s only Muslim-majority state, of its semiautonomous status after more than 70 years, deploying thousands of troops and making it easier for Hindu settlers to move there in what critics saw as an attempt to dilute the Muslim population. Indian army soldiers stand guard during a search operation for suspected militants in Srinagar, Kashmir earlier this month.Tauseef Mustafa / AFP via Getty ImagesIn the northeastern state of Assam, nearly 2 million people were left off a list of citizens in a crackdown on illegal immigration that critics said targeted Muslims, rendering them stateless. Nationally, Muslims were also excluded from an amendment to Indian law that provided a pathway to citizenship for members of persecuted religious minorities who had immigrated to India illegally. Atmosphere of intimidationThe tensions have been underlined by a recent spike in violence that went beyond India’s borders. In October, at least six people were killed in neighboring Bangladesh, a Muslim-majority country that gained independence from Pakistan in 1971, in its worst anti-Hindu violence in years, officials said.Across the border in the Indian state of Tripura, a Hindu nationalist group responded to the deaths in Bangladesh by organizing protest rallies that turned violent, with mosques, shops and houses in Muslim communities vandalized across the state.Abdul Basit Khan, a Muslim lawyer in the town of Dharmanagar, said his house was ransacked. “They destroyed everything in the house: my TV, wardrobe, laptop and sofa set,” he said. “They threw my client records down the street and into the drains.”Khan, who is also the president of regional political party Trinamool Congress in North Tripura district, estimates that he suffered a loss of around 8 to 10 lakh rupees ($10,000 to $13,000). There have been no arrests related to the violence in Tripura, which is governed by the BJP. But the police detained dozens of people who reported or commented on the anti-Muslim attacks, including journalists, lawyers and more than 100 social media account holders, accusing them of spreading communal hatred.Lawyers who conducted a fact-finding mission said the government had been warned about the violence and could have prevented it.“This is the complete failure of state government,” Supreme Court advocate Ehtesham Hashmi and lawyers Amit Srivastav and Ansar Indori said in a statement accompanying their report on Nov. 1. “The political interests of BJP and the ideology of violent patriotism have captured the state and have conspicuous support amongst the public.”NBC News reached out to three BJP spokespersons via email for comment on the incidents but did not get a response.Three Kashmiri students who were assaulted on the night of the cricket match declined to comment to NBC, saying they feared retaliation. But Khan said the atmosphere of intimidation affected not just Muslims but all those who reject the BJP’s policies and rhetoric. “Be they Hindu, Muslim, Sikh or Christian,” he said, “those who don’t believe in BJP, they all live in fear.”Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'It's scary': Overdose deaths driven by fentanyl mixed with other drugs. The spike of drug overdose deaths this year and last year has many drug abuse and addiction researchers, doctors and health officials worried about a growing trend among overdose victims that appears to indicate a new and different wave of the opioid epidemic. While the loneliness and the challenges of the coronavirus pandemic appear to have driven drug use, many experts say the latest overdose wave is driven in part by the use of fentanyl with other drugs. Overdose deaths hit new heights in the U.S. — over 100,000 dead this year, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention — but experts say it’s part of a fourth wave of the overdose epidemic, in which a growing number of drug users die with multiple substances in their systems. Behind that 100,000 figure, they said, is an ongoing surge in the number of cocaine, methamphetamine and other drug deaths that are connected to the simultaneous use of fentanyl. “Probably more than half of the cases involve fentanyl mixed with another drug,” said Dr. Robert Anderson, the chief of mortality statistics at the CDC’s National Center for Health Statistics.The co-use of fentanyl and other drugs distinguishes this wave from the ones that came before it, which were characterized by the growing use of prescription pain medications and then the rise of heroin and fentanyl individually."I actually don’t refer to it as an opioid epidemic,” said Dr. James Berry, the director of addiction services and chair of the behavioral medicine department at West Virginia University. “I refer to it as an addiction epidemic, because the substance varies, and there’s typically more than one substance being used.”Although the trend has been identified, it’s not yet definitive what is causing it: Are drug users knowingly using fentanyl and other drugs, or does fentanyl enter the larger drug supply via dealers and distributors?“It really could be happening at any point and multiple points along the drug supply chain,” said Kelly Dougherty, Vermont’s deputy health commissioner for alcohol and drug abuse programs. “Some people want to use fentanyl, despite the dangers, and other people are using it without knowing — it’s scary. People are cutting it in, and it basically makes it more deadly.”While Vermont is working to make fentanyl test strips more accessible so users can check whether their drugs are contaminated, Dougherty said users should assume more often than not that any illicit drugs they buy may contain fentanyl.The Biden administration announced this year that state and local governments can use federal funds to purchase fentanyl test strips in hope of curbing the spike in overdose deaths.   But many experts believe fentanyl is entering the greater drug supply at the distributor level. Distributors or dealers appear to be either cutting other drugs with fentanyl, as it is particularly cheap and provides a strong high, or contaminating their other drugs by accident by using unclean work surfaces, gloves and tools. RecommendedObituariesObituariesCarrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, diesWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials say“There are instances where patients will be actually co-using both cocaine and fentanyl purposely,” said Berry, who cited some of his interactions with patients, “but a lot of it is just the fact that almost everything you could think of is cut with fentanyl on the streets nowadays.”Besides anecdotes and assumptions, however, there is little firm data on why a growing number of overdose victims have multiple drugs in their systems when they die.Dr. Daniel Ciccarone, an addiction and drug researcher at the University of California, San Francisco, said it remains unclear whether most overdoses are caused by intentional co-use of fentanyl with other drugs or whether contamination or alteration is happening at the dealer level. He said the real reason remains in a “black box” that needs to be unpacked with further research. “I think the contamination hypothesis is overblown and it’s fear-based,” said Ciccarone, who has published about the fourth wave of overdoses and is working on a study about the reasons behind the latest trend. “There’s evidence from around the country — a couple papers that have been published, but also data from my research in places like West Virginia — that show that the combination use of methamphetamine or a powerful stimulant with a powerful opioid is a popular combination now.“This is a big, growing phenomenon,” he added. “It’s one we shouldn’t ignore.”Unfortunately, the problem has multiple heads. Brendan Saloner, a Johns Hopkins School of Public Health professor who studies drug addiction and treatment, said fentanyl is beginning to move across the country and affecting communities that haven’t had to address the opioid epidemic in the past. “It seems like what’s happening is that a lot of the overdose risk has just shifted to parts of the country that didn’t really have as much susceptibility before, so I think it’s taking a lot of people by surprise right now,” Saloner said. “Certainly some places, especially west of the Mississippi, it looks like it’s gotten really bad in a hurry.”Beyond that, Saloner said, state and local governments need to work to build back addiction treatment and outreach systems that were left unattended during the pandemic. Addiction services, he said, should be the main focus of efforts right now.He said the U.S. also needs to expand whom it provides with those services and work in areas that aren’t given resources to address the opioid epidemic. “Settings like hospital emergency departments, where most people can’t get treated, or jails and prisons need greater attention,” he said. “There are a lot of crisis systems that just don’t help people very well right now.”Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
A nursing home where 83 residents died of Covid is still in business under a new name. In December 2019, Sharon Farrell flew from Florida to visit her brother Stephen at a New Jersey nursing home, where, she said, she found “disgusting” conditions. "I told the nurse, 'I am calling the state,'" she said. "I’m paying $9,000 a month, and I wouldn’t let my dog live like this."Farrell said that four months later, as Covid-19 was spreading rapidly, she repeatedly called the facility to ask how her brother was doing. When she finally reached someone, she said, she was told he was fine. Within a few days, however, he was dead. It has been 19 months since the discovery of 17 bodies in a tiny morgue at the Andover Subacute II nursing home in Sussex County, New Jersey, in April 2020. The federal government fined the owners $221,115 for not being in "substantial compliance," and the attorney general’s office began an investigation. But the owners are still in business. They changed the names of Andover and its sister facility and installed new signs out front. As of Friday, there were 25 residents of Andover with Covid, according to state data. And the owners are still being paid by Medicare and Medicaid, the taxpayer-funded programs that pay most costs for U.S. nursing home operators — even though one of the owners, Louis Schwartz, helped run a chain called Skyline Healthcare, which collapsed in 2019 amid accusations of neglect and financial mismanagement, which the chain denied.Andover Subacute Facility I and II was renamed Woodland Behavioral and Nursing Center at Andover.NBC News"The individuals that ran Skyline should not ever be in charge of a nursing home again, and yet here we are," said David Grabowski, a professor of health care policy at Harvard Medical School. He said the pandemic exposed an industry already in crisis, with a lack of resources and regulation."Different names, same practices," Grabowski said. "We need to ensure that there aren’t these kind of back doors, that nursing homes aren’t able to simply put a new name on the building and continue to operate as is."Some family members of those who died at Andover say they are frustrated, and some are suing over the facility's alleged lack of preparation to deal with Covid and for mingling the infected and the healthy.Farrell joined a lawsuit with other families but said: "I couldn’t care less about the class action. I want these guys out of business."Before CovidAt its peak, Skyline Healthcare had more than 100 facilities and oversaw the care of more than 7,000 elderly residents. But from 2017 to 2019, the chain began a slow-motion collapse, and more than a dozen Skyline-operated nursing homes shut their doors, throwing residents, vendors, employees and state regulators into chaos.Many homes ran out of money. Others were shut down over neglect documented in government records. In one Arkansas nursing home regulators identified maggots in a resident’s catheter, according to an inspection. Fourteen homes were forced to close permanently, displacing more than 900 residents to new facilities, sometimes hours away.Skyline’s main owner, Joseph Schwartz, and his son Louis did not return multiple messages and emails requesting comment in 2019. They have denied the allegations of neglect.The Schwartz family has not left the nursing home business. While Skyline is defunct, Joseph Schwartz is still listed as the owner or a co-owner of four facilities, according to federal nursing home ownership data. Louis Schwartz and Chaim Scheinbaum have ownership stakes in at least seven nursing homes between them, including the facility once known as Andover Subacute II.In January 2020, New York health officials recommended against allowing Scheinbaum to take over a nursing home in upstate New York, citing an "ongoing investigation" and noting that they disapproved of his "character and competence," according to a Health Department document. Scheinbaum did not respond when asked to comment about the recommendation.A year before the Covid outbreak, a female Andover resident with dementia walked out of the facility through two broken doors and was found at 4:30 a.m. sitting in the snow with severe frostbite, according to a federal inspection. Terri Thompson, her daughter, sued the facility, alleging violations of the minimum standard of care. The lawsuit is pending, and the owners have denied the claims.Dante Maglioli said that in early 2020, his father, Joseph, complained about the quality of care at Andover. The family was talking about moving him to another facility. As Covid began to spread, Maglioli said, he heard his sister and his father talking on the phone. His father was saying he was not sure Andover could cope if he came down with the deadly new disease. And then, Maglioli said, "my sister never talked to my dad again." Maglioli’s father died April 9, 2020. Schwartz and Scheinbaum did not respond when asked to comment about the conditions at Andover before the pandemic.When the pandemic arrived, nursing homes in New York and New Jersey, including Andover, took the early brunt. Eighty-three of the home’s 539 residents, or almost 1 out of every 6, died of Covid in the first four months of the pandemic. Farrell’s brother was among the casualties.Health care officials prepare to load a patient into an ambulance at Andover Subacute and Rehab Center in Andover, N.J., on April 16, 2020.Stefan Jeremiah / Reuters filePreston Nicolai, then a 20-year-old maintenance worker at the facility, said it was "horrific.""We were losing sometimes between 10 and 12 people a night," he said.Before the bodies began to pile up at Andover, Nicolai said, he was told to move residents from room to room, even though the facility did not know who had Covid and who did not. "I do believe it helped spread the cases of Covid throughout the building," he said.Nicolai said he was told to stack bodies on top of one another in a small room as the facility struggled to deal with the surge in deaths.RecommendedCoronavirusCoronavirusIsrael banning entry to all foreigners as new omicron variant spreadsCoronavirusCoronavirusHow variants like omicron develop and what makes them variants 'of concern'On Easter Sunday, April 12, Nicolai said, he went to work and found the body of a woman in an outdoor maintenance shed, next to shovels, rakes and a lawn mower. He said there was no more room for corpses inside the nursing home.  "I was so morally devastated," he said. "It felt so wrong to put someone’s loved one out in the shed."He moved the body back inside the facility, but he cannot shake the images. "I have had really bad dreams, and I don’t have the money to pay a therapist," he said.‘They do not even know what they do not know’Documents newly obtained through an open records request by NBC News show how the facility struggled to cope with the outbreak in April 2020.Emails from Andover staff members to Sussex County officials document repeated requests for personal protective equipment, or PPE, like masks and gloves, some of which was delivered to the facility.A summary of an inspection from the early morning hours of April 12 written by Kyle Wilson, a registered nurse, and addressed to the Andover Township chief of police describes in detail conditions inside the facility days before the first story broke about bodies stuffed into the tiny morgue. Wilson is employed part-time at the police department, according to a dispatch operator. He did not return a call seeking comment.Wilson wrote that protective equipment delivered to the facility by the Sussex County Sheriff’s Office was unaccounted for. He said an Andover employee said the facility was "aware of a batch of PPE 'donated by the Sheriff’s office' but could not account for its whereabouts or the inventory of the facility’s existing PPE, if such an inventory exists."Police find 17 bodies in New Jersey nursing home hit by coronavirusApril 16, 202002:26Wilson wrote, "Staff were observed to be touching their PPE (face shield, gown, mask) and their face with bare hands." He wrote that he "confronted [the nurse on duty] about this observed behavior. She assured me that it was okay because she was 'not in a room.'"Wilson wrote that there was no Covid testing at the facility and that the staff had not segregated the patients suspected of having Covid. He wrote: "It is my opinion that the acquisition of PPE alone will not resolve the rate of spread at this facility. … [S]taff are undoubtedly contaminated throughout their shift. While the staff are tangibly scared, a culture of safety is not present in this facility. They have not been educated. They do not even know what they do not know."Two days later, a federal Department of Health and Human Services administrator working in Sussex County, Carol Novrit, emailed county officials to say Andover staff members had told her that residents were "not being fed," that residents had "open wounds" and that the deaths of both residents and staff members were not being reported to public health officials. She wrote that the staff told her "there is no infection control now."Schwartz and Scheinbaum did not respond when asked to comment about the documents obtained by NBC News.Federal inspection reports conducted in mid-April 2020 showed similar observations, noting that residents who had symptoms were intermingled with those who were asymptomatic.'Impossible to know' Representatives for the owners said that at that time it was "often impossible to know who had Covid and who did not because of a lack of testing capability."In a statement, the owners of Andover, now known as Woodland Behavioral, said that "the safety and health of our residents has always been the top priority for Woodland Behavioral," adding: "The COVID-19 pandemic brought unprecedented challenges, and our heroic staff faced those challenges as best as they could. We continue to thank them for everything they did (and continue to do) to protect our residents."Representatives for Scheinbaum and Schwartz said they asked for help from multiple government agencies, including two verbal requests to the National Guard on April 11 and April 15, but were told by military officials that they could not provide any assistance. A spokesperson for the New Jersey National Guard disputed their assertion. "The National Guard does not have any information indicating that the Andover Subacute facility made a request for assistance, much less one that was turned down." The spokesperson said that at the outset of Covid, the Guard "supported every single mission request we received."The National Guard did respond to a request for emergency aid that Sussex County officials sent to the governor on May 6. Two days later, 22 members of the Guard went to Andover and performed nonmedical tasks, like cleaning the facility.NBC News investigation: Nursing home chain collapses amid allegations of unpaid bills, poor careJuly 19, 201903:30The owners say problems identified in the federal inspections from spring 2020 have been resolved with state and federal regulators.  A spokesperson for an industry trade group, the American Health Care Association, said, "Even the best nursing homes with the most rigorous standards could not stop this highly contagious and invisible virus. Many lives were lost because long-term care was not made a priority by public health officials, especially in the initial months of the pandemic. Critical resources were directed toward hospitals, leaving long-term care facilities at a severe disadvantage."The investigation continuesPreston Nicolai said he was fired four months after the overstuffed morgue was discovered, accused of improperly disposing of medical waste.  He said he believes the owners were looking for an excuse to get rid of him after what he saw. He said he has not been contacted by the attorney general’s office. Sharon Farrell, however, was contacted this April.Asked when the attorney general’s office would complete its investigation, a spokesperson said, "As is our standard practice, we will not provide updates on the investigation or release any additional information unless and until we bring an enforcement action or close the matter."The spokesperson said the Andover inquiry is part of a larger investigation of "facilities with high numbers of Covid-related deaths and below-average track records for health inspections, staffing, and quality of care." The class-action lawsuit filed by some relatives of the deceased, including Maglioli and Farrell, recently won a legal ruling allowing the lawsuit to stay in state instead of federal court, said the families’ attorney, Daniel Marchese. Marchese said that is good for the plaintiffs, who can plead their case before a local jury instead of being referred to a federal compensation program set up through the PREP Act, which shields businesses from some forms of liability after natural disasters like Covid.Maglioli said: "I think that these gentlemen, their corporation, whatever it is, needs to pay the price. And I don’t mean in a financial way."Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
3 men found guilty of felony murder and other crimes in fatal shooting of Ahmaud Arbery. Three white men were found guilty Wednesday of felony murder in the shooting death of Ahmaud Arbery, a Black man who was running in their neighborhood when they confronted him last year.The nearly all-white jury convicted Travis McMichael of malice murder, felony murder, aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony.His father, Gregory McMichael, and their neighbor William "Roddie" Bryan were acquitted of the top charge. All now face up to life in prison.“Even though this is not a celebration, it is a reflection to acknowledge that the spirit of Ahmaud defeated the lynch mob,” civil rights attorney Benjamin Crump, who is representing Arbery's father, Marcus Arbery, said outside the courthouse Wednesday afternoon.Wanda Cooper-Jones, Arbery’s mother, said that her son “will now rest in peace.”“It's been a long fight. It's been a hard fight,” she said. “I never saw this day back in 2020. I never thought this day would come. But God is good,” she said.The McMichaels and Bryan chased Arbery in pickup trucks after they spotted him in their neighborhood outside Brunswick, Georgia, on Feb. 23, 2020. Travis McMichael shot Arbery, 25, who was Black, with a shotgun at close range. Bryan filmed the fatal encounter on his cellphone.'It's been a long fight': Ahmaud Arbery's parents react to guilty verdictNov. 24, 202102:38The three men were arrested months later after the leaked video brought the world’s attention to the case.Arbery’s family and civil rights leaders have likened his death to a modern-day lynching. The men also face federal hate crime charges.The jury deliberated for about 11 hours before reaching its decision.Each man faced a total of nine counts: one count of malice murder, four counts of felony murder, two counts of aggravated assault, and one count each of false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony.Travis McMichael was convicted on all counts. His father, Gregory McMichael, was found guilty on all charges except the most serious, malice murder. Bryan was also acquitted of malice murder. He was convicted on three of the four counts of felony murder, one of the two counts of aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony.Superior Court Judge Timothy Walmsley had instructed jurors that they could consider simple assault, reckless conduct and reckless driving as lesser charges to aggravated assault for Bryan.About an hour into the second day of deliberations Wednesday, the jurors asked to review footage of the fatal encounter and a 911 call that Gregory McMichael made on the day of the shooting. The jury viewed two videos — one the original cellphone video and the other a “high contrast” version of the same video — three times each while seated in the courtroom.Arbery's father was removed from the courtroom as the verdict was being read after he audibly celebrated the announcement that Travis McMichael was guilty of malice murder."He could not contain it any further. Think about how long he and Wanda have been enduring all the innuendo, all the allegations, all the character assassinations," Crump said when speaking outside the courthouse after the verdict. "Just imagine all they went through."Analyzing closing arguments in Ahmaud Arbery murder trial as jury deliberations beginNov. 23, 202103:33The defense had argued that the men suspected Arbery was a burglar and that residents in the Satilla Shores subdivision were "on edge." Arbery was recorded on security camera video visiting a partially built home in the neighborhood several times. The videos did not show Arbery taking anything from the property. The last video was recorded the afternoon he was killed. Arbery could be seen visiting the home minutes before he was chased by Gregory McMichael and Travis McMichael and Bryan, who had separate defense teams.The defense had sought to convince the jury that their clients were trying to execute a citizen's arrest, which was legal at the time. Travis McMichael's attorneys have said he opened fire in self-defense.During the trial, Travis McMichael testified that he shot Arbery after he was "struck."RecommendedObituariesObituariesCarrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, diesWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials say"We were face to face. And being struck, that’s when I shot," he testified. He said he believed he was in "a life-or-death situation."Under cross-examination by lead prosecutor Linda Dunikoski on his second day of testimony, Travis McMichael said that Arbery hadn't shown a weapon or spoken to him at all before he raised his shotgun. Gregory McMichael and Bryan did not testify.Attorneys for Travis McMichael said they intend to appeal the verdict, describing it as “very disappointing and sad.""This is a very difficult day for Travis McMichael and Greg McMichael,” Jason Sheffield, an attorney for Travis McMichael said. “These are two men who honestly believed that what they were doing was the right thing to do. However, a Glynn County jury has spoken. They have found them guilty. They will be sentenced.”Kevin Gough, an attorney for Bryan, told NBC affiliate WLTV that he would also appeal and said that while he respects the jury’s verdict, he believes his client should have been found not guilty.In her closing argument, Dunikoski told the jury that the defendants made a series of "assumptions and driveway decisions" that led to Arbery's death and that the three men had no "immediate knowledge" that a crime had occurred. She said immediate knowledge of a crime is necessary to claim citizen's arrest. Without the claim of citizen's arrest, Dunikoski told the jurors during closing, the men cannot claim that they acted in self-defense.“If you determine that this was not a citizen's arrest, this was not legitimate, he had no probable cause, he can’t do this based on the law, then guess what?” Dunikoski said. "They’re not justified in killing him. They are not justified in any of the felonies they committed against him.”Dunikoski was cheered outside the courthouse after the verdict.“The verdict today was a verdict based on the facts. Based on the evidence," Dunikoski said. "That was our goal, to bring that to that jury so that they could do the right thing."Arbery verdict 'based on the facts' says prosecutor in trialNov. 24, 202101:05Dunikoski, a senior assistant district attorney in the Cobb County District Attorney's Office, was assigned the case last year by the state attorney general's office after local prosecutors and law enforcement faced scrutiny over their handling of the case.Prosecutor Jackie Johnson, the Brunswick-area district attorney, recused herself from the case shortly after the shooting, saying that Gregory McMichael had been an investigator in her office for more than 30 years as a former Glynn County police officer.She was later indicted by a grand jury on charges of violation of oath of public officer and obstruction of a police officer. Johnson was accused of “showing favor and affection to Greg McMichael during the investigation,” according to the indictment document released in September. She also was alleged to have hindered two police officers “by directing that Travis McMichael should not be placed under arrest.”The second prosecutor, George Barnhill, recused himself in April 2020 and defended the actions of the McMichaels and Bryan. In the letter recusing himself, Barnhill said the three had “solid first hand probable cause” to pursue Arbery, a “burglary suspect,” and stop him.The case was transferred that same month to Thomas Durden, the district attorney for Georgia’s Atlantic Judicial Circuit. Durden, who eventually asked to be removed from the case because of a lack of resources, asked the Georgia Bureau of Investigation to investigate after the leaked cellphone footage prompted widespread outrage.The McMichaels were arrested two days later on May 7, 2020, more than two months after the shooting. Bryan was arrested later that month, days after the Cobb County Judicial Circuit was tapped to handle the case.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Doorbell video appears to show arrest of Waukesha parade suspect . The suspect accused of mowing down a crowd of holiday revelers in Wisconsin was captured in a doorbell camera before his arrest pleading for help and telling a resident he was waiting for an Uber, according to video obtained Monday by NBC News.The Nov. 21 video also shows authorities arriving at the Waukesha home and telling the suspect, Darrell Brooks, 39, to put his hands up.It isn’t clear whether the house, roughly a half-mile from the Waukesha Christmas parade route that Brooks is accused of plowing into, is where police placed him under arrest.Doorbell camera image appears to show Waukesha suspect, Darrell Brooks, standing on a porch before being apprehended.Courtesy / Daniel RiderThe Waukesha Police Department did not respond to requests for comment Monday. In videos shared with by NBC News by resident Daniel Rider, Brooks — wearing a T-shirt and shivering on Rider's front porch — can be seen knocking on the home's front door. A timestamp on the video shows that it was recorded just after 5 p.m. local time, about 20 minutes after Brooks allegedly tore through parade route barricades, killing five people and injuring dozens more."I called an Uber and I'm supposed to be waiting for it over here, but I don't know when it's coming," he can be heard saying. "Can you call it for me please? I'm homeless."In an interview, Rider, who'd been away on a hunting trip and was watching football when the crash occurred, said he had no idea about what had just happened blocks away. He said he invited Brooks inside and gave him a jacket, made him a sandwich and let him use his phone."All of a sudden, I look outside my street and I see a few cop cars drive by and I'm getting extra nervous," he said.Rider said he asked Brooks to leave, and he did. After Rider's neighbor called police, Brooks began "pounding" on Rider's front door, saying he'd left his ID, Rider recalled."Then the next thing you know, you see the cops with lights on him saying, 'hands in the air, hands in the air.'"The encounter, part of which was captured on video, showed Brooks walking around Rider's front porch. Police officers can be seen arriving at the house and ordering Brooks to put his hands up."Whoa, whoa, whoa," he can be heard saying while appearing to comply.Authorities have said that Brooks fled the scene of a domestic disturbance just before the crash. Responding officers were redirected to the parade route, which observers compared to a war zone.Brooks, who has a lengthy criminal history that includes sexual abuse and battery, was charged Nov. 5 in a separate domestic violence case. He posted $1,000 cash bond was released six days later.His lawyer in that case has declined to comment to NBC News. It isn't clear if he has another lawyer for the charges related to Sunday's crash. Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Dozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store  . Dozens of looters descended on a Nordstrom store and stole merchandise Saturday night in a raid that was over within a minute, police in Walnut Creek, California, said. About 80 people rushed into the store in the city’s Broadway Plaza, a police spokesperson said. The spokesperson said that an employee was pepper-sprayed and that two others were punched and kicked. All three sustained minor injuries and were treated and released at the scene, the spokesperson said.     The suspects were in and out of the store, which was open at the time, within a minute, the spokesperson said, adding that an undetermined amount of merchandise was taken.  Jodi Hernandez, a reporter for NBC Bay Area, was near the store when the raid took place. She tweeted that about 25 cars blocked the street. People in the cars rushed into the store and jumped back into their cars before they sped away with goods, she said. Hernandez said it appeared that most looters got away. A video she took showed police officers arresting and handcuffing some people. An officer can also be seen pointing a weapon at one of the drivers. Nordstrom did not immediately respond to a request for comment. RecommendedObituariesObituariesCarrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, diesWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials sayBrett Barrett, who works at a nearby restaurant in Walnut Creek, northeast of Oakland, told NBC Bay Area that he saw 50 to 80 people in ski masks carrying crowbars. “I had to start locking the front door, the back door,” he said. “You never know, they could have come right in here.”Download the NBC News app for breaking news and politics Three people have been arrested so far, police said. Two were arrested immediately on suspicion of robbery, conspiracy, burglary and possession of stolen property. One of the two had a firearm and faces a weapons charge, police said. A third person was found not long after the incident and also faced charges. Walnut Creek police also confirmed that the incident was not linked to a series of protests that have taken place across the country over the non-guilty verdict in the trial of Kyle Rittenhouse. Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Groveland Four, the Black men accused in a 1949 rape, get case dismissed. In the summer of 1949, a 17-year-old lodged an accusation that would thrust the rural Florida community of Groveland into decadeslong turmoil: The white teenager told police she and her husband were driving home from a dance when they were attacked by four young Black men who abducted and raped her at gunpoint.The claims made by Norma Padgett, who is now in her 80s, set off a manhunt that spurred an onslaught of violence against Black residents of Groveland, near Orlando, mobilizing the National Guard and prompting Thurgood Marshall, then a lead attorney for the NAACP, to take up the cause of the men who would come to be known as the Groveland Four.It took seven decades before the state of Florida formally recognized how the four accused — Charles Greenlee, Walter Irvin, Samuel Shepherd and Ernest Thomas — were failed by the criminal justice system. Thomas was gunned down by a mob in the wake of Padgett's allegations, and the others have also since died. In 2019, Gov. Ron DeSantis issued the Groveland Four a posthumous pardon.But Monday morning, a circuit court judge in Lake County went further, clearing the charges against the men and issuing a ruling that effectively exonerated them of the crime. Bill Gladson, a local prosecutor, set the extraordinary move into motion last month when he filed paperwork to toss Thomas' and Shepherd's indictments and set aside the sentences and judgments imposed on Greenlee and Irvin."We followed the evidence to see where it led us, and it led us to this moment," Gladson said at a news conference following the judge's decision.Carol Greenlee, the daughter of Charles Greenlee, who at 16 was the youngest of the suspects, wept and fell into the arms of those next to her as a judge formally dismissed the charges."If you know something is right, stand up for it," she said later of the lessons she learned. "Be persistent."In an earlier statement, Carol Greenlee said that despite proclamations from the governor and the state Legislature and a monument dedicated in honor of the Groveland Four, the families were awaiting "full justice" from the judicial branch to feel vindicated.How the lynching of a 14-year-old boy sparked a movementMarch 24, 201812:26Among those who traveled to Florida to witness the court's decision was Marshall's son, Thurgood Marshall Jr."There are countless people we need to remember who suffered similar fates who have been lost to history," Marshall Jr. said at the news conference. "Perhaps of all the cases my father worked on, this one haunted him for many, many years. And he believed there were better days ahead."The Groveland Four became a disturbing example of racial injustice from the Jim Crow-era, and preceded the high-profile killing of Emmett Till, a Black 14-year-old who was lynched in Mississippi in 1955 by white men after he was accused of whistling at a white woman.RecommendedObituariesObituariesCarrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, diesWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials saySuch incidents show how the desire to protect white women was used to justify racism and the oppression of Black people's rights, said author Gilbert King, whose book "Devil in the Grove," which investigated the Groveland Four case and won the Pulitzer Prize for nonfiction in 2013.Gladson's appeal to ask a judge to dismiss charges against the Groveland Four was not based on whether Padgett may be lying, King said, but rather on the prosecutorial misconduct and the fabrication of evidence at the time.Padgett had said the couple’s car had stalled as they drove home from the dance when they were confronted by the four Black men who attacked her husband before abducting and raping her. Following her accusations, a mob of hundreds of white men led by Lake County Sheriff Willis McCall tracked Thomas to a swamp, where they found him asleep and shot him more than 400 times. Meanwhile, Greenlee, Irvin and Shepherd were arrested and later convicted by all-white juries. Marshall, who years later would become the first Black justice of the Supreme Court, had helped Irvin and Shepherd win appeals to have their case retried. In 1951, while Irvin and Shepherd were being transported, McCall shot the men, claiming they tried to escape. Shepherd, a World War II veteran, was killed, but Irvin survived and was convicted even though an FBI agent testified that prosecutors manufactured evidence against the men.Relatives of the Groveland Four, including Carol Greenlee, right, gather at a  monument that was unveiled in front of the Old Lake County Courthouse in Tavares, Fla., on Feb. 21, 2020. Joe Burbank / TNS via Getty Images fileIrvin, also a World War II veteran, received the death penalty. His sentence was later commuted to life in prison, and he was eventually paroled in 1968. He died the following year.Greenlee was paroled in 1962 and died in 2012.Padgett has rarely spoken publicly about the case, and her family did not return a message seeking comment. She last appeared before the state clemency board in January 2019 to ask them not to pardon the men."Y'all just don't know what kind of horror I've been through for all these many years," she told the board at the time. "I don't want them pardoned, no I do not, and you wouldn't neither."As part of his investigation, Gladson spoke with a grandson of the prosecutor in the case, now deceased, who said his grandfather and a judge believed no rape occurred. Gladson also had Irvin's pants tested at a crime lab, and the results showed no evidence of semen even though jurors at his trial were made to believe it existed.Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, Lake County Sheriff Peyton C. Grinnell, state Rep. Geraldine Thompson and other elected officials and family members unveil the Groveland Four monument in front of the Old Lake County Courthouse in Tavares, Fla., on Feb. 21, 2020.  Joe Burbank / TNS via Getty Images file"Officials, disguised as keepers of the peace and masquerading as ministers of justice, disregarded their oaths, and set in motion a series of events that forever destroyed these men, their families, and a community," Gladson wrote in his motion. "I have not witnessed a more complete breakdown of the criminal justice system."The dismissal of the Groveland Four's case is a rarity, particularly when none of the accused are still living, and prosecutors are generally reluctant or unable to revisit older cases because witnesses are no longer alive or documents and evidence are destroyed or missing.Other states this month moved to recognize people arrested for crimes in such historic cases. A state board in Louisiana unanimously granted a posthumous pardon to Homer Plessy, a Creole man who refused to leave a whites-only train car in the 1890s, which led to the Supreme Court's "separate but equal" ruling. In New York, two men who served decades in prison despite proclaiming their innocence in the 1965 assassination of civil rights icon Malcolm X had their convictions formally thrown out Thursday. Only one of the two men is still alive.A reopening of civil rights-era cases — and a reckoning with the past  — are essential, King said."Sometimes, by going back into the past and correcting a gross injustice, it adds more integrity to the court system today," he said.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
The most entertaining and binge-worthy queer content arriving in November. As the cool weather sets in, hot new releases with queer themes and characters are hitting theaters and streaming platforms. From a Marvel superheroes feature to a Princess Diana biopic, commercial and indie films highlight LGBTQ romances, while reality shows stir up controversy on the small screen. And, across the board, fraught period pieces reign supreme.Here is a list of upcoming and recently released queer-inclusive shows and films to cozy up to as the year draws to a close — before Christmas content takes over.'Eternals'Brian Tyree Henry as Phastos in "Eternals." Marvel StudiosThe Marvel Cinematic Universe is getting a new band of superheroes. A team of ancient aliens, who have been secretly living on Earth for thousands of years, is forced out of the shadows by an unexpected tragedy following the events of “Avengers: Endgame.” “Eternals,” directed by Chloé Zhao (“Nomadland”), features Marvel’s first openly gay hero, couple and kiss, involving Phastos (Brian Tyree Henry) and his mortal husband, Ben (Haaz Sleiman). As if saving the world wasn’t hard enough on a relationship, the couple is also raising a son in the suburbs. “Eternals” opens in theaters Friday.'Dickinson'Ella Hunt, left, and Hailee Steinfeld in "Dickinson."Apple TV+The Peabody Award-winning series about the early life of great American poet Emily Dickinson is back for its third and final season. In the last chapter, which takes place during the Civil War, Emily (Hailee Steinfeld) grapples with life in a divided, traumatized country and the demands of her complicated romance with longtime friend Sue. Despite the solemn backdrop, audiences can expect the series’ usual campy, stylized take on mid-19th-century living, along with a new host of comedic favorites playing historical characters: Ziwe as Sojourner Truth, Billy Eichner as Walt Whitman and Chloe Fineman as Sylvia Plath. “Dickinson” season three premieres on Apple TV+ on Friday. 'Spencer'Kristen Stewart as Princess Diana in "Spencer."Pablo Larrain / NEONDirector Pablo Larraín’s Princess Diana biopic, starring Kristen Stewart in the title role, portrays three eventful days during the royal’s 1991 Christmas holiday. In the film — which is reminiscent of Larraín’s Jacqueline Kennedy biopic, “Jackie” — arguments over bulimia and infidelity lead to the eventual separation between the Princess of Wales and her then-husband, Prince Charles. How much of the film is actually based in reality — including an unexplored romance between Diana and a member of her inner circle — is sure to intrigue audiences and ruffle royal feathers.“Spencer” opens in theaters Friday. 'Tampa Baes'Mel and Jordan in "Tampa Baes."Lindsey Byrnes / Amazon A young group of lesbians takes on the queer dating scene in Tampa Bay, Florida, in a new docuseries from Amazon Studios. “Tampa Baes” isn’t the first lesbian-centered unscripted show of its kind — the most notable being Ilene Chaiken’s 2010-2012 Showtime series, “The Real L Word” — though it is a rarity in the larger landscape dominated by mainly heteronormative franchises like “The Real Housewives.” Whether that will be enough for audiences to tune in remains to be seen. The show attracted some early, and presumably unwanted, attention in the form of accusations about colorism and a lack of inclusivity based on promotional materials of the cast. “Tampa Baes” season one premieres on Amazon Prime Video on Friday. 'Gentefied'Karrie Martin in "Gentefied."NetflixAfter fighting to save their family’s taco shop from gentrification in the first season, the Morales clan now faces the terrifying prospect of their grandfather’s deportation. Actor Karrie Martin returns as Ana Morales, a young queer artist who raises complex questions about the intersection of love, activism and identity. Last season, Ana’s relationship with her childhood friend Yessika hit a speed bump when the two faced the realities of being young, brown activists in a changing world. Will the love birds iron out their differences, or will Ana move on to someone new?“Gentefied” season two premieres on Netflix on Nov. 10.'Passing'Ruth Negga, left, and Tessa Thompson in "Passing." Edu Grau / NetflixInspired by Nella Larsen’s 1929 novel, the black-and-white film follows two childhood friends who choose two very different paths. After 12 years apart, Clare (Ruth Negga) and Irene (Tessa Thompson) reunite in 1920s New York at the height of the Harlem Renaissance. The two Black women find themselves living on opposite sides of the color line: Irene moves in the upper echelon of Black society, and Clare, playing with fire, passes for white in her marriage to a wealthy racist. As the film dives into issues around race and identity, the two women see their love for each other grow in new ways. “Passing” will be available on Netflix on Nov. 10. 'Mayor Pete'Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg does a television interview with CNBC outside the White House on Oct. 13.Drew Angerer / Getty Images fileDirected by Jesse Moss, “Mayor Pete” shadows former South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg during his presidential bid and later appointment as the first openly gay presidential Cabinet member. From his victory in the Iowa caucus to his relationship with his husband, Chasten, the documentary explores the intimate and powerful moments that have led Buttigieg to where he is now. “Mayor Pete” will be available on Amazon Prime Video on Nov. 12.'The Power of the Dog'Benedict Cumberbatch in "The Power of the Dog."Kirsty Griffin  / NetflixBenedict Cumberbatch and Kirsten Dunst star in this new Western drama from Jane Campion (“The Piano”). In “The Power of the Dog,” a domineering rancher, Phil Burbank, played by Cumberbatch, faces a crisis of self amid the toxic masculinity and repressed sexuality of Montana in 1925. Phil’s brother brings home a new wife and her son, which spurs the hyper-masculine lead character down a path of cruelty and desire.“The Power of the Dog” opens in theaters Nov. 17.'Tiger King'Joe Exotic in "Tiger King."Courtesy of NetflixThe eccentric world of big cats in captivity is returning for its sophomore season. Joe Exotic — the gay, polygamist zookeeper who became a cultural sensation when the show premiered during the early days of the pandemic — is still in prison after being found guilty in a murder-for-hire plot targeting fellow “Tiger King” star Carole Baskin. But that’s not keeping Exotic from the limelight, if the show’s trailer is any indication. It’s unclear if Exotic, Baskin or yet-to-be-introduced characters will be the focus of the new season, but Netflix has promised it will bring the same chaotic energy to the table.“Tiger King” season two premieres on Netflix on Nov. 17.'Star Trek: Discovery'Wilson Cruz as Dr. Hugh Culber, Ian Alexander as Gray and Blu del Barrio as Adira in "Star Trek: Discovery."Michael Gibson / CBSIn the next installment of this historically diverse iteration of the cult classic series, the crew faces a massive, invisible anomaly that threatens life across the galaxy. Last season, the show introduced new fan favorites Adira (Blu del Barrio) and Gray (Ian Alexander), the franchise’s first nonbinary and transgender characters, respectively. While the particulars of the new season have remained shrouded in mystery, producers and co-showrunners Alex Kurtzman and Michelle Paradise have said Adira and Gray will continue to figure prominently in the “Discovery” universe.“Star Trek: Discovery” season four premieres on Paramount+ on Nov. 18.'The Humans'"The Humans."Linda Kallerus / A24Writer-director Stephen Karam has adapted his Tony-winning play into an unnerving film about existential dread, perfectly timed for the holidays. In “The Humans,” the Blake family reunites on Thanksgiving Day in the run-down basement apartment that Brigid Blake (Beanie Feldstein) shares with her boyfriend, Richard (Steven Yeun), in New York’s Chinatown neighborhood. From crushing breakups to balancing the costs and responsibility of elder care, the family unpacks relatable traumas while trapped in the claustrophobic world of Karam’s chamber drama. The star-studded ensemble also includes June Squibb, Richard Jenkins and Amy Schumer, who plays Brigid’s older sister, Aimee Blake, a sarcastic lesbian who is processing the end of her long-term relationship.“The Humans” opens in theaters Nov. 24.In case you missed it ...'The Eyes of Tammy Faye'Based on the RuPaul-narrated 2000 cult documentary of the same name, the film stars Jessica Chastain as televangelist Tammy Faye Bakker. In it, Bakker’s groundbreaking 1985 interview with a gay Christian pastor living with AIDS takes center stage. "The Eyes of Tammy Faye" is in theaters and available for purchase on Amazon Prime Video and iTunes.'Nuclear Family'The three-part docuseries looks back on filmmaker Ry Russo-Young’s childhood during the late ‘70s and early ‘80s, and her lesbian moms’ historic lawsuit, which played a crucial role in validating the legal existence of LGBTQ families. "Nuclear Family" is available on HBO Max. 'The Morning Show'“The Morning Show,” starring Jennifer Aniston and Reese Witherspoon, dramatizes the lives of newsmakers who wake up with America every day. Julianna Margulies joins the latest season as Witherspoon’s love interest — an A-list television anchor who climbed back to the top of her field after being fired for being a lesbian in the late ‘90s. "The Morning Show" season two is available on Apple TV+.'Titane'The lead character in this unabashedly violent film, which won the top prize at this year’s Cannes Film Festival, is a gender-bending psychopath with a dangerous attraction to motor vehicles and an apathetic view on human life. "Titane" is in theaters and available for purchase on Amazon Prime Video and iTunes (if you have the stomach for it).'RuPaul's Drag Race U.K.'The influential drag competition series is back in the United Kingdom, with 12 new queens vying to make herstory — including the franchise’s first-ever cisgender woman contestant. “Drag Race U.K.” always delivers on British humor and campy, mid-tier looks, which have made it one of the most successful international versions of the show. "RuPaul's Drag Race U.K." season three is available on WOW Presents Plus. 'The House'The new talk show centers on the voices and experiences of Black and brown queer people."The House" is available on Fox Soul. 'We're Here'The reality show led by “RuPaul’s Drag Race” alums Bob the Drag Queen, Eureka O’Hara and Shangela is back on the road recruiting for one-night-only drag shows across the country. RecommendedOUT NewsOUT NewsSanta Claus gets a boyfriend in Norwegian Christmas commercialOUT Life and StyleOUT Life and Style12 LGBTQ milestones we’re thankful for this year"We're Here" season two is available on HBO Max.'Cured'The new documentary, which was released Oct. 11, National Coming Out Day, details gay activists’ yearslong battle to get the American Psychiatric Association to remove homosexuality from its list of mental disorders. "Cured" is available on PBS. 'Hightown' Monica Raymund (“Chicago Fire,” “The Good Wife”) stars as Jackie Quiñones, a hedonistic federal agent whose life is thrown into disarray when she discovers the body of a murdered woman. Quiñones’ identity as a queer Latina is notable in the crime genre, in which leads are typically played by white straight men. "Hightown" season two is available on Starz.Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Santa Claus gets a boyfriend in Norwegian Christmas commercial. Norway’s 375-year-old postal service, Posten Norge, this week has released a festive commercial ahead of the holiday season with Santa Claus getting a boyfriend.The popular image of Mrs. Claus helping out at the North Pole has been dropped to show a more inclusive perspective this year. The four-minute clip titled "When Harry met Santa" — a light-hearted reference to the 1989 movie "When Harry Met Sally" — has well-known Scandinavian actors Johan Ehn and Terje Stromdahl, respectively, playing the lead roles.The couple meet when Harry spots Father Christmas delivering presents to his home. They gaze across to each other before Santa disappears up the chimney. The clip continues to show the annual meetings between the pair as Santa delivers more gifts. Before each fleeting visit Harry carefully selects his outfits and sprays himself with cologne. Eventually Harry is seen writing a letter to Santa saying, “All I want for Christmas is you.” In the final scene, the couple kiss in a loving embrace.The ad has been produced to mark 50 years since the decriminalization of homosexuality in Norway. The country has some of Europe’s most progressive LGBTQ legislation, with the Gay Travel Index consistently ranking Norway as one of the most gay-friendly places in the world. Civil partnerships have been legal since 1993 and LGBTQ people able to serve openly in the military since 1979. The clip has quickly garnered international attention with Canadian Member of Parliament, Randall Garrison, tweeting he was breaking his “no Christmas before December rule” to thank Norwegian Post for their “strong and moving message of inclusion.” The ad on YouTube has been viewed more than 600,000 times in just three days.Norwegian Post tell NBC News their aim was to “show love has no limits” and reaction within Norway so far has been “overwhelming.” No decision has yet been made on if there will be a follow up to Santa’s love story next year.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
12 LGBTQ milestones we’re thankful for this year. As many LGBTQ Americans plan to gather with their families — or "chosen families" —  for the holidays, Thanksgiving might look more normal this year. But whether you are celebrating over a Zoom call or laughing with loved ones over “RuPaul’s Drag Race” reruns and turkey, there is always a reason to be thankful.From a record number of LGBTQ athletes competing in the Olympics to JoJo Siwa’s historic run on ABC’s “Dancing With The Stars,” here are a dozen queer milestones we’re thankful for this year. JoJo Siwa on 'Dancing With the Stars' Jojo Siwa and her dance partner, Jenna Johnson, finished in 2nd place. Eric McCandless / ABC via Getty ImagesReality star and YouTube sensation JoJo Siwa, 18, made history on ABC's "Dancing With the Stars" as the first competitor in the the show's 30 seasons to dance with a same-sex partner. Siwa and her dance partner, Jenna Johnson, finished in second place after their groundbreaking run. Following this season's finale on Monday, Siwa shared an Instagram post  expressing her gratitude for the production crew, the judges, her loved ones and — of course — her dance partner. “I’m so beyond proud of you and I’m so proud of us!!! We did it. I’m so proud of every dance we did. I’m so proud of the stories that we told. And I am MORE than proud of the message that we spread,” Siwa, who came out as part of the LGBTQ community earlier this year, wrote. “I’m so thankful that kids today have moments in history like this to look to and realize that LOVE IS LOVE and being who you are is beautiful. Celebrate being born the way you are everyday no matter what!”A record number of LGBTQ Olympians Canada's Quinn with their gold medal on August 6, 2021, in Yokohama, Japan. Naomi Baker / Getty ImagesThis year's Tokyo Summer Games was dubbed by some as the "Rainbow Olympics” for its record number of LGBTQ competitors. At least 186 out athletes from around the world were present at this year’s competition, more than triple the number at the 2016 Rio Summer Games, according to LGBTQ sports site Outsports. Perhaps even more impressive is that these queer Olympians earned earned 32 individual and team medals in Tokyo. Outsports founder Cyd Zeigler noted that these athletes "didn't just show up — they also performed at a very high level." British diver Tom Daley was among the medalists, earning his first gold medal, along with his synchronized diving partner, Matty Lee. Daley, who is married to American screenwriter Dustin Lance Black, has appeared in four Olympic competitions and has won a total of four medals: one gold and three bronze.Canadian soccer star Quinn made history at the Tokyo Summer Games as the first out transgender athlete to ever compete in the Olympics. Quinn, a midfielder, helped Canada's women's soccer team defeat Sweden in the final game to win the country's first-ever gold in the event. These adorable 'Old Gays'(L-R) Bill Lyons, Jessay Martin, Robert Reeves and Mick PetersonJon Premosch for TODAYTikTok stars Robert Reeves, Mick Peterson, Bill Lyons and Jessay Martin — known collectively as the “Old Gays” — achieved fame this year for their viral videos showing everything from their hilarious reactions to Cardi B’s “WAP” music video to sharing their coming-out journeys to a look back on the loves of their lives.The foursome of gay men, who range in age from the mid-60s to late 70s, have more than 3.2 million followers and 320 million views across their social media platforms.“I’m still having a hard time wrapping my head around that, truly,” Lyons, 77, told NBC’s TODAY.com in June. “I mean, at 77 years old, I never had any idea that this would happen to me. It’s totally surreal. I feel like a dinosaur, but the way that people are reacting to me and to the others, I can’t believe it.”In November, the quartet signed with Brian Graden Media (BGM) to develop a docuseries about their personal and professional social media lives, all while living together in Cathedral City, California.Heartwarming stories of queer loveThis Valentine’s Day, we turned to the NBC Out community, asking longtime LGBTQ couples to give us guidance on what it means — and what it takes — to thrive together.Marianne and Vicki Oakes were among the couples that shared their story. Four years after they met, when they were both 19, Marianne came out to Vicki as transgender. “I sat down with her and said, ‘This is how it is for me. I’ve got these feelings.’ I didn’t know where it was going to go,” Marianne told NBC News in February. “I was on my own with this. Back then there was no education.”A year later, they were married and have been together for more than four decades. Marianne said sharing her love story is part of her mission in the world as a counselor for trans people. “There’s a narrative that trans people can’t find love,” Marianne said. “That narrative and that myth keeps us frightened and from being seen. We can find love. Perpetuating the myth must stop.”Celebrities who came out in 2021JoJo Siwa, Carl Nassib and Demi Lovato.NBC News; Getty Images; ReutersActor and singer Demi Lovato came out as nonbinary in May and said they would be changing their pronouns to they/them.“Not only has my life been a journey for myself, I was also living for those on the other side of the cameras,” Lovato, who got their start on “Barney & Friends” and has had roles on shows like “Grey’s Anatomy” and “Prison Break,” wrote on Twitter.“Today is a day I’m so happy to share more of my life with you all — I am proud to let you know that I identify as nonbinary & will officially be changing my pronouns to they/them moving forward,” Lovato, 29, told fans at the time.Other celebrities and public figures to come out this year include NFL player Carl Nassib, Brothers Osborne singer-guitarist TJ Osborne and actor Cassandra "Elvira" Peterson.First-time gay parentsChasten and Pete Buttigieg shared this image of their newborns, Penelope Rose and Joseph August, on Sept. 4, 2021.Pete Buttigieg / via TwitterTransportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg announced in September that he and his husband, Chasten, officially became parents of two children.“Chasten and I are beyond thankful for all the kind wishes since first sharing the news that we’re becoming parents,” Buttigieg tweeted alongside a photo of him and his husband holding their newborn son and daughter. “We are delighted to welcome Penelope Rose and Joseph August Buttigieg to our family.”Being a first-time parent is the “most demanding thing I think I’ve ever done,” Buttigieg, a former Navy intelligence officer and 2020 presidential candidate, said in October.Former boy band star Lance Bass and husband Michael Turchin also welcomed their two newborn babies, via surrogate, in October.“Haven’t slept much in 5 days and I’m covered in ick but I’ve never been so happy!” he captioned a quartet of photos of daughter Violet Betty and son Alexander James shortly after their birth. “Now there are four of us in this house that wear diapers (hint: it’s not me or @michaelturchinart).”Newly out queer superheroes Batman's Urban Legends series featuring Robin.DC ComicsQueer representation in comic books exploded this year, with comics reinventing character fan favorites — including Robin, Batwoman and the Flash — as part of the LGBTQ community.Most notably, the internet exploded when DC Comics announced that the next-generation Superman Jonathan Kent, the son of Clark Kent and Lois Lane, is bisexual. DC made the announcement on National Coming Out Day in October.“When I was offered this job, I thought, ‘Well, if we’re going to have a new Superman for the DC Universe, it feels like a missed opportunity to have another straight white savior,’” series writer Tom Taylor told Reuters in an October interview.When Marvels’ “Eternals” hit theaters earlier this month, superhero fans got to see the first openly queer superhero in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, Phastos. Played by “Atlanta” star Brian Tyree Henry, Phastos is part of a tribe of alien immortals with fantastic powers and is married to a human husband, played by actor Haaz Sleiman.A transgender winner on 'RuPaul’s Drag Race'Kylie Sonique Love during the finale of 'RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars 6.'VH1 / Paramount +For the first time in the history of the U.S. “RuPaul’s Drag Race” franchise, a transgender contestant was crowned the winner of the hit competition show. Kylie Sonique Love snagged the crown of the sixth season of “RuPaul’s Drag Race All Stars,” which streamed on Paramount+.“I couldn’t have done this without thanking the universe every single day, for all my blessings and all the people around me that believed in my dreams,” Love said following her win in September. “I’m so grateful to Paramount+, World of Wonder and RuPaul for taking everything she’s learned in the business and for giving people like me an opportunity. Not just drag queens but trans people, and I’m so grateful to be the first trans representation with the crown.”Lil Nas X’s cover of Dolly Parton’s 'Jolene'Lil Nas X performs on Jan. 23, 2020 in Los Angeles.Emma McIntyre / Getty Images for Spotify fileRapper Lil Nas X released a cover performance of Dolly Parton’s 1974 hit “Jolene” in September, garnering more than 3.8 million views on YouTube.Parton said in a tweet that she “was so excited” when someone told her that Lil Nas X had covered “Jolene.”“I had to find it and listen to it immediately … and it’s really good,” she wrote, adding, “I was surprised and I’m honored and flattered.”The 22-year-old rapper appeared awestruck in his Twitter response to the music legend.Historic queer cover modelsBretman Rock has become the first gay man to grace the cover of Playboy.PlayboySporting the iconic Playboy bunny outfit — heels, black tights, a bow-tie and lingerie topped with bunny ears — makeup guru Bretman Rock  made queer cover model history in October, becoming the first gay man to grace the digital cover of Playboy magazine.“For Playboy to have a male on the cover is a huge deal for the LGBT community, for my brown people community and it’s all so surreal,”  Rock, who is Filipino American, said at the time on Twitter.Model Ariel Nicholson also made history, as the first transgender person to be featured on the cover of U.S. Vogue.Nicholson was one of eight models to grace the cover of the fashion magazine’s “Generation America”-themed September issue.“To have the opportunity to participate in the shifting landscape of fashion is a dream come true,” she wrote in the caption of an Instagram post celebrating the milestone. Pulse nightclub designated a national memorialMourners lay flowers at the Pulse memorial in Orlando, Fla., on June 12, 2021.DeFodi / via Getty ImagesIn a rare showing of bipartisanship on LGBTQ issues, the U.S. Senate unanimously passed legislation in June designating the site of Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida, a national memorial.On June 12, 2016, 49 patrons were killed and dozens more wounded in one of the country’s most gruesome massacres. President Joe Biden signed the legislation into law several days after the fifth anniversary of the attack.“The unanimous consent is such welcome news as we are set to mark the five-year remembrance of the Pulse tragedy,” the Pulse nightclub said in a statement at the time. “This recognition from both the House and Senate means so much to the LGBTQ+ community. #WeWillNotLetHateWin”Queer Grammy and Emmy nomineesLil Nas X performs at the MTV Video Music Awards in Brooklyn, N.Y., on Sept. 12.John Shearer / MTV VMAs 2021 / Getty Images for MTV / ViacomCBSRapper Lil Nas X’s hit song about gay sex was nominated for three Grammy Awards, catapulting LGBTQ narratives to the highest echelon of achievement in the music industry.The provocative song — “Montero (Call Me By Your Name)” — is up for song of the year, record of the year and best music video at the 64th annual Grammy Awards, which are being held Jan. 31 in Los Angeles.Its title is a reference to the gay romance novel and 2017 film “Call Me By Your Name.” But its lyrics are less about love and more about lust, with lines including “romantic talking? You don’t even have to try” and “I’m not fazed, only here to sin.”Other LGBTQ artists who received Grammy nominations this year include singer-songwriter Brandi Carlile, pop star Halsey and singer-songwriter Arlo Parks.Although she did not end up wining in September, Mj Rodriguez made history in July for becoming the first transgender performer to pick up an Emmy nomination for a major acting category. Rodriguez was nominated in the lead drama actress category for her role as Blanca Rodriguez on FX’s hit show “Pose.”Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Michigan teachers told to take down Pride flags after 'external challenge'. A middle school teacher in southern Michigan resigned after he and other educators in his district were told to remove LGBTQ Pride flags they had up in their classrooms.Teachers were told to take down the flags after Three Rivers Community Schools in Three Rivers, Michigan, received an “external challenge” about the symbols that had "reached the board level," according to an email obtained by NBC affiliate WOOD of Grand Rapids. “The rumors kind of floating around was that there's one or two parents that complained about the flags being in the classroom,” said Russell Ball, the teacher who resigned.Ball, who said he is part of the LGBTQ community, told WOOD that he is "disheartened and saddened." “To me, the flag represents love and inclusion for everybody, not just whoever is of the LGBTQIA+ community,” he said. “The students losing that representation throughout the classrooms really hurt. Losing my own representation in the classroom really hurt. It was just something I was not prepared to do.”The district's interim superintendent, Nikki Nash, said in a statement that it was “an ongoing situation.”“We continue to work with the district’s legal firm and board of education to ensure we are providing a safe learning environment for all students,” the statement read. RecommendedOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureFrom 'Eternals' to 'Dickinson,' our list of must-watch films and showsOUT NewsOUT NewsSanta Claus gets a boyfriend in Norwegian Christmas commercialFor the full story, visit NBC affiliate WOOD. Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'Sad and angry and frustrated': Black moms on the Rittenhouse verdict. Last week a 12-person jury acquitted Kyle Rittenhouse of all charges related to his shooting and killing two people and injuring a third during a Black Lives Matter protest in the summer of 2020. Rittenhouse argued that his actions were self-defense. After deliberating for four days, the jury agreed.Many expressed genuine shock about the verdict on social media, posting tweets detailing their surprise. But for Black mothers and other parents of color who spoke to "TODAY" Parents, the verdict was no surprise at all.Outrage after jury finds Kyle Rittenhouse not guilty on all chargesNov. 20, 202102:41Each of the mothers say that far too frequently, they see just how differently their own children are treated compared to their white counterparts. And while Rittenhouse’s lawyers said the case was about self-defense, these moms say that, based on their experiences, race played a role. Their lack of surprise is also the result of other verdicts involving young Black victims, from Tamir Rice to Trayvon Martin to Michael Brown.“Surprisingly, I felt really sad and angry and frustrated,” said Jehava Brown, 37, a mother of three boys living in Pennsylvania. “And when I say ‘surprisingly,’ it’s because it was very much expected.”Legal experts said Rittenhouse’s taking the stand and crying during his testimony, in addition to his mother’s audibly crying in the gallery during the trial, may have helped his lawyers win the case. After the verdict, Rittenhouse told Fox News’ Tucker Carlson that he supports the Black Lives Matter movement and “is not a racist.”“He was 17 at the time of the offense,” said Steven Wright, a law professor at the University of Wisconsin. “Having someone who looks like a child there might make some jurors see their younger selves in him or their children in him, and they might think, ‘What would my younger self have done or my son or daughter have done in his position?’”The parents who spoke to “TODAY” wonder when their tears and the tears of their children will ever have the same impact.“They don’t care about Black mom tears,” said T’Chani Hill, a California mom who is raising two daughters.“Black moms deal with a lot, and we have to compartmentalize in order to put smiles on our faces and move forward,” Brown said. “Because either people don’t get it or they think it’s ‘too heavy’ or it’s ‘too frustrating’ or it’s ‘too much of a debate.’”Brown said the verdict is a microcosm of what her children face in school, on playgrounds and in public; these experiences exemplify the ways Black children are seen as innately threatening, while white children are viewed as innately innocent.Her children have started to notice in school that, "depending how they dress, their teachers will treat them differently,” Brown said. “If a Black kid is reprimanded unjustly, the reaction is: ‘Well, we don’t know the whole story. It can’t just be what we saw.’ It’s automatic to justify the reasons behind a harsh punishment for a Black kid, while white kids get the benefit of the doubt. And people are less likely to speak up for Black kids because they think maybe they did something to provoke the situation.”Hill, 52, said she sees the system at work when she watches how her two children are treated differently based solely on their skin tone.“I have two beautiful daughters, and one looks white, and she is treated differently. People don’t realize that I’m her mom until she clarifies it,” Hill said. “My other daughter is ... dark ... and I have watched my own children be treated differently, whether it’s at a park or at school, because they’re completely different shades.”Hill said that when she enters a store with her two daughters, people will watch and even follow her and her older daughter, but “no one pays attention” to her younger daughter, who presents as white.“So am I surprised by the verdict? No,” she said. “As a Black person in this country, I am not surprised. And as a Black parent, I worry about my children’s safety.”A study published this year by Elsevier in the Journal of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry found that Black students ages 9 and 10 are 3.5 times more likely to be suspended or put in detention than their white peers are. In another study, conducted by researchers at the Yale University Child Study Center in 2016, scientists fit 132 early education teachers with eye trackers and asked them to watch clips of four children — a Black girl, a Black boy, a white girl and a white boy — and to look for misbehaviors. None of the children actually misbehaved, but the eye trackers found that the teachers spent more time watching the Black boy.“I go to Black and brown schools and find that there’s a perception that these kids have the potential to do something wrong — a potential of violence, a potential of wrongness, the potential to lie,” said Christoper Emdin, the associate director of the Institute of Urban Minority Education at Columbia University. “It’s the belief that the worst is expected of them and they’re treated accordingly.”Emdin said he sees a different situation at play in predominantly white schools.“When I go into white schools there is a freedom — a freedom to question, the freedom to express, the freedom to emote, the freedom to be frustrated and to be angry and not be perceived inherently bad because of that,” said Emdin, the author of the book “Ratchetdemic: Reimagining Academic Success.”RecommendedObituariesObituariesCarrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, diesWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials sayThomishia Booker, 37, a mom of two kids ages 5 and 20 months, said her older child was only 2 when a day care worker treated him differently from his peers.“The teacher was concerned about him making Legos,” Booker said. The teacher said her son "was building a gun,” and “I asked her how she knew, and she said because my son was making an ‘L’ shape and shooting sounds — ‘pew pew pew.’ She made an assumption about the limitation of his creativity, and an assumption about what he was making, which had to be a gun.”Booker added that the teacher also deprived her son of having a childlike creativity, because many of her son’s favorite superheroes have guns or other shooters. “Instead, she saw my son as aggressive and had to have a conversation with me about it.”Research published in 2012 by the American Psychological Association found that Black boys as young as 10 are not viewed in the same light as their white peers and are instead mistaken as older, are perceived guilty instead of innocent and face police violence if they are accused of crimes. Tamir Rice was just 12 when he was shot and killed by a Cleveland police officer for playing with a toy gun in a park. Michael Brown, who was 18 when he was shot and killed by a police officer in Ferguson, Missouri, was described as “crazy,” “aggressive,” “very aggravated” and “hostile.” Trayvon Martin was 17 when he was shot and killed by George Zimmerman, who was acquitted of all charges after a jury found that he acted in self-defense. Before he killed Martin, Zimmerman described him as being “up to no good, on drugs or something” and showing “suspicious behavior.”“I can’t say the Rittenhouse verdict has made me feel hopeless, because the hope has already been lost,” Booker said. “I can only do what I can as a mother and as a parent to protect my children. But it’s difficult to do it alone in a system that’s specifically designed to only protect one group of people.”Studies have shown that Black children are more likely than white children to grow up exposed to frightening or threatening experiences and as a result are more likely to experience “toxic stress” that can impede their behavior, cognitive capacity and emotional and physical health. In addition, studies have shown that Black children are more likely to be physically restrained during emergency room visits and more likely to die after surgery than white children. Many Black moms say their fears about their children’s health and wellness are nearly debilitating.The Rittenhouse verdict "made me feel hurt, knowing the world hasn’t changed and will not change,” said Tammy, 26, who has a 2-year-old and an 8-year-old step-daughter. “My kids are people of color, and there’s no doubt as they get older they will experience some racism and/or notice how people around the world view them.”Tammy, who asked that her last name be withheld to protect her family’s privacy, said her step-daughter is already noticing how others perceive her hair.“She has beautiful big curly hair, and now she wants to straighten it,” she said. “I always tell her no, and I can see that it upsets her. She doesn’t want her curly hair anymore. She says she wants straight hair like the girls at school. And that hurts my heart, because her hair is beautiful.”Sentiments like the ones shared by Tammy’s daughter inspired Emdin, of Columbia University, to enter education. “When I started doing my work, it was to create the conditions that allow Black children to have the freedom to simply be,” he said. “Basic things like the right to be there, the right to be in a school building without someone thinking they’re trying to steal things or cause a problem.”Emdin said children of color need the right to emote without having their emotions be seen as fundamentally nefarious. “If I’m quiet, it’s ‘Why are you so sinister?’” he said. “If I’m laughing, it’s ‘Why are you high?’ If I’m upset at something, it’s ‘You’re out of control.’ Black and brown kids have the right to be and to feel and to express those emotions without being seen as a criminal but as a child.”That’s what Suka Nasrallah, 31, said she wants for her three children, ages 8, 6 and 4. She said the Rittenhouse verdict made her feel sad for her children, who are a visible minority as Muslims living in Canada.“I have been exposed to racism many a time before and continue to on a regular basis. I’ve been living it since I was very young,” Nasrallah said. “But it breaks my heart to know my children will be exposed to such hate through no fault of their own.”A 2017 study found that 42 percent of Muslim children in K–12 schools reported being bullied because of their faith. The study also found that teachers, school officials and other staff members have themselves participated in 1 in 4 bullying incidents that involved Muslim students.“I felt like my hands were and will remain tied and no matter what may happen in the future, my children will not have a fair and fighting chance because the world we live in today has a preference,” Nasrallah said, “and we are not the first, second or third choice, for that matter.”Booker said: “Black women are often reluctant to express their full range of emotions and have to worry about how they will be perceived. We aren’t allowed to be angry and express how we really feel. We are pleading for our children’s lives, but our cries go unheard.”Follow NBCBLK on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.This article originally ran on Today.comGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
How one organization is combating a food crisis worsened by the pandemic. Christopher Bradshaw had already been running his nonprofit Dreaming Out Loud for more than a decade when the pandemic hit. The organization works toward fighting food scarcity in the Washington, D.C., area by partnering with local farmers, caterers, restaurants and other food relief organizations to prepare and distribute free meals. As the pandemic hit the District, Bradshaw knew the organization's work would be vital to helping people survive, like one single mother who came in search of meals for her children.  “She came to us and said, ‘I’m really happy that you all are here and thankful that you all are here, because I have $14 in my bank account, and my father died last week,’ and she was there with two kids,” Bradshaw recalled. “She said, ‘I don’t know how I was going to feed my kids.’ We see and hear those types of things.”Food banks face harsh economic reality ahead of the holiday seasonNov. 21, 202103:38Beyond Washington, Black communities across the country face disproportionately higher rates of food scarcity, which has only been compounded by the Covid-19 pandemic. Food insecurity rates among Black households with children were nearly double compared to white households with children, according to a July 2020 report by the Institute for Policy Research at Northwestern University; food insecurity rates for Black respondents hovered around 41 percent, the report found, while for white respondent food insecurity rates were around 23 percent.In D.C., Dreaming Out Loud saw the need early in the pandemic, and got to work with World Central Kitchen, which provides meals to people around the globe struck by disasters, and Little Sesame, a renowned group of restaurants, to launch Meals for the City, with other Black-owned caterers and businesses. They distributed thousands of meals from a middle school from March 2020 to July. “We knew there were folks who were already working on these issues, that had roots in the community, that had relationships, and that were trusted,” said Nick Wiseman, co-founder of Little Sesame. “So we really leaned on Chris and his team at Dreaming Out Loud to sort of establish that trust in the community we were serving.”Black communities in the D.C. region were among the hardest hit  by the pandemic. According to 2021 research by the Kaiser Family Foundation, 58 percent of people infected with Covid-19 in Washington were Black, although Black people make up only 45 percent of the District’s population. Diane Schanzenbach, an economist and the director of the Institute for Policy Research at Northwestern University, said the problem of economic disparity in the Black community is linked to declining wages and wealth gaps. It is also harder for Black and Latino families, along with lower education groups, to recover from recessions.“It is just an economic fact about recessions, that Black people’s unemployment rates spike higher when there’s an economic downturn, and it takes longer for them to come back down to normal,” Schanzenbach said. “It means there’s more suffering. It means there’s more economic uncertainty for Black families.”Bradshaw said he sees the results of these disparities across the communities he serves. Before the pandemic, one of Dreaming Out Loud’s main initiatives was leading a Black farm Community Supported Agriculture program, which sources produce from Black farmers from across the region. Dreaming Out Loud also partners with multiple local organizations to ensure healthy food is accessible in schools, restaurants and small grocers.Dreaming Out Loud’s Black Farm CSA program priority-sources produce from Black farmers in six states.Courtesy Dreaming Out Loud“We would have folks come up and say, literally, ‘I have HIV and sickle cell. So, if this farmer’s market wasn’t here, I wouldn’t be able to afford healthy food to stay alive,’” Bradshaw said. “So those are the things that drove our response, and also kept us going when things were challenging.” While Bradshaw said that large-scale government restitution and economic protection would have a greater impact on these disparities, his organization is attempting to fill the gaps that systemic racism creates. The organization also tries to shape the nutrition of D.C.’s young people through its food and farm hub, which sources fresh produce for its programs, and also provides ingredients for students’ lunches at Kelly Miller Middle School.For Thanksgiving this year, Dreaming Out Loud has already distributed turkeys and other ingredients to help as many families as possible gather around tables. The organization also plans to distribute soup made from recovered pumpkins.Beyond the holidays, through its annual Dream Program, the organization trains more than 30 food entrepreneurs in how to successfully launch their business. By expanding into a new shared location with its partner, D.C. Central Kitchen, Dream Program participants will use the new kitchen space to hone their skills and take advantage of opportunities such as taking on catering jobs and selling their products in stores.“At an organizational level,” Bradshaw said, “it’s important for us to be involved in the work because by being involved in your work, we’re engaged and involved in the struggle, which allows us the platform to talk about these bigger picture issues around reparations and justice, that are integral to being able to build out a decent, honorable, deserved and well-lived life for Black folks in America.”Follow NBCBLK on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'They almost got away with it': How a leaked video led to convictions in the Ahmaud Arbery case. Nearly two years before a jury convicted three white men in the shooting death of Ahmaud Arbery, authorities had said there was no need to arrest them.On Wednesday, an almost all-white jury found Travis McMichael, his father, Gregory McMichael, and neighbor William "Roddie" Bryan guilty in the murder of Arbery in Georgia. But the three might never have been indicted in the first place had it not been for a leaked video that prompted calls for attention to his death. “I don’t want to be a spoilsport, but what if that video had not come out several months later?” Michael Irvin, a teacher from the Orlando, Florida, area told NBC News outside the courthouse Wednesday. “A young Black man would have been taken from his family and community with no one held responsible. That part, I can’t ignore. So, I’m happy justice was served.”The McMichaels and Bryan were not arrested until months after they chased Arbery in a pickup truck in Satilla Shores, their neighborhood near Brunswick, on Feb. 23, 2020. Travis McMichael shot Arbery, a 25-year-old Black man, with a shotgun at close range. Bryan filmed the fatal encounter on his cellphone. Only after video footage of the fatal shooting leaked online May 5, 2020, did authorities arrest the trio on felony murder charges. In the video, Arbery jogs down a road as a white pickup truck blocks his path. He is shown running around the vehicle, and a shot is fired. Then, Arbery and another man appear to scuffle and two more shots are fired. After the verdict, social media platforms lit up with comments from users who said the case wouldn’t have gone to trial at all if the video hadn’t thrust the case into the national spotlight and sparked an outcry. “They almost got away with it,” one social media user tweeted. “It’s devastating that these guiltily verdicts feel like a miracle.” RecommendedObituariesObituariesCarrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, diesWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials sayAnother person tweeted, “I’m happy Ahmaud Arbery’s killers are cooked. But never forget that this is not an example of the justice system working. Police didn’t arrest these men. Prosecutors didn’t want them charged. The video wasn’t released initially. It took outrage and pressure to make this happen.”The defense had argued that the men thought Arbery was a burglar and were attempting to make a citizen’s arrest and they acted in self-defense. However, Travis McMichael admitted during the trial that Arbery hadn’t shown a weapon or threatened him or spoken to him at all before he shot him. Travis McMichael was convicted of malice murder, felony murder, aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony. Gregory McMichael and William Bryan were found not guilty of the malice murder charge. All three face up to life in prison. News of the killing largely remained under wraps in the weeks that followed. Arbery’s mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones, accused Glynn County, Georgia, police and two local prosecutors of conspiring to cover up Arbery’s murder and protect the men involved in his death. A $1 million lawsuit filed earlier this year alleges that the police department and officials with the Brunswick County District Attorney’s Office worked together to paint Arbery as a violent criminal and absolve the McMichaels and Bryan of wrongdoing. The lawsuit has been stalled amid the trial. Just days after the shooting, Jackie Johnson, the Brunswick-area district attorney, recused herself from the case because she had worked with Gregory McMichael, a former Glynn County police officer, for decades. George Barnhill briefly took over the case. He soon recused himself but defended the actions of the McMichaels and Bryan, advising police that “he did not see grounds for the arrest of any of the individuals involved in Mr. Arbery’s death.” Now, in a statement following the verdict, Cooper-Jones admitted that she never believed she’d see the men convicted. “It’s been a long fight. It’s been a hard fight, but God is good,” she told reporters Wednesday. “To tell you the truth, I never saw this day back in 2020. I never thought this day would come.”Follow NBCBLK on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Ahmaud Arbery's Black neighbors and supporters react to the verdict. BRUNSWICK, Ga. — In the seconds after a "guilty" verdict came down — ending the emotional trial of three white men accused of killing Ahmaud Arbery — the anxious throng assembled outside the Glynn County Courthouse erupted. Strangers embraced, tears flowed and people prayed.Mostly, however, was a sense of shared relief.The sheath of impending unrest that hovered over this small coastal town lifted like cloud cover. The specter of an uprising was gone; the hope that justice for Black people can be received was restored — if only momentarily.“Hallelujah,” said Cee Cee Warner, a Brunswick native who said she skipped work in anticipation of a verdict. “We can breathe again. We tried to downplay it, but there was a lot of tension, especially in the Black community. We were scared what could happen with the verdict — the wrong verdict. And that scared me because I think there would have been rioting and everything else. It would have become ugly. Our city could have burned down.”A woman raises a fist Wednesday outside the Glynn County Courthouse in Brunswick, Ga., after Travis McMichael, Gregory McMichael and William "Roddie" Bryan were convicted of murdering Ahmaud Arbery.Marco Bello / ReutersInstead, Black America in general and Brunswick in particular waited for the verdict. The nearly all-white jury convicted Travis McMichael of malice murder, felony murder, aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony. His father, Gregory McMichael, and their neighbor William “Roddie” Bryan were acquitted of the top charge. All now face up to life in prison. The three white men tracked Arbery, who was Black, in a pickup truck and gunned him down in the street on February 23, 2020. The McMichaels toted weapons — the father a handgun; the shooter, Travis McMichael, a shotgun used to blast three shots at close range into Arbery. Bryan followed without a gun, but blocked Arbery’s path, leading to the fatal confrontation in a quiet subdivision. Media from around the world descended upon this nondescript town that has been the center of attention since jury selection began in October. “Maybe everyone will go away now,” Warner said. “Everyone has known the name of our city for the wrong, horrible reasons. This verdict can at least be a positive for the city.”“I’m more relieved than happy,” Michael Irvin, a teacher from the Orlando, Florida, area told NBC News outside the courthouse. He said he drove more than three hours to Brunswick in anticipation of a verdict Wednesday. “I don’t want to be a spoilsport, but what if that video had not come out several months later? A young Black man would have been taken from his family and community with no one held responsible. That part, I can’t ignore. So, I’m happy justice was served. But even in a case that seemed pretty obvious to me and most people, we had to pray and hope and wish and pray some more for justice. It shouldn’t be that way. We shouldn’t have to go through all these emotions just to feel like a Black life matters.”People react Wednesday outside the Glynn County Courthouse in Brunswick, Ga., after the McMichaels and Bryan were convicted in the death of Ahmaud Arbery.Marco Bello / ReutersAt Brunswick High, where Arbery graduated in 2012, students said the discussion around the building on the case was limited. But the tension was pervasive. “If the verdict was not guilty, the city would have been hot,” student Keon Leggett, 17, said. “What they did to him was wrong. And we all felt it. He was one of us.”The jury deliberated for one day to convict the trio of men who had claimed they were making a citizen’s arrest. Because Thanksgiving was approaching and the jury discussed the case for an extended period after it received the case Tuesday, the anticipation of a verdict Wednesday mounted. The crowd doubled in anticipation of the verdict between Tuesday and Wednesday.The atmosphere outside the courthouse was festive after the verdict, with chants of “Justice for Ahmaud” and “Say his name ... Ahmaud Arbery,” a sustained calling. When Arbery’s mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones, and father, Marcus Arbery, exited the courtroom and walked toward the steps of the courthouse, the crowd erupted.“You all know him as Arbery; I know him as ‘Quez.’ He can now rest in peace,” Cooper-Jones said. “I never thought this day would come back in 2020. But God is good.”“In one sense, the jury had no choice — it was evident they hunted down and killed this young man,” Mary Lewis Richards said. She said Brunswick is her hometown, but she lives in Atlanta. “In another sense, we have seen what happens when white people kill Black people — nothing. So I couldn’t be comfortable at all that they would get what they deserve. But I tell you what, I feel so good right now.” People raise their fists Wednesday outside the Glynn County Courthouse in Brunswick, Ga., after the convictions of three men in the killing of Ahmaud Arbery.Octavio Jones / ReutersAt a mural of Arbery a few blocks from the courthouse at G and Albany streets, a small crowd gathered and rejoiced. “Ahmaud didn’t deserve to die, especially like that, hunted in the streets,” Gloria Johnson said, glancing at the large image of him as a high school student. “Look at that beautiful young man. He had so much to live for. It would have been worse if justice had not been done. Thank God it was. He deserved at least that. And with the Minnesota case, let’s hope this means change.” RecommendedObituariesObituariesCarrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, diesWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials sayShe referred to the conviction of former Minneapolis Police Officer Derek Chauvin, who murdered George Floyd last year.“We have had a lot of losses in cases like this, where Black people are killed by white people,” Will Bethune said. He drove from Savannah with five friends to wait for the verdict at the courthouse.“We were cramped up in that car, but it was important to be here,” he added. “For the family. For history. For Ahmaud Arbery. In times like these, we have to come together because no one is coming to save us. We’ve seen obvious cases like George Zimmerman get off for killing Trayvon Martin. So we couldn’t take it for granted this would happen.“But now that it has, a lot of stress has been let go. Maybe we can get back to living without everything hanging over us. Maybe.”Follow NBCBLK on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'Licorice Pizza' faces criticism for scenes involving fake Asian accent. Director Paul Thomas Anderson's "Licorice Pizza" is being criticized by some on social media for including scenes where a white businessman speaks in a fake Asian accent with his on-screen wife, who is Japanese.The film, which debuts in theaters Friday, is a coming-of-age comedy-drama that stars Alana Haim (of the Haim band) and Cooper Hoffman (son of the late Philip Seymour Hoffman), two young people growing up in the San Fernando Valley in California in the 1970s. It also stars Sean Penn, Bradley Cooper, Tom Waits and others.While reviews so far have been overwhelmingly positive, some on social media who have gone to early screenings have called out a particular part of the film that they describe as racist. In the film, a white male restaurateur, played by John Michael Higgins, speaks to his Japanese wife with a fake Asian accent. He appears again in the film with another Japanese woman, his new wife, and he repeats the attempted gag.In a review from Slate, critic Dana Stevens described the film as a "blast" to watch. But she had one line noting the scene as a miss: "Not every attempt to ground 'Licorice Pizza' in a de-nostalgized past bears fruit. A running gag about a white restaurant owner with a series of interchangeable Japanese wives seems meant as a joke about the character’s racism, but the joke lands gracelessly."Some people on social media echoed similar sentiments."Picture this: You're watching LICORICE PIZZA. It's brilliant," David Chen, host of a podcast called Culturally Relevant, wrote on Twitter. "Then, early on, a buffoonish character drops an Asian caricature. The (mostly white) audience laughs. And now you gotta think about that laughter the rest of the film."Chen didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.Karen Maine, a director and screenwriter, shared a similar perspective."There’s an incredibly racist, seemingly pointless (other than a cheap laugh, which it got at the screening I was at) scene that mocks Asian accents," Maine, who did not immediately respond to a request for comment, wrote in a tweet.In August, a study of Asian American representation in the entertainment industry found that audiences are asked to laugh at nearly half of Asian and Pacific Islander roles. The study — which was conducted by the Geena Davis Institute on Gender in Media, the Coalition of Asian Pacifics in Entertainment and Gold House — reviewed the top 10 grossing films each year from 2010 to 2019. The analysis showed that while less than a quarter of the API characters were comedic themselves, audiences were asked to laugh at almost half of them.Nancy Wang Yuen, a sociologist, said criticism of Higgins’ character appears to be warranted because there is no clear pushback against his character in the film.“It’s irresponsible to use racism against Asians as a running gag,” Yuen said. Though she hasn’t seen the film yet, she noted it’s apparent that the plot is "not even about Asians or race, and what it does is normalize this violence, this casual anti-Asian racism."“Racist stereotypes like the accent are a cheap way of getting laughs because you don’t need to explain anything — even though there is nothing funny about accents,” Yuen said.RecommendedPop Culture NewsPop Culture NewsProlific fashion designer Virgil Abloh dies at 41Pop Culture NewsPop Culture NewsTrial set to start on charges actor Jussie Smollett faked racist attackShe explained it was “concerning,” particularly given the rise in anti-Asian hate crimes during the pandemic. Anti-Asian hate crimes increased more than 73 percent in 2020, according to corrected FBI data released last month. That number was a disproportionate uptick compared to hate crimes in general, which rose 13 percent.“This kind of representation gives permission for others to behave this way towards Asians, and it rehashes this trope of Asians as the perpetual foreigner — a trope that has been part of our society since the 1800s,” Yuen said.Both Maine and Chen said on Twitter they liked the film. But those scenes, for them, overshadowed the beauty of the film itself."The whole Haim family and Bradley Cooper were my fave parts," Maine wrote in a follow-up tweet. "But that pointless, racist scene ruined the whole film for me, and more people need to call PT out on it."Chen described the film as "otherwise excellent." "But the heartbreaking thing is me imagining an alternate version of this movie," he wrote, noting that the scenes mocking the Asian accent "added virtually nothing to it."A representative for Higgins did not immediately respond to a request for comment Wednesday. A representative for Anderson also did not respond.However, in a recent interview with The New York Times, Anderson addressed the criticism. In the conversation, the Times journalist said the accent was "so offensive that my audience actually gasped."The filmmaker responded: "I think it would be a mistake to tell a period film through the eyes of 2021. You can’t have a crystal ball, you have to be honest to that time. Not that it wouldn’t happen right now, by the way. My mother-in-law’s Japanese and my father-in-law is white, so seeing people speak English to her with a Japanese accent is something that happens all the time. I don’t think they even know they’re doing it."While Anderson acknowledged it was a "period" piece, Yuen said the scenes still depict racism "unfiltered.""If there are no consequences, scenes like this can almost glorify this behavior," she said. "You're not laughing at [Higgins' character] because he's making fun of someone else; you’re either laughing with him at the expense of Asians, or you're going to be upset as a viewer."Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Mindy Kaling’s new series and the significance of sex-positive South Asian women. This article contains spoilers for the first two episodes of "The Sex Lives of College Girls."Bela Malhotra says goodbye to her parents as they prepare to leave her at the gates of her prestigious Vermont university. She’s reinvented herself in preparation for this moment, shedding the sweaty, awkward “Indian loser” persona she carried through high school. College Bela (Amrit Kaur) knows what she wants, and she isn’t afraid to go after her two basic desires: to be a comedy writer and to have a lot of sex. She asks her mom to take her childhood teddy bear away, and kisses it goodbye before entering her new life. “I’m super sex positive,” Bela tells her new roommates, the other main characters of Mindy Kaling’s new HBO show, “The Sex Lives of College Girls.”Sex has long been either a defining or alienating feature for South Asian women in Western cinema. Colonial era films invented the exotic seductress and the foreign woman in distress, and modern movies and TV shows have ushered in the undesirable nerd, experts say. But missing even in more inclusive portrayals is a South Asian girl who is purely confident and clear about what she wants, viewers said. With “The Sex Lives of College Girls,” Kaling brought a version of that to life. “What I really appreciated about Bela was the lack of soul-searching and hand-wringing,” said Harleen Singh, associate professor of women’s studies and South Asian literature at Brandeis University. “She’s unapologetic.” Confidence doesn’t mean flawlessness, she said, and there’s realness in a character that makes bold mistakes. In the first episode of the series, Bela uses sex to get a highly-coveted position on a comedy magazine. In the process, she unintentionally fools around with someone’s boyfriend and makes enemies of the only two women on the staff. Amrit Kaur in "The Sex Lives of College Girls" on HBO Max.HBO“We’re all messy,” Singh said. “A messy character is a true reflection of life.” Bela’s nerve is something Trisha Sakhuja-Walia, CEO and co-founder of Brown Girl Magazine, finds refreshing. A “180 degree shift” from other portrayals, Bela simply asks for what she wants. She runs up to strangers to introduce herself and unashamedly tells boys they’re attractive. Her self-assuredness even rubs off on her roommates, whom she drags out of the dorms to party on the weekends. “I think that Bela is a lot more brave and outgoing than many of us were,” Sakhuja-Walia said. “But I think that almost every brown girl can see a little bit of herself in Bela. Even if they weren’t her, maybe they wanted to be like her.” Bela is in constant pursuit of new experiences, and Singh says her hypersexuality is portrayed to a bit of an extreme. The show represents sex as novel, not normal, and normalization is a big part of true sex positivity, she said. “It’s simply the acceptance that sex and sexuality are a part of all our lives,” she said. “I want sex positivity to start with making sex not extraordinary, but ordinary. And in that ordinariness, I think there is something special.” Sakhuja-Walia, however, sees Bela’s desire to go wild in college as a cultural touchstone. While the character’s Indian background isn’t the center of her college experience, she says South Asian women can pick up on the story behind her motivations. “I feel like so many brown folks go to college and suddenly have this crazy freedom they’ve never seen before,” she said. “She’s unleashing all this power within herself. I think that almost does tie back to her identity in a very subtle manner.”   South Asians have a complex experience exploring sexuality, Sakhuja-Walia said. And it’s one that’s not often reflected in media. But with a generation of first-generation South Asian Americans becoming adults, characters like Bela might represent a turning point in how communities treat sexuality. “I’m pretty in awe that we’re making this shift in just one generation,” she said. Movies and shows in which South Asian characters are normal and desirable are slowly beginning to emerge, but it’s an area in which Hollywood has historically had a problem. Singh points to movies like "Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom,"  in which the only nonwhite women are oppressed under the violence of evil, monkey-brain-eating Indians, and “the only woman that’s allowed to be beautiful is the white woman.”In the Harry Potter movies, coy and irritating Parvati and Padma slink in the vicinity of the main characters, hoping to be noticed by them but ultimately being cast aside and ignored. Kaling’s last project, “Never Have I Ever,” marked a change — an open door for South Asian American main characters, Singh said. The similarities between Bela and Devi (Maitreyi Ramakrishnan) are rooted in their fearlessness. Devi is also a teen unashamed in wanting to have sexual experiences. “She makes her mistakes but she makes them with agency,” Singh said.While Bela sets herself apart by pushing sexuality to the extreme, there’s complexity to her. Singh calls back to when she kissed her teddy bear at the beginning of the show. “She can be all of those things,” she said. “You can be naive and tender and delicate and warm and be clearheaded about the fact that you need sex. The absurd allows us to realize that things can be many different ways.”Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
John Cho on Netflix's ‘Cowboy Bebop’ remake, his ‘most intense job’ yet. He's the star of Netflix’s “Cowboy Bebop” remake, but John Cho would be the first to admit that he hadn’t been aware of the original anime television series before his agent sent him the script for the reboot. But when he read it, he was hooked. “This is the most intense job I’ve ever had, for sure, in what it required of me,” he tells NBC Asian America.“Cowboy Bebop,” based on the anime series of the same name from  Japan's Sunrise animation studio, is available to stream on Netflix. It takes place in the future where the Earth is uninhabitable and mankind has created colonies on other planets. The hero of the show is space cowboy Spike Spiegel (played by Cho), a bounty hunter who captures criminals with his partners, Jet Black (Mustafa Shakir) and Faye Valentine (Daniella Pineda), aboard the spaceship Bebop.“The show is such a mixture of disparate genres,” Cho says. “And that was the attraction of it: I can do a Western, a screwball comedy, a buddy-cop movie, noir and an action film all in one.”Mustafa Shakir as Black Jet and John Cho as Spike Spiegel in "Cowboy Bebop."Geoffrey Short / NetflixCho is no stranger to space narratives (he did play Sulu in the “Star Trek” reboot, after all). But “Cowboy Bebop” has allowed him to stretch himself as an actor in ways he hasn’t before. In the 10 episodes of the first season of the show, he does everything from hand-to-hand combat and gun slinging, to cracking jokes and being a romantic lead — it’s equal parts drama, action, and comedy. “It’s definitely fun to do all of the above at once,” he says.The original “Cowboy Bebop,” which premiered in Japan in 1998 and in the United States in 2001, is considered an anime classic, with legions of fans attracted to its stylish imagery, jazz-infused score, sense of listlessness and ennui. So there were high expectations for the live action remark. Cho was aware of all of this, which made the project all that more intimidating.“As soon as I saw [the anime], I was a fan,” he said. Cho says that a key challenge in making a live action “Cowboy Bebop” was that, “it has to be recognizable as ‘Cowboy Bebop,’ but ... you want to do what you can to make it feel creative. And you want to feel free and like you’re having fun.”The first thing that he did was figure out who his version of Spike Spiegel was. Though he wears the same iconic blue suit as the anime character, and even grew out his hair to mimic Spike’s hair, he is older than the character, who is 27. Cho is 49.He admits he wasn’t sure if he was able to tackle the role: “It’s a different medium. And he was painted. So how do I make him a person that I have to walk around in,” he explains. “I wasn’t assured that I was going to be able to find it. In “Cowboy Bebop,” Spike is a character with a dark and tragic past he is trying to run away from. He is playful, with a cool swagger. He is also reserved and keeps his feelings, and his past, close to his chest.To Cho, Spike is “trying to erase the past and become a new person,” and the show asks, “Is that possible?” To him, this notion of reinvention was relatable. He is an immigrant and came to the U.S. when he was 6 years old. Spike wants to chart a new path for himself. Cho saw parallels between Spike’s journey and “the immigrant journey,” he says. “I could definitely relate to Spike wanting the freedom to declare who he is.”As a kid, after moving to the U.S. from Seoul, his family moved around frequently, living in Houston, Seattle, then hopping around California to Daly City, San Jose and Monterey Park, before settling in Glendale. Likewise, the characters of “Cowboy Bebop” don’t have a home and they float adrift, in space, on the Bebop. They are tied together by a sense of loss: either of family, loved ones, or even their memories. To him, the new show expands on the anime by exploring more of the characters’ personal histories.“[It’s like the] Israelites before they were in Canaan, they’re wandering,” he says. “I definitely felt like that as a kid. [The characters are] adrift and, to some extent, purposeless; their purpose is survival. And I think part of our season one is them finding some purpose, be it passively or actively.”Though there are certain shots and story beats that are inspired by the original anime, the live action show also charts its own narrative path. The characters have expanded backstories: Jet Black is a father with a daughter, Faye Valentine is now bisexual, Spike’s love interest Julia is more fully developed and appears more frequently. And a pivotal fight between Spike and his nemesis, Vicious, begins in the same way that it does in the anime. But how it ends is markedly different.In describing the new show, Cho compares it to covers of Bob Dylan’s music. “Why do people record his songs? There’s already a recording,” he posits. “Because it’s a really good song. And they want to try it on for size and see what their interpretation does to the song, and expand the meaning of the song—give it another flavor.” He then adds, “What we’re doing is adding, not replacing.”Overall, it’s been an eventful two years for Cho. “Cowboy Bebop” began filming in New Zealand in 2019, where Cho relocated with his family temporarily. He then tore his ACL while filming, which set production back by eight months. The pandemic then created further delays. Last April, he wrote an op-ed for the Los Angeles Times about the surge in violent attacks against Asian Americans. In the piece, he wrote, “The pandemic is reminding us that our belonging is conditional. One moment we are Americans, the next we are all foreigners, who ‘brought’ the virus here. Like fame, the ‘model minority’ myth can provide the illusion of ‘raceless-ness.’” When talking about the op-ed, Cho becomes more chagrined, admitting that he has been very discouraged about the current discourse around race, and the fervor against critical race theory. “Clearly, we have a race problem in America, but zero people declare themselves racist,” he says. “Maybe we have to replace that word with something else. It has to be a word that allows people to examine themselves. How do we discuss racism, if no one is willing to examine themselves, including people of color?”He admits that growing up, he was encouraged by his parents to assimilate, so that his race would not be a liability. But in his estimation, the events of the past year have shown Asian Americans that living a “raceless” life is impossible. “[Race is] sort of too built into the fabric of this country. And what’s reasonable is coming to a place of respect, in coexistence, and love. And maybe we can get there. Maybe that’s possible.”Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Simu Liu and Bowen Yang jokingly vie for the most ‘First Asian’ titles on 'SNL' . Simu Liu and Bowen Yang are often hailed as trailblazers in the Asian American community — for being the first Marvel Asian superhero and for being the first Asian cast member on "Saturday Night Live." So when the pair teamed up for an "SNL" sketch over the weekend, they poked fun at the idea by competing over increasingly ridiculous “firsts,” from the “First Gay Asian Cast Member to Mispronounce ‘Boutique’” to the “First Asian Man to Deadpan on Splash Mountain.”In the taped segment, Chinese Canadian actors Yang and Liu meet in a dressing room before the episode. “This has never happened before, right? Asian male host, Asian male cast member,” Yang said. The two congratulate each other on their respective milestones before admitting how tiring these historical titles can be in a predominantly white space. “I just think it’s weird that people keep track of this stuff,” Yang says. Liu then pulled out a medal he had tucked in his shirt for being the “1st Asian Man to Move from Canada to America Named Simu.” “I have one that says Bowen,” Yang says, pulling a similar medal out of his shirt. The conversation quickly delves into a competition about their “First Asian” accolades.“Don’t you think these titles are kind of ridiculous?” Liu asks, to which Yang agrees. A montage then shows Yang and Liu accepting awards for “Good Job (Asian),” “First Asian Man to Beat StarCraft II” and the “First Asian Man to ‘You pick 2’ at Panera.”RecommendedObituariesObituariesCarrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, diesWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials sayNBCUniversal is the parent company of NBC News and "SNL."Yang’s work on "SNL" earned him an Emmy nomination this year, making him the show’s first featured player to be nominated for an acting award. He has previously spoken about his Asian American identity, and amid the rise of anti-Asian violence during the pandemic, he urged people to “do more” to stop the violence. Liu, meanwhile, made headlines this year after criticizing the TV show “Kim’s Convenience,” which he starred in, for its lack of diversity in the writer’s room. He has also credited the diverse production crew of “Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings” for ensuring the authenticity of the film. Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Food banks in California brace for the holidays as food prices surge. ANAHEIM, California — Two food banks in California have been gearing up for a busy holiday season: One is spending tens of thousands amid rising food prices, and the other has been serving triple the number of people since the coronavirus pandemic began.The Alameda County Community Food Bank in Oakland is dealing with the toll of rising food prices and supply chain issues as it serves families grappling with food insecurity.“They’re depending on us,” said Elizabeth Gomez, director of client services at the food bank.Food banks face harsh economic reality ahead of the holiday seasonNov. 21, 202103:38Over the past year, food prices have increased 5.3 percent, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.Because of food price increases, the food bank is spending an additional $60,000 on food per month.“We need to be ahead of the game as much as we can,” said Gomez, 48, who’s been working with the organization for 24 years.She said the food bank has seen price increases across the board for seven core items, with oatmeal and frozen chicken seeing the highest increases at 17.1 percent and 13 percent respectively. In total, it is spending more than $1 million on food per month — compared to $250,000 each month before the pandemic. “Part of the increase is because we’re willing to spend more on food to ensure that we actually secure it,” Gomez said. The backlog of shipments along the California coast has created supply chain issues and has contributed to less inventory and increased transportation costs for the food bank. The food bank has had to turn to alternatives such as single serve cereal bowls to replace oatmeal, and turned to Costco to get a variety of canned meats for canned tuna that has been running late.“We are expecting more than 400,000 Alameda County residents,” Gomez said. “We’re bracing for what is to be the busiest month and a half ahead for us.”In 2020, rough estimates indicate 45 million people, or 1 in 7, experienced food insecurity as the pandemic forced tens of millions to suffer from unemployment or saw their hours decline, according to an analysis by Feeding America, a nationwide nonprofit network aiming to ensure equitable access to food in the United States.With a recovering economy and increasing vaccination records, the organization projects improved food insecurity conditions in the holiday season but still higher than pre-pandemic numbers. Feeding America predicts that 42 million people — about 1 in 8 — may experience food insecurity, compared to about 1 in 9 in 2019, the lowest point reached then since food insecurity began being measured in the 1990s, according to the report.The Los Angeles Regional Food Bank has been serving triple the number of people it usually saw before the pandemic — from 300,000 to 900,000 each month, according to Olivia Cervantes, 33, its marketing content manager.Volunteers load food into vehicles at a "Let's Feed L.A. County" drive-thru food distribution event by the Los Angeles Regional Food Bank and the office of Supervisor Hilda Solis in Rosemead, Calif., on April 23.Ringo Chiu via AP fileIt’s a number that aligns with a recent University of Southern California study detailing that 1 in 10 Los Angeles County residents  experienced food insecurity in the first half of 2021 — and 59 percent of them were Latino. “It was time to give back to my community as an Angeleno,” Cervantes said, explaining she felt compelled to help after witnessing the pandemic’s impact on the city's Hispanic community. “Even if we were to return back to normal or even if this lingers on, the issue is still there, hunger is a year-round issue.”California is home to the nation’s largest Latino population. In Los Angeles County, Hispanics or Latinos account for almost half (48.6 percent) of the population.The Los Angeles food bank has been minimally impacted by the surge in food prices and supply chain issues because the majority of its food is donated and sourced locally.However, it has had to grapple with other issues: The number of volunteers declined from 30,000 to 15,000 because of Covid-19 safety protocols. The organization has turned to AmeriCorps for help with distribution."The food bank really does stretch the dollar to help as many people as possible," Cervantes said.Organizers say those who want to volunteer or donate can contact  the Los Angeles Regional Food Bank's website or call 323-234-3030 or the Alameda County Community Food Bank's website or call 510-635-3663.Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'Encanto': The music, joy and superpower of a multigenerational Latino family. In an age of big-screen superhero families like those of Marvel’s “Fantastic Four,” Pixar’s “The Incredibles” and DC’s “Shazam!” Disney wants to flip the script on viewers and put the spotlight on an ordinary 15-year-old Colombian girl, Mirabel, who struggles to keep her extended superhero family together as they lose their powers. “Encanto,” which means “charm” in Spanish, is Disney’s 60th animated feature film. It tells the story of the Madrigals, a multigenerational family who live in the mountains of Colombia. Stars of Disney's 'Encanto' discuss film’s personal relation to Latino rootsNov. 23, 202103:36Two generations of Madrigal children get magical powers on their fifth birthdays, which define them both at home and in the village. They can make plants grow and flowers bloom, control the weather with their emotions, heal people with food, speak with animals and even see the future. The Madrigal family tree.DisneyOne child doesn't get superpowers — and that is Mirabel. In the end, however, she will know what to do to save her extraordinary family.Beyond the characters' super abilities and magical gifts, the animated musical — with songs and music by "Hamilton" composer Lin-Manuel Miranda — aims to show viewers the power of knowing who they and their families are. For the Latina actor Stephanie Beatriz, who voices Mirabel, the film's emphasis on extended family, including the powerful abuela (grandmother) Alma, brought back memories “When I think about my childhood, it’s a lot of people talking all at once, animatedly, over each other — there’s, like, 10 conversations happening in one room, and as a kid you’re just trying to follow everything that’s going on,” said Beatriz, whose parents are Colombian and Bolivian. “It’s very loud and super rhythmic. I think that the flavor of that, the sensibility of that, is really captured within the music of this animated musical, which I think is very special.” The family name “Madrigal” is also a musical term that can refer to a song with two or more voice parts — which amply describes the mix of sounds and voices in the film. “One of the things I loved in the writing of the script is that there are these conversations that happen between cousins or an aunt and a niece,” Beatriz said. “It’s those extended family relationships that I think are really, really important, particularly in Latino culture, where you might not be able to talk to your mom ... but you could talk to your tía,” or aunt. Miranda, who wrote and co-produced eight original songs for “Encanto,” said he's so close to his cousins from Puerto Rico that they once got matching tattoos — to the chagrin of his aunt on the island. The Madrigals, he said, remind him of his own relatives."Encanto."Disney "That was the most matriarchal family," he said about his dad's family in Puerto Rico. "Everyone still lived in the house, and everyone brought their checks to Abuela, and she reallocated the funds as she saw fit." Many U.S. families resemble the Madrigals: A report this year by the advocacy group Generations United found that more than 1 in 4 Americans ages 18 and older — about 67 million adults — live in multigenerational households with three or more generations.Creating the sounds of Colombia — and homeMiranda said music has the power to unlock exciting stories about different places, cultures and people. “Every time we leaned into the specificities of Colombian music, that always unlocks story, it always unlocks character for us. The specificities are the thing that make it relatable,” he said.Miranda traveled to Colombia with other people from the film for research in 2018, which he said was invaluable. The details the movie got right, he said, will excite Latino viewers, such as when they see a character wearing their father’s hat or hear an accordion. People working on the film also brought their own memories and stories of home to the music. “There’s certainly musical phrases that I can point to that are ripped from family conversations that happened in my house,” Miranda said. “I think that’s what people recognize on screen when they see the film. They see slivers of their own experience.” When Miranda reflects on the music that evokes his own childhood memories, he thinks of his family's mix of cast albums and Latin music. “It was sort of constant Gran Combo, Celia Cruz, Joe Arroyo from Colombia, Carlos Vives, Juan Luis Guerra — that would be the party music,” he said. “And then, when we would clean up after the party, it was ‘Man of La Mancha,’ it was ‘Camelot,’ it was the ‘Little Mermaid’ soundtrack and the ‘Dirty Dancing’ soundtrack. My parents loved show tunes and Latin music.”‘The way that I grew up’ For Colombian American actor Diane Guerrero, voicing Mirabel’s cousin Isabela has been a great source of pride. “Disney is such a huge entity. To not be included in Disney almost feels like you don’t exist a little bit,” she said. “So to be a part of that is a long time coming and such a special moment for us.” For Guerrero, “Encanto” evokes memories of the generations of strong women that are part of her own heritage. “I see women being very powerful heads of the household, but what has been portrayed in mainstream media has been quite the opposite,” Guerrero said. “There’s still machismo — obviously men have a very strong hold on the world — but I feel that the way that I grew up I really saw this in the film. My grandmother and my mother are everything to me.” Reflecting on the significance of "Encanto," Guerrero said there are many Latino stories. “Latin America is so huge. This is just like a little sliver of what we are. It’s a little sliver of Colombia. There’s so much to tell,” she said. Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'The court owes it to women': Groups decry Colombia's abortion ruling delay. Women's groups that sued to decriminalize abortion in Colombia are pushing for a decision after a much-anticipated ruling from the country's top court was postponed last week. “The court owes it to women," Catalina Martínez Coral, the Latin America and Caribbean director of the Center for Reproductive Rights, told Noticias Telemundo. The Constitutional Court has not yet decided whether to eliminate abortion as a crime from the country's penal code. The ruling had been expected last week, but the debate was interrupted at the request of one of its judges, Alejandro Linares, to recuse himself from voting because he had spoken about the case in a news interview. If another judge decides there is no need for Linares to recuse himself, the court could rule this year. A recusal would start a process to bring in a new judge, which would delay the ruling to next year. The women’s rights groups that filed the lawsuit, grouped under the umbrella movement Just Cause, say the delay harms women and girls in Colombia, where nearly 70 women die every year from complications from abortions, according to figures from Doctors Without Borders.“Every day that passes there are more unprotected people because they cannot access reproductive health services. They are persecuted, and they have open cases against them,” Martínez Coral said. “It's a punishment for women and girls in Colombia.” Since 2006, the Colombian penal code has allowed legal abortion under three circumstances: in cases of rape, incest or nonconsensual insemination; in cases of serious fetal malformation that makes life unviable; or when the medical team certifies that a pregnant woman’s health or life is at risk.Any woman who otherwise undergoes the procedure — or the health personnel involved — can be liable for a penalty of 16 to 54 months in prison. According to official figures, 400 women are prosecuted every year.“It is a very unfair situation, because, on the one hand, exceptions give you a right, but it is also a serious crime that generates social and institutional stigma," said Ximena Casas Isaza, a researcher for Human Rights Watch. "All this creates many barriers for women and girls in situations of greater vulnerability who, in the end, do not have access to an essential health service such as the legal interruption of pregnancy.”An estimated 400,000 women and girls undergo induced abortions in Colombia every year, about a third of whom suffer some complication. Unsafe abortions are the country’s fourth-leading cause of maternal mortality.Several studies have determined that girls and adolescents suffer the most sexual abuse resulting in unwanted pregnancies. In many cases, their lives are at risk.According to a report by Just Cause, the victims in 73 percent of the 26,158 cases prosecuted for allegations of sexual violence were girls or adolescents up to age 17. They are also the ones who suffer the most from harassment by the penal system, the report said.‘What we want is more support’ Cindy, a Colombian woman whose last name is being withheld to protect her identify, said she was in no condition to raise a child but was afraid she would suffer recriminations from her family for terminating her pregnancy. She decided to talk to her partner and a good friend, who accompanied her throughout the abortion process.“Those of us who made this decision, what we want is more support — let them understand that, for some reason, that was the decision we made,” she said.Abortion rights activists protest Thursday outside the Constitutional Court in Bogota, Colombia, as judges review a lawsuit that seeks to decriminalize abortion. Fernando Vergara / APCindy and hundreds of other Colombian women have participated in awareness campaigns like We Are All One, speaking out with dozens of nongovernmental organizations and women’s rights groups to demand the decriminalization of abortion.The movement has been driven by the recent wave of reforms and demonstrations for women’s rights in various Latin American countries, such as Argentina and Mexico.Girls and adolescents are the most affectedThe Just Cause report found that for most of the girls and adolescents who get pregnant through rape and sexual abuse, “the aggressors correspond to people from their social or family circle,” adding, “These heartbreaking figures only correspond to those cases that are reported.”The health care system uses the current law as an excuse to deny services, said Paula Ávila-Guillén, the executive director of the U.S.-based Women’s Equality Center, who directs the group’s Latin America initiatives. "That is why we have so many cases of pregnant girls as a result of rape who cannot access abortion, because there are many bureaucratic barriers." According to the group Mesa por la Vida y la Salud de Mujeres, minors account for 12.5 percent ​​of abortion investigations — almost a quarter, 24 percent, are convicted. While the crime may not lead to jail time in many cases, it still has a serious impact on young women's lives, who are left with criminal histories that prevent them from getting work and progressing, said Martínez Coral of the Center for Reproductive Rights.The persecution of health personnel“There is a lot of fear on the part of medical professionals, because first the burden of certifying the conditions for abortion falls on them and, when you are faced with the possibility of having legal problems, it is obviously much easier to turn your back on the problem," said Dr. Laura Gil, a gynecologist and a member of the Medical Group for the Right to Decide. An investigation by the Life and Health of Women Roundtable, a women's health advocacy group, found that, from 1998 to 2018, the prosecutor’s office processed 5,580 complaints of abortion and that in 75 percent of the cases, it was doctors and other health care operators who filed complaints about women who went to hospitals feeling ill from having abortions.That, Gil said, has a chilling effect on other health care personnel.“Many doctors begin to ask for a number of evaluations, examinations and requirements — the only thing they do is create barriers. It is an obstacle to the free exercise of our profession," Gil said. What would total decriminalization change?The first effect would be that no one could be prosecuted for the crime of abortion. In addition, women, adolescents and girls would be able to terminate pregnancies without barriers.“Women who were not protected by the exceptions that existed in the country will be able to access abortion the day after the decision is made,” Martínez Coral said.Lawyers for women who are prosecuted or detained could also “directly introduce an appeal to initiate their release,” she said. Catholics who support abortion rightsGroups that oppose abortion, including conservative political movements and the Roman Catholic Church, have spoken out against the proposal.The group Catholics for the Right to Decide stands out, because it supports the lawsuit. “We consider that supporting abortion as a right is not incompatible with having beliefs or a spiritual life," said Aura Carolina Cuasapud, a lawyer for the organization. "Quite the contrary: We know that women are the majority of the people who form the foundations of religion and the church, so we must have a voice, and we have the right to make free decisions."Members of the movement are called false Catholics or hypocrites on social media, where opponents link some of them to satanic sects and threaten them with excommunication from the Catholic Church. Cuasapud laughed when she was asked about the attacks.RecommendedObituariesObituariesCarrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, diesWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials say“At worst, excommunication does not inhibit you from being a Catholic. If you were baptized, they can no longer remove that condition, they cannot remove your beliefs," she said, adding that she believes that "the truth is that neither the Bible nor the Church nor God condemn abortion as a sin, and many people do not know that."An earlier version of this story was first published in Noticias Telemundo. Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'Historic': White House pitches Build Back Better's help for Latino families . The White House on Monday promoted what the Biden administration sees as the benefits for Latino families of the $1.7 trillion safety net and climate change package Democrats passed last week. In a White House-organized call with reporters, Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra and Rep. Raul Ruiz, D-Calif., the chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, called the legislation "historic" and said it was a "tremendous investment" in American families as they struggle to recover from the coronavirus-wracked economy.Becerra said the funding in the Build Back Better Act would help families pay for child care and preschool education funding, provide child tax credits and help families pay for Obamacare health insurance plans.It would cut costs for three of the most expensive items in families’ budgets: health care, housing and child care, Ruiz said. Ruiz and Becerra said the child care provision — which would cap child care costs for six years at 7 percent for families earning up to 250 percent of their states’ median incomes — would help Latinas “who had to bear the brunt of cuts in wages and unemployment” because of the pandemic. Extending the child tax credit would be like money in your pocket, Ruiz said.Also in the bill is money to pay for universal pre-K for 3- and 4-year-old children for two years. The money is said to be enough to pay for free preschool for more than 6 million children.Becerra said the bill offers older Americans the kind of help that his late father, a laborer, and his mother, who did clerical work, never had. “I’m from a migrant family, and I understand the importance of being able to say anyone who has worked very hard, helping to lift this country, helping to build it, now this country is going to invest in you," Becerra said in Spanish.Potential changes Senate could make to pass Build Back Better BillNov. 22, 202102:07Ruiz said that while the country is rounding the corner on the pandemic, Covid-19 has disproportionately affected essential workers and Hispanic communities. "Working families and parents are continuing to feel the lingering effects of the pandemic," he said.The legislation, which was crafted by Democrats, was approved Friday by the House and is now before the Senate, where leaders are working with centrist Democrats to get the necessary votes. ‘A blockbuster’ investmentThe House bill would provide the money for pre-K for all children, regardless of families’ incomes, with states eventually having to add money to cover some of the costs. Before the pandemic, about 27 percent of children in public school were Hispanic. In 2019-20, only about 4 in 10 (43 percent) of 3- to 5-year-olds were enrolled in school, according to the National Center for Education Statistics. The pre-K provisions would help not only groups that haven’t had access to quality pre-K, but also middle-class and upper-income families that often don’t qualify for subsidized preschool programs, said former San Antonio Mayor Julián Castro, who was housing secretary in the Obama administration. Castro, the only major Latino presidential candidate last year, said the universal pre-K part of the bill would be “a godsend” for many families and a “blockbuster” investment to celebrate.Early education varies among states, six of which had no state-funded pre-K program in the 2019-20 school year, according to the National Institute for Early Education Research at Rutgers University. Early data this school year show a 3 percent drop in all public school enrollment. The drop was higher among children in preschool and kindergarten than in later grades.Build Back Better’s success depends on states’ doing their part, Castro said. As mayor, Castro got San Antonio voters to support a half-cent sales tax in 2012 to create quality preschool for low-income children. The program is considered highly successful.Build Back Better’s provision would allow school districts or nonprofit organizations to help with costs for their areas even if their states don’t participate.“I’m hopeful that even conservative states like Texas and other places that don’t have universal pre-K will meet the challenge,” Castro said. “But if they don’t, then I encourage local communities to go ahead and universalize pre-K.”Better times ahead?Delivering a message of economic better times to the Latino community is critical for Democrats. The 2022 midterm election season will ramp up after the holidays, and Democrats need to be able blunt GOP arguments about inflation and the effects of climate change provisions on fossil fuels. President Donald Trump and other Republicans expanded their support on those issues last year among Latino voters, particularly in Texas. They also succeeded in framing Democratic programs as socialism, largely in Florida, where Cuban and Latin American voters connect the word with regimes from which they fled or in which have roots. RecommendedObituariesObituariesCarrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, diesWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials sayin a statement after the House vote Friday, Macarena Martinez, the Republican National Committee spokeswoman for Texas, previewed more of what to expect. She said one African American and three Latino members of Congress, all Texas Democrats, "went all in for Biden's socialist agenda: 'Build Back Broke' at a time when Texas families already are being hit with skyrocketing inflation, record high gas prices, and an unmitigated border crisis."Latino unemployment began dropping in 2010 during the Obama administration and fell to about 4 percent early in the Trump administration. Latinos also had begun to experience a comeback from the Great Recession. The pandemic reversed that.The uncontrolled virus has put the Latino economic recovery at risk and cost some Latinos some of the wealth they had rebuilt.Latinos are 2.1 times more likely to die from Covid-19 compared to white Americans and 2.5 times more likely to be hospitalized, according to the latest data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Cases of Covid-19 are 1.6 times more likely among Latinos than whites, the CDC data show.   As of April, only 1 in 6 Hispanic workers were able to work from home during the pandemic, according to the Economic Policy Institute.In addition, Democrats need to buffer themselves from backlash they could face over immigration provisions in the bill. Immigrants advocates and many Democrats had hoped to include a pathway to citizenship in the legislation. But it would now provide only five-year work permits that could be renewed for five more years for about 7 million undocumented immigrants already in the county. If that is jettisoned to get the bill through the Senate, Democrats may feel the backlash from their base of support.Democrats are using a process to get the bill through the Senate that allows them to sidestep Republicans, most of whom oppose the immigration measures. But they also have to get the OK to have the immigration language in the bill from the Senate parliamentarian, and at least two Senate Democrats are lukewarm about the immigration provision, as well. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus has urged the Senate to keep the provision.The White House and Democrats put the focus Monday on legislation that they believe would have a direct impact on Latino households. Ruiz said the legislation would be a “rocket booster for the economy that will launch families across the country towards success by putting money in pockets.” Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
