Elizabeth Holmes admits doctoring lab reports with pharma company logos. SAN JOSE, Calif. — Theranos founder and former CEO Elizabeth Holmes returned to the witness stand Tuesday, confirming key aspects of the prosecutor’s allegations behind the 11 counts of fraud she faces, but asserting that there was nothing wrong in what she did.The prosecution has repeatedly shown jurors lab reports emblazoned with logos of the pharmaceutical companies Pfizer and Schering-Plough. Witnesses from those companies who worked with Theranos testified that the use of the logos was unauthorized and they were unaware of it at the time.Holmes admitted that she was the one who had added the logos to Theranos lab reports and sent them to Walgreens as she pursued a deal to put her blood-testing startup's diagnostic machines in the pharmacy's retail stores.Holmes acknowledged that in some cases, Theranos used third-party devices, rather than its own equipment. “This work was done in partnership with those companies and I was trying to convey that,” she said by way of explanation. "I wish I had done it differently,” she added.Addressing another key point made by the prosecution, Holmes said that when Theranos switched from using on-site analyzers to process samples to a centralized lab approach, it used third-party devices rather than its own equipment as an “invention” because there were too many samples to handle. Witnesses have testified that Theranos' signature blood-testing machine repeatedly failed quality assurance tests and delivered erroneous results. Holmes said the company didn’t tell its business partners about this arrangement because it was a trade secret. She rebutted the prosecution's arguments about some of the alleged misrepresentations she made to investors, the media and business partners, affirming that she had received specific positive reports from employees and outside experts and believed their statements to be true.Cevallos: 'Doesn't seem plausible' that Theranos founder was unaware product didn't workNov. 23, 202106:34When presented with company emails and PowerPoint presentations, defense attorney Kevin Downey asked Holmes about specific instances brought up by the prosecution.Jurors saw an email sent to Holmes by then-chief company scientist, biochemist Ian Gibbons, about the development of Theranos' fourth-generation device.“Our immunoassays match the best that can be done in clinical labs and work with small blood samples. Generally our assays are faster by a factor of three to 10 than kits,” Gibbons wrote.RecommendedConsumerConsumerTarget gives Thanksgiving Day back to workers: Will other retailers follow?White HouseWhite HouseBiden administration to tap oil reserves in bid to tamp down rising gas pricesDowney asked Holmes what she took that email to mean. “I understood that the 4 series could do any blood test,” she replied. U.S. District Judge Edward Davila has instructed jurors that the emails between Holmes and her lab staff, along with many other exhibits, should be understood as indications of Holmes’ “state of mind” and not as facts of what actually happened.Despite those promises being made to investors and the media, other witnesses testified that Theranos’ proprietary devices could only do a few tests and had major quality issues. For its rollout with Walgreens, the company relied on  third-party devices that had been modified to process the company's proprietary smaller "nanotainer" blood vials, but still returned erroneous results, according to testimony.In a new line of defense, Holmes testified the Theranos testing equipment in its labs had issues with excessive power demands and heat production. They were designed to be used at retail stores visited by patients over the course of a day, she said, but in the Theranos lab the devices were all clustered together and processed patient tests at once. The defense brought up an email between hardware project manager Tim Kemp that said the Theranos building in Palo Alto, California, couldn’t handle the power demands of running the devices to process a high volume of patients from the retail rollout and running the air conditioning to cool them.If found guilty, Holmes faces up to 20 years in prison, a $250,000 fine and full or partial restitution to investors, totaling nearly $155 million.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Biden's safety net package would raise, not lower, taxes on millionaires, new estimates show. WASHINGTON — President Joe Biden's Build Back Better package would raise, not lower, taxes on the wealthiest Americans, according to the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation in a major correction from the group's original analysis.The committee an official scorekeeper of tax-related legislation, originally estimated that the $1.7 trillion safety net and climate change bill would give people making over $1 million a year a net tax cut in 2022. The revised estimates released Tuesday suggested that taxes on $1 million in income would go up by 3.2 percentage points next year.What Democrats want you to know about increasing the SALT capNov. 18, 202105:25The discrepancy stems from the bill's changes to the state and local tax deduction — known as SALT — which Democratic leaders added at the last minute in order to secure the votes of lawmakers from New Jersey, New York and California. The bill would lift the cap on state and local tax deductions from $10,000 to $80,000.The SALT cap was created by the Republicans’ 2017 tax bill and seen as a way to cut taxes on corporations while offsetting it with an increase on property owners in liberal-run states, where local tax rates were higher.The committee's analysis before the correction found that the SALT provisions would give two-thirds of people making more than a million dollars a year a tax cut."The staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation has discovered an error in the calculation of the average tax rate for calendar year 2022 for taxpayers with incomes in excess of $500,000," its website said.The new analysis shows the average tax rate for millionaires going up by 4.1 percentage points in 2023 and 3.3 percentage points in 2025.Last week, the Democratic-controlled House passed the legislation aimed at expanding the social safety net and tackling climate change, a major step that moves a top legislative priority of Biden closer to his desk. The bill now heads to the Senate, which is hoping for a vote before Christmas.That the bill would have lower taxes on the wealthiest Americans had been a major sticking point for some on the left, including Rep. Jared Golden of Maine, the sole House Democrat to vote against the bill, and Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Brian Laundrie died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to his head, lawyer says. Brian Laundrie died from a gunshot wound to the head, and his manner of death was suicide, his family's attorney said Tuesday.Brian Laundrie.@bizarre_design / via InstagramThe lawyer announced the findings in a statement more than a month after an official autopsy on Laundrie's remains, which were found in wetland areas in Florida's Carlton Reserve on Oct. 20 and identified as being his on Oct. 21. After that autopsy last month, his family's attorney, Steven Bertolino, said that "no manner or cause of death was determined." Since then, according to a press release from the Florida District Twelve Medical Examiner's Office, a forensic anthropologist and a forensic odontologist have been analyzing Laundrie's remains. Examiners used dental comparison, skeletal reconstruction and DNA analysis to confirm his identity and cause of death, the office said.Laundrie disappeared Sept. 14, about two weeks after he returned to his home state, Florida, following the disappearance of his fiancée, Gabby Petito, 22. Petito’s parents reported her missing on Sept. 11. Investigators named Laundrie a "person of interest" in her disappearance Sept. 15.On Sept. 17, investigators announced that they were searching for Laundrie and could not find him. The FBI searched his home in North Port, Florida, on Sept. 20.A federal court in Wyoming issued an arrest warrant for Laundrie on Sept. 23, two days after remains found at a campsite in Bridger-Teton National Forest were confirmed to be those of Petito and her manner of death was ruled to be a homicide. On Sept. 20, North Port police aid they had "exhausted all avenues" searching the 25,000 acres of swampy nature in the Carlton Reserve before they resumed the search. Partial human remains were found near items belonging to Laundrie a month later. In a statement Tuesday, North Port Police Chief Todd Garrison said, "We are thankful that another step in finalizing this case has been taken." "While this entire situation evokes nothing but sadness, we’re hopeful that all the work which went into the chaotic search for answers will help heal those impacted," Garrison said. If you or someone you know is in crisis, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 800-273-8255, text HOME to 741741 or visit SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources for additional resources.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Jury begins deliberations in murder trial of 3 men in Ahmaud Arbery's killing . The verdict in the trial of three white men accused of murder and other crimes in the shooting death of Ahmaud Arbery, a Black man, is now in the hands of 12 jurors after prosecutors made final closing arguments Tuesday morning.The three men each face charges of malice murder, felony murder, aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony in the killing of Arbery, 25, last year in Georgia. They face up to life in prison if convicted of the more serious charges.Travis McMichael; his father, Gregory McMichael; and their neighbor William “Roddie” Bryan chased Arbery in pickup trucks after they spotted him in their neighborhood outside Brunswick, Georgia, on Feb. 23, 2020.Travis McMichael shot Arbery, 25, with a shotgun at close range. Bryan filmed the fatal encounter on his cellphone.A nearly all-white jury — it includes one Black juror — will determine their fate. Jurors deliberated for about six hours on Tuesday without reaching a verdict. They will resume deliberations Wednesday at 8:30 a.m. local time.Protesters gather Monday outside the Glynn County Courthouse in Brunswick, Ga., where Travis McMichael, his father, Gregory McMichael, and William "Roddie" Bryan are on trial.Stephen B. Morton / APDefense lawyers have said the men suspected Arbery, who had been spotted several times on security camera video at a home under construction in the neighborhood, was a burglar. The lawyers said the men were trying to conduct a citizen’s arrest, which was legal in the state at the time.“A good neighborhood is always policing itself,” Laura Hogue, an attorney for Gregory McMichael, told jurors Monday during closing arguments. Each defendant has his own defense team.But prosecutors have argued that the men had no “immediate knowledge” of Arbery having committed a crime, a requirement of a citizen’s arrest. Lead prosecutor Linda Dunikoski said the men made the decision to “attack” because Arbery “was a Black man running down the street,” and not because he was a threat.Superior Court Judge Timothy Walmsley instructed the jury Tuesday that a "private citizen’s warrantless arrest must occur immediately after the perpetration of the offense, or in the case of felonies during escape.” “If the observer fails to make the arrest immediately after the commission of the offense, or during escape in the case of felonies, his power to do so is extinguished,” he said.The judge ruled Friday afternoon that under Georgia’s since-repealed citizen’s arrest law, the one applied in this case, the arrest would have to occur right after any felony crime was committed, not days or months later. Travis McMichael testified during the trial that he feared for his life before he shot Arbery and did so in self-defense.Jason Sheffield, who represents Travis McMichael, said Monday that his client had “the right to perform a citizen’s arrest” and believed Arbery committed the crime of burglary. “You do have the right to have a firearm when you make an arrest,” Sheffield said. “You do have the right to stop a person and to hold them and detain them for the police. And there is risk with that and there are tragic consequences that can come from that.”Analyzing closing arguments in Ahmaud Arbery murder trialNov. 23, 202103:33Kevin Gough, the attorney for Bryan, sought to separate his client from the McMichaels and diminish his role in the father and son's encounter with Arbery.“Mr. Bryan’s presence doesn’t contribute in a direct or substantial way to the death of Mr. Arbery,” Gough said. “Because the McMichaels were certainly capable of catching up with him and shooting if that was their intention.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMan who stole Revolutionary-era rifle from museum decades ago sentenced to 1 dayU.S. newsU.S. newsN.J. man pleads guilty to federal charge of fraud in GoFundMe scam said to help homeless manWalmsley instructed jurors that they may consider simple assault, reckless conduct and reckless driving as lesser charges to aggravated assault for Bryan.Prosecutors have argued that all three men made a snap judgment about Arbery after seeing him in their neighborhood, with the McMichaels going to confront him with guns and Bryan wielding his truck as a weapon.The state has also said the men were the initial aggressors and not acting in self-defense.“They committed four different felonies, including the aggravated assault with a shotgun. They started it, they do not get to claim self defense,” Dunikoski said Tuesday morning during a second day of closing arguments.She said the men were not justified in claiming they were making a citizen’s arrest of Arbery because they did not witness him commit any crime nor did they have immediate knowledge he had just committed a crime. She said if the jurors found the men did not have the right to make a citizen’s arrest of Arbery, “that means they’re guilty on all charges.”“They’re all equally responsible for the ultimate death of the victim,” she said.Dunikoski said the case was not about whether the three defendants were “good people or bad people.”“It’s about holding people accountable and responsible for their actions. When they do something like this, they have to be held accountable and responsible,” she said.Outside the courthouse, an attorney for the Arbery family said they were confident the jurors would reach a guilty verdict. "We’re confident that this jury will seriously consider all the evidence and come back with a verdict that is reflective of what actually happened, which is the brutal and unjustified murder of Ahmaud Arbery," attorney Lee Merritt said.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
String of 'organized retail robberies' lead California investigators to social media. Mayors in California are investigating the possibility that thieves used social media to facilitate two quick-hitting thefts, including one Saturday night in which dozens of people were reported to have stolen from a Nordstrom.In Walnut Creek, about 25 miles northeast of San Francisco, about 80 people descended on the Nordstrom in Broadway Plaza at 9 p.m. and made off with merchandise within a minute, police said.Mayor Kevin Wilk said he has been in regular contact with the police chief and the city manager about the theft. “The Chief has been clear from the beginning that this was not a random gathering of dozens of people, but a planned, organized attack: Organized retail robbery,” Wilk said in an email. “Evidence gathered and being reviewed by investigators supports the fact social media and social platforms are among the primary methods of communication in cases such as this." Wilk did not disclose which social media platforms were used. Three people have been arrested and face charges of robbery, burglary, conspiracy, possession of stolen property and other counts. At least one person faces gun charges, police said.Wilk said there is more than one “organized theft group” in the Bay Area. Hayward Mayor Barbara Halliday said the police department is also looking into how social media was used in recent "smash-and-grab" crimes. A jewelry store in Southland Mall in Hayward, about 30 miles southwest of Walnut Creek, was targeted Sunday afternoon by about nine people who used hammers to smash cases before they fled, NBC Bay Area reported.“The possibility of criminal activity being coordinated via the use of social media is explored and investigated in all criminal matters," Hayward Police Officer Cassondra Fovel said in a statement. Similar incidents have occurred in San Francisco and neighboring communities throughout the year. The apparently targeted attacks have occurred at the area’s high-end retail stores and pharmacies. Walgreens announced last month that it would close five stores in San Francisco because of organized retail theft. The reasoning, amid longstanding plans to close hundreds of stores nationwide, was challenged by San Francisco Mayor London Breed, and it was inconsistent with local crime data, the San Francisco Chronicle reported.San Francisco District Attorney Chesa Boudin announced charges Tuesday night against nine suspects in three thefts Friday. Five of the arrests were in connection with a smash-and-grab at a Louis Vuitton boutique, three stemmed from a burglary at an unnamed cannabis business, and one was from a burglary at a Walgreens. Allegations against most of the suspects include "looting during a state of emergency," burglary and receiving stolen property. Two also faced firearms-related charges.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMan who stole Revolutionary-era rifle from museum decades ago sentenced to 1 dayU.S. newsU.S. newsN.J. man pleads guilty to federal charge of fraud in GoFundMe scam said to help homeless man"These brazen acts will not be tolerated in San Francisco," Boudin said in a statement.A group broke into a Nordstrom at a popular Los Angeles shopping center in an apparent smash-and-grab on Monday night, police said.The thieves fled the Grove shopping center, setting off a chase, and three people were taken into custody, police said. It was unclear how many people were involved and what was taken. Recent thefts have also happened outside California. More than a dozen people in Oak Brook, a Chicago suburb, were recorded on security video Wednesday afternoon grabbing bags and wiping shelves clear at a Louis Vuitton store, police said. The value of the stolen merchandise was estimated at $120,000, Oak Brook police said.Clint Watts, a national security contributor for NBC News and MSNBC, said the ability to “anonymously collectively organize and descend in pursuit of a crime has gone up exponentially as people have gone to social media.”An incident like what occurred in Walnut Creek would most likely require the type of networking that social media provides, Watts said.“Speed, coordination, mass volume. That’s tough to do. Social media makes all that easier,” he said. “You can engage a lot of people. ... In terms of that many people showing up at the same time to hit a place, I don’t know how you pull it off without social media.”Michael Alcazar, an adjunct professor at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice at the City University of New York, who said he retired as a New York City police detective in 2019, said he has seen how criminals used social media to coordinate lawlessness. He has investigated at least one instance in which about 10 people used social media to plan a swarming theft at a business but nothing as large as what occurred in Walnut Creek.“Wherever you have social media, they message each other. They communicate with each other,” Alcazar said. “Because it’s a flash mob thing, that there is so many of them, they feel like they can get away with it. Like, ‘They can’t get all of us.’”Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Italy frees man guilty of killing Amanda Knox's roommate, Meredith Kercher. ROME — The only person convicted in the 2007 murder of British student Meredith Kercher was freed Tuesday after serving most of his 16-year prison sentence, his lawyer said.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMan who stole Revolutionary-era rifle from museum decades ago sentenced to 1 dayU.S. newsU.S. newsN.J. man pleads guilty to federal charge of fraud in GoFundMe scam said to help homeless manAttorney Fabrizio Ballarini said Rudy Guede’s planned Jan. 4 release had been moved up a few weeks by a judge and he was freed on Tuesday. He will continue to work in the library at the Viterbo-based Center for Criminology Studies, Ballarini said in an email.Guede had already been granted permission to leave prison during the day to work at the center while he served his sentence for the 2007 murder of 21-year-old Kercher.Amanda Knox: I still miss Meredith KercherNov. 2, 201700:40The case in the university city of Perugia gained international notoriety after Kercher’s American roommate, Amanda Knox, and Knox’s then-boyfriend were placed under suspicion. Both were initially convicted, but Italy’s highest court threw out the convictions in 2015 after a series of flip-flop decisions.Guede was originally convicted in a fast-track trial procedure. He has denied killing Kercher.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Man who stole Revolutionary-era rifle from museum decades ago sentenced to 1 day. A 78-year-old Pennsylvania man who stole a rare Revolutionary-era rifle from a museum in 1971 was sentenced Tuesday to one day in prison and a year of home confinement, prosecutors said.The man, Thomas Gavin, of Pottstown, was also fined $25,000 and ordered to pay restitution of $23,385.He kept the flintlock rifle, made in 1775 by gunsmith Johann Christian Oerter, in his barn for 47 years after he stole it from a display case at the Valley Forge State Park Museum, officials said.The theft might have remained unnoticed if not for a dealer who bought the rifle it in 2018 and later realized its significance, The Philadelphia Inquirer reported when the artifact was returned to its rightful owners the following year."I actually thought it was a reproduction," the antiques dealer, Kelly Kinzle, said at the time, according to the newspaper. "My first inclination was that it had to be fake, because the real gun isn’t going to show up in a barn in today’s world. Things like that are already in collections."Gavin pleaded guilty in July to a single count of disposal of an object of cultural heritage stolen from a museum, prosecutors said.His attorney did not immediately respond to a request for comment Tuesday night.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.J. man pleads guilty to federal charge of fraud in GoFundMe scam said to help homeless manU.S. newsU.S. newsString of 'organized retail robberies' lead California investigators to social mediaThe attorney argued for no jail time in court documents, citing Gavin's age and health problems, which include a stroke he suffered three years ago. "He stole this rifle for his own appreciation," not to make money, and it was sold for a fraction of its true worth, the attorney argued in a sentencing memorandum. He added that Gavin is a collector of all kinds of old items that he kept in his barn. Gavin admitted stealing other guns and items from other museums in the 1960s and the 1970s, some of which were sold along with the rare rifle, and he helped authorities identify their rightful owners, prosecutors said in court documents."After four decades, justice finally caught up with this defendant,” Jennifer Arbittier Williams, the U.S. attorney for Eastern Pennsylvania, said in a statement.The Christian Oerter rifle that was stolen and recovered is one of only two known rifles to have survived with its original flint mechanism bearing the maker's name and the site and date of its manufacture, the U.S. attorney’s office said. The other is in the Royal Collection at Windsor Castle, it said.The rifle belongs to the Pennsylvania Society of Sons of the Revolution. It was on loan to the Valley Forge State Park Museum when it was stolen. After it was returned in 2019, it was put on display at the Museum of the American Revolution in Philadelphia.Oerter made rifles for the American Revolution in his workshop in the Lehigh Valley north of Philadelphia, which had been a rifle-making center, according to the museum.The rare rifle "exhibits exemplary early American artistry and is a reminder that courage and sacrifice were necessary to secure American Independence," the museum's president and CEO, R. Scott Stephenson, said in a statement at the time.When the rifle was stolen, a crowbar or similar instrument was used to pry off a metal strip, allowing the glass top to be slid off, The Inquirer reported at the time. A Boy Scout on a tour later noticed that the case was empty.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
CVS, Walmart and Walgreens are responsible for roles in opioid crisis, jury finds. CLEVELAND — Three retail pharmacy chains recklessly distributed massive amounts of pain pills in two Ohio counties, a federal jury said Tuesday in a verdict that could set the tone for U.S. city and county governments that want to hold pharmacies accountable for their roles in the opioid crisis.The counties blamed pharmacies operated by CVS, Walgreens and Walmart for not stopping the flood of pills that caused hundreds of overdose deaths and cost each of the two counties about $1 billion, their attorney said.This was the first time pharmacy companies had completed a trial to defend themselves in a drug crisis that has killed a half-million Americans over the past two decades. How much the pharmacies must pay in damages will be decided in the spring by federal judge.Lake and Trumbull counties were able to convince the jury that the pharmacies played an outsized role in creating a public nuisance in the way they dispensed pain medication into their communities.Attorneys for the three pharmacy chains maintained they had policies to stem the flow of pills when their pharmacists had any concerns and would notify authorities about suspicious orders from doctors.They also said it was the doctors who controlled how many pills were being prescribed for legitimate medical needs.Two other chains — Rite Aid and Giant Eagle — already have settled lawsuits with the two Ohio counties.Attorney Mark Lanier, who represented the counties in the lawsuit, said during the trial that the pharmacies were attempting to blame everyone but themselves.The opioid crisis has overwhelmed courts, social services agencies and law enforcement in Ohio’s blue-collar corner east of Cleveland, leaving behind heartbroken families and babies born to addicted mothers, Lanier told jurors.Roughly 80 million prescription painkillers were dispensed in Trumbull County alone between 2012 and 2016 — equivalent to 400 for every resident.In Lake County, some 61 million pills were distributed during that period.The rise in physicians prescribing pain medications such as oxycodone and hydrocodone came at a time when medical groups began recognizing that patients have the right to be treated for pain, Kaspar Stoffelmayr, an attorney for Walgreens, said at the opening of the trial.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMan who stole Revolutionary-era rifle from museum decades ago sentenced to 1 dayU.S. newsU.S. newsN.J. man pleads guilty to federal charge of fraud in GoFundMe scam said to help homeless manThe problem, he said, was that “pharmaceutical manufacturers tricked doctors into writing way too many pills.”The counties said pharmacies should be the last line of defense to prevent the pills from getting into the wrong hands.They didn’t hire enough pharmacists and technicians or train them to stop that from happening and failed to implement systems that could flag suspicious orders, Lanier said.The trial before U.S. District Judge Dan Polster in Cleveland was part of a broader constellation of federal opioid lawsuits — about 3,000 in all — that have been consolidated under the judge’s supervision. Other cases are moving ahead in state courts.It was one of five trials so far this year in the U.S. to test claims brought by governments against parts of the drug industry over the toll of prescription painkillers.Trials against drugmakers in New York and distribution companies in Washington state are underway now. A trial of claims against distribution companies in West Virginia has wrapped up, but the judge has not yet given a verdict.Earlier in November, a California judge ruled in favor of top drug manufacturers in a lawsuit with three counties and the city of Oakland. The judge said the governments hadn’t proven that the pharmaceutical companies used deceptive marketing to increase unnecessary opioid prescriptions and create a public nuisance.Also in November, Oklahoma’s supreme court overturned a 2019 judgment for $465 million in a suit brought by the state against drugmaker Johnson & Johnson.Other lawsuits have resulted in big settlements or proposed settlements before trials were completed.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Steve Burton fired from 'General Hospital' for refusal to get vaccinated against Covid . Veteran “General Hospital” actor Steve Burton said Tuesday that he has been fired from the iconic ABC soap opera for failing to get vaccinated against Covid-19.Burton, who played Jason Morgan in more than 2,200 episodes for the past 30 years, was still listed on the "General Hospital" website Tuesday. His termination had been rumored for weeks around Port Charles.“I wanted you to hear it from me personally," Burton said in a video posted to his Instagram account. “Unfortunately, ‘General Hospital’ has let me go because of the vaccine mandate. I did apply for my medical and religious exemptions, and both of those were denied. Which, you know, hurts. But this is also about personal freedom to me. I don't think anybody should lose their livelihood over this." Burton, 51, thanked fans and his "General Hospital" cast mates."I'll always be grateful for my time at 'General Hospital,'" he said. "I love it there. I grew up there. I grew up with some of you."Burton’s character is right-hand man to mobster Sonny Corinthos, played by Maurice Benard. In Morgan’s latest arc, the character was trapped in a cave and presumed missing or dead.RecommendedPop Culture NewsPop Culture NewsStory about dog ‘selling’ mansion part of long-running taleCulture MattersCulture MattersLouis C.K., Marilyn Manson score Grammy nominations after allegations of misconductStill, Burton didn't completely close the door on "General Hospital." “Maybe one day if these mandates are lifted, I can return and finish my career as Jason Morgan. That would be an honor," he said. "And if not I'm going to take this amazing experience, move forward and be forever grateful.”NBC News confirmed Tuesday that Burton was let go for failing to adhere to a vaccination mandate and that his last shoot for the show was on Oct. 27.
Apple sues spyware company NSO Group for selling tools to hack iPhones. Apple said Tuesday that it is suing the NSO Group, claiming the Israeli company broke U.S. law by selling ways to hack into its iPhones.In the lawsuit, filed Monday, Apple said NSO’s elite program that can remotely hack into its flagship product — iPhones — was the work of "amoral 21st century mercenaries." The tech giant sought to block the company from using any Apple product, a move that would demolish NSO's current business model if enforced.“State-sponsored actors like the NSO Group spend millions of dollars on sophisticated surveillance technologies without effective accountability. That needs to change,” Craig Federighi, Apple’s senior vice president of software engineering, said in a company announcement.NSO has in recent years gone from being a little-known Israeli security company to emerging as one of the most notorious purveyors of digital tools that break into iPhones through previously unknown software vulnerabilities. The company has long insisted that it only leases its technology to legitimate governments for the purposes of tracking criminals and enforcing laws and interests.Those claims have been countered by cybersecurity researchers who discovered NSO software used by governments to spy on human rights activists and journalists around the world."Thousands of lives were saved around the world thanks to NSO Group’s technologies used by its customers," a company  spokesperson said in an emailed statement. "Pedophiles and terrorists can freely operate in technological safe-havens, and we provide governments the lawful tools to fight it. NSO Group will continue to advocate for the truth," the spokesperson said.Apple’s lawsuit makes it the second major tech company to sue the company, after WhatsApp filed a similar lawsuit in 2018.RecommendedTech NewsTech NewsSeveral hundred Google employees sign manifesto against vaccination mandateTech NewsTech NewsUber enters booming cannabis market with orders in OntarioJohn Scott-Railton, a researcher at the University of Toronto’s Citizen Lab, which has conducted the most thorough public research of governments' abuses of NSO tools, called the suit "extremely welcome from the point of view of protecting civil society.""The mercenary spyware problem has got totally out of hand,” he  said. "One by one, tech companies are recognizing that they can’t solve this problem simply through technical means.""Otherwise they’re always going to be playing catch-up," he said. "They’re realizing it’s time to take spyware to court." The suit is the latest in a string of problems NSO has had to deal with this month. In early November, the U.S. Department of Commerce blacklisted the company, saying its products “maliciously target government officials, journalists, businesspeople, activists, academics, and embassy workers.”CEO Isaac Benbenisti resigned several days later after only a few days on the job.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Mother, 2 children murdered after landlord didn't change locks, lawsuit says. A New Jersey woman "begged" her apartment complex to change the locks on her door after she was granted a restraining order against her husband. The complex failed to fulfill her request, and she and two children were fatally stabbed in their home, a lawsuit filed on the family's behalf claims. The woman, Ruth Esther Reyes de Severino, and her children, Eurianny, 5, and Eury, 2, were killed on Feb. 5, 2020. Police found the bodies in the family's Penns Grove Gardens apartment after they discovered the remains of Reyes de Severino's husband, Eugenio Severino, in a nearby park, according to the lawsuit, which was obtained by NBC News. The Penns Grove Gardens apartment complex in Penns Grove, N.J.Google mapsThe lawsuit claims that Eugenio Severino died by suicide after he murdered his family. Penns Grove police did not immediately reply to a request for comment Tuesday. The lawsuit, filed last month in Salem County Superior Court, alleges wrongful death, negligence, breach of contract and negligent hiring. It lists the defendants as Penns Grove Gardens, its operator, Housing Management Resources, and Roger J. Gendron, identified in the suit as "managing member" of Penns Grove Apartments and Penns Grove Gardens.The apartment complex and its operator did not immediately reply to a request for comment Tuesday. Gendron could not be reached at phone numbers listed for him.NJ.com first reported the suit. In January 2020, just weeks before the slayings, Reyes de Severino was granted a restraining order against her husband, ousting him from their apartment. The suit alleges that Eugenio Severino had threatened to kill his wife numerous times. Reyes de Severino informed the apartment complex about the restraining order and asked for her locks to be changed because her husband still had a set of keys. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMan who stole Revolutionary-era rifle from museum decades ago sentenced to 1 dayU.S. newsU.S. newsN.J. man pleads guilty to federal charge of fraud in GoFundMe scam said to help homeless man"Ruth Reyes de Severino asked, nay, begged, Defendant Landlord Penns Grove Apartments LLC ... to change the locks on the door to her apartment such that her husband could not gain entry," the lawsuit says. "Despite Tenant’s fear for her own safety and security, as well as the safety and security of her two small children ... Defendant Landlord denied Tenant’s request to change the locks," it says. On the day of the murders, Eugenio Severino used his keys to enter the apartment and stabbed his wife and children, the lawsuit alleges. Reyes de Severino had made at least five in-person requests for the locks of her apartment to be changed, said Samuel D. Jackson, a lawyer who is representing her estate. She had also told the complex that her husband posed a danger to her and her children, he said."Women and their children should not have to fear for their lives —or lose them — because their landlords and the parties they contract with fail to keep those women and children safe," Jackson said in a statement Tuesday. The suit also claims that the apartment complex failed to follow a Penns Grove ordinance that was created in response to the shooting death of Tayshon Hayward at the same property in 2019. The ordinance said all apartment complexes in the municipality had to install exterior security cameras and lighting to improve safety. "The defendants here didn’t bother to follow a law that was passed to address their own bad behavior after someone else lost their life in similar circumstances at their property less than a year before," Jackson said. "The predictable result was an even worse tragedy," he said. "We hope this lawsuit sends shockwaves through the New Jersey landlord community and makes landlords realize the health and safety of their tenants should trump all other considerations — especially profits." Reyes de Severino's estate seeks compensatory and punitive damages, as well as other fees. Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
NASA to launch first mission to test asteroid deflection. If an asteroid is hurtling toward Earth, can humanity be saved not with a bang, but with a nudge?NASA is poised to investigate just that with a first-of-its-kind mission to deflect an asteroid by intentionally crashing a spacecraft into it. The mission, set to launch Wednesday, offers a rare, real-world chance to test a planetary defense strategy that could protect Earth from a potentially catastrophic collision in the future.The $325 million DART mission, short for Double Asteroid Redirection Test, is scheduled to launch Wednesday at 1:21 a.m. ET from Vandenberg Space Force Base in California. The spacecraft will ride into orbit atop a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket.DART team members perform a final inspection of one of the spacecraft's two rollout solar arrays in August. Ed Whitman / NASA / Johns Hopkins APLThe probe will then spend almost a year journeying to an asteroid system more than 6.5 million miles away from Earth. The mission's target is Dimorphos, a space rock measuring 525 feet across that orbits a much larger asteroid named Didymos, which measures around 2,500 feet across.Neither Dimorphos nor Didymos pose a threat to the planet, according to NASA, but the system is a "perfect testing ground" for whether crashing a spacecraft into an asteroid can effectively change its motion in space.Next fall, NASA will smash the DART spacecraft into Dimorphos at a speed of around 15,000 mph. Telescopes on Earth have been studying Didymos and its "moonlet" Dimorphos for decades, and have observed that the smaller space rock circles its larger counterpart once every 11 hours and 55 minutes, said Nancy Chabot, a planetary scientist at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory and the mission's coordination lead. Chabot and her colleagues want to see if the cosmic collision can alter Dimorphos' nearly 12-hour orbit. NASA estimates that the maneuver will change the speed of the space rock's orbit by just a fraction of a percent — a difference of only several minutes — but the shift should be detectable by ground-based telescopes."This isn't going to destroy the asteroid — it's just going to give it a small nudge," she said earlier this month in a news briefing. "It's actually going to deflect its path around the larger asteroid, so we're demonstrating asteroid deflection in this double asteroid system."The DART probe will be destroyed in the test, but a small, Italian-built cubesat that the spacecraft will deploy more than a week before the crash will beam back photos of the impact and its aftermath. A follow-up mission developed by the European Space Agency will conduct a more detailed investigation of the Didymos system and will assess the outcome of the DART probe's deflection. That mission, known as Hera, is slated to launch in October 2024.No known asteroid larger than 450 feet has a significant chance of smashing into the planet over the next 100 years, according to NASA, but the agency said only a fraction of smaller near-Earth objects have been found so far.The agency’s Planetary Defense Coordination Office is tasked with searching for near-Earth objects that are potentially hazardous to the planet, including those that venture within 5 million miles of Earth’s orbit, and objects large enough to cause significant damage if they hit the surface.If in the future a large space rock is found on a collision course with Earth, tests like the DART mission could help NASA respond to the threat."It's very rare for an asteroid to impact the Earth," said Lindley Johnson, a planetary defense officer at NASA Headquarters in Washington, D.C., "but it's something we want to know about well ahead of time."Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
A nursing home where 83 residents died of Covid is still in business under a new name. In December 2019, Sharon Farrell flew from Florida to visit her brother Stephen at a New Jersey nursing home, where, she said, she found “disgusting” conditions. "I told the nurse, 'I am calling the state,'" she said. "I’m paying $9,000 a month, and I wouldn’t let my dog live like this."Farrell said that four months later, as Covid-19 was spreading rapidly, she repeatedly called the facility to ask how her brother was doing. When she finally reached someone, she said, she was told he was fine. Within a few days, however, he was dead. It has been 19 months since the discovery of 17 bodies in a tiny morgue at the Andover Subacute II nursing home in Sussex County, New Jersey, in April 2020. The federal government fined the owners $221,115 for not being in "substantial compliance," and the attorney general’s office began an investigation. But the owners are still in business. They changed the names of Andover and its sister facility and installed new signs out front. As of Friday, there were 25 residents of Andover with Covid, according to state data. And the owners are still being paid by Medicare and Medicaid, the taxpayer-funded programs that pay most costs for U.S. nursing home operators — even though one of the owners, Louis Schwartz, helped run a chain called Skyline Healthcare, which collapsed in 2019 amid accusations of neglect and financial mismanagement, which the chain denied.Andover Subacute Facility I and II was renamed Woodland Behavioral and Nursing Center at Andover.NBC News"The individuals that ran Skyline should not ever be in charge of a nursing home again, and yet here we are," said David Grabowski, a professor of health care policy at Harvard Medical School. He said the pandemic exposed an industry already in crisis, with a lack of resources and regulation."Different names, same practices," Grabowski said. "We need to ensure that there aren’t these kind of back doors, that nursing homes aren’t able to simply put a new name on the building and continue to operate as is."Some family members of those who died at Andover say they are frustrated, and some are suing over the facility's alleged lack of preparation to deal with Covid and for mingling the infected and the healthy.Farrell joined a lawsuit with other families but said: "I couldn’t care less about the class action. I want these guys out of business."Before CovidAt its peak, Skyline Healthcare had more than 100 facilities and oversaw the care of more than 7,000 elderly residents. But from 2017 to 2019, the chain began a slow-motion collapse, and more than a dozen Skyline-operated nursing homes shut their doors, throwing residents, vendors, employees and state regulators into chaos.Many homes ran out of money. Others were shut down over neglect documented in government records. In one Arkansas nursing home regulators identified maggots in a resident’s catheter, according to an inspection. Fourteen homes were forced to close permanently, displacing more than 900 residents to new facilities, sometimes hours away.Skyline’s main owner, Joseph Schwartz, and his son Louis did not return multiple messages and emails requesting comment in 2019. They have denied the allegations of neglect.The Schwartz family has not left the nursing home business. While Skyline is defunct, Joseph Schwartz is still listed as the owner or a co-owner of four facilities, according to federal nursing home ownership data. Louis Schwartz and Chaim Scheinbaum have ownership stakes in at least seven nursing homes between them, including the facility once known as Andover Subacute II.In January 2020, New York health officials recommended against allowing Scheinbaum to take over a nursing home in upstate New York, citing an "ongoing investigation" and noting that they disapproved of his "character and competence," according to a Health Department document. Scheinbaum did not respond when asked to comment about the recommendation.A year before the Covid outbreak, a female Andover resident with dementia walked out of the facility through two broken doors and was found at 4:30 a.m. sitting in the snow with severe frostbite, according to a federal inspection. Terri Thompson, her daughter, sued the facility, alleging violations of the minimum standard of care. The lawsuit is pending, and the owners have denied the claims.Dante Maglioli said that in early 2020, his father, Joseph, complained about the quality of care at Andover. The family was talking about moving him to another facility. As Covid began to spread, Maglioli said, he heard his sister and his father talking on the phone. His father was saying he was not sure Andover could cope if he came down with the deadly new disease. And then, Maglioli said, "my sister never talked to my dad again." Maglioli’s father died April 9, 2020. Schwartz and Scheinbaum did not respond when asked to comment about the conditions at Andover before the pandemic.When the pandemic arrived, nursing homes in New York and New Jersey, including Andover, took the early brunt. Eighty-three of the home’s 539 residents, or almost 1 out of every 6, died of Covid in the first four months of the pandemic. Farrell’s brother was among the casualties.Health care officials prepare to load a patient into an ambulance at Andover Subacute and Rehab Center in Andover, N.J., on April 16, 2020.Stefan Jeremiah / Reuters filePreston Nicolai, then a 20-year-old maintenance worker at the facility, said it was "horrific.""We were losing sometimes between 10 and 12 people a night," he said.Before the bodies began to pile up at Andover, Nicolai said, he was told to move residents from room to room, even though the facility did not know who had Covid and who did not. "I do believe it helped spread the cases of Covid throughout the building," he said.Nicolai said he was told to stack bodies on top of one another in a small room as the facility struggled to deal with the surge in deaths.RecommendedHealth newsHealth newsSocial media use linked to depression in adults Data GraphicsData GraphicsStates are rolling out vaccination plans. Track the number of inoculations across the country.On Easter Sunday, April 12, Nicolai said, he went to work and found the body of a woman in an outdoor maintenance shed, next to shovels, rakes and a lawn mower. He said there was no more room for corpses inside the nursing home.  "I was so morally devastated," he said. "It felt so wrong to put someone’s loved one out in the shed."He moved the body back inside the facility, but he cannot shake the images. "I have had really bad dreams, and I don’t have the money to pay a therapist," he said.‘They do not even know what they do not know’Documents newly obtained through an open records request by NBC News show how the facility struggled to cope with the outbreak in April 2020.Emails from Andover staff members to Sussex County officials document repeated requests for personal protective equipment, or PPE, like masks and gloves, some of which was delivered to the facility.A summary of an inspection from the early morning hours of April 12 written by Kyle Wilson, a registered nurse, and addressed to the Andover Township chief of police describes in detail conditions inside the facility days before the first story broke about bodies stuffed into the tiny morgue. Wilson is employed part-time at the police department, according to a dispatch operator. He did not return a call seeking comment.Wilson wrote that protective equipment delivered to the facility by the Sussex County Sheriff’s Office was unaccounted for. He said an Andover employee said the facility was "aware of a batch of PPE 'donated by the Sheriff’s office' but could not account for its whereabouts or the inventory of the facility’s existing PPE, if such an inventory exists."Police find 17 bodies in New Jersey nursing home hit by coronavirusApril 16, 202002:26Wilson wrote, "Staff were observed to be touching their PPE (face shield, gown, mask) and their face with bare hands." He wrote that he "confronted [the nurse on duty] about this observed behavior. She assured me that it was okay because she was 'not in a room.'"Wilson wrote that there was no Covid testing at the facility and that the staff had not segregated the patients suspected of having Covid. He wrote: "It is my opinion that the acquisition of PPE alone will not resolve the rate of spread at this facility. … [S]taff are undoubtedly contaminated throughout their shift. While the staff are tangibly scared, a culture of safety is not present in this facility. They have not been educated. They do not even know what they do not know."Two days later, a federal Department of Health and Human Services administrator working in Sussex County, Carol Novrit, emailed county officials to say Andover staff members had told her that residents were "not being fed," that residents had "open wounds" and that the deaths of both residents and staff members were not being reported to public health officials. She wrote that the staff told her "there is no infection control now."Schwartz and Scheinbaum did not respond when asked to comment about the documents obtained by NBC News.Federal inspection reports conducted in mid-April 2020 showed similar observations, noting that residents who had symptoms were intermingled with those who were asymptomatic.'Impossible to know' Representatives for the owners said that at that time it was "often impossible to know who had Covid and who did not because of a lack of testing capability."In a statement, the owners of Andover, now known as Woodland Behavioral, said that "the safety and health of our residents has always been the top priority for Woodland Behavioral," adding: "The COVID-19 pandemic brought unprecedented challenges, and our heroic staff faced those challenges as best as they could. We continue to thank them for everything they did (and continue to do) to protect our residents."Representatives for Scheinbaum and Schwartz said they asked for help from multiple government agencies, including two verbal requests to the National Guard on April 11 and April 15, but were told by military officials that they could not provide any assistance. A spokesperson for the New Jersey National Guard disputed their assertion. "The National Guard does not have any information indicating that the Andover Subacute facility made a request for assistance, much less one that was turned down." The spokesperson said that at the outset of Covid, the Guard "supported every single mission request we received."The National Guard did respond to a request for emergency aid that Sussex County officials sent to the governor on May 6. Two days later, 22 members of the Guard went to Andover and performed nonmedical tasks, like cleaning the facility.NBC News investigation: Nursing home chain collapses amid allegations of unpaid bills, poor careJuly 19, 201903:30The owners say problems identified in the federal inspections from spring 2020 have been resolved with state and federal regulators.  A spokesperson for an industry trade group, the American Health Care Association, said, "Even the best nursing homes with the most rigorous standards could not stop this highly contagious and invisible virus. Many lives were lost because long-term care was not made a priority by public health officials, especially in the initial months of the pandemic. Critical resources were directed toward hospitals, leaving long-term care facilities at a severe disadvantage."The investigation continuesPreston Nicolai said he was fired four months after the overstuffed morgue was discovered, accused of improperly disposing of medical waste.  He said he believes the owners were looking for an excuse to get rid of him after what he saw. He said he has not been contacted by the attorney general’s office. Sharon Farrell, however, was contacted this April.Asked when the attorney general’s office would complete its investigation, a spokesperson said, "As is our standard practice, we will not provide updates on the investigation or release any additional information unless and until we bring an enforcement action or close the matter."The spokesperson said the Andover inquiry is part of a larger investigation of "facilities with high numbers of Covid-related deaths and below-average track records for health inspections, staffing, and quality of care." The class-action lawsuit filed by some relatives of the deceased, including Maglioli and Farrell, recently won a legal ruling allowing the lawsuit to stay in state instead of federal court, said the families’ attorney, Daniel Marchese. Marchese said that is good for the plaintiffs, who can plead their case before a local jury instead of being referred to a federal compensation program set up through the PREP Act, which shields businesses from some forms of liability after natural disasters like Covid.Maglioli said: "I think that these gentlemen, their corporation, whatever it is, needs to pay the price. And I don’t mean in a financial way."Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Isaiah Austin’s NBA dreams shattered. Now he’s returned to the league in a new role.. Isaiah Austin walked into practice June 21, 2014, and immediately knew something was wrong.Austin was coming off a banner season playing for Baylor University, leading his team to the NCAA Sweet Sixteen. As a 7-foot, 1-inch center, he had been known for his flashy blocks. And now he was projected to be a first-round pick in the NBA Draft, making all his dreams come true, just five days later.“Everybody’s aura was off that day,” Austin said. “I’m the type of guy to speak up, so I’m yelling at guys like: ‘Yo, what’s up with you guys? You don’t have the same energy as we always do. I’m trying to get after it today.’”Ray Forsett, Austin’s high school coach, was leading one of Austin’s pre-draft workouts. But Forsett already knew Austin would not play in the NBA. He interrupted Austin’s pep talk at center court at Mo Williams Academy in Dallas and simply reminded him to enjoy being on the court, Austin said.  “After the workout, we were driving home, and I just felt like his whole personality changed towards me, almost like he was just sad for me or something,” Austin said. “And I just remember driving down the road. I was in the passenger seat. And I remember seeing my parents’ car in the driveway, and at this time they lived in Kansas. So I was like, ‘Man, they might have a surprise party for me or something,’ like, what’s going on? And I remember walking through the front door and my whole coaching staff was there from Baylor, my agent was there, my pastor was there — brother and sister, whole family, my whole circle, my tight-knit circle that I’ve been through everything with was there.”Austin’s mother delivered the news that he was medically ineligible to play in the NBA. Austin, who is blind in his right eye, said he knew before then that there was a chance he could not play, but he brushed it off. He was also notified at the NBA combine, where top draft prospects are exhaustively examined and assessed, that his DNA would be tested for Marfan syndrome. Still, he said, he thought he was in the clear because he was allowed to go through the pre-draft process. But his loved ones confirmed that he did, in fact, have Marfan syndrome, a rare genetic condition that disrupts how cells, organs and tissue connect, resulting in a key complication in which heart arteries enlarge to the point of tearing. The confirmed diagnosis meant the end of his plans to play in the NBA.Isaiah Austin speaks with a group of children during an NBA Fit Event in New York, New York, on June 24, 2015.Michael Lebrecht / NBAE via Getty Images file Austin’s career trajectory had suddenly flipped. But years later, he is taking on a new role in the NBA, one that had not been in his plans when he left Baylor after two seasons as a student-athlete eyeing the NBA. Last month, Austin started a one-year fellowship created specifically for him in the league’s player development department. “I work closely with the teams and try to help players find their interest points outside of basketball,” Austin said. He said it is an opportunity to “expand my horizons and show that I am more than just a basketball player and that I’m capable of doing anything I set my mind to.”Changing courseAustin recalled that before the diagnosis, he had been “overjoyed with the thought that my dream of being able to take care of my family and give something back to my family for all that they’ve sacrificed for me was about to come true.”But once he learned he would not be playing in the NBA, “I was filled with sorrow during that time,” Austin said. “I didn’t know what I was going to do with my life.”NBA Commissioner Adam Silver still drafted him as an honorary player. “Isaiah committed himself through endless hard work and dedication to a potential career as a professional basketball player, and we wanted to make sure he fulfilled at least this part of his dream,” Silver said in 2014. Austin said the moment brought him some closure.“Being able to walk across that stage and being able to shake Adam’s hand kind of brought some light at the end of the tunnel for me,” he said. “That moment will always be engraved in my mind and my family’s mind like a beacon.”Austin turned to opportunities overseas in hope of still playing professionally. His cardiologist, Dr. David Liang, wrote a letter in 2017 confirming that he was able and healthy to play, Austin said, adding that Liang observed no clear symptoms of Marfan syndrome.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMan who stole Revolutionary-era rifle from museum decades ago sentenced to 1 dayU.S. newsU.S. newsN.J. man pleads guilty to federal charge of fraud in GoFundMe scam said to help homeless man“So me, personally, it doesn’t affect my life at all,” Austin said. “I’ve been healthy as can be my whole life. I’ve been an athlete my whole life.”In 2017, Austin began playing in leagues around the world, including the Chinese National Basketball League and the Lebanese Basketball League. He averaged more than 30 points for Guangzhi Weizhuang in the Chinese NBL.These days, Austin is at peace with how things unfolded: “Sometimes you’re just dealt a bad hand.”  Austin returned to Baylor  where he studied health, kinesiology, and leisure studies, and graduated last year. His position in the NBA keeps him close to basketball. Over the next year, he will network and shadow teams and events, such as the All-Star Game and the draft, for additional exposure to learn the league and members of its front office.Jamila Wideman, the NBA’s senior vice president of player development, said in a statement: “The NBA Player Development group has long supported former players in their transition to post-playing careers through a number of programs, and the League Office Fellowship was specifically designed to further develop Isaiah’s unique talents and experiences while giving him a foundational knowledge of the business of basketball. Isaiah has been a member of the NBA family for many years, and we continue to be inspired by his resilience and determination. We are committed to his growth as the first league office fellow and will continue to support him as he takes this next step in his professional journey.”  The journey includes learning the league’s organizational structure, brainstorming innovative ways to engage players in campaigns and working to land a job after the fellowship ends.“I’ve actually just really been enjoying the ride, trying to be a sponge and absorb as much information as I can and just learn the business side of basketball,” he said.Austin said his role involves helping players identify their passions off the court and offering support to pursue them. Austin is figuring out some dreams of his own: “My dream job? I don’t know. I feel like that’s the reason why I’m going through the fellowship, is to try to help pave in which direction I want to go in my career. I know I love the game of basketball. I know that I want to be around it forever, because it’s given me so much.”Follow NBCBLK on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Desperate for cash, Afghan families are selling young daughters into marriage. SHAIDAI, Afghanistan — Bashful, with long locks of rust-colored hair dyed with henna, Benazir fidgets with a handful of gravel when the topic of her marriage comes up.She looks down at the ground and buries her head in her knees when she is asked whether she knows she has been promised to another family to marry one of their sons.Her father says he will receive the equivalent of $2,000 for Benazir, but he hasn’t explained the details to her or what’s expected of her. She’s too young to understand, he says.Benazir is 8 years old.It is traditional for families here to pay dowries to brides’ families for marriages, but it is extreme to arrange a marriage for a child so young. And the economic collapse after the Taliban’s takeover in August has forced already poor families to make desperate choices. Benazir, 8, second right, walks with a group in Herat, Afghanistan. NBC NewsThe days are filled with hardships for children here in Shaidai, a desert community on the mountainous edge of Herat in western Afghanistan.Children like Benazir and her siblings beg on the streets or collect garbage to heat their simple mud homes because they don’t have enough money for wood.Her father, Murad Khan, a day laborer who hasn’t found work in months and has eight children to feed, looks much older than his 55 years — his face is worn with worry. His decision to sell Benazir to marriage at such a young age comes down to a cold calculation.“We are 10 people in the family. I’m trying to keep 10 alive by sacrificing one,” he said in Pashto. Khan said the arrangement is for Benazir to be married to a boy from a family in Iran when she reaches puberty. He hasn’t received the money yet for her dowry, and he said that as soon as he does, Benazir will be taken away by the man who bought her.“I’ve been telling the shopkeepers I’ve sold my daughter and I will be paying them back, so they have given me some food as a loan.” A father of a 7-year-old Girl“He will just take her hand and take her away from me,” he said. “He will take her away and say, ‘She’s ours now.’”A combination of a severe drought that decreased livestock and farmers’ yields and the freezing of foreign aid by governments that don’t recognize the new Taliban government has pushed poor Afghans over the edge.Promising their daughters early for marriage in exchange for cash is seen as a lifeline for families that barely have a scrap of bread to eat.Benazir, right, lights a fire with discarded paper to cook bread with a group of children in Herat.NBC NewsThe U.N. Population Fund has warned that it is “deeply concerned” by reports that child marriage is on the rise in Afghanistan. Henrietta Fore, the executive director of UNICEF, said in a statement: “We have received credible reports of families offering daughters as young as 20 days old up for future marriage in return for a dowry.”‘A piece of your heart’Benazir’s best friend, Saliha, who is just 7, has been sold for marriage for the same price, $2,000, to someone in the family of her father-in-law in Faryab province in the north.Benazir and Saliha already have responsibilities in the community. They go to a local mosque together to collect water, a scarcity in the desert, and haul the hefty jugs together back to their homes.Like her older neighbors, Saliha also spins yarn — pulling at a matted cloud of wool brought by traders and twisting it into neat spools of string. It takes four days to refine 8 pounds of the material, which earns her a dollar. But the family is in debt. Saliha’s father, Muhammed Khan, says he took out loans from store owners in town.Farzana is 8 months old but weighs just 6½  pounds.NBC News“I’ve been telling the shopkeepers I’ve sold my daughter and I will be paying them back, so they have given me some food as a loan,” he said.The money he makes from selling Saliha will help pay it all back and feed her four siblings.It was a soul-wrenching decision, he says. “Your children are a piece of your heart. If I wasn’t forced to do this, why would I do it?” he says.Afghanistan was a poor country before the Taliban took over, propped up by foreign aid. According to the World Bank, about 75 percent of public finances were supplied by grants from the U.S. and other countries.When the  U.S. military withdrew and the hard-line Islamist Taliban government took over, a lot of that aid money was frozen. Salaries dried up and the flow of cash came to an abrupt halt, creating a humanitarian crisis.And things look likely to get worse as the crisis spirals, with more than half the population facing hunger and 3.2 million children suffering from malnutrition, according to the U.N. World Food Program. The agency said it has never seen so many people facing emergency levels of food insecurity in Afghanistan, where all 34 provinces are affected.In the relatively wealthy province of Herat in western Afghanistan, an emergency feeding center is running out of beds. The Doctors Without Borders-run facility at Herat Regional Hospital treats the most severely malnourished babies, like tiny Farzana, who at 8 months old weighs just 6 ½ pounds. She is one of 75 babies being cared for here.Her father is a butcher. His business has collapsed so badly that he couldn’t keep feeding his family.Farzana lies without making a sound, a tiny, pale, bone-thin arm sticking out, and her wide eyes don’t blink.“What we are seeing is very small kids, which are not well breastfed by the mothers because the mothers are all so malnourished they can’t produce enough breast milk to feed them,” said Gaia Giletta, Doctors Without Borders’ head nurse for pediatrics at the feeding center.Because of disruptions to health care and aid agencies across the region, Giletta said, many kids get no primary care. For many who arrive, it is already too late — a child dies nearly every day here.Another baby at the center, Ali, is small and pale, barely mustering up energy to cry. His mother, Smita Umar, was herself malnourished, so Ali was born too weak to suckle. At 4 months old, he has already spent three months at the center.“My husband is a house painter,” Umar said. “But he sold his tools so we could feed the baby. Things have  got worse since the Taliban came. What little we had went to zero.”Richard Engel, Gabe Joselow and Ahmed Mengli reported from Herat. Yuliya Talmazan reported from London.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Indigenous groups say Big Oil’s pollution threatens their existence in Canadian forest. This article was published in partnership with Inside Climate News, a nonprofit, independent news outlet that covers climate, energy and the environment. It is part of “The Fifth Crime,” a series on ecocide.FORT McMURRAY, Alberta — The land around Jean L’Hommecourt’s cabin was once miles away from the noise of the world. On long summer days, she would come with her mother to gather berries from the forest and to hunt moose when the leaves turned yellow and the air crisp.But over the last two decades, the cabin has been surrounded by the expanding mines of Alberta’s tar sands, where oil companies have dug vast open pits to extract a heavy form of crude called bitumen. L’Hommecourt and her Indigenous community of Fort McKay, about 35 miles north of Fort McMurray, have watched as the companies have replaced their traditional lands with a 40-mile string of mines, stripping away subarctic boreal forest and wetlands and rerouting waterways.“It’s an invasion of our territory, invasion of us trying to be out on the land,” L’Hommecourt said. Over the years, more and more workers have shown up in the area, stopping her along the road to tell her that she couldn’t hunt moose or that she was trespassing.“‘You’re the trespasser,’” she tells them. “‘I shouldn’t have to be answering your questions — you answer mine.’”Jean L'Hommecourt warms at the fire outside the cabin she has built near the Fort McKay First Nation's village, about an hour's drive north of Fort McMurray in Alberta.Michael KodasOil and gas companies like ExxonMobil and the Canadian giant Suncor have transformed the tar sands — also called oil sands — into one of the world’s largest industrial developments, covering an area larger than New York City. They have built sprawling waste pits that leach heavy metals into groundwater and processing plants that spew pollutants into the air, sending a sour stench for miles.The mines’ ecological impacts are so vast and so deep that L’Hommecourt and other Indigenous people here — mostly from the Dene and Cree First Nations — say the industry has challenged their very existence, even as it has provided jobs and revenue to Native businesses and communities. People in this region have long suspected that the tar sands mines were poisoning the land and everything it feeds.The economic benefits of the development are immense: Oil is Canada’s top export, and the mining and energy sector as a whole accounts for nearly a quarter of Alberta’s provincial economy. The sands pump out more than 3 million barrels of oil per day, helping make Canada the world’s fourth-largest oil producer and the top exporter of crude to the U.S. But the companies’ energy-hungry extraction has also made the oil and gas sector Canada’s largest source of greenhouse gas emissions, according to a government report. The largest oil sands companies have pledged to reduce their emissions, saying they will rely largely on government-subsidized carbon capture projects. Yet oil companies and the government expect output will climb well into the 2030s. Even a new proposal by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to cap emissions in the oil sector does not include any plan to lower production.Some lawyers and advocates have pointed to the tar sands as a prime example of the widespread environmental destruction they call “ecocide.” They are pushing the International Criminal Court to outlaw ecocide as a crime, on par with genocide or war crimes. While the campaign for a new international law is likely to last years, with no assurance that it will succeed, it has drawn attention to the inability of countries’ laws to contain industrial development like the tar sands, which will pollute the land for decades or centuries.Mike Mercredi, who is Dene and lives in Fort Chipewyan, about 100 miles north of Fort McKay, noted that the name of his people translates as “people of the land.”“It’s in our name of who we call ourselves,” he said. “We are the land. So when you’re destroying that land, when you’re committing ecocide, you’re committing genocide.”Julie King, an Exxon spokeswoman, said, “ExxonMobil is committed to operating our businesses in a responsible and sustainable manner, working to minimize environmental impacts and supporting the communities where we live and work.”Leithan Slade, a spokesman for Suncor, pointed to agreements the company has signed with First Nations, adding that “Suncor sees partnering with Indigenous communities as foundational to successful energy development.”L’Hommecourt is intimately familiar with the partnerships through her work as an environmental coordinator and researcher for the Fort McKay First Nation, of which she is a member, and in that position she has fought to protect whatever shreds of land she could. Her cabin is only 20 miles from town as the crow flies, but the drive takes more than an hour, because the road has to loop around several mines. The land, she said, is where she can think in her language, Dene, “where in the outside world it’s all English.”“You get that sense of belonging here,” she said, “and that’s what I want for our peoples, to have their land back.” She added, “If you have your land back, you have everything.”The tar sandsThe only way to fully appreciate the scope of the tar sands is to see the mines from the air. Flying across the region from the north, the twisting channels of the Peace-Athabasca Delta dominate the landscape, snaking through forest and marshlands with not a road or a power line in sight.The terrain gives way to a mixture of forest, muskeg and drylands, where the sandy soil rises to the surface. Out of nowhere, straight lines emerge — a wide, unpaved highway and paths leading to squares carved out of the forest, where companies have explored for oil.Then the mines come into view. Billowing plumes of smoke fill the sky. Flames shoot out of flare stacks. The forest’s green is replaced by vast black holes pockmarked with giant puddles. From the air, the dump trucks and the shovels look like toys, hauling mounds of bitumen from newly dug pits. As the plane nears its descent, the cabin fills with a tarry stench.“It’s just the most completely ludicrous approach to industrial and energy development that is possible, given everything we know about the impact on ecosystems, the impact on climate,” said Dale Marshall, the national program manager for Environmental Defence, a Canadian advocacy group.To extract bitumen from the sand, oil companies heat it and then treat it in a slurry of water and solvents. In other parts of Alberta, where the sands are too deep to mine, the bitumen is melted in place and extracted through wells by pumping high-pressure steam underground. The deeper deposits cover a much larger area than the mines, more than 50,000 square miles.The Syncrude Operation north of Fort McMurray, Alberta.Michael KodasThe extraction requires enormous amounts of energy: In 2018, the latest year for which figures are available, oil sands producers consumed 30 percent of all the natural gas burned in Canada. Collectively, the mines’ and deep-extraction projects’ greenhouse gas emissions about equal those of 21 coal-fired power plants, and that’s just to get the crude out of the ground.The operations also pump out nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, traces of which have been detected by scientists in soils and snowpack dozens of miles away.The mines guzzle vast quantities of water, with nearly 58 billion gallons drawn from the region’s rivers, lakes and aquifers in 2019, according to government figures. Much of that ends up as toxic liquid waste laced with hydrocarbons, naphthenic acids and carcinogenic heavy metals. Oil companies have been collecting the “tailings” in waste ponds, which have grown exponentially in size and now cover more than 100 square miles. Regulatory filings show that the ponds are expected to continue to expand well into the 2030s. While companies are required by law to eventually reclaim them, only a fraction have been reclaimed so far.Next to one pond, a coal-black mountain of debris towers over the water. High-voltage lines buzz overhead. Air cannons ring the pond and blast several times every minute, creating a constant explosive din. Industrial iron scarecrows are dressed with safety vests and helmets. The noise and the display are meant to scare off the millions of migratory birds that arrive in northern Alberta every year.North of Fort McMurray, scarecrows dressed like workers and devices that produce loud explosions that sound like gunshots are spread out around a Syncrude tailings pond, which has toxic water that could kill birds that land on it.Michael KodasSometimes even those defenses fail, however, or the birds ignore them and land anyway — tens of thousands every year, according to a 2016 report to provincial regulators, obtained this year by The Narwhal, a nonprofit Canadian news organization.Ottilie Coldbeck, a spokeswoman for the Alberta Energy Regulator, which oversees the industry, said the research in the report “was not considered complete.”The history	 White explorers set their sights on the tar sands as soon as they arrived. In 1789, Sir Alexander Mackenzie reported seeing veins of “bituminous quality” exposed along the Athabasca River. Within a century, prospectors and geologists had identified “almost inexhaustible supplies” of petroleum in the area. The only obstacle seemed to be the people living above it.In 1891, the superintendent general of Indian affairs recommended drafting a treaty “with a view to the extinguishment of the Indians’ title” to open access to petroleum and other minerals. Within eight years, First Nations leaders had signed Treaty 8, in which they surrendered title of 325,000 square miles of land to the British crown while retaining the right to hunt, fish and trap freely throughout the area.The tar sands remained largely beyond reach for decades, however, until Americans, driven by nationalistic ambitions, invested vast sums of capital.When J. Howard Pew, of Sun Oil Co., opened the first commercial mine in 1967, the people of Fort McKay were not happy, said Jim Boucher, who led the First Nation as chief for three decades, until 2019. Sun Oil, now Suncor, took over an important summer hunting ground called Tar Island, he said. “There was no discussion, no consultation,” Boucher said.The fur trade had provided the nation’s members with one of their few sources of income. But it collapsed just as the oil industry was taking hold, and they had few alternatives but to turn to the oil companies’ rapidly expanding mines.“We had no choice,” Boucher said.After he became chief in 1986, Boucher formed the Fort McKay Group of Companies to work with the oil industry, and over the following decades he oversaw partnerships with energy companies that would eventually net hundreds of millions of dollars for the community.The income has allowed Fort McKay to build subsidized housing and to pay for education and elder care, achievements that Boucher rattles off proudly. Enrolled members receive quarterly dividends.Jim Boucher was the chief of the Fort McKay First Nation from 1986 until 1994 and again from 1996 until 2019.Michael KodasSome First Nations have fought the development with lawsuits. The Beaver Lake Cree Nation, to the south, sued the federal and provincial governments in 2008, saying its treaty rights had been violated by the cumulative effects of development. Even though it got a ruling five years later allowing the case to proceed, the case is still awaiting trial, with a court date scheduled for 2024.Each of the area’s First Nations has signed “impact benefit agreements” with the oil companies that can include limits on certain practices, like water withdrawals, quotas for hiring Indigenous people and direct payments to the nations. But even as the impact agreements have secured benefits, they have deepened reliance on an industry that is consuming the land that was once the base of the Indigenous economy and culture.​​L’Hommecourt, who is Boucher’s cousin, said she holds no resentment toward him for tying their people’s fate to the industry.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMan who stole Revolutionary-era rifle from museum decades ago sentenced to 1 dayU.S. newsU.S. newsN.J. man pleads guilty to federal charge of fraud in GoFundMe scam said to help homeless man“He did what he had to do, and as a chief I commend him,” L’Hommecourt said. “They call us the richest little First Nation in Canada.”Boucher lost his grandfather’s cabin, where he learned to hunt and trap as a boy, to a mine dug by Syncrude, a consortium of oil companies. A cabin Boucher later built for his father, to the north, now sits on a postage stamp of land, he said, surrounded by newer mines.“It’s empty. That’s how the cabin is to me,” Boucher said. “So I don’t go there anymore. No joy.” The effects	 While the mines cover an expansive area, their impact on the environment reaches much farther.The town of Fort Chipewyan sits where the Peace and Athabasca rivers empty into Lake Athabasca, about 90 miles north of the closest mine, and the land here offers a glimpse of what existed before. The mostly Indigenous residents can still hunt and trap in unbroken stretches of boreal forest.But while the nights are quiet and the air smells clean, the industry’s presence is strong. Kids zoom around town on ATVs, while the supermarket displays boxes of 87-inch flat-screen TVs —  ”toys,” as some residents call them, that only those who work in the industry can afford.And despite the lake’s distance from the development, the flesh of some animals that drink from it is laced with some of the same heavy metals that collect in the waste pits.In 2010, a paper published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences found elevated levels of mercury, lead, nickel and other heavy metals in the river downstream of oil sands development, as well as in Lake Athabasca. Three years later, another study in the same journal examined lake sediments surrounding Fort McMurray and found that a group of chemicals that include cancer-causing compounds started rising in the 1960s and ʼ70s, when oil sands development began.The Athabasca Chipewyan and Mikisew Cree First Nations commissioned Stéphane McLachlan, an environmental scientist at the University of Manitoba, to test the tissues of animals, and in 2014 he released a report finding elevated levels of toxic pollutants — including arsenic, mercury and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons — in the flesh of moose, ducks and muskrats in the region.Provincial officials acknowledge that the mines’ waste ponds leak into groundwater. To “limit the risk” that the seepage will spread farther, the Alberta Energy Regulator requires companies to install drains, wells, sumps and underground walls to capture and contain the contamination, said Coldbeck, the agency spokeswoman.An oil sands mine in Alberta adjacent to boreal forest outside of Fort McMurray.Michael KodasFederal and provincial officials have disputed research that has linked groundwater contamination to the waste pits, citing other studies that indicate that the compounds may be naturally occurring in groundwater because they are contained in bitumen.But last year, the Commission for Environmental Cooperation, an environmental body created alongside the North American Free Trade Agreement, assessed all the published studies of water contamination and concluded that there was “scientifically valid evidence” that the waste pits were leaching contaminants into groundwater. The analysis noted that some research has concluded that the contamination reached the Athabasca River but that scientists were still debating the findings.Asked about the report, Coldbeck said her agency “does not have any evidence” that contaminated groundwater has reached the Athabasca River. In response to a question about health concerns, she said the agency “is committed to ensuring that Alberta’s oil sands are developed in a safe and responsible manner” and referred questions to Alberta Health, the province’s public health agency.A spokesperson for Alberta Health did not reply to requests for comment.A spokeswoman for the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers declined to comment, pointing instead to reports the group has issued about engagement with Indigenous communities and about greenhouse gas emissions.Meanwhile, published surveys of cancer cases in Fort Chipewyan carried out in 2009 and 2014 came up with mixed results. Both showed higher-than-normal rates of certain cancers, including biliary tract cancers. One study determined that overall cancer rates were elevated. The other did not.Alice Rigney, an elder with the Athabasca Chipewyan First Nation, blames the oil development for her nephew’s death from bile duct cancer, even as she acknowledges that there is nothing to prove the connection.“They took it all away,” she said of the oil companies, speaking not just about her nephew but also about the broader environmental impacts. “What else is there to take?”The futureThe global oil industry is increasingly under assault, and Canada’s tar sands, because of the developments’ high greenhouse gas emissions, are a prime target of climate activists. Because new tar sands projects require billions of dollars of investment up front, many financial analysts say the era of opening new mines is over.		But even if production from the mines holds steady or declines gradually, their massive footprints are likely to expand for decades, because companies must continue to clear land to keep up production.And whenever the mines do decline, the industry will face the challenge of what to do with the waste it has produced. The provincial government has secured $730 million from companies as collateral for a cleanup, but that will not even begin to cover the costs. While regulators’ official estimate of the liability for Alberta’s mining industry is $27 billion, an internal report obtained in 2018 by Canadian journalists estimated cleanup costs of more than $100 billion. Jean L'Hommecourt visits a river near the Fort McKay First Nation's village about an hour's drive north of Fort McMurray in Alberta.Michael KodasL’Hommecourt said she is torn about whether she will remain here. “My heart is in the boreal forest,” she said. But her kids want to move away, and if they do, she might, too. The mines are coming closer to the cabin, and more roads are being blocked off.Regulatory filings show that Imperial Oil plans eventually to reroute the creek that runs past her cabin to make way for its Kearl mine. If it does so, the land where the cabin sits would be buried by land cleared from elsewhere within the mine.A spokeswoman for Imperial, Exxon’s Canadian affiliate, declined to comment specifically on the filings but said the company “has collaborative and unique relationship agreements with these local communities that provide mutual benefits.”The cabin itself has been a symbol of L’Hommecourt’s resistance. It sits on an old trappers’ trail that Imperial’s workers began using about 10 years ago as an unpaved access road for exploration, marking it off with a “No Trespassing” sign. L’Hommecourt built her cabin in the middle of that road.“I just said, ‘I don’t care,’” L’Hommecourt said. “I’m going to put my house right here, and this is where it’s going to be.” When company workers come by, she said, “I just tell them, ‘Turn around and go back, and if you have a problem with it, get your VP or whoever it is that you report to and then tell them to come and see me.’”So far, no one has shown up.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Waukesha parade suspect charged with 5 counts of homicide; prosecutors announce 6th death . Darrell Brooks, the Wisconsin man who was arrested and accused of driving an SUV into crowds at the Waukesha Christmas parade Sunday, was charged Tuesday with five counts of first-degree intentional homicide.Prosecutors said that a sixth person, a minor, was confirmed to have died Tuesday and that another intentional homicide charge is expected to be added within a week.Brooks, 39, is accused of driving a maroon SUV directly through the parade as it proceeded down Main Street, striking people and a float, police said Sunday night.Six people were killed, and over 40 others were injured. In over a decade before the incident, Brooks had accrued an extensive criminal record, with arrests for sexual abuse, cannabis possession, battery and domestic abuse, according to records. Brooks’ record, which was reviewed at his hearing, factored into the decision to set cash bail at $5 million with extensive conditions. "It's extraordinarily high, but it's an extraordinarily big case," said Waukesha County Court Commissioner Kevin M. Costello.Waukesha County District Attorney Susan L. Opper said: "There's a long history of flights, obstruction, bail-jumping-type behavior, your honor. It's remarkable that these are violations all around the state of Wisconsin."Waukesha parade death suspect charged with 5 counts of intentional homicideNov. 23, 202101:20Brooks sat hunched over, rocking in his seat and apparently crying, as Costello read the charges.Brooks had posted $1,000 bail on Nov. 11 to secure his freedom less than a week after he was charged with resisting or obstructing an officer, jumping bail, recklessly endangering safety, disorderly conduct and battery, which were connected to domestic abuse allegations. Police said Sunday that they had been called to respond to a domestic disturbance involving Brooks and a knife before they were redirected to the parade route.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMan who stole Revolutionary-era rifle from museum decades ago sentenced to 1 dayU.S. newsU.S. newsN.J. man pleads guilty to federal charge of fraud in GoFundMe scam said to help homeless manBrooks is alleged to have fled the domestic disturbance in the maroon SUV and then driven through the parade.“Was there an initial complaint of a knife being involved? Yes,” Police Chief Daniel Thompson said Sunday. “Do we know if there actually was one there? We don’t know, because we didn’t even make it there. We ended up immediately responding to the crisis.” Prosecutors in Wisconsin admitted Monday that they had asked for "inappropriately" low bail for Brooks on charges related to domestic abuse allegations. Doorbell camera video recorded less than a mile from the parade route, which was obtained Tuesday by NBC News, shows the moments before Brooks was arrested.Brooks can be seen begging a resident of the home, Daniel Rider, for help, saying that he was waiting for an Uber ride and that he was homeless. After police arrived, Brooks was arrested.Brooks is due back in court Jan. 14.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Doorbell video appears to show arrest of Waukesha parade suspect . The suspect accused of mowing down a crowd of holiday revelers in Wisconsin was captured in a doorbell camera before his arrest pleading for help and telling a resident he was waiting for an Uber, according to video obtained Monday by NBC News.The Nov. 21 video also shows authorities arriving at the Waukesha home and telling the suspect, Darrell Brooks, 39, to put his hands up.It isn’t clear whether the house, roughly a half-mile from the Waukesha Christmas parade route that Brooks is accused of plowing into, is where police placed him under arrest.Doorbell camera image appears to show Waukesha suspect, Darrell Brooks, standing on a porch before being apprehended.Courtesy / Daniel RiderThe Waukesha Police Department did not respond to requests for comment Monday. In videos shared with by NBC News by resident Daniel Rider, Brooks — wearing a T-shirt and shivering on Rider's front porch — can be seen knocking on the home's front door. A timestamp on the video shows that it was recorded just after 5 p.m. local time, about 20 minutes after Brooks allegedly tore through parade route barricades, killing five people and injuring dozens more."I called an Uber and I'm supposed to be waiting for it over here, but I don't know when it's coming," he can be heard saying. "Can you call it for me please? I'm homeless."In an interview, Rider, who'd been away on a hunting trip and was watching football when the crash occurred, said he had no idea about what had just happened blocks away. He said he invited Brooks inside and gave him a jacket, made him a sandwich and let him use his phone."All of a sudden, I look outside my street and I see a few cop cars drive by and I'm getting extra nervous," he said.Rider said he asked Brooks to leave, and he did. After Rider's neighbor called police, Brooks began "pounding" on Rider's front door, saying he'd left his ID, Rider recalled.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMan who stole Revolutionary-era rifle from museum decades ago sentenced to 1 dayU.S. newsU.S. newsN.J. man pleads guilty to federal charge of fraud in GoFundMe scam said to help homeless man"Then the next thing you know, you see the cops with lights on him saying, 'hands in the air, hands in the air.'"The encounter, part of which was captured on video, showed Brooks walking around Rider's front porch. Police officers can be seen arriving at the house and ordering Brooks to put his hands up."Whoa, whoa, whoa," he can be heard saying while appearing to comply.Authorities have said that Brooks fled the scene of a domestic disturbance just before the crash. Responding officers were redirected to the parade route, which observers compared to a war zone.Brooks, who has a lengthy criminal history that includes sexual abuse and battery, was charged Nov. 5 in a separate domestic violence case. He posted $1,000 cash bond was released six days later.His lawyer in that case has declined to comment to NBC News. It isn't clear if he has another lawyer for the charges related to Sunday's crash. Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Malcolm X's daughter found dead in Brooklyn, officials say. Malikah Shabazz, one of six daughters of slain civil rights activist Malcolm X, was found dead Monday at her Brooklyn home, police said.Shabazz, 56, was found unresponsive in her home in Midwood on Monday afternoon, and the death is not deemed suspicious, an NYPD spokesperson said. Police responded shortly after 4:30 p.m., and emergency services were already at the scene.Shabazz's daughter had called 911, police said. Her death was reported earlier Monday by NBC New York. The medical examiner told the station she was found unresponsive and was pronounced dead.Malcolm X was slain in 1965. Last week two men convicted of killing him were exonerated.Two men convicted of killing Malcom X could be exoneratedNov. 18, 202100:45The convictions against Muhammad Aziz and Khalil Islam were thrown out Thursday. They had always maintained their innocence. Islam died in 2009.Malikah Shabazz, one of twins, was born after their father was slain.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMan who stole Revolutionary-era rifle from museum decades ago sentenced to 1 dayU.S. newsU.S. newsN.J. man pleads guilty to federal charge of fraud in GoFundMe scam said to help homeless manTheir mother was pregnant with them when Malcolm X was fatally shot at the Audubon Ballroom in New York City, where hundreds had gathered to hear him speak, on Feb. 21, 1965.Bernice King, daughter or Martin Luther King Jr., tweeted her condolences, saying she was deeply saddened. "My heart goes out to her family, the descendants of Dr. Betty Shabazz and Malcolm X," she wrote in part.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Lil Nas X's song about gay sex earns 3 Grammy nominations. Rapper Lil Nas X's hit song about gay sex was nominated Tuesday for three Grammy Awards, catapulting LGBTQ narratives to the highest echelon of achievement in the music industry.The provocative song  — “Montero (Call Me By Your Name)” — is up for song of the year, record of the year and best music video at the 64th annual Grammy Awards, which are being held Jan. 31 in Los Angeles. Its title is a reference to the gay romance novel and 2017 film “Call Me By Your Name.” But its lyrics are less about love and more about lust, with lines including “romantic talking? You don’t even have to try” and "I’m not fazed, only here to sin." Grammy awards announce nominees for 64th annual ceremonyNov. 23, 202100:26In the music video for the song, Lil Nas X is seduced out of what appears to be the Garden of Eden, falls into hell and gives the devil a lap dance.Lil Nas X, whose real name is Montero Lamar Hill, celebrated his nominations and thanked his fans in a string of Twitter posts."don’t have to win a single award, truly thankful for all the insight this year has brought me. and thankful for the journey. love u guys," the 22-year-old rapper wrote.In total, he was nominated for five of the major music awards, including for album of the year for his debut studio album, “Montero,” which opened at No. 2 on the Billboard 200 albums chart. Last year, he won two out of the six Grammy Awards he was nominated for, including for best music video for his hit song "Old Town Road (Remix)."LGBTQ advocates applauded the groundbreaking nature of the rapper's nominations.RecommendedOUT NewsOUT NewsIowa Medicaid denial of transgender surgery unlawful, judge rulesOUT NewsOUT NewsJ.K. Rowling slams transgender activists for posting her home address on Twitter"Lil Nas X continues to open doors for greater LGBTQ inclusion in rap and hip-hop, which will undoubtedly inspire and empower a new generation of artists to embrace their authenticity and individuality," GLAAD President & CEO Sarah Kate Ellis said in a statement Tuesday. Other LGBTQ artists who received Grammy nominations Tuesday include singer-songwriter Brandi Carlile, pop star Halsey and singer-songwriter Arlo Parks. Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Iowa Medicaid denial of transgender surgery unlawful, judge rules. An Iowa law that prohibits Medicaid coverage for sex reassignment surgeries for transgender residents violates state law and the state constitution, a judge ruled in a decision made public Monday.Judge William Kelly ordered the Iowa Department of Human Services to provide coverage for sex reassignment surgeries when ordered to treat gender dysphoria, a psychological distress that results from an incongruence between one’s sex assigned at birth and one’s gender identity. It often begins in childhood, and some people may not experience it until after puberty or much later, according to the American Psychiatric Association.At least nine states across the U.S. explicitly exclude gender-affirming care in Medicaid coverage, while 24 states and Washington, D.C., explicitly include this type of care, according to the Movement Advancement Project, an LGBTQ think tank. The remaining states have no explicit policy. The ruling is a victory for Aiden Vasquez and Mika Covington, two Iowans represented by the American Civil Liberties Union of Iowa.Aiden Vasquez.ACLUKelly said state and federal courts in the past 16 years have found that gender identity discrimination is a form of sex discrimination which is prohibited under civil rights laws. He also found the law violated the equal protection clause of the state constitution.It is not challenged in the record that surgical treatment for gender dysphoria is a serious medical condition and the surgery is recommended for Vasquez and Covington by medical professionals as necessary and effective, the judge said. He said Medicaid coverage is fundamental to ensure the availability of that treatment for economically disadvantaged Iowans.“Once the medical community determined that surgery is medically necessary to treat this health issue, the government lost its rational basis to refuse to pay for the surgery,” Kelly said in a ruling signed on Friday but posted publicly with online court records on Monday. “The law appears to draw an arbitrary distinction. So, there is no plausible policy reason advanced by, or rationally related to, excluding transgender people from Medicaid reimbursement for medically necessary procedures.”RecommendedOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureLil Nas X's song about gay sex earns 3 Grammy nominationsOUT NewsOUT NewsJ.K. Rowling slams transgender activists for posting her home address on TwitterRita Bettis Austen, legal director of the ACLU of Iowa, called the decision “a historic win for civil rights” in Iowa.“It recognizes what we’ve long known, that transgender Iowans must not be discriminated against, and that they are protected by the Iowa Constitution’s guarantee of equal protection, as well as by the Iowa Civil Rights Act,” Bettis Austen said.The ACLU of Iowa filed a lawsuit in April against the state of Iowa challenging a 2019 law that allows Medicaid to deny payment for sex reassignment surgeries for transgender residents.Vasquez and Covington initially sued in 2017 and a state court judge found the policy violated the Iowa Civil Rights Act and the Iowa Supreme Court in 2019 upheld that decision. The court concluded that Iowa’s Medicaid program may not categorically discriminate against transgender people seeking gender-affirming, medically necessary care.Shortly after the court ruling, Republicans in the Iowa Legislature passed an amendment as part of a last-minute addition to a human services budget bill in response to the court’s ruling. That change stated that any government agency in Iowa may decline to use taxpayer money for “sex reassignment surgery” or “any other cosmetic reconstructive or plastic surgery procedure related to transsexualism, hermaphroditism, gender identity disorder, or body dysmorphic disorder.”Vasquez and Covington, however, had to take their cases through the Department of Human Services system and apply for surgery, have it denied based on the new law and then again pursue a challenge in court. The Iowa DHS has since denied coverage to them. Vasquez is a transgender man who was diagnosed with gender dysphoria in 2016 and Mika Covington is a transgender woman who was diagnosed with gender dysphoria and began receiving hormone therapy in 2015.Gov. Kim Reynolds signed the bill into law in May 2019, arguing it only narrowly clarifies that Iowa’s Civil Rights Act does not require taxpayer dollars to pay for sex reassignment and other similar surgeries.Reynolds’ spokesman Alex Murphy said she is disappointed by the ruling “and disagrees with the district court’s ruling on Medicaid coverage for transgender reassignment surgeries. We are reviewing the decision with our legal team and exploring all options moving forward.”Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
J.K. Rowling slams transgender activists for posting her home address on Twitter. “Harry Potter” author J.K. Rowling slammed transgender activists Monday for publicizing her home address on social media. On Friday night, the eve of Transgender Day of Remembrance, comedian Holly Stars, actor Georgia Frost and drag king Richard Energy staged a demonstration in front of Rowling's home near Edinburgh, Scotland, in protest against her controversial views on the trans community. In a thread on Twitter, Rowling bashed the trio for "doxxing" her when they posted a now-deleted photo on the social media site with her home address visible in the background. "Doxxing" is the publication of someone's private information online without their consent."I have to assume that @IAmGeorgiaFrost, @hollywstars and @Richard_Energy_ thought doxxing me would intimidate me out of speaking up for women’s sex-based rights," Rowling wrote. "They should have reflected on the fact that I’ve now received so many death threats I could paper the house with them, and I haven’t stopped speaking out.""Perhaps — and I’m just throwing this out there — the best way to prove your movement isn’t a threat to women, is to stop stalking, harassing and threatening us," she added.Stars defended posting the photo and said she deleted the tweet after she received online threats."While we stand by the photo, since posting it we have received an overwhelming amount of serious and threatening transphobic messages so have decided to take the photo down," Stars wrote. "Love to our trans siblings."The disagreement is the latest battle in a war between Rowling and trans activists. Over the last several years, Rowling has been criticized for her controversial views on the trans community, which some have called transphobic.The rift blew up in 2019 when Rowling expressed her support for Maya Forstater, a British tax specialist who was fired for tweets that were deemed to be anti-transgender. Rowling then drew criticism for a slew of  tweets that were widely seen as including transphobic ideas.Last year, she doubled down on her views in a nearly 4,000-word blog post, questioning whether a “contagion” fueled by social media has led to the rise in the number of young people coming out as transgender. In the blog post, she also revealed that she is a survivor of domestic abuse and sexual assault. RecommendedOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureLil Nas X's song about gay sex earns 3 Grammy nominationsOUT NewsOUT NewsIowa Medicaid denial of transgender surgery unlawful, judge rules“So I want trans women to be safe. At the same time, I do not want to make natal girls and women less safe. When you throw open the doors of bathrooms and changing rooms to any man who believes or feels he’s a woman — and, as I’ve said, gender confirmation certificates may now be granted without any need for surgery or hormones — then you open the door to any and all men who wish to come inside. That is the simple truth,” she wrote.Rowling's views have led many to label her as a "TERF," which stands for transgender-exclusionary radical feminist. On Monday, she again defended women who share her views on trans people."None of these women are protected in the way I am. They and their families have been put into a state of fear and distress for no other reason than that they refuse to uncritically accept that the socio-political concept of gender identity should replace that of sex," she wrote. "Harry Potter" star Daniel Radcliffe hit back at Rowling last year in an essay, declaring that "transgender women are women.” “Any statement to the contrary erases the identity and dignity of transgender people and goes against all advice given by professional health care associations, who have far more expertise on this subject matter than either Jo or I,” he wrote, using a nickname for Rowling.Cast members from all eight films of the “Harry Potter” series, including Radcliffe, announced last week that they will reunite for the film franchise’s 20th anniversary.Rowling will not appear in the reunion special but will be featured in archival footage.Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & Instagram Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Colton Underwood's Netflix series 'Coming Out Colton' sets release date. LOS ANGELES - Colton Underwood's much buzzed-about new series is coming to Netflix very soon.The unscripted six-episode series, titled "Coming Out Colton," will launch on the streaming service on Dec. 3."Coming Out Colton" will chronicle Underwood's coming out story, as he reveals he is gay to his family and friends, with cameras following his journey. In the series, the former star of "The Bachelor" will also address the controversy that surrounded him coming out.A former football player, Underwood made major headlines this past April when he came out as gay in an interview on "Good Morning America" with Robin Roberts. While the moment was heralded by GLAAD, The Trevor Project and many within the LGBTQ community, backlash quickly ensued.When the Netflix series was announced, many took issue with a white cisgender man getting a platform that other less represented groups are not afforded, and some people questioned whether Underwood was monetizing his coming out journey.Underwood, who met his ex-girlfriend Cassie Randolph on "The Bachelor," was accused in 2020 of stalking her and placing a tracking device on her car. She filed a restraining order against him, which she later dismissed and asked police to drop the investigation. When he came out, the allegations resurfaced on social media, with many criticizing Underwood for using his coming out moment to evade accountability for the legal matters.The month after he came out, Underwood appeared on the cover of Variety in May 2020 to address the controversy, his intentions of coming out and the magnitude of the moment, which could make great impact on the sports community and beyond."I never want people to think that I'm coming out to change the narrative, or to brush over and not take responsibility for my actions, and now that I have this gay life that I don't have to address my past as a straight man," Underwood told Variety. "Controlling situations to try to grasp at any part of the straight fantasy that I was trying to live out was so wrong."RecommendedOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureLil Nas X's song about gay sex earns 3 Grammy nominationsOUT NewsOUT NewsIowa Medicaid denial of transgender surgery unlawful, judge rulesIn the cover story, Underwood spoke about the lives he hopes to touch by sharing his story so publicly."I had never seen a football player that had made it to the NFL that had been gay, growing up Catholic," Underwood said, back in May. "I've had hundreds of gay Christian men and women who are confused in their walk with Jesus say, 'I felt closer to God when I came out.'"Sharing the first look image of his new series on Tuesday, Underwood posted on his Instagram, writing: "This image was captured moments after I came out to my dad, which was one of the most meaningful parts of my coming out journey. I'm looking forward to sharing more of my story with you including the lessons I've been learning along the way."Follow NBC Out on Twitter, Facebook & Instagram Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Groveland Four, the Black men accused in a 1949 rape, get case dismissed. In the summer of 1949, a 17-year-old lodged an accusation that would thrust the rural Florida community of Groveland into decadeslong turmoil: The white teenager told police she and her husband were driving home from a dance when they were attacked by four young Black men who abducted and raped her at gunpoint.The claims made by Norma Padgett, who is now in her 80s, set off a manhunt that spurred an onslaught of violence against Black residents of Groveland, near Orlando, mobilizing the National Guard and prompting Thurgood Marshall, then a lead attorney for the NAACP, to take up the cause of the men who would come to be known as the Groveland Four.It took seven decades before the state of Florida formally recognized how the four accused — Charles Greenlee, Walter Irvin, Samuel Shepherd and Ernest Thomas — were failed by the criminal justice system. Thomas was gunned down by a mob in the wake of Padgett's allegations, and the others have also since died. In 2019, Gov. Ron DeSantis issued the Groveland Four a posthumous pardon.But Monday morning, a circuit court judge in Lake County went further, clearing the charges against the men and issuing a ruling that effectively exonerated them of the crime. Bill Gladson, a local prosecutor, set the extraordinary move into motion last month when he filed paperwork to toss Thomas' and Shepherd's indictments and set aside the sentences and judgments imposed on Greenlee and Irvin."We followed the evidence to see where it led us, and it led us to this moment," Gladson said at a news conference following the judge's decision.Carol Greenlee, the daughter of Charles Greenlee, who at 16 was the youngest of the suspects, wept and fell into the arms of those next to her as a judge formally dismissed the charges."If you know something is right, stand up for it," she said later of the lessons she learned. "Be persistent."In an earlier statement, Carol Greenlee said that despite proclamations from the governor and the state Legislature and a monument dedicated in honor of the Groveland Four, the families were awaiting "full justice" from the judicial branch to feel vindicated.How the lynching of a 14-year-old boy sparked a movementMarch 24, 201812:26Among those who traveled to Florida to witness the court's decision was Marshall's son, Thurgood Marshall Jr."There are countless people we need to remember who suffered similar fates who have been lost to history," Marshall Jr. said at the news conference. "Perhaps of all the cases my father worked on, this one haunted him for many, many years. And he believed there were better days ahead."The Groveland Four became a disturbing example of racial injustice from the Jim Crow-era, and preceded the high-profile killing of Emmett Till, a Black 14-year-old who was lynched in Mississippi in 1955 by white men after he was accused of whistling at a white woman.Such incidents show how the desire to protect white women was used to justify racism and the oppression of Black people's rights, said author Gilbert King, whose book "Devil in the Grove," which investigated the Groveland Four case and won the Pulitzer Prize for nonfiction in 2013.Gladson's appeal to ask a judge to dismiss charges against the Groveland Four was not based on whether Padgett may be lying, King said, but rather on the prosecutorial misconduct and the fabrication of evidence at the time.Padgett had said the couple’s car had stalled as they drove home from the dance when they were confronted by the four Black men who attacked her husband before abducting and raping her. Following her accusations, a mob of hundreds of white men led by Lake County Sheriff Willis McCall tracked Thomas to a swamp, where they found him asleep and shot him more than 400 times. Meanwhile, Greenlee, Irvin and Shepherd were arrested and later convicted by all-white juries. Marshall, who years later would become the first Black justice of the Supreme Court, had helped Irvin and Shepherd win appeals to have their case retried. In 1951, while Irvin and Shepherd were being transported, McCall shot the men, claiming they tried to escape. Shepherd, a World War II veteran, was killed, but Irvin survived and was convicted even though an FBI agent testified that prosecutors manufactured evidence against the men.Relatives of the Groveland Four, including Carol Greenlee, right, gather at a  monument that was unveiled in front of the Old Lake County Courthouse in Tavares, Fla., on Feb. 21, 2020. Joe Burbank / TNS via Getty Images fileIrvin, also a World War II veteran, received the death penalty. His sentence was later commuted to life in prison, and he was eventually paroled in 1968. He died the following year.Greenlee was paroled in 1962 and died in 2012.Padgett has rarely spoken publicly about the case, and her family did not return a message seeking comment. She last appeared before the state clemency board in January 2019 to ask them not to pardon the men."Y'all just don't know what kind of horror I've been through for all these many years," she told the board at the time. "I don't want them pardoned, no I do not, and you wouldn't neither."As part of his investigation, Gladson spoke with a grandson of the prosecutor in the case, now deceased, who said his grandfather and a judge believed no rape occurred. Gladson also had Irvin's pants tested at a crime lab, and the results showed no evidence of semen even though jurors at his trial were made to believe it existed.Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, Lake County Sheriff Peyton C. Grinnell, state Rep. Geraldine Thompson and other elected officials and family members unveil the Groveland Four monument in front of the Old Lake County Courthouse in Tavares, Fla., on Feb. 21, 2020.  Joe Burbank / TNS via Getty Images file"Officials, disguised as keepers of the peace and masquerading as ministers of justice, disregarded their oaths, and set in motion a series of events that forever destroyed these men, their families, and a community," Gladson wrote in his motion. "I have not witnessed a more complete breakdown of the criminal justice system."The dismissal of the Groveland Four's case is a rarity, particularly when none of the accused are still living, and prosecutors are generally reluctant or unable to revisit older cases because witnesses are no longer alive or documents and evidence are destroyed or missing.Other states this month moved to recognize people arrested for crimes in such historic cases. A state board in Louisiana unanimously granted a posthumous pardon to Homer Plessy, a Creole man who refused to leave a whites-only train car in the 1890s, which led to the Supreme Court's "separate but equal" ruling. In New York, two men who served decades in prison despite proclaiming their innocence in the 1965 assassination of civil rights icon Malcolm X had their convictions formally thrown out Thursday. Only one of the two men is still alive.A reopening of civil rights-era cases — and a reckoning with the past  — are essential, King said."Sometimes, by going back into the past and correcting a gross injustice, it adds more integrity to the court system today," he said.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Support for Black Lives Matter movement is declining, according to new poll. A new poll found a decline in support among Americans for the Black Lives Matter movement, a year and a half after the killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis and other high-profile deaths of Black people in encounters with police sparked a global outcry. According to a national poll conducted by Civiqs, a nonpartisan online survey firm affiliated with the progressive media group Daily Kos, 44 percent of respondents, overall, said they support the Black Lives Matter movement. Another 43 oppose said they support it, while 11 percent said they neither support nor oppose it. The survey has tracked respondents’ viewpoints at multiple moments from April 2017 to this month. Civiqs did not provide a margin of error.According to the poll, support for the Black Lives Matter movement peaked in June 2020 at 52 percent, a month after Floyd was killed.  At the height of the movement, protesters marched across the country  to express their outrage at Floyd’s death, which was seen by millions in disturbing video showing Floyd losing consciousness as a white police officer knelt on his neck for almost 10 minutes. Since then, public support to Black Lives Matter has continue to decline, including after the shooting of Jacob Blake, a Black man, by police officers in Kenosha, Wisconsin, in August 2020 and the conviction in April of former police officer Derek Chauvin in the murder of Floyd.While 82 percent of Black respondents said they support the Black Lives Matter movement, 53 percent of white respondents said they opposed the movement, reflecting a pattern of public opinion when it comes to racial justice movements, said Vida Robertson, the director of the Center for Critical Race Studies at the University of Houston-Downtown. Robertson said the findings reveal the historical phenomenon of the liberation struggles of Black Americans and civil rights movements, from the Harlem Renaissance to the Black Power movement.“These polls are quite representative of America’s approach,” Robertson said. “There’s no historical evidence whatsoever that America has ever been interested in Black liberation and building an equitable society. We are simply coming to grips with our romantic ideals that are running up against our political realities. And the fact stands that America has constantly and will constantly struggle with the liberation of Black bodies, because we are endemically a racist society.”Black Lives Matter, founded in 2013 after the acquittal of George Zimmerman in the killing of a Black teenager, Trayvon Martin, began as a hashtag and grew into a global organization. In a previous interview, Alicia Garza, a co-founder of Black Lives Matter, said her organization has been adapting its focus toward more structural reforms.Robertson said he believes far more people became aware of issues affecting the Black community, such as police brutality, during the Covid-19 pandemic, which allowed the country to focus on problems that would otherwise have been ignored. However, as the pandemic shifts, so does support for movements like Black Lives Matter. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMan who stole Revolutionary-era rifle from museum decades ago sentenced to 1 dayU.S. newsU.S. newsN.J. man pleads guilty to federal charge of fraud in GoFundMe scam said to help homeless man“Our country is simply going back to default,” Robertson said. “Our job is to reconstruct the game, so that we can actually move beyond winning them over to becoming the American Dream that we longed for.”Follow NBCBLK on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.CORRECTION (Nov. 22, 2:29 p.m.): A previous version of this article mischaracterized the respondents to the survey who said they support the Black Lives Matter movement. Eighty-two percent of the respondents who are Black support the movement, not 82 percent of overall respondents.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Stores push for a more diverse pool of Santas.  Old NavyOld Navy is launching a virtual “Santa BOOT Camp” on Friday to train would-be Kris Kringles of color in the art of spreading holiday cheer and make the ranks of the people who play the iconic Christmas character a little less white. But as conservative pundits and politicians stoke white grievance and a national battle rages over the teaching of critical race theory, one of the original Black Santas has some advice for the newbies who intend to don the red suit this season: Disarm the bigots with Christmas cheer.“I’m not about politics and I’m a faith-based Santa, so I know I am not the reason for the season and I’m happy to share that with anyone willing to listen,” Dion “Santa Dee” Sinclair, aka “The Real Black Santa,” told NBC News. “But if I’m not your kind of Santa, that’s OK. I will keep smiling and wishing the kids Merry Christmas and Happy Holidays.”Besides, Sinclair said, “the kids don’t see color. All they see is Santa Claus.”Dion Sinclair prepares to visit children at a library in Atlanta in 2013. John Bazemore / AP fileOther stores like Macy's and major retail outlets like the Mall of America in Minnesota have also tried to diversify their Santa ranks, delighting many shoppers while dismaying others. “It is a concern,” another of America’s premier Santas, Tim “Santa Tim” Connaghan, said when asked about the anger over nonwhite Santas. “Change is hard for some people, and things are definitely changing.”What’s not addressed specifically in the Old Navy tutorial is how a nonwhite Santa deals with bigotry, a company spokesperson said.“Our Santa BOOTcamp is a lighthearted experience aimed at bringing out the inner holiday spirit in all of our attendees,” a company statement said. “We will provide guidance on some of the most common challenges of playing Santa, including how to handle outrageous gift requests and to temper potential disbelief in little ones."Inside the world’s oldest Santa school ahead of the holidaysNov. 18, 202105:06That said, Old Navy said it “stands for inclusivity and has a zero tolerance police for workplace discrimination and harassment.”"Our brand is deeply committed to ensuring all employees — inclusive of our in-store Santas — are treated with respect and dignity."Sinclair, who is 57 and says he “became Santa Claus” some 20 years ago, is one of the Santa trainers taking part in Old Navy’s “Happy ALL-idays” campaign. In the 30-minute virtual course, the Santa trainees will also learn some key phrases in both sign language and Spanish, and how to take that perfect holiday photo, he said.“One of the most important things is to never make a promise you can’t keep,” Sinclair said. “If a child wants a certain present, you say ‘Let’s see what we can do.’ In my heart, I would give every kid the toy they want out of my bag. But the parents can’t always afford the present their child wants.”The most promising Santa boot camp grads could find themselves deployed to Old Navy’s flagship stories in New York City, Chicago and San Francisco.“There aren’t a lot of Santa’s out there who're like me,” said Sinclair. “It’s even harder to find an Asian Santa. Believe me, I’ve tried.”Connaghan, who is the national Santa for the Marine Corps and Toys for Tots, agreed. He, too, is taking part in the Santa BOOT Camp.“Businesses like Old Navy understand that more and more customers want their Santas to look like them,” said Connaghan, who also owns the Kringle Group, which is one of the largest Santa booking agencies. “But it’s just very hard to find an Asian or Hispanic or African American Santa, especially one with a full white and real beard. Many are, I guess you can say, follicly challenged.”“I am lucky,” Sinclair, who sports a bushy white beard year-round, said. “But lots of Black men have trouble growing a beard like mine, and the theatrical white beards don’t fool the kids anymore. The kids are smart. They can tell when somebody is wearing a fake beard.”Sinclair’s and Connaghan’s assertion about the scarcity of nonwhite Santas is backed up by some actual numbers. In a nation where half the children under the age of 15 are nonwhite, less than 5 percent of the professional Santas working the malls and street corners and festive gatherings are Black or Asian or Hispanic, according to a Santa survey done in 2017 by The Tampa Bay Times.But the idea of Santa being anything but an elderly white man with a big beard and rosy red cheeks has never sat well with some segments of U.S. society when Black Santas first started appearing after World War II.Santa shortage leading up to holiday seasonNov. 14, 202101:42In 2013, then-Fox News personality Megyn Kelly sparked a firestorm when she insisted on her show that both Santa and Jesus were white and anybody who believed otherwise needed to get over it. Three years later, the Mall of America was hit with an online backlash when it hired Larry Jefferson as its first Black Santa, a process that required a nationwide search.Sinclair, a father of four and grandfather of two based in Atlanta, said he came face-to-face with that ugliness early on in his Santa career when he found himself working the evening shift at a mall in a mostly white Atlanta neighborhood.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMan who stole Revolutionary-era rifle from museum decades ago sentenced to 1 dayU.S. newsU.S. newsN.J. man pleads guilty to federal charge of fraud in GoFundMe scam said to help homeless man“A mom came who’d been in the mall earlier in the day and saw a white Santa and came back later in the day with her kids and, lo and behold, she found me,” Sinclair said. “'That’s not the Santa we’re looking for,' she told the manager. Her little daughter looked so disappointed. She just wanted to see the fat men in the red suit.”Why isn’t there more diversity among Santa Clauses? Connaghan addressed that very question in an essay several years back.Santa is based on the historical St. Nicholas, who is believed to have been a Greek bishop living in what’s now Turkey. But whenever he was portrayed in paintings during the Middle Ages and Renaissance he “mirrored the ethnicity of that community,” wrote Connaghan. Good old American commerce help solidify the image in the American psyche that Santa was, as Connaghan put it, “a white male with a beard of white.”As a result, many children were brought up with the idea that Santa is white. But good old American commerce also recognized rising Black consumer power after World War II and began hiring Black Santas to entertain children at department stores during the Christmas season, historian E. James West wrote in The Washington Post last year.Still, the resistance to a Black Santa “can be connected to the so-called War on Christmas which has become a conservative rallying cry over the past two decades,” West wrote. Connaghan said many generations of America grew up with a fixed concept of what Santa was supposed to look like “and just accepted it.”"That includes a lot of Black and Hispanic people who never thought of Santa as being anything other that white, like the Coca-Cola Santa," he said. But as the country changes, so, too, will the country’s concept of Santa, Connaghan and Sinclair said. “I think, in a couple of years, most people won’t be looking for Santas with white beards, and won’t be expecting a Santa that looks like Tim Allen,” Connaghan said, referring to the star of the 1994 movie “The Santa Clause,” who is also white. “Santa is constantly evolving.”Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
John Cho on Netflix's ‘Cowboy Bebop’ remake, his ‘most intense job’ yet. He's the star of Netflix’s “Cowboy Bebop” remake, but John Cho would be the first to admit that he hadn’t been aware of the original anime television series before his agent sent him the script for the reboot. But when he read it, he was hooked. “This is the most intense job I’ve ever had, for sure, in what it required of me,” he tells NBC Asian America.“Cowboy Bebop,” based on the anime series of the same name from  Japan's Sunrise animation studio, is available to stream on Netflix. It takes place in the future where the Earth is uninhabitable and mankind has created colonies on other planets. The hero of the show is space cowboy Spike Spiegel (played by Cho), a bounty hunter who captures criminals with his partners, Jet Black (Mustafa Shakir) and Faye Valentine (Daniella Pineda), aboard the spaceship Bebop.“The show is such a mixture of disparate genres,” Cho says. “And that was the attraction of it: I can do a Western, a screwball comedy, a buddy-cop movie, noir and an action film all in one.”Mustafa Shakir as Black Jet and John Cho as Spike Spiegel in "Cowboy Bebop."Geoffrey Short / NetflixCho is no stranger to space narratives (he did play Sulu in the “Star Trek” reboot, after all). But “Cowboy Bebop” has allowed him to stretch himself as an actor in ways he hasn’t before. In the 10 episodes of the first season of the show, he does everything from hand-to-hand combat and gun slinging, to cracking jokes and being a romantic lead — it’s equal parts drama, action, and comedy. “It’s definitely fun to do all of the above at once,” he says.The original “Cowboy Bebop,” which premiered in Japan in 1998 and in the United States in 2001, is considered an anime classic, with legions of fans attracted to its stylish imagery, jazz-infused score, sense of listlessness and ennui. So there were high expectations for the live action remark. Cho was aware of all of this, which made the project all that more intimidating.“As soon as I saw [the anime], I was a fan,” he said. Cho says that a key challenge in making a live action “Cowboy Bebop” was that, “it has to be recognizable as ‘Cowboy Bebop,’ but ... you want to do what you can to make it feel creative. And you want to feel free and like you’re having fun.”The first thing that he did was figure out who his version of Spike Spiegel was. Though he wears the same iconic blue suit as the anime character, and even grew out his hair to mimic Spike’s hair, he is older than the character, who is 27. Cho is 49.He admits he wasn’t sure if he was able to tackle the role: “It’s a different medium. And he was painted. So how do I make him a person that I have to walk around in,” he explains. “I wasn’t assured that I was going to be able to find it. In “Cowboy Bebop,” Spike is a character with a dark and tragic past he is trying to run away from. He is playful, with a cool swagger. He is also reserved and keeps his feelings, and his past, close to his chest.To Cho, Spike is “trying to erase the past and become a new person,” and the show asks, “Is that possible?” To him, this notion of reinvention was relatable. He is an immigrant and came to the U.S. when he was 6 years old. Spike wants to chart a new path for himself. Cho saw parallels between Spike’s journey and “the immigrant journey,” he says. “I could definitely relate to Spike wanting the freedom to declare who he is.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMan who stole Revolutionary-era rifle from museum decades ago sentenced to 1 dayU.S. newsU.S. newsN.J. man pleads guilty to federal charge of fraud in GoFundMe scam said to help homeless manAs a kid, after moving to the U.S. from Seoul, his family moved around frequently, living in Houston, Seattle, then hopping around California to Daly City, San Jose and Monterey Park, before settling in Glendale. Likewise, the characters of “Cowboy Bebop” don’t have a home and they float adrift, in space, on the Bebop. They are tied together by a sense of loss: either of family, loved ones, or even their memories. To him, the new show expands on the anime by exploring more of the characters’ personal histories.“[It’s like the] Israelites before they were in Canaan, they’re wandering,” he says. “I definitely felt like that as a kid. [The characters are] adrift and, to some extent, purposeless; their purpose is survival. And I think part of our season one is them finding some purpose, be it passively or actively.”Though there are certain shots and story beats that are inspired by the original anime, the live action show also charts its own narrative path. The characters have expanded backstories: Jet Black is a father with a daughter, Faye Valentine is now bisexual, Spike’s love interest Julia is more fully developed and appears more frequently. And a pivotal fight between Spike and his nemesis, Vicious, begins in the same way that it does in the anime. But how it ends is markedly different.In describing the new show, Cho compares it to covers of Bob Dylan’s music. “Why do people record his songs? There’s already a recording,” he posits. “Because it’s a really good song. And they want to try it on for size and see what their interpretation does to the song, and expand the meaning of the song—give it another flavor.” He then adds, “What we’re doing is adding, not replacing.”Overall, it’s been an eventful two years for Cho. “Cowboy Bebop” began filming in New Zealand in 2019, where Cho relocated with his family temporarily. He then tore his ACL while filming, which set production back by eight months. The pandemic then created further delays. Last April, he wrote an op-ed for the Los Angeles Times about the surge in violent attacks against Asian Americans. In the piece, he wrote, “The pandemic is reminding us that our belonging is conditional. One moment we are Americans, the next we are all foreigners, who ‘brought’ the virus here. Like fame, the ‘model minority’ myth can provide the illusion of ‘raceless-ness.’” When talking about the op-ed, Cho becomes more chagrined, admitting that he has been very discouraged about the current discourse around race, and the fervor against critical race theory. “Clearly, we have a race problem in America, but zero people declare themselves racist,” he says. “Maybe we have to replace that word with something else. It has to be a word that allows people to examine themselves. How do we discuss racism, if no one is willing to examine themselves, including people of color?”He admits that growing up, he was encouraged by his parents to assimilate, so that his race would not be a liability. But in his estimation, the events of the past year have shown Asian Americans that living a “raceless” life is impossible. “[Race is] sort of too built into the fabric of this country. And what’s reasonable is coming to a place of respect, in coexistence, and love. And maybe we can get there. Maybe that’s possible.”Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Simu Liu and Bowen Yang jokingly vie for the most ‘First Asian’ titles on 'SNL' . Simu Liu and Bowen Yang are often hailed as trailblazers in the Asian American community — for being the first Marvel Asian superhero and for being the first Asian cast member on "Saturday Night Live." So when the pair teamed up for an "SNL" sketch over the weekend, they poked fun at the idea by competing over increasingly ridiculous “firsts,” from the “First Gay Asian Cast Member to Mispronounce ‘Boutique’” to the “First Asian Man to Deadpan on Splash Mountain.”In the taped segment, Chinese Canadian actors Yang and Liu meet in a dressing room before the episode. “This has never happened before, right? Asian male host, Asian male cast member,” Yang said. The two congratulate each other on their respective milestones before admitting how tiring these historical titles can be in a predominantly white space. “I just think it’s weird that people keep track of this stuff,” Yang says. Liu then pulled out a medal he had tucked in his shirt for being the “1st Asian Man to Move from Canada to America Named Simu.” “I have one that says Bowen,” Yang says, pulling a similar medal out of his shirt. The conversation quickly delves into a competition about their “First Asian” accolades.“Don’t you think these titles are kind of ridiculous?” Liu asks, to which Yang agrees. A montage then shows Yang and Liu accepting awards for “Good Job (Asian),” “First Asian Man to Beat StarCraft II” and the “First Asian Man to ‘You pick 2’ at Panera.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMan who stole Revolutionary-era rifle from museum decades ago sentenced to 1 dayU.S. newsU.S. newsN.J. man pleads guilty to federal charge of fraud in GoFundMe scam said to help homeless manNBCUniversal is the parent company of NBC News and "SNL."Yang’s work on "SNL" earned him an Emmy nomination this year, making him the show’s first featured player to be nominated for an acting award. He has previously spoken about his Asian American identity, and amid the rise of anti-Asian violence during the pandemic, he urged people to “do more” to stop the violence. Liu, meanwhile, made headlines this year after criticizing the TV show “Kim’s Convenience,” which he starred in, for its lack of diversity in the writer’s room. He has also credited the diverse production crew of “Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings” for ensuring the authenticity of the film. Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Series on Vincent Chin taps Chloé Zhao as executive producer. Chloé Zhao, the Academy Award-winning director of “Nomadland” and “Eternals,” will be the executive producer for a limited scripted series about the murder of Vincent Chin and the civil rights movement that arose in the aftermath, according to Deadline.The upcoming series by the media company Participant will tell the story of Chin, a 27-year-old Chinese American engineer who was beaten to death in Detroit in 1982 by two white auto workers who blamed Japanese car manufacturers for taking their jobs. His murder is widely considered the most infamous hate crime in Asian American history. Vincent Chin was 27 when he was beaten with a baseball bat in Detroit. He would later die from his injuries.Courtesy American Citizens of JuThe men were initially charged with second-degree murder but later pleaded to manslaughter and received probation and a $3,000 fine. The punishment sparked widespread protests and united Asian Americans from different ethnic backgrounds, galvanizing what would become the contemporary Asian American movement. Through an exclusive agreement with the Chin estate and executor Helen Zia, a former auto worker, activist, journalist and spokesperson for the Justice for Vincent Chin Campaign, Zhao’s will be the only authorized series about Chin’s murder.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMan who stole Revolutionary-era rifle from museum decades ago sentenced to 1 dayU.S. newsU.S. newsN.J. man pleads guilty to federal charge of fraud in GoFundMe scam said to help homeless manThe project will “reveal the definitive account of a civil rights movement that matters today more than ever, when a community discovered its voice,” according to Participant.“I was deeply moved by Helen’s personal connection to Vincent’s story as well as her incredibly insightful and nuanced perspective on this difficult yet inspiring story,” Zhao told Deadline.The project was initially announced in December. The news comes after a dramatized podcast about Chin, “Hold Still, Vincent,” was removed from audio platforms in June after it was revealed that the producers hadn’t consult with Chin’s estate or Zia about the project. The star-studded podcast included Gemma Chan of “Eternals” and “Crazy Rich Asians” as a producer, and Kelly Marie Tran of “Raya and the Last Dragon” as a voice actor. The team behind the podcast later issued an apology on Instagram.“Vincent Chin, his legacy, and the communities that came together to fight for justice have been a part of my life for nearly 39 years," Zia previously told NBC Asian America. "In today’s climate of hate towards our Asian American and Pacific Islander communities, this story shows how many diverse people in America came together in solidarity, to stand together for the full humanity of all.” Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Author Karen Tei Yamashita wins lifetime literary achievement award. Karen Tei Yamashita was awarded the 2021 Medal for Distinguished Contribution to American Letters by the National Book Foundation on Wednesday. Yamashita is the 34th recipient of the award since it was created in 1988. Past recipients include Joan Didion, Toni Morrison, Maxine Hong Kingston and Stephen King. "A bold and groundbreaking writer, Yamashita's deeply creative body of work has made an enduring impact on our literary landscape," the foundation's chair, David Steinberger, said in a statement. In her acceptance speech, Yamashita said the award was especially significant to her community, given how the past year has been plagued by anti-Asian violence and hatred. "Asian American literature is, at heart, a literature of politics and resistance," Yamashita said. Yamashita has written eight books, all published by the Minneapolis publishing house Coffee House Press. Her works include a book of short stories about being Japanese American, "Sansei and Sensibility," and "Through the Arc of the Rain Forest," a novel about a Japanese ex-pat living in Brazil amid an environmental crisis. "I’m here because Coffee House has envisioned the long distance of a writer’s journey, [they] know that books take time to be read and to be shared," Yamashita said, adding that the publisher always kept her books in print, which gave her readership time to grow. In 2010, Yamashita's "I Hotel," a novel set in San Francisco's Chinatown in the 1960s and '70s, was a finalist for the National Book Award. The title won the 2011 California Book Award and was a finalist for the Asian American Literary Award for fiction in 2011. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMan who stole Revolutionary-era rifle from museum decades ago sentenced to 1 dayU.S. newsU.S. newsN.J. man pleads guilty to federal charge of fraud in GoFundMe scam said to help homeless man"Karen Tei Yamashita is such a legend," author Jean Chen Ho tweeted in response to Yamashita's acceptance speech on Wednesday. "When I read 'I Hotel' in undergrad I remember just having my entire brain reorganized about what a novel is and can do."Yamashita currently serves as a professor emeritus at the University of California, Santa Cruz, where she researched Japanese immigration to Brazil and Asian American literature.She attended Carleton College in Minnesota and also studied at Waseda University in Tokyo. She was born in Oakland and raised in Los Angeles, according to the National Book Foundation. Both of her parents were incarcerated at Topaz internment camp during World War II.In addition to a bronze medal, the lifetime achievement award comes with $10,000. Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'The court owes it to women': Groups decry Colombia's abortion ruling delay. Women's groups that sued to decriminalize abortion in Colombia are pushing for a decision after a much-anticipated ruling from the country's top court was postponed last week. “The court owes it to women," Catalina Martínez Coral, the Latin America and Caribbean director of the Center for Reproductive Rights, told Noticias Telemundo. The Constitutional Court has not yet decided whether to eliminate abortion as a crime from the country's penal code. The ruling had been expected last week, but the debate was interrupted at the request of one of its judges, Alejandro Linares, to recuse himself from voting because he had spoken about the case in a news interview. If another judge decides there is no need for Linares to recuse himself, the court could rule this year. A recusal would start a process to bring in a new judge, which would delay the ruling to next year. The women’s rights groups that filed the lawsuit, grouped under the umbrella movement Just Cause, say the delay harms women and girls in Colombia, where nearly 70 women die every year from complications from abortions, according to figures from Doctors Without Borders.“Every day that passes there are more unprotected people because they cannot access reproductive health services. They are persecuted, and they have open cases against them,” Martínez Coral said. “It's a punishment for women and girls in Colombia.” Since 2006, the Colombian penal code has allowed legal abortion under three circumstances: in cases of rape, incest or nonconsensual insemination; in cases of serious fetal malformation that makes life unviable; or when the medical team certifies that a pregnant woman’s health or life is at risk.Any woman who otherwise undergoes the procedure — or the health personnel involved — can be liable for a penalty of 16 to 54 months in prison. According to official figures, 400 women are prosecuted every year.“It is a very unfair situation, because, on the one hand, exceptions give you a right, but it is also a serious crime that generates social and institutional stigma," said Ximena Casas Isaza, a researcher for Human Rights Watch. "All this creates many barriers for women and girls in situations of greater vulnerability who, in the end, do not have access to an essential health service such as the legal interruption of pregnancy.”An estimated 400,000 women and girls undergo induced abortions in Colombia every year, about a third of whom suffer some complication. Unsafe abortions are the country’s fourth-leading cause of maternal mortality.Several studies have determined that girls and adolescents suffer the most sexual abuse resulting in unwanted pregnancies. In many cases, their lives are at risk.According to a report by Just Cause, the victims in 73 percent of the 26,158 cases prosecuted for allegations of sexual violence were girls or adolescents up to age 17. They are also the ones who suffer the most from harassment by the penal system, the report said.‘What we want is more support’ Cindy, a Colombian woman whose last name is being withheld to protect her identify, said she was in no condition to raise a child but was afraid she would suffer recriminations from her family for terminating her pregnancy. She decided to talk to her partner and a good friend, who accompanied her throughout the abortion process.“Those of us who made this decision, what we want is more support — let them understand that, for some reason, that was the decision we made,” she said.Abortion rights activists protest Thursday outside the Constitutional Court in Bogota, Colombia, as judges review a lawsuit that seeks to decriminalize abortion. Fernando Vergara / APCindy and hundreds of other Colombian women have participated in awareness campaigns like We Are All One, speaking out with dozens of nongovernmental organizations and women’s rights groups to demand the decriminalization of abortion.The movement has been driven by the recent wave of reforms and demonstrations for women’s rights in various Latin American countries, such as Argentina and Mexico.Girls and adolescents are the most affectedThe Just Cause report found that for most of the girls and adolescents who get pregnant through rape and sexual abuse, “the aggressors correspond to people from their social or family circle,” adding, “These heartbreaking figures only correspond to those cases that are reported.”The health care system uses the current law as an excuse to deny services, said Paula Ávila-Guillén, the executive director of the U.S.-based Women’s Equality Center, who directs the group’s Latin America initiatives. "That is why we have so many cases of pregnant girls as a result of rape who cannot access abortion, because there are many bureaucratic barriers." According to the group Mesa por la Vida y la Salud de Mujeres, minors account for 12.5 percent ​​of abortion investigations — almost a quarter, 24 percent, are convicted. While the crime may not lead to jail time in many cases, it still has a serious impact on young women's lives, who are left with criminal histories that prevent them from getting work and progressing, said Martínez Coral of the Center for Reproductive Rights.The persecution of health personnel“There is a lot of fear on the part of medical professionals, because first the burden of certifying the conditions for abortion falls on them and, when you are faced with the possibility of having legal problems, it is obviously much easier to turn your back on the problem," said Dr. Laura Gil, a gynecologist and a member of the Medical Group for the Right to Decide. An investigation by the Life and Health of Women Roundtable, a women's health advocacy group, found that, from 1998 to 2018, the prosecutor’s office processed 5,580 complaints of abortion and that in 75 percent of the cases, it was doctors and other health care operators who filed complaints about women who went to hospitals feeling ill from having abortions.That, Gil said, has a chilling effect on other health care personnel.“Many doctors begin to ask for a number of evaluations, examinations and requirements — the only thing they do is create barriers. It is an obstacle to the free exercise of our profession," Gil said. What would total decriminalization change?The first effect would be that no one could be prosecuted for the crime of abortion. In addition, women, adolescents and girls would be able to terminate pregnancies without barriers.“Women who were not protected by the exceptions that existed in the country will be able to access abortion the day after the decision is made,” Martínez Coral said.Lawyers for women who are prosecuted or detained could also “directly introduce an appeal to initiate their release,” she said. Catholics who support abortion rightsGroups that oppose abortion, including conservative political movements and the Roman Catholic Church, have spoken out against the proposal.The group Catholics for the Right to Decide stands out, because it supports the lawsuit. “We consider that supporting abortion as a right is not incompatible with having beliefs or a spiritual life," said Aura Carolina Cuasapud, a lawyer for the organization. "Quite the contrary: We know that women are the majority of the people who form the foundations of religion and the church, so we must have a voice, and we have the right to make free decisions."Members of the movement are called false Catholics or hypocrites on social media, where opponents link some of them to satanic sects and threaten them with excommunication from the Catholic Church. Cuasapud laughed when she was asked about the attacks.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMan who stole Revolutionary-era rifle from museum decades ago sentenced to 1 dayU.S. newsU.S. newsN.J. man pleads guilty to federal charge of fraud in GoFundMe scam said to help homeless man“At worst, excommunication does not inhibit you from being a Catholic. If you were baptized, they can no longer remove that condition, they cannot remove your beliefs," she said, adding that she believes that "the truth is that neither the Bible nor the Church nor God condemn abortion as a sin, and many people do not know that."An earlier version of this story was first published in Noticias Telemundo. Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Venezuela's opposition party, after major election defeat, turns to rebuilding. CARACAS — Venezuela’s opposition needs to rebuild and reflect on its strategy after suffering a heavy defeat in regional elections at the weekend, its leader Juan Guaidó said on Monday, calling for unity among the fragmented movement’s leadership.Venezuela’s ruling party won at least 18 governorships out of 23 states, according to updated election results published by the National Electoral Council (CNE in Spanish) on Monday.The electoral authority had earlier declared the ruling party victorious in 20 governorship elections. But close elections in Barinas and Apure states, which traditionally back the Socialist party, led the CNE to later say those results remained to be confirmed.Opposition politicians have so far won just three states.The main opposition parties had boycotted presidential elections in 2018 and congressional polls in 2020, arguing a fair ballot was impossible because of interference from President Nicolás Maduro’s government and violent gangs loyal to him.But they returned to the ballot box this year amid frustration over the failure of U.S. sanctions to dislodge Maduro despite prolonged social and economic hardship.Sunday’s vote was seen as a test of strength ahead of presidential elections scheduled for 2024. The opposition was also emboldened by the presence of election observers from the European Union.A preliminary report from the mission is due on Tuesday, but there were no major reports of disruptions.However, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken accused Maduro’s government of holding flawed elections that “skewed the process” to pre-determine the result in his party’s favor, citing harassment and bans of opposition candidates, voter roll manipulation, and censorship.Guaidó, the former speaker of Congress who is recognized by Washington and its allies as Venezuela’s rightful leader, said on Monday that the opposition needed to “rebuild itself” after the disappointing result.“Today a new phase is opening,” he said, without providing specifics. “Today is a time for reflection amongst our leadership... It is not the time for fights nor egotism among political leaders.”RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMan who stole Revolutionary-era rifle from museum decades ago sentenced to 1 dayU.S. newsU.S. newsN.J. man pleads guilty to federal charge of fraud in GoFundMe scam said to help homeless manAnalysts said ahead of the vote that the opposition’s late decision to participate and in-fighting over whether it should run candidates would damage its showing.The opposition urgently needed to rethink its strategy in order to reconnect with voters and burnish its credibility, said Enderson Sequera, head of Venezuela’s Politiks consultancy.“The conclusion of (Sunday’s vote) in Venezuela is very clear: Chavismo is more stable in power and the democratic opposition finds itself further from achieving political change,” Sequera said, referring to the nickname for the ruling party, once headed by the late President Hugo Chávez.Need to rebuild trust Despite opposition efforts to galvanize voters at the last minute, turnout was relatively low at 41.8 percent, according to the CNE. That is equivalent to some 8.1 million people and is in line with previous local and regional elections. Low turnout in Venezuela favors the ruling Socialist party’s political machine, analysts say.“The government has shown again that despite not having widespread popular support, it remains in power due to the lack of an opposition with a coordinated strategy,” said Maryhen Jiménez, a researcher at the University of Oxford’s Latin American Centre.After seeing living standards decline amid hyperinflation and a seven-year recession, many ordinary Venezuelans are disillusioned with politics. Millions of people have emigrated.The ruling party saw supporter numbers drop to 3.7 million, according to CNE figures, from some 5.9 million votes in 2017 regional elections.The oil-rich state of Zulia was won by opposition politician Manuel Rosales with 56.1 percent of the vote, who said it was clear that Venezuela’s opposition movement faced challenges.“You can’t hide this crisis with complacent speeches,” Rosales, a lawyer and former presidential candidate, said on Monday in Maracaibo, Zulia’s capital.The CNE has yet to announce victors in mayorship races — with the exception of capital Caracas, where the ruling party candidate won.Maduro said on Sunday a return to negotiations in Mexico with the Venezuelan opposition would not take place until “the kidnap” of prominent government envoy Alex Saab recently extradited to the United States on money laundering charges — is answered for.The talks, begun in August, are meant to seek a way out of Venezuela’s economic and social crisis.Guaidó said he was cautiously optimistic the government would return to the table and he was discussing with international allies ways of increasing pressure on Maduro’s government.Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
'Historic': White House pitches Build Back Better's help for Latino families . The White House on Monday promoted what the Biden administration sees as the benefits for Latino families of the $1.7 trillion safety net and climate change package Democrats passed last week. In a White House-organized call with reporters, Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra and Rep. Raul Ruiz, D-Calif., the chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, called the legislation "historic" and said it was a "tremendous investment" in American families as they struggle to recover from the coronavirus-wracked economy.Becerra said the funding in the Build Back Better Act would help families pay for child care and preschool education funding, provide child tax credits and help families pay for Obamacare health insurance plans.It would cut costs for three of the most expensive items in families’ budgets: health care, housing and child care, Ruiz said. Ruiz and Becerra said the child care provision — which would cap child care costs for six years at 7 percent for families earning up to 250 percent of their states’ median incomes — would help Latinas “who had to bear the brunt of cuts in wages and unemployment” because of the pandemic. Extending the child tax credit would be like money in your pocket, Ruiz said.Also in the bill is money to pay for universal pre-K for 3- and 4-year-old children for two years. The money is said to be enough to pay for free preschool for more than 6 million children.Becerra said the bill offers older Americans the kind of help that his late father, a laborer, and his mother, who did clerical work, never had. “I’m from a migrant family, and I understand the importance of being able to say anyone who has worked very hard, helping to lift this country, helping to build it, now this country is going to invest in you, Becerra said in Spanish.Potential changes Senate could make to pass Build Back Better BillNov. 22, 202102:07Ruiz said that while the country is rounding the corner on the pandemic, Covid-19 has disproportionately affected essential workers and Hispanic communities. "Working families and parents are continuing to feel the lingering effects of the pandemic," he said.The legislation, which was crafted by Democrats, was approved Friday by the House and is now before the Senate, where leaders are working with centrist Democrats to get the necessary votes. ‘A blockbuster’ investmentThe House bill would provide the money for pre-K for all children, regardless of families’ incomes, with states eventually having to add money to cover some of the costs. Before the pandemic, about 27 percent of children in public school were Hispanic. In 2019-20, only about 4 in 10 (43 percent) of 3- to 5-year-olds were enrolled in school, according to the National Center for Education Statistics. The pre-K provisions would help not only groups that haven’t had access to quality pre-K, but also middle-class and upper-income families that often don’t qualify for subsidized preschool programs, said former San Antonio Mayor Julián Castro, who was housing secretary in the Obama administration. Castro, the only major Latino presidential candidate last year, said the universal pre-K part of the bill would be “a godsend” for many families and a “blockbuster” investment to celebrate.Early education varies among states, six of which had no state-funded pre-K program in the 2019-20 school year, according to the National Institute for Early Education Research at Rutgers University. Early data this school year show a 3 percent drop in all public school enrollment. The drop was higher among children in preschool and kindergarten than in later grades.Build Back Better’s success depends on states’ doing their part, Castro said. As mayor, Castro got San Antonio voters to support a half-cent sales tax in 2012 to create quality preschool for low-income children. The program is considered highly successful.Build Back Better’s provision would allow school districts or nonprofit organizations to help with costs for their areas even if their states don’t participate.“I’m hopeful that even conservative states like Texas and other places that don’t have universal pre-K will meet the challenge,” Castro said. “But if they don’t, then I encourage local communities to go ahead and universalize pre-K.”Better times ahead?Delivering a message of economic better times to the Latino community is critical for Democrats. The 2022 midterm election season will ramp up after the holidays, and Democrats need to be able blunt GOP arguments about inflation and the effects of climate change provisions on fossil fuels. President Donald Trump and other Republicans expanded their support on those issues last year among Latino voters, particularly in Texas. They also succeeded in framing Democratic programs as socialism, largely in Florida, where Cuban and Latin American voters connect the word with regimes from which they fled or in which have roots. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMan who stole Revolutionary-era rifle from museum decades ago sentenced to 1 dayU.S. newsU.S. newsN.J. man pleads guilty to federal charge of fraud in GoFundMe scam said to help homeless manMacarena Martinez, the Republican National Committee spokeswoman for Texas, previewed more of what to expect in a statement after the House vote Friday. She said one African American and three Latino members of Congress, all Texas Democrats, "went all in for Biden's socialist agenda: 'Build Back Broke' at a time when Texas families already are being hit with skyrocketing inflation, record high gas prices, and an unmitigated border crisis."Latino unemployment began dropping in 2010 during the Obama administration and fell to about 4 percent early in the Trump administration. Latinos also had begun to experience a comeback from the Great Recession. The pandemic reversed that.The uncontrolled virus has put the Latino economic recovery at risk and cost some Latinos some of the wealth they had rebuilt.Latinos are 2.1 times more likely to die from Covid-19 compared to white Americans and 2.5 times more likely to be hospitalized, according to the latest data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Cases of Covid-19 are 1.6 times more likely among Latinos than whites, the CDC data show.   As of April, only 1 in 6 Hispanic workers were able to work from home during the pandemic, according to the Economic Policy Institute.In addition, Democrats need to buffer themselves from backlash they could face over immigration provisions in the bill. Immigrants advocates and many Democrats had hoped to include a pathway to citizenship in the legislation. But it would now provide only five-year work permits that could be renewed for five more years for about 7 million undocumented immigrants already in the county. If that is jettisoned to get the bill through the Senate, Democrats may feel the backlash from their base of support.Democrats are using a process to get the bill through the Senate that allows them to sidestep Republicans, most of whom oppose the immigration measures. But they also have to get the OK to have the immigration language in the bill from the Senate parliamentarian, and at least two Senate Democrats are lukewarm about the immigration provision, as well. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus has urged the Senate to keep the provision.The White House and Democrats put the focus Monday on legislation that they believe would have a direct impact on Latino households.Ruiz said the legislation would be a “rocket booster for the economy that will launch families across the country towards success by putting money in pockets.” Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
Luis Roberto Vera Jr., Latino civil rights leader and attorney, dies at 65. Civil rights leader and attorney Luis Roberto Vera Jr. died Sunday after a long illness. He was 65.The League of United Latin American Citizens, the nation’s oldest Hispanic civil rights organization, which was founded in 1929, announced his death. Vera was its national general counsel and worked with it for three decades.Vera died in San Antonio, the city of his birth, surrounded by his family, according to LULAC."Ironically, Luis lives on through the recent lawsuits he helped file in federal court that will forever carry the imprint of his love for justice and the voice that shall never be silenced," LULAC National CEO Sindy Benavides said in a statement. Vera's landmark cases included a 2019 lawsuit to stop the Texas secretary of state from requiring nearly 100,000 voters to prove their citizenship or risk being removed from the voter rolls, a tactic that disproportionately impacts the Latino community. Another major case was a 2017 attempt to uphold the "sanctuary" status of border town El Cenizo and halt a measure that allowed law enforcement to question and detain undocumented residents. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsMan who stole Revolutionary-era rifle from museum decades ago sentenced to 1 dayU.S. newsU.S. newsN.J. man pleads guilty to federal charge of fraud in GoFundMe scam said to help homeless manThat same year, Vera was awarded Mexico's Ohtli Award, one of the highest federal recognitions that is given to those whose work empowers and supports Mexicans and Latinos."He was a fierce fighter for what is right and persisted even when the odds were against LULAC, as has been the case often given today's volatile politics," Elsie Valdes-Ramos, LULAC national board member and vice president for women, said in a statement."I knew we had in Luis, a tireless defender and a man who any enticement could never sway, nor was he seeking fame for himself," she said.“Latinos in Texas and indeed, our entire nation and Puerto Rico, have lost a selfless and brilliant legal fighter, cut from the same civil rights cloth as Cesar Chavez and Dolores Huerta,” Rodolfo Rosales Jr., LULAC’s Texas state director, said in a statement. Despite his illness, Vera was actively working as the organization’s counsel until very recently, according to the LULAC statement. “He was fearless and argued with the fire and brimstone passion of a legal preacher,” Rosales said. Vera earned both an undergraduate and a graduate degree from St. Mary’s University and earned his law degree from Western New England University School of Law, according to San Antonio Report.Follow NBC Latino on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.  Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptcha Privacy Policy | Terms of Service
