3 dead, 8 injured in shooting at Michigan high school, undersheriff says .  (CNN)A 15-year-old boy is in custody after three students died and eight were injured in a shooting Tuesday afternoon at a high school in Oxford, Michigan, authorities said.The Oxford High School students killed were Tate Myre, 16; Hanna St. Julian, 14, and Madisyn Baldwin, 17, according to Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard. Eight others -- seven students and a teacher -- were shot, Bouchard said. Three are in critical condition with gunshot wounds, including a 14-year-old girl who is on a ventilator after having surgery. A 14-year-old boy is in serious condition with a gunshot wound to the jaw and head, Bouchard said. Three students are in stable condition and the teacher who was shot has been discharged. LIVE UPDATES ON THE SHOOTING"I think this is every parent's worst nightmare," said Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, who added that shootings at schools are "a uniquely American problem that we need to address." "My heart goes out to the families. This is an unimaginable tragedy. I hope we can all rise to the occasion and wrap our arms around the families, the affected children and school personnel and this community," Whitmer said. There were multiple other non-life-threatening injuries sustained by people as they were rushing out of the school, Bouchard said. Most were treated and released at a staging area, he said.The suspect, a sophomore at the school, was taken into custody without incident two to three minutes after authorities responded to the shooting, Bouchard said. His parents have hired an attorney and have not permitted him to talk to police, Undersheriff Michael G. McCabe said. The suspect is being held at Oakland County Children's Village -- a juvenile detention facility -- and is on suicide watch where he is being checked on every 15 minutes, said David Coulter, the Oakland County executive.How the shooting unfoldedAt a late Tuesday news conference, Bouchard gave some more details about the shooting. The semiautomatic handgun recovered by law enforcement was bought by suspect's father on Friday, he said.The weapon, a 9MM Sig Sauer SP2022 pistol that was loaded at the time it was confiscated, still contained seven rounds, Bouchard said.A video camera in the school showed that the gunman "came out of the bathroom with the weapon," but that it was not clear where the gunman went next, the sheriff said. Law enforcement arrived at the school within minutes of the emergency calls about the shooting."As they were coming down the hall, they saw him. He put his hands up, they took a gun and they took him into custody," Bouchard said.One deputy loaded Myre in their car, but the 16-year-old died on the way to the hospital, the sheriff said. A dispatcher also had a relative die in shooting."This touches us all personally and deeply and will for a long time. This wound will never go away," Bouchard said. Authorities recovered multiple shell casings in the school and believe around 15-20 shots were fired. There is no indication the suspect was wearing body armor, McCabe said earlier on Tuesday. "At this point in time, we believe he acted alone," McCabe said. He said that authorities are aware of how the suspect allegedly got the gun into the school, but declined to divulge those details.All evacuated students were relocated to a nearby store for reunification with relatives. About 25 agencies and close to 60 ambulances responded, according to John Lyman, public information officer for the Rochester Hills Fire Department.The families of the victims have been notified. It is not currently known whether the three students killed were targeted, McCabe said. "We've done three sweeps of the high school to make sure there's no other victims," he said. "We don't have a motive at this point in time. We are still investigating that." A search warrant was executed at the suspect's home, McCabe said. Bouchard said authorities seized a phone and examining other seized items.While Bouchard said authorities were not aware of prior concerns, they are also investigating pictures of a target and the weapon posted on social media by the suspect. McCabe said the suspect could be charged as an adult, but that is up to the Oakland County Prosecutor's Office. Prosecutor Karen D. McDonald said in a statement Tuesday her office has "begun the process of receiving information regarding the investigation" into the shooting. "I was both horrified and saddened to learn about the shootings at Oxford High School this afternoon. My office and I have been in constant communication with the Sheriff's Office, the Oakland County Juvenile Court and other governmental and law enforcement bodies," McDonald said. "It is our intent to review it thoroughly and issue appropriate charges quickly."  Oxford Schools Superintendent Tim Throne said at the news conference the shooting left him shocked. "It's devastating," he said. Throne declined to say why there were no metal detectors in the school, but did say that to his knowledge, metal detectors never came up in conversation prior to the shooting. "The vast majority of schools in America don't have metal detectors," Bouchard said. Student recounts barricading in classroom Aiden Page, a senior at Oxford High School, told CNN's Anderson Cooper on Tuesday the shooter was so close to his classroom that a bullet pierced one of the desks Page and other students used to barricade the door. Page said everything kicked into high gear when he, other students and his teachers heard two gunshots. "We heard two gunshots and after that, my teacher ran into the room, locked it, we barricaded and then we covered the windows and hid," he said. The class was on lockdown for an hour, Page said. During that time, some students armed themselves with whatever they could find. "We grabbed calculators, we grabbed scissors just in case the shooter got in and we had to attack them," he said. "Some were crying, some were trying to support others. Others were trying to come up with ideas just in case." Page said the entire experience was "insane" and he contemplated whether he would live through the ordeal. "The very first thing in my head was, 'Is this actually happening? I'm going to text my family, say I love them just in case, if I were to die.' Then when everything calmed down for a second, I was able to catch my breath and rationalize things," he said. "It's definitely going to be weird coming back, especially knowing people were injured and a couple of students died as well."   President and state officials react to shootingPresident Joe Biden addressed the shooting Tuesday while in Minnesota, saying, "My heart goes out to the families enduring the unimaginable grief of losing a loved one.""You've gotta know that that whole community has to be in a state of shock right now," Biden said.Michigan Attorney General Dana Nessel said her department has offered assistance to local law enforcement and that she extended her "sincere gratitude" to the first responders on the scene."My heart goes out to the parents who have lost their children and to the students, teachers, staff, and families reeling from the tragedy of a school shooting within their community," Nessel said. "We must act to properly address gun violence in our schools and the ongoing threat of another unconscionable tragedy if we continue to only offer thoughts and prayers. Our kids deserve better."  The professional sports teams of Detroit -- including the Tigers, Red Wings, Pistons and Lions -- released statements about the shooting. "We share in the heartbreak felt by all of those impacted by today's tragic events in Oxford," the Detroit Lions tweeted. "We as an organization extend our prayers to the victims and offer support to the entire Oxford community during this painful time."CNN's Allie Malloy, Brian Vitagliano, Laura Ly, Jill Martin and Alex Harring contributed to this report.
Support for gun control just hit its lowest point in almost a decade.  (CNN)In the wake of the 2018 mass school shooting in Parkland, Florida, a new generation of teen activists emerged who insisted that the old boom/bust cycle of gun control politics in this country was no more.Gone would be the public's short attention span on the need for more restrictions on gun sales and gun ownership. And in its place would be a sustained campaign to keep the issues of guns -- and the mass shootings committed with them -- front and center in the public's mind.Almost four years on from Parkland, however, a familiar cycle has asserted itself.Just 52% of Americans polled now say that the "laws covering the sales of firearms" should be stricter than they currently are, the lowest number that Gallup has measured on the question since 2014.That marks a remarkable erosion on the question from just three years ago as the country was still reeling from the 17 people killed in Parkland. At that point, two thirds of respondents favored more strict gun laws. In 2019, there were still 64% of people who told Gallup they wanted stricter gun laws. That dropped to 57% in 2020 and now 52% in 2021.As Gallup noted in its release: "Americans' support for stricter gun laws has typically risen in the aftermath of high-profile mass shootings and fallen during periods without such events. Changes in the party occupying the White House may also influence preferences for gun laws. Generally, the public favors stricter laws when Republicans are in office and less strict laws when Democrats are." "Something about Parkland has been different," Melissa Strassner, a survivor of the Columbine school shooting in 1999, told the New York Times in 2019. "They truly have inspired a nation."There is no question there is some truth to that sentiment. Not only did support for stricter gun laws stay higher for more than a year following the Parkland shooting, state legislatures took unprecedented actions to limit guns.  As Pew noted in 2018: "This was a year of unparalleled success for the gun-control movement in the United States. States across the country, including 14 with Republican governors, enacted 50 new laws restricting access to guns, ranging from banning bump stocks to allowing authorities to temporarily disarm potentially violent people."But, at least at the federal level, legislative momentum has been harder to harness. Commemorating the three-year anniversary of the Parkland shooting this past February, President Joe Biden called on Congress to act."I am calling on Congress to enact commonsense gun law reforms, including requiring background checks on all gun sales, banning assault weapons and high-capacity magazines, and eliminating immunity for gun manufacturers who knowingly put weapons of war on our streets," Biden said. "We owe it to all those we've lost and to all those left behind to grieve to make a change. The time to act is now."While the Democratic-led House passed two measures to strengthen background checks, the Senate is not expected to act on either one.Meanwhile, Americans are buying more guns than ever before. In 2020, nearly 23 million guns were bought -- a record. That surge has continued through 2021.And, there has been no letup in mass shootings either. According to the Gun Violence Archive, there have been 638 mass shootings so far in 2021. (The site defines a mass shooting as one with 4 or more victims, either injured or killed, not including the gunman.)So, what happened? It appears that after an extended period of time in which the public was supportive of more strict gun laws, the old political rules of the gun debate have reasserted themselves.A new Quinnipiac poll also out this week finds registered voters split 47% to 48% between supporting stricter gun laws and opposing them. That's also the lowest support for stricter gun laws among voters since late 2015 in Quinnipiac's polling. In February 2018, it reached a high of 66% in their poll. A Pew Research poll back in April this year found a generally similar pattern.What Parkland did was keep the issue in the news -- and on peoples' minds -- longer. But these latest numbers from Gallup suggest the issue has now begun to recede again.
Three 16-year-olds charged with attempted first-degree murder after shooting in Colorado high school parking lot.  (CNN)Three 16-year-olds allegedly involved in a shooting in the parking lot of a Colorado high school earlier this month have been charged as adults with attempted first-degree murder, according to the Office of the District Attorney for the 18th Judicial District.The shooting happened around noon on November 19 in the parking lot of Hinkley High School in Aurora, police said. Three people were wounded.Larry Renee Jefferson, Dalen Lenale Brewer and Diego Flores are each charged with: Four counts of attempted first-degree murderOne count of first-degree assaultOne count of second-degree assaultOne count of possession of a weapon on school groundsTwo crime-of-violence sentence enhancers. Jefferson also faces a charge of using a prohibited large-capacity magazine during a crime.CNN contacted the Aurora Public Defender's Office for comment but did not immediately hear back. Jefferson and Brewer have status hearings scheduled in their cases December 15. The status hearing for Flores is set for March 7.Two of the people shot are Hinkley students, and a third is a student at APS Avenues school. None of the injuries was life-threatening, Aurora Police Chief Vanessa Wilson said.At the time of the shooting, police said no motive had been discovered.  CNN's Andy Rose and Leslie Perrot contributed to this report. 
Lauren Boebert isn't sorry.  (CNN)On Monday, Colorado Rep. Lauren Boebert (R) called Minnesota Rep. Ilhan Omar (D) to, ostensibly, apologize for suggesting that simply because Omar is a Muslim, she is a potential terrorist.The call, um, did not go well. After Omar demanded that Boebert apologize publicly and Boebert refused, the Democrat hung up on the Republican.  At which point, Boebert took to social media (of course!) to make clear she wasn't actually sorry."I will fearlessly continue to put America first, never sympathizing with terrorists," Boebert said in the post. "Unfortunately Ilhan can't say the same thing and our country is worse off for it."Then came new reporting Tuesday from CNN's KFile on a speech Boebert gave in September in which she suggested that Omar was a terrorist in addition to being "black-hearted" and "evil."Add it up and you get this: Not only is Boebert not sorry for what she said about Omar but she actually believes it. This wasn't some slip of the tongue for Boebert; it was a real belief.All of which raises a simple question: What are House Republicans going to do about it?If past is prologue, the answer is nothing. House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy has resisted punishing the likes of Reps. Marjorie Taylor Greene and Paul Gosar for past impolitic comments, leaving it to the Democratic-controlled House to sanction them.Considering that, the real decision may lie in Speaker Nancy Pelosi's hands.  Does she want to hold another vote to penalize another Republican for making offensive comments? And if not, why not?The Point: Unfortunately, the Republican base responds in a positive way to junk like this from Boebert. Which means she is incentivized to lean into it -- no matter the consequences in the House.
Woman testifies Ghislaine Maxwell and Jeffrey Epstein started sexually abusing her when she was 14.  (CNN)A woman who testified Tuesday in the sex trafficking trial of Ghislaine Maxwell said she met the close confidante of Jeffrey Epstein and the billionaire businessman when she was 14 and eating ice cream with friends at a camp where he was a benefactor.The woman, identified in court as by the pseudonym "Jane," said after that 1994 introduction she and her mother met Epstein for tea in Florida when he said he could mentor her. She then started going to Epstein's home by herself.At first, Maxwell and Epstein made her feel special -- spending time with her, asking about her family and interests and taking her to do fun things, she said.  For the first few months of knowing them, Maxwell felt like an older sister, she said. "It changed when the abuse started happening," she said.  "Jane" described in graphic detail incidents of sexual abuse with Epstein that Maxwell would at times join in on, both in Palm Beach, Florida, and Manhattan when she was 14, 15 and 16 years old. Maxwell has pleaded not guilty to charges of conspiracy and enticing minors to travel to engage in illegal sex acts, and the transportation of minors to engage in criminal sexual activity for allegedly grooming and recruiting underage girls from 1994 through 1997.She is also charged with sex trafficking of a minor from 2001 to 2004, as well as one count of sex trafficking conspiracy.Speaking at times with a quivering voice and wiping her eyes and nose with a tissue, "Jane" testified that Epstein and Maxwell gradually normalized sexuality for the then 14-year-old girl.At times, Epstein would masturbate on her and molest her, she said. Maxwell would sometimes be involved, touching her and Epstein, she testified. At least once, Maxwell "instructed" her how Epstein liked to be massaged while the three were in Epstein's "massage room," she testified."It seemed very casual, like it was very normal, like it was not big deal," she said. "It made me feel confused because that did not feel normal to me.""Jane" is known as Minor Victim-1 in a federal indictment detailing the allegations against Maxwell. Epstein died by suicide in August 2019 while awaiting trial. Maxwell's counsel maintains she was charged only because he died.The pair is reported to have split in the 1990s, although the socialite remained close to him. Testimony began Monday with pilot on standMaxwell's trial began Monday with testimony from a pilot who flew Epstein's plane. He said he remembered meeting "Jane," but could not be sure she actually flew on the private jet.In he final half-hour of Tuesday's court session, defense attorney Laura Menninger started cross-examination of "Jane" by asking her why she waited two decades to report her allegations to law enforcement. Menninger also asked her about the $5 million she received through the Epstein Victim Compensation Program. "Jane" acknowledged she dropped a 2020 lawsuit against Maxwell per the program agreement in order to receive the financial payment. Cross-examination is expected to continue Wednesday.On Tuesday, "Jane" said she first confided in a boyfriend of her abuse around 2007 when Epstein was arrested in Florida. Eventually she told several people including her siblings about her experience, she testified. "Because how do you tell or describe any of this to any one of your peers or your siblings when all you feel is shame and disgust and confusion and you don't even know how you ended up there?" "Jane" testified she felt she couldn't tell anyone about the abuse when she was a child in part because her mother discouraged her from speaking her mind.  "My mom was so enamored with the idea that these wealthy, affluent people took an interest in me," she said.  "Jane" said she continued to give Epstein sexualized massages at least through her schooling in New York when she was 18.She would tell people Epstein was her "godfather" and dropped everything to answer his calls when he would reach out, she said. Epstein started giving "Jane" cash soon after the abuse started in 1994, and later paid for voice lessons, school, clothes and housing for her family, she said. She said she couldn't pinpoint how many times Maxwell partook in the abuse because it all runs together in her memory."It all started to seem the same after a while and you just become numb to it," she said.  The woman cut off contact with Epstein around 2002. Her mother was still living in a New York apartment he paid for at the time, she said. Federal prosecutors are expected to call "Jane's" previous boyfriend to testify after about what she shared with him about her alleged abuse, but the judge has said she will rule on that Wednesday morning. 
CNN suspends Chris Cuomo indefinitely. New York (CNN Business)CNN is suspending prime time anchor Chris Cuomo "indefinitely, pending further evaluation," after new documents revealed the cozy and improper nature of his relationship with aides to his brother, former New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo.The benched anchorman is declining to comment.A second hour of "Anderson Cooper 360" will air in Cuomo's place on Tuesday night.Tuesday's announcement about the suspension was the equivalent of a cable news shockwave. Cuomo's 9 p.m. program is frequently CNN's most-watched hour of the day. He is a larger-than-life presence at the network. And he was determined to stay on TV this year despite a flurry of sexual misconduct allegations against his brother, which culminated in the governor's resignation three months ago.But new documents released on Monday showed that the veteran journalist was more intimately involved than previously known in shaping his brother's defense."The New York Attorney General's office released transcripts and exhibits Monday that shed new light on Chris Cuomo's involvement in his brother's defense," a CNN spokesperson said Tuesday evening. "The documents, which we were not privy to before their public release, raise serious questions.""When Chris admitted to us that he had offered advice to his brother's staff, he broke our rules and we acknowledged that publicly," the spokesperson continued. "But we also appreciated the unique position he was in and understood his need to put family first and job second.""However, these documents point to a greater level of involvement in his brother's efforts than we previously knew," the spokesperson added. "As a result, we have suspended Chris indefinitely, pending further evaluation."The suspension came after significant criticism from people who noted that Chris Cuomo had violated widely accepted journalistic norms. Inside CNN, staffers expressed dismay about the anchor's conduct. Charlotte Bennett, a former aide to Andrew Cuomo who came forward in February to accuse him of sexual harassment, called for CNN to "immediately take action.""Anything short of firing Chris Cuomo reflects a network lacking both morals and a backbone," Bennett said in a tweet Tuesday. The "Cuomo Prime Time" team had been planning for Tuesday's broadcast up until the announcement of Chris Cuomo's suspension, a person familiar with the matter said. Cooper's team was also blindsided by the news and left scrambling to fill the extra hour.After the news was made public, an emotional Chris Cuomo met with the show's staff. The documents released by New York Attorney General Letitia James included text messages and transcripts of interviews with investigators who led the probe into allegations against the governor.The cache of documents included text messages between Chris Cuomo and Melissa DeRosa, a then-top aide to Gov. Andrew Cuomo, that suggested he was instrumental in working to craft a defense against a flood of sexual misconduct allegations.The text messages also revealed that Chris Cuomo sought to use his connections in the press to help prepare the then-governor's team as accusers started to make their stories public.Chris Cuomo also acknowledged to investigators that he did attempt to learn more about a story by journalist Ronan Farrow. The anchor defended the practice as conventional."The idea of one reporter calling another to find out about what's coming down the pipe is completely business-as-usual," he said.When Andrew Cuomo resigned as governor in August, Chris Cuomo told CNN viewers that he was "not an advisor," but "a brother." He acknowledged that he talked with his brother's aides and gave his "take" until CNN told him to stop doing so in May.The "Cuomo Prime Time" anchor also said on the air in August, "I never attacked nor encouraged anyone to attack any woman who came forward. I never made calls to the press about my brother's situation."Monday's revelations cast some doubt on his statement about his interactions with the press."I would -- when asked, I would reach out to sources, other journalists, to see if they had heard of anybody else coming out," Chris Cuomo said during testimony.Chris Cuomo also said under oath what he told CNN viewers earlier this year: That he "never influenced or attempted to control CNN's coverage of my family."During the questioning, he reiterated that sentiment, saying, "If I had tried to influence any of the reporting at CNN or anywhere else, I guarantee you people would know, and so would a lot of others."In its May statement, CNN had said, "Chris has not been involved in CNN's extensive coverage of the allegations against Governor Cuomo — on air or behind the scenes." The network's statement added, "In part because, as he has said on his show, he could never be objective. But also because he often serves as a sounding board for his brother. However, it was inappropriate to engage in conversations that included members of the Governor's staff, which Chris acknowledges. He will not participate in such conversations going forward."The anchor at the time also took to his show to say that he is "family first and job second" and apologized for how he helped his brother."It will not happen again. It was a mistake, because I put my colleagues here, who I believe are the best in the business, in a bad spot," he said. "I never intended for that I would never intend for that and I am sorry for that."While a report on the sexual misconduct allegations against Andrew Cuomo was released in August, James' office continues with a separate investigation into allegations he misused state resources for the development, production and promotion of a book he wrote on the pandemic.Rich Azzopardi, a spokesman for Andrew Cuomo, called the latest release of transcripts, documents and videos a "manipulated release.""New Yorkers are no one's fool and James and her colleagues' obvious misuse of government resources to damage political opponents is as obvious and repugnant as it is unethical and illegal," Azzopardi said in a statement.CNN's Sonia Moghe contributed to this report.
Alice Sebold apologizes to exonerated man who spent years in prison for her rape.  (CNN)Author Alice Sebold apologized to a man who last week was exonerated of her rape, a crime she wrote about in her memoir "Lucky," but the writer also appeared to place as much blame on a "flawed legal system" as she did on the role she played in his conviction. "First, I want to say that I am truly sorry to Anthony Broadwater and I deeply regret what you have been through," Sebold, the author of "The Lovely Bones," wrote in a statement posted on Medium.com.Broadwater, who has always maintained his innocence, was convicted of the rape in 1982 and spent 16 years in prison. He was denied parole at least five times because he wouldn't admit to a crime he didn't commit, according to his attorneys. He tried at least five times to get the sentence overturned, he told CNN.Last week, a New York State Supreme Court judge exonerated Broadwater and vacated his conviction and other counts related to it. The Onondaga County district attorney joined in the motion to vacate the conviction.Broadwater was convicted on two pieces of evidence -- Sebold's account and a cross-racial identification -- the author is White and Broadwater is Black -- and the analysis of a piece of hair that was later determined to be faulty, his attorneys wrote.In "Lucky," Sebold wrote that after she failed to identify Broadwater in a police lineup, "a detective and a prosecutor told her after the lineup that she picked out the wrong man and how the prosecutor deliberately coached her into rehabilitating her misidentification," according to the attorneys' affirmation that led to Broadwater's exoneration.The unreliability of the hair analysis and the conversation between the prosecutor and Sebold after the lineup would probably have led to a different verdict if it had been presented at trial, the attorneys said."I am grateful that Mr. Broadwater has finally been vindicated, but the fact remains that 40 years ago, he became another young Black man brutalized by our flawed legal system. I will forever be sorry for what was done to him," Sebold said. Sebold described the rape, which occurred when she was a freshman at Syracuse University in 1981, in brutally honest detail in "Lucky." It was published a year after Broadwater was released from prison. Her publisher Scribner, and its parent company, Simon & Schuster, will stop distributing the book in all formats "while Sebold and Scribner together consider how the work might be revised," said Brian Belfiglio, Scribner vice president of publicity and marketing, in a statement to CNN.CNN has reached out to Sebold and her representatives for comment. "40 years ago, as a traumatized 18-year-old rape victim, I chose to put my faith in the American legal system. My goal in 1982 was justice -- not to perpetuate injustice," Sebold wrote. "And certainly not to forever, and irreparably, alter a young man's life by the very crime that had altered mine."Broadwater last week described how his life had been ruined by the false conviction. He struggled to find work after getting out of jail when employers found out about his criminal record."I did what I could do, and that was just, you know -- creating work for myself doing landscaping, tree removal, hauling, clean-outs," he told CNN.His wife wanted children, but "I wouldn't bring children in the world because of this. And now, we're past days, we can't have children," Broadwater told reporters after the court hearing."I will remain sorry for the rest of my life that while pursuing justice through the legal system, my own misfortune resulted in Mr. Broadwater's unfair conviction for which he has served not only 16 years behind bars but in ways that further serve to wound and stigmatize, nearly a full life sentence," Sebold wrote.After his exoneration, Broadwater said that he would like an apology from the author, but also acknowledged what she had suffered."I sympathize with her, what happened to her," he said. "I just hope there's a sincere apology. I would accept it. I'm not bitter or have malice towards her."While saying that she struggles "with the role that I unwittingly played within a system that sent an innocent man to jail," she said she grapples "with the fact that my rapist will, in all likelihood, never be known, may have gone on to rape other women, and certainly will never serve the time in prison that Mr. Broadwater did."
City Councilman Andre Dickens will become Atlanta's next mayor, CNN projects.  (CNN)City Councilman Andre Dickens will become Atlanta's next mayor, CNN projects, defeating City Council President Felicia Moore in a runoff election to determine who will hold the city's top post. Dickens and Moore had advanced to the runoff after no candidate in a wide field received a majority of the vote earlier this month. The sitting mayor, Democrat Keisha Lance Bottoms, had announced in May she would not seek reelection. Leading up to Tuesday, polls suggested the contest was close with a large swath of the electorate still undecided.Dickens, a former businessman and nonprofit leader, has served on Atlanta's City Council since 2013.In a race that focused on a recent spike in violent crime as well as controversy over an effort by the residents of the wealthy community of Buckhead to break off from the capital and create their own city, Dickens -- who previously served as the chair of the City Council's Public Safety Committee -- laid out a public safety plan that prioritized community policing and boosting police resources.Dickens' proposal calls for increasing the police force by 250 officers during his first year in office while requiring new training for every police department employee on de-escalation techniques and racial sensitivity. Ahead of the November 2 general election, shooting incidents had increased dramatically from 406 at that point in 2019 to 629 this year, according to an October 23 report from the Atlanta Police Department.When Dickens takes office, he also faces concerns about low morale at the Atlanta Police Department and the number of officers who departed the force since June 2020. Tensions were high after Bottoms called for the firing of the officer who shot Rayshard Brooks in the parking lot of a Wendy's in June of 2020. Bottoms said she had asked the officer be let go from the force one day after the deadly shooting, the Atlanta Journal Constitution reported at the time. Though much of their rhetoric on the need for a safer Atlanta was similar, Dickens took a different approach than his opponent with regard to how he would handle policing in the city.While Moore suggested removing Police Chief Rodney Bryant from his position, Dickens said he would not immediately replace Bryant and instead would give Bryant 100 days to improve the department.
In Fresno's meth hell, there's no antidote. Fresno, California (CNN)He says he was just headed to Walgreens. But the expired registration on his car tag meant he could be pulled over.  So there he is, sitting on the cold curb at night, cuffed by the Fresno County sheriff's deputies. Yes, the man tells CNN, he'd avoided getting a new registration, not wanting to spend the money. So now the 28-year-old is looking at a ticket on top of the registration and a late fee.  Nothing comes cheap and easy for him -- except for methamphetamine.  That's the lesson he says he got at the age of 13, when his older brother, the person he looked up to the most in the world, told him to try the drug. "And from then on, it just took control," he says. Meth has also taken control of a large swath of Fresno, California. Evolving production and distribution has kept supply plentiful -- and lethal. National data shows deaths from methamphetamine and other psychostimulants are up 48% in the year from May 2020 through April 2021, accounting for more than a quarter of all overdose deaths in that time. In Fresno, meth is the leading killer.  There were more meth overdose deaths in Fresno County in 2020 than those of any other kind of drug, according to the coroner's unit. There were more meth deaths than suicides or homicides; more deaths than people killed in autos involving one- or two-vehicle crashes; more deaths than fire, falls and drowning combined.  On the streets The man on the curb asks CNN not to use his name or show his face -- which is covered in tattoos of a violent Fresno street gang he says he joined about the time he started using meth.  He's inked on his arms, legs and skull, too, all marks of the crew he says he has now managed to quit. He has not been in trouble with the police since 2018, determined to live a cleaner life for his two boys, aged 5 and 7. But there's also a sign of the thing he can't quit -- a large, leaking abscess on the inside of his left arm where he injects meth.  "When's the last time you used?" asks Fresno County Sheriff's Deputy Todd Burk. "Yesterday," the man replies. He said he'd just lost his job as a forklift driver, one of the highest-paying jobs he'd had in a long time at $25 an hour. He uses, he explains, in times like these, "when I get stressed out." Burk chats about his own children, "Mine are 7 and 9," as he processes the ticket for the expired registration. But the truth is the two men have little in common except their connection to meth in Fresno -- one the user, the other too often cleaning up what happens after use.  "Methamphetamine is destroying the community," Burk says. "It's fueling nothing but crimes." Burk has seen meth ravage households, generations, and his city for the nearly 17 years he's been a cop, he says. There's no end in sight. "Methamphetamine, it is such an addictive drug," says Burk. "They can't get rid of it. They can't stop it. Even if they want to stop it, they can't. Their body won't allow them to." Out in the community Burk, 39, starts his SUV for his shift, his wife's smiling photo taped just below the ignition."Yeah, she's always with me," says Burk, himself beaming as he looks down at the photo. The deputy works the overnight shift so he can maximize time with his family -- his wife, daughter and son.  "I get sleep around their schedules," explains Burk. Plus, he adds, "I enjoy the adrenaline rush out here." "Out here" is nighttime in Fresno County, the jurisdiction of the Fresno County Sheriff's Office. Burk is one of the deputies patrolling the 6,000-square-mile county that encompasses mountain terrain, farmland and the city of Fresno. About a million people live in the majority Latino county, and methamphetamine cuts through it all. "You can't live in this community and not have, at some point in your life, seen the effects of methamphetamine," says Burk, his patrol SUV rolling through the outskirts of the city. Everything seems to come back to it, with crimes such as domestic disturbances and theft fueled by the drug, he says.  Spend one night shift with Burk, and the crisis in Fresno comes into clear focus.  Turning onto a busy street, there's a woman, apparently high on something, wandering into oncoming traffic."Hello, hey are you OK?" Burk says to the woman, who is frantic and on the phone. "Come out of the road." Burk is dressed in his uniform but sounds more like a calm dad as he speaks to the woman, asking her again and again even as she doesn't appear to hear him. He and another deputy pull the woman to the sidewalk. "Something's causing her to panic and be paranoid," says Burk, outlining a familiar sign of methamphetamine use."You have to treat somebody who's under the influence a little differently. Sometimes they don't feel pain. They're paranoid. At times, they act out and they don't realize it sometimes. It's just what's going on in their brain because of the drug. It's very unpredictable dealing with somebody on methamphetamine." A new recipe, a new impact That unpredictability has gotten worse as the production of meth has evolved in the last 15 years, says retired Department of Justice special agent Robert Pennal.  "It's not the same dope. It's different," he said.  Pennal began his career chasing California's biker gangs in the late 70s and 80s when they produced methamphetamine using a clear liquid called phenyl-2-propanone, or P2P. That P2P method would fade as ephedrine, a component in over-the-counter sinus medicine, became the key ingredient for making meth.  "We'd hit these labs and we'd see nothing but blister packs of ephedrine," said Pennal. The Combat Methamphetamine Epidemic Act would, in 2006, limit how much ephedrine could be purchased at one time, effectively restricting the key element to meth production.  Mexican cartels, who had muscled their way into the illegal business, shifted gears, said Pennal. "They ran out of pseudoephedrine, so they went back to make it the old way, from back in the 70s and 80s, and started making it with P2P." But unlike the small-scale meth kitchens of the biker gangs, the cartels began manufacturing meth in warehouses that resemble large breweries, often in the Mexican state of Sinaloa, where they are powerful. In those huge laboratories, Pennal said, the meth is now manufactured into its crystal form and then dissolved into solutions that are difficult for US Customs X-ray machines to detect. Once across the border, the solution is made into a crystal again in "ice recovery labs," he said.  "You're just talking about huge, huge operations. They're factories and we're on the receiving end of that. That's why there's so much methamphetamine here." In Fresno, an easy hop from I-5 that goes all the way to the San Ysidro border crossing, Burk concurs. "The supply is so high. The demand is high," he says. "It's easier to get your hands on it, it's cheaper. And it produces a high that becomes addicting. And your normal life goes away when you're under the influence of methamphetamine." 'It fries your brain' You can see and hear the impact of meth around Fresno, even without a police guide. Users tend to disintegrate -- their teeth dissolving from the toxic smoke and their voices fading to a squawk. And now the newer formulations make users more psychotic, or likely to drop dead, according to the law enforcement officers and experts interviewed for this story. "Nowadays it's not even meth anymore," says John Chapman, who lives in the district patrolled by Officer Burk. Chapman, 55, is the rare example of someone who got off meth -- clean for three years now after decades of use, he says. His own mother first gave him the drug when he was 11. "She said she rather me do it in front of her than doing it behind her back," Chapman explains to CNN.  "Back then the meth wouldn't kill you. Now it does. It gave me nerve damage. It actually fries your brain." Chapman's legs still spasm due to the damage from the constant drug use, he says, and he has the unmistakable dental decay known as "meth mouth." His voice is hoarse, his vocal cords damaged from toxic fumes.  But what finally got him to quit, he says, was the realization that the drug had outpaced him.  "Meth these days is more addicting than it was back then," Chapman says. The new meth made Chapman more violent, he says. "The chemicals they use in it, they're messing with your brain even more." Meth can also be adulterated with fentanyl, as is the case with other street drugs, which are killing so many in the US.  Unlike other drugs, there is no antagonist or antidote like the naloxone carried to reverse an opioid overdose. If meth users OD, explains Pennal, the former special agent, "basically, it's a one-way ride."  'I started to be the weirdo' On the streets of Los Angeles, about 220 miles south of Fresno, Eric Barrera is trying to get to meth addicts before they punch that ticket. He works for Healthcare in Action, a "street medicine" team made up of medics, mental health care workers and social workers that visit homeless encampments. His personal focus is to reach meth users.  Barrera, 41, served in the US Marine Corps before a decade of meth abuse that culminated in him becoming homeless. He steps into the drug crisis with a lived-in authenticity and survival story few can rival. "Meth addicts will listen a bit more to a recovering drug addict than they might to a doctor who's never walked in their shoes," Barrera tells CNN.  He spends his days walking through tent encampments, choosing to spend his time with meth addicts, even as he concedes many see them as the least sympathetic of drug abusers. Sober since June 9, 2013, Barrera offers an unvarnished take on how the new P2P meth is fueling some of society's worst problems.  "This new dope, when there was no more access to ephedrine, the damage was just instant. There were no euphoric feelings anymore. It wasn't a party drug. It wasn't a social drug. When you did that stuff, you were weird. You got weird. And I started to be the weirdo." Barrera recalls hearing the voices, seeing the delusions, and having intense feelings of paranoia. He believes his meth use caused the mental health problems that he manages today with the help of medication. And more directly, Barrera draws a line from meth to his homelessness. "It's definitely fueling it," says Barrera of homelessness. "Everyone wants to blame mental illness or the high rent prices. But this stuff is causing mental illness." His story is chronicled along with others by New York Times bestselling author and freelance journalist Sam Quinones in a new book,  The Least of Us: True Tales of America and Hope in the Time of Fentanyl and Meth. Quinones says his reporting shows the impact of the meth that's been coming out of Mexico for the last 8 to 10 years, "accompanied by terrifying symptoms of schizophrenia, severe paranoia, and vivid hallucinations." Quinones describes it as, "People living as if the world is out to kill them."  Quinones calls meth the "worst face" of addiction. "When people die from opioids, there's memorials, heartfelt posts on Facebook. There's some way of connecting with that person," he says. "But meth decays you. And meanwhile, you're absolutely out of your mind, unable to live with anybody."  And these people usually end up on the street. Trying to break the cycle On the streets of Fresno, Deputy Burk has only a few tools to try to help the meth users he encounters on a nightly basis -- a ticket, an offer of a rehabilitation program, or the days to sober up in jail.  "Somebody who is in possession of methamphetamine, if I can arrest them and try to get them a program, that's my goal. I want to see somebody who's constantly high on methamphetamine change their life and become a productive citizen. I think they want it as well." Burk says the words "help" and "program" repeatedly throughout the night, even as some users berate him.  His remarkably upbeat demeanor cracks just once, when the tattooed ex-gang member doesn't warn him there's a syringe and needle in his car.  "Man, you gotta tell me," Burk says, visibly irritated as he pulls out the needle. Accidental needle pricks are a daily health risk in Burk's job.  The needle is empty, along with a baggie that once held crystal meth. Burk also finds a torch pipe, but no drugs. That is why the younger man let him search the car.  Still sitting on the curb, the user says he knows what it's like to be clean. "I went from being a crazy lunatic to just a normal guy," he says. "Though I don't ever feel normal."  He says he's been sent to prison three times and to jail so often he's lost count. But having stayed out of serious legal trouble since 2018, perhaps he justifies Burk's optimistic outlook.  "I'm trying to stay straight so I can have my kids straight," he says.  But for now, his plan is to try to keep the meth away from his boys -- even as he still uses himself. CNN's Kyung Lah and Anna-Maja Rappard reported and wrote from Fresno, California, and Los Angeles; Rachel Clarke wrote in Atlanta.
Dr. Oz announces bid for US Senate seat in Pennsylvania.  (CNN)Dr. Mehmet Oz, a cardiothoracic surgeon and television personality, is running for the US Senate in Pennsylvania as a Republican, according to an op-ed published Tuesday in the conservative Washington Examiner."During the pandemic, I learned that when you mix politics and medicine, you get politics instead of solutions. That's why I am running for the U.S. Senate: to help fix the problems and to help us heal," Oz wrote.The 61-year-old Oz will join a Republican primary field that already includes Philadelphia-area businessman (and 2018 lieutenant governor nominee) Jeff Bartos and Carla Sands, who served as US ambassador to Denmark in the Trump administration. Another potential Republican candidate is David McCormick, a former official in the Treasury Department under President George W. Bush.The race in Pennsylvania to succeed retiring Republican Sen. Pat Toomey has been shaken up in recent weeks, primarily by the departure of GOP candidate Sean Parnell, who was endorsed by former President Donald Trump."Pennsylvania needs a conservative who will put America first," Oz said in a 60-second video on his campaign website.Oz is an Ohio native who attended medical school at the University of Pennsylvania. He rose to fame as a frequent guest of Oprah Winfrey, eventually launching his own syndicated daytime TV talk show in 2009.Representatives for Oz did not return CNN's request for comment.Oz's interest in the Senate race was first reported earlier this year in the Washington Free Beacon and Politico. Oz said in a 2007 interview that he would "consider" running for office someday, calling himself a "moderate Republican."He also has connections to Trump. In 2018, Trump appointed Oz to the Presidential Council on Sports, Fitness and Nutrition, reappointing him to the position in 2020.In his campaign video, Oz criticized the federal response to Covid-19, saying that "Washington got it wrong.""They took away our freedom without making us safer," he said.
Conservative legal activists watch SCOTUS abortion cases with worry over what happens if they lose.  (CNN)Amid the wave of excitement among conservative organizers over the prospect of reversing access to abortion for the first time in nearly 50 years -- since Roe v. Wade affirmed a constitutional right to the procedure in 1973 -- there are growing fears about how the conservative legal movement will fare if its own appointees on the bench stop short of dismantling the landmark abortion ruling. "There are a lot of conservatives who will wash their hands of the whole enterprise if conservatives don't come out the right way on these cases," said Mike Davis, a Senate Judiciary Committee aide who founded the Article III Project, a conservative judicial advocacy group. The mounting concerns among social conservative stakeholders and anti-abortion activists -- which come as two abortion-related cases are set to be decided by the Supreme Court in the coming months -- stem from a series of episodes where Republican-appointed justices have sided with their liberal counterparts in cases involving LGBTQ rights, the Affordable Care Act and religious liberty -- blindsiding conservative groups that helped shepherd them through the Senate confirmation process and sparking tense debates inside the conservative movement over the vetting process of nominees. Many of these groups considered it a betrayal when Justice Neil Gorsuch, the first of former President Donald Trump's three appointees to the court, penned the majority opinion last year in Bostock v. Clayton County, which added sexual orientation and gender identity as protected classes under Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act. More recently, Justices Amy Coney Barrett and Brett Kavanaugh alarmed conservative court watchers with their lines of questioning during oral arguments in United States v. Texas, a case involving the Texas law known as S.B. 8, which prohibits most abortions after about six weeks of pregnancy. The two Trump appointees "appeared openly skeptical of the construction of the Texas abortion law ... sending a chill down the spines of conservatives," read a piece by Rachel Bovard in The Federalist, an ultra-conservative media outfit, just days after oral arguments in the case. Bovard, who serves as senior director of policy at the Conservative Partnership Institute, told CNN the two abortion-related cases will directly challenge the stature of prominent conservative legal groups like the Federalist Society, which tends to wield significant influence over the judicial nomination process under Republican administrations. "They can no longer be the sole imprimatur of the Supreme Court if the conservative legal movement has led us to produce judges who cannot overturn what the conservative legal movement regards as blatantly unconstitutional," Bovard said. While many court observers expect the Supreme Court to curtail abortion rights in some form via Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization, prominent conservative figures from former Vice President Mike Pence to Judicial Crisis Network President Carrie Severino have begun setting expectations for an outcome that fails to completely overhaul Roe. "Legally, I think this question is very easy, but you might have some justices who get hung up on the question of stare decisis," Severino said, referring to the legal doctrine of precedent. "At the end of the day we are dealing with fallible human beings," she added, arguing that "no matter how much vetting and effort is put into the process," it is still possible that Trump-appointed justices could disappoint conservatives once more. In a speech on Tuesday hosted by his own policy organization Advancing American Freedom and the anti-abortion group Susan B. Anthony List, Pence said the Supreme Court should send Roe "to the ash heap of history," while acknowledging that how the justices will rule is far from certain. "Now more than ever, we need our conservative majority on the Supreme Court of the United States to return the question of life to the states and the people," Pence said. "While I cannot say how the Supreme Court will rule, today I can say with confidence the tide has turned for the pro-life movement." The former vice president's remarks could exacerbate concerns among conservatives who already fear the court will sidestep its first opportunity in decades to completely dismantle abortion rights in the United States -- triggering major upheaval inside the conservative legal movement and depressing donor enthusiasm for anti-abortion groups that have long promised a new horizon in their battle against reproductive rights if the Supreme Court gained a conservative majority. But instead of directing their ire toward Pence and Trump, whose administration cemented the court's conservative majority with the appointments of Kavanaugh, Barrett and Gorsuch, Davis said the Federalist Society would likely bear the brunt of conservatives' frustration. The group has previously come under fire from social conservatives who claim that it prioritizes judges who are reliable allies on regulatory matters but less so on social issues. "They will say the Federalist Society's way of picking judges is wrong. I understand that inclination because we've been disappointed so many times, but once you start normalizing judicial activism -- whether it's on the right or the left -- we're going to lose that fight long term," Davis said.Defenders of the current conservative approach to judicial nominations have dismissed efforts to impose litmus tests on nominees, such as the declaration that Sen. Josh Hawley made ahead of Barrett's confirmation hearings to "vote only for those Supreme Court nominees who have explicitly acknowledged Roe v. Wade was wrongly decided." Severino said the ultimate job of a judge "is not to be picked so that they advance certain policy outcomes." Davis said the only litmus test for conservative judicial appointees "should be courage." But others say that if the Supreme Court disappoints conservatives with its upcoming rulings, the prevailing lesson is that the vetting process for nominees must be drastically revised -- even if that means dismantling the conservative legal movement in its current form. Advocates for such change said more stakeholders should be consulted in the vetting process and more probing questions about how potential judges might rule in certain cases should be encouraged."If the court gets this wrong, future administrations will need to consult a far wider group of people than they have previously, and we need more people in the room asking more direct questions," Bovard said.Should the court decline to end the legal right to abortion and permit legal challenges to a restrictive Texas law banning the procedure after about six weeks, Pence and Trump would lose a major talking point as they weigh separate White House bids in 2024. The duo has long praised the trio of conservative Supreme Court appointments they oversaw as one of their crowning achievements -- using it to reassure abortion opponents that they would likely see Roe undone in their lifetime. "Today, we gather on the verge of what may be a new era in American history -- an era in which all human life is one again cherished and respected," Pence said Tuesday to the anti-abortion crowd.
How law enforcement is trying to stop mob retail thefts.  (CNN)With in-store customers expected to return in droves for the holiday shopping season, law enforcement agencies are moving to halt a wave of organized "smash-and-grab" crimes at retailers across the US. In Chicago, Los Angeles and other major cities, police departments are increasing patrols at retailers targeted by mobs of thieves in brazen raids. In Northern California, district attorneys formed an alliance to prosecute organized theft rings. At the federal level, the FBI said it is in "close contact" with local law enforcement investigating such cases and prepared to take further action. "We have been seeing this wave of people invading stores in large numbers," San Francisco Police Chief William Scott said. "There is no way in my mind that we can have a situation where 20, up to 80 people can invade a store or series of stores and there not be some communication and some organization."On the weekend before Thanksgiving Day, thieves swarmed the Southland Mall in Hayward, in the San Francisco Bay Area, smashing display cases with hammers at a store before grabbing jewelry and fleeing.Three suspects were arrested November 20 after a mob ransacked a Nordstrom store in Walnut Creek, east of San Francisco. Some 80 suspects were involved, and they fled the outdoor mall in at least 10 vehicles, police said. That theft followed similar raids that weekend near San Francisco's Union Square, where thieves targeted Louis Vuitton, Burberry and Bloomingdale's stores, a Walgreens and cannabis dispensaries.'Instilling fear in merchants, customers and the wider community'Seven Bay Area district attorneys -- in San Joaquin, Contra Costa, Alameda, San Francisco, Marin, San Mateo, and Santa Clara counties -- announced last week an alliance that also included law enforcement and state agencies to combat organized retail theft. Each office agreed to assign a prosecutor to target the thieves, including fencing rings and people who purchase the stolen goods, according to a joint statement.  "These are clearly carefully orchestrated crimes, working together in large groups to create a mob-like mentality," Alameda County District Attorney Nancy O'Malley said in the statement. "They are instilling fear in merchants, customers and the wider community. This is especially appalling at a time where many are out and about during the holiday season." Law enforcement presence increasing at retail locations Gov. Gavin Newsom has ordered "saturation patrols" by the California Highway Patrol near major retail sites in the state during the holiday season in response to the organized thefts. Four men were arrested over the weekend in connection with a theft at a Home Depot in California, where as many as 10 people entered the Lakewood store Friday night and left with a range of tools typically used in smash-and-grab thefts -- hammers, sledgehammers, crowbars.The four men, ranging in age from 19 to 22, were taken into custody by Los Angeles Sheriff's Office detectives and booked for conspiracy to commit burglary, officials said.In Santa Monica, police said, "the keen observation skills and quick thinking" of a downtown security guard may have thwarted a smash-and-grab theft at a Nordstrom's store last Friday.Santa Monica Police Chief Ramon Batista said in a Facebook post Monday that the security guard radioed for police assistance after spotting seven vehicles carrying about 28 people parked in a fire lane outside the store. The people in the vehicles left before police arrived. Oakland Mayor Libby Schaaf, a Democrat, on Monday blamed cuts in the number of city police officers for the wave of smash-and-grab thefts as well as a spike in gun violence. "Let me be clear, Oakland needs more police," she told CNN's Kate Bolduan.  Schaaf said the pandemic interrupted the city's recruitment and training of new officers. She called for greater coordination by law enforcement at all levels to combat retail thefts. "We need state and federal resources to interrupt those efforts," she said. "Lord knows (the thieves) are coordinated. We need to be coordinated as well." Organized thefts have been reported throughout the country, including a case involving at least 30 people who stole electronics from a Best Buy store on Black Friday in Burnsville, Minnesota. In Illinois, Chicago Police Superintendent David Brown said on Monday that his department was "particularly focused" on smash-and-grab thefts. He said two teenagers were arrested for the theft of $8,500 worth of items from a beauty supply store. Chicago Police Chief of Operations Brian McDermott said the department had increased patrols in the central business district and other locations and tracking "stolen cars and vehicles typically used in these type of crimes." FBI 'prepared to take a more active role'An FBI spokesperson told CNN Monday that federal agents are monitoring the spate of brazen thefts and remain in close contact with local police. "Should information come to our attention that constitutes a federal crime, we are prepared to take a more active role," the spokesperson said. Stephanie Martz, chief administrative officer and general counsel with the National Retail Federation, said smash-and-grab thefts have gradually increased over the past year and a half, starting with drugstores and spreading to department stores and high-end retailers. About 69% of retailers reported a jump in organized retail crime in the past year, citing factors ranging from the pandemic to changes in sentencing guidelines, according to a 2021 retail security survey by the National Retail Federation. Many retailers who participated in the self-reported, online survey also said suspects have become more aggressive and violent. The recent group shoplifting incidents come during what experts say is a decades-long decline in overall property crime. The FBI's Uniform Crime Report showed the country's property crime rate at an all-time low in 2020. According to the National Commission for Covid-19 and Criminal Justice, this downward trend has continued into 2021. In its most recent report, the NCCCJ -- which surveys crime across 34 major cities -- reported a 7% decline in nonresidential burglaries between the first quarter of 2020 and 2021. However, San Francisco, where many of the smash-and-grab thefts have taken place, reported a sharp increase in burglaries in 2020 compared to 2019. It's an outlier in California, where the rate of burglaries has steadily declined over time.Shoplifting data, however, can be flawed. For example, a report by the San Francisco Chronicle showed that the city's 2021 monthly shoplifting reports saw a dramatic spike in September stemming from one Target store that had recently switched to a new reporting system.CNN's Priya Krishnakumar contributed to this report. 
GOP feud simmers despite McCarthy's warning, causing concerns over 2022 prospects.  (CNN)House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy summoned GOP Reps. Marjorie Taylor Greene and Nancy Mace for separate meetings Tuesday night, wanting to deliver a simple message amid their bitter and public feud: "Stop it."  His message didn't seem to take hold. Emerging from her meeting, Greene told CNN that both she and former President Donald Trump would back a primary challenge to Mace in 2022.  And after she met with McCarthy, Mace had this to say when asked about Greene's threat: "All I can say about Marjorie Taylor Greene is bless her f***ing heart." The boiling tensions over the hard-right faction of the House GOP conference are alarming many rank-and-file Republicans, who are bluntly warning that the failure of party leaders to rein in their loudest voices directly threatens their efforts to win back the majority next year. At the center of the feud: McCarthy, a California Republican who typically avoids public condemnation of his colleagues and opts instead to hold private conversations with his members -- all in a bid to keep the peace between the warring wings of his conference and bolster his own chances of becoming speaker after the 2022 midterm elections. But his failure to tamp down the attacks -- largely from the right wing of his conference against his more moderate colleagues -- is causing growing concern in the ranks, with one GOP lawmaker calling Greene in particular "poisonous" to the party. "If Kevin McCarthy does not get Marjorie Taylor Greene in line somewhat, either through the conference disciplining her, or privately, it is going to undermine our efforts," the lawmaker said. "And this is where leadership can step up. And I think if he doesn't, you're going to have a bit more of a civil war on your hands."The tension comes after Greene repeatedly called Mace, a Republican from a swing district, "trash." The reason why Greene bashed Mace: The South Carolina freshman had condemned another conservative Republican, Lauren Boebert of Colorado, for saying that Rep. Ilhan Omar, a Minnesota Democrat who is Muslim, could be mistaken as a terrorist. McCarthy, who has been struggling to keep his party focused on its ultimate goal next year, seems to be recognizing that it's time to redirect members' focus. Moments before Mace entered his office Tuesday evening, McCarthy told CNN he had a message for both Mace and Greene: "Stop it."But despite McCarthy's efforts to privately cool the intraparty tensions, his tactics don't seem to be having much of an effect on the far-right conservatives. After leaving the meeting with McCarthy, Greene told CNN that she and Trump would back a primary challenge against Mace, the first woman to graduate from The Citadel military college, who had been seen by party leaders as a top recruit last cycle. "Obviously, I love that man," the Georgia Republican said of Trump, whom she had spoken with earlier in the day. "And I have his support 1,000%. And unfortunately, Nancy Mace doesn't." "I will be very supportive of a primary challenger (to Mace), along with President Trump," Greene added. The dust-up is the latest in series of ugly intraparty spats, including a move to punish the 13 House Republicans who voted for the new infrastructure law, such as New York Rep. John Katko, one of the most vulnerable Republicans in his chamber, whom Florida Rep. Matt Gaetz had said "stabbed" Republicans in the back -- a comment echoed by a number of other conservatives. Katko was also one of 10 House Republicans who voted to impeach Trump for inciting the insurrection at the US Capitol last January.Returning to session Tuesday after the Thanksgiving recess, senior Republicans said the focus of their party must change immediately in order to capitalize on the major advantages they currently enjoy in the fight for the House majority next year. If not, they said, self-inflicted wounds could give Democrats an improbable victory. "Yeah, I do," Rep. Fred Upton, a veteran Michigan Republican, said when asked whether he thought the most recent eruption over Boebert and Greene hurts their chances at taking back the majority. "It's uncalled for." Upton added: "It's tit for tat. Where's the shovel? This needs to end."   "Have you ever seen a team where they should be winning, and you'll just look on the sidelines and then coach is yelling at a player, players yell at the coach and it doesn't show they're on track to win," said Rep. Brett Guthrie, a Kentucky Republican. "Anytime we're not focusing on what they're doing and what we want to do, I think it's not a good thing." The aggressive attacks against fellow Republicans also have come from Trump's most loyal supporters, putting McCarthy in an awkward spot as he tries to stay in the good graces of the former President while also trying to focus his party to stay unified against President Joe Biden's sweeping agenda.  That dynamic was in full display earlier in November when another member of the hard-right faction, Rep. Paul Gosar of Arizona, tweeted an animated video where he acted violently toward Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Biden himself. That earned him a rare censure from the House, which also stripped him of his committee assignments. But McCarthy chose to deal with Gosar privately -- and rallied his conference to reject the efforts by Democrats to punish him. In the most recent episode involving Boebert and Greene, McCarthy tried to work behind the scenes to tamp down intraparty tensions. He tried to broker a meeting between Boebert and Omar, while later calling Greene on Friday after she criticized his leadership. McCarthy also spoke on the phone with Mace on Tuesday after the South Carolina Republican fired back at Greene, whom she characterized as "bats*** crazy" in a series of emojis on Twitter. "We've got to be a big tent party," said Rep. Tom Rice, a Republican of South Carolina who voted to impeach Trump. "We need more conservative Republicans; we need more moderate Republicans. To win nationwide, we've got to have all of those. And we've got to have independents as well. We've got a really good chance to move forward in the next election, but we've got to be more inclusive and accepting of each other. We've got to stop attacking each other." Louisiana Rep. Steve Scalise, the GOP whip, who could be the majority leader next Congress, told CNN that it's time for House Republicans to refocus on issues -- something he said would be a focus of a Wednesday meeting with his full conference. "Inflation crisis, border crisis, energy crisis, confidence crisis and Joe Biden's policies -- that's what the focus needs to be on, and how we can solve these problems that they've created," Scalise said.  "Everybody's been away for Thanksgiving. And now that we're back, we've got to get back focused on the things that matter to families back home." CNN's Morgan Rimmer contributed to this report.
FedEx driver dumped packages at least 6 times into Alabama ravine, sheriff says .  (CNN)Authorities investigating the discovery of hundreds of FedEx packages in an Alabama ravine have questioned the driver they think is responsible -- and believe the driver dumped packages there at least six times, a sheriff said Tuesday.The investigation began November 24, when sheriff's deputies in northern Alabama's Blount County found 300 to 400 packages in a ravine on private property, the county sheriff's department said.On Monday, the sheriff said a driver who investigators believed was responsible had been identified and questioned. Investigators then "determined that the driver dumped at least six times," making FedEx the victim of six property theft cases, Sheriff Mark Moon said in a Facebook post Tuesday.The name of the driver wasn't released, and no arrest or charges have been announced. The sheriff's office also has not released any information about a suspected motive. "This will not be an easy or fast case to close. ... I am asking for patience from our citizens as our investigators work through this case," Moon's post reads. FedEx sent workers and trucks to the ravine last week to begin recovering and distributing the packages. The property is about 40 miles outside Birmingham.The questioned driver "is no longer providing service on behalf of FedEx Ground," FedEx said Tuesday in a prepared statement."We regret the inconvenience this situation has caused and appreciate our customers' understanding throughout the package recovery process," the company's statement reads. "Where possible, recovered packages are being delivered to the intended recipients. "In the event of a damaged shipment, we will make every effort to work with the affected shippers to reach a resolution. As always, customers with questions about their shipments can track their packages by visiting fedex.com."CNN's Jason Hanna contributed to this report.
'Red Notice' is now Netflix's most watched movie of all time.  (CNN)Dwayne Johnson has reason to break out his Teremana and end 2021 with a toast.His latest film, "Red Notice," is now the most watched movie in Netflix history, according to the streaming giant. "Red Notice" brought in 328.8 million viewing hours, Netflix reports, topping the previous record held by Sandra Bullock's "Bird Box" in 2018 with 282 million viewing hours. Currently, 50 percent of all Netflix's subscribers around the world have viewed "Red Notice."The film surpassed the previously held record in just 18 days, as opposed to "Bird Box" which took 4 weeks. The film, which stars Johnson, Ryan Reynolds and Gal Gadot, was produced by Johnson's Seven Bucks Productions and debuted on the streaming site earlier this month. It still remains in the top 10 films on the platform in 94 countries, according to Netflix. "Red Notice" tells the story of an FBI profiler played by Johnson, who must partner with the world's greatest art thief [Reynolds] in a daring heist in order to catch a most-wanted criminal played by Gadot.The film was also released in theaters last weekend. 
FBI seized roughly $2.3 million in cryptocurrency tied to ransomware attacks.  (CNN)US law enforcement officials in August seized roughly $2.3 million in cryptocurrency tied to ransomware attacks committed by a Russian resident, according to a court document unsealed Tuesday. Aleksandr Sikerin, whose last known address was in St. Petersburg, Russia, is affiliated with a notorious ransomware gang known as REvil that has cost US businesses millions of dollars, the Justice Department alleged in a complaint filed in the Northern District of Texas Dallas Division.  The cryptocurrency account, or "wallet," that is now under the FBI's control is "traceable to ransomware attacks committed by Sikerin," the complaint states. The seizure is part of an ongoing US law enforcement effort to stymie the sources of funding for Russian and Eastern European cybercriminals following a series of damaging ransomware attacks on US infrastructure. It comes as the White House continues to appeal to Russian President Vladimir Putin to take action against hackers operating from Russian soil.Bleeping Computer, a cybersecurity news outlet, first reported the news. The Justice Department this month announced the seizure of more than $6 million in ransom payments allegedly made to another alleged REvil operative, Russian national Yevgeniy Polyanin. Polyanin allegedly conducted about 3,000 ransomware attacks, including some on law enforcement agencies and municipalities throughout Texas. But the seizures are just a fraction of what REvil members have pocketed from their computer intrusions. From April 2019 to July 2021, victims in the US and elsewhere paid extortionists more than $200 million following hacks committed with the REvil ransomware, according to the new complaint.  The law enforcement offensive against REvil and other ransomware gangs has leaned heavily on private firms. Cybersecurity company McAfee more than two years ago identified some of the cryptocurrency accounts used by various people linked with REvil, and documented how the hackers split their ill-gotten gains.Despite the crackdown, some alleged ransomware operators appear to be living comfortably in Russia, which does not have an extradition agreement with the US. The FBI wanted poster for Polyanin says he is "believed to be in Russia" and "possibly" in the Siberian city of Barnaul. While the FBI and Secret Service track accused cybercriminals, the Treasury Department has taken aim at the services the hackers use to launder ransom payments. The department in September sanctioned Suex, a cryptocurrency exchange that US officials accused of doing business with hackers behind eight types of ransomware. 
Authorities get search warrant on suspected supplier of 'Rust' ammo.  (CNN)Investigators in New Mexico were authorized by a state judge Tuesday to search an Albuquerque prop store where some of the rounds used on the set of the film "Rust" prior to the fatal shooting in October are believed to have been supplied.In the search warrant, which was provided to CNN by the Santa Fe County Sheriff's Office, "Rust" armorer Hannah Gutierrez Reed said in an interview with law enforcement that she or prop master Sarah Zachry had picked up ammunition for the movie from a man named Seth Kenney at PDQ Arm and Prop.Authorities outlined two possible ways live ammunition could have ended up in the supply on set and in the gun discharged by actor Alec Baldwin that resulted in the shooting death of director of photography Halyna Hutchins. Thell Reed, Gutierrez Reed's father and an industry veteran, told detectives in an interview earlier this month that he had given Kenney an "ammo can" with live rounds for training on a different movie this year -- and that the can was still believed to be in Kenney's possession, according to an affidavit released Tuesday.Reed explained he never got the remainder of the bullets back after that earlier production ended. "After several attempts to get it back from Seth, Seth advised Thell to 'write it off.' Thell stated this ammunition may match the ammunition found on the set of Rust," the warrant reads.Kenney also told authorities about a different way live ammunition may have been mixed in with the supply, according to the affidavit. In an interview a few days after the October shooting, Kenney told a detective that he generally uses a manufacturer called Starline Brass for ammunition. Two days later, though, Kenney called the detective back to say that he had received "reloaded ammunition" from a friend two years earlier that "stuck out to him." The round, which Kenney suspected was live, was in a cartridge with a logo of Starline Brass, a company he said only sells components of ammunition, and not live ammunition.In her own interview with law enforcement last month, Zachry said there were additional sources of ammunition for the film, including some Gutierrez Reed brought from a previous production, and extra rounds from someone who went by "Billy Ray."CNN has reached out to Kenney for comment.In a statement, Jason Bowles, the lawyer for Gutierrez Reed, called the warrant "a huge step forward today to unearth the full truth of who put the live rounds on the 'Rust' set." "We trust that the FBI will now compare and analyze the 'live rounds' seized from the set to evidence seized in the search warrant to conclusively determine where the live rounds came from," the statement said.New detailsA series of incident reports released by the Santa Fe Sheriff's Office on Tuesday also contained previously unknown details about the initial police response to the "Rust" movie set shooting and the interviews authorities conducted in its immediate aftermath. According to narratives written by the responding officers included in the newly released reports, authorities interviewed 12 people who were inside the church at the time of the shooting.Director Joel Souza, who was injured in the incident, gave a statement to a member of the sheriff's office as he sat on a bed in a hospital trauma room with a "half inch hole" in his shoulder before he was "administered any medications prior to doctors taking the projectile out.""Joel explained he remembered a movie worker or armorer handling guns prior to [beginning] to film the gun fight scene. Joel explained he thought he heard someone say the gun was 'cold' which meant unloaded but was not sure," the report states. "Joel went on to say he remembered hearing a loud bang which didn't sound like a blank round. Joel stated he fell backwards, looked forward and saw one of the other member (sic) of the production crew bleeding." Gutierrez Reed was described as "very emotional" and "more agitated" in the aftermath of the shooting and was found by an investigator walking with a gun in her hand, according to the report. "I located Hanna (sic) walking back to the structure with a handgun in her left hand with the muzzle pointing down. I observed Hanna (sic) to be emotional and at this time, I took custody of the handgun," the report said. "Hanna (sic) was very emotional and getting more agitated because of the incident. I advised Hanna (sic) she was not under arrest several times and put her in the rear of my unit with the passenger side rear door open but the vehicle locked. I had medical personal (sic) check on [Hannah]."The report states that Baldwin approached an officer who was putting up crime scene tape and asked to talk to him. While securing the perimeter of the church with crime scene tape, "I was approached by a male that told me he had to talk to me, I told the male that I would be with him shortly after I conducted my duties. The male told me that he had to talk to me, because he was the one that fired the firearm. I looked at the male and recognized him to be well known actor Alec Baldwin. I told him to wait by a prop truck and that a deputy would speak to him."Baldwin recently sat down for his first on-camera interview about the incident. CNN's Andy Rose and Alexandra Meeks contributed to this report.
Julia Roberts honors twins' 17th birthday with a photo.  (CNN)Happy birthday to Hazel and Phinnaeus Moder!Their mom, actress Julia Roberts, celebrated their birthday on her verified Instagram with a photo of the twins being held when they were babies."17 of the Sweetest years of life," the caption read, along with with several emojis including a birthday cake. The twins are the children of Roberts and her husband Daniel Moder, whom she married in 2002.They are also the parents of a 14-year-old son, Henry.  
How worried should we be about Omicron, the new coronavirus variant? .  (CNN)Since South African authorities announced the arrival of a new coronavirus variant that contains an unusually large number of mutations, countries around the world have mobilized by putting into place travel restrictions and precautionary measures.There is much that's still unknown about this variant, Omicron. While scientists are gathering more information, the public wants to know how worried they should be. Is the alarm around Omicron warranted? What's already known, and what are the key pieces of information still to be researched? Are there things we can do to prepare for it?  I discussed all of this with our expert, CNN Medical Analyst Dr. Leana Wen, who is an emergency physician and professor of health policy and management at the George Washington University Milken Institute School of Public Health. She is also author of a new book, "Lifelines: A Doctor's Journey in the Fight for Public Health," and the mother of two young kids.CNN: What raised alarms for scientists about Omicron, compared to other variants?  Dr. Leana Wen: With new variants, there are three key questions to ask. First, is it more transmissible? If it's more contagious, it could displace existing variants and become the dominant strain. This is what happened with the Delta variant. Second, is it more virulent -- could it cause more severe disease? If so, that's obviously very concerning.  Third, is there what we call "immune escape," meaning does it evade the protection of existing vaccines? The vaccines we have are highly effective against the variants that have already been identified. It's unlikely that a new variant will render the vaccines totally ineffective, but there could be reduction in efficacy. In the case of Omicron, what initially raised alarms for doctors and scientists in South Africa was the rapid rate of spread of this new variant. It appears to be outcompeting Delta in speed, but whether it will force out Delta and become dominant remains to be seen. In addition, the large number of this variant's mutations -- over 50 in all -- raises the question of immune escape, both to vaccines and treatments like monoclonal antibodies. These are types of information that we will need to obtain through further scientific studies. CNN: What else are researchers looking for, and how long will it take to find this information?Wen: We need to answer all three questions above. Right now, we suspect this new variant is more transmissible, but that needs to be confirmed. Also, we have no idea about the severity of disease that Omicron causes. This is something we may get more information about in the coming days by tracking the clinical outcomes of the initial individuals found to be infected in southern Africa. Studies are already ongoing to examine whether the antibodies produced by the vaccines will have an effect against Omicron. Dr. Anthony Fauci and others estimate that these studies will take about two weeks to come back. There are other key facts that we will find out in the coming days and weeks. Many vaccine researchers believe that those who have received not just the vaccine but the booster will have a very strong antibody response that could cover additional variants. We'll find out whether this is the case by assessing laboratory data and at real-life observations to see if people who are vaccinated and boosted are less likely to be infected with Omicron. In addition, we don't yet know the degree to which recovery from prior Covid-19 infections could protect against Omicron.There's also the issue of testing and therapeutics. It appears that the PCR tests can readily detect Omicron. Can at-home, rapid antigen tests do this, too? Preliminary review by the Food and Drug Administration suggests they can. Will monoclonal antibodies, as well as the new oral Covid-19 pills, work against Omicron? Scientists are hard at work to find out answers to these questions.CNN: If there is so much that's unknown about Omicron, aren't countries overreacting by implementing restrictions?Wen: I don't think so. For so much of the pandemic, we have been playing catch-up, reacting to things that happened instead of proactively preparing. Maybe Omicron will turn out to be a false alarm. Maybe this variant doesn't spread that easily, or doesn't cause severe disease, or doesn't have immune escape. I hope this is the case, but hope is not a strategy.From a policy perspective, I believe that governments need to prepare for a worst-case scenario. That means alerting clinicians to the possibility of omicron so they know to look for it, preparing hospitals for potentially added capacity, and instructing citizens on what they can do to better protect themselves. President Joe Biden has, for example, urged all adult Americans to get booster shots, and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has changed their recommendation so that everyone 18 and older should get boosted.CNN: Does preparing for the worst also include developing new vaccines that target Omicron? Wen: Moderna and Pfizer have announced that they are already looking at Omicron-specific vaccines. In general, it's a good thing to be proactive and start this kind of research. My hope is that we will find the vaccines we already have are effective enough against Omicron, especially with the additional protection of the booster dose. CNN: What do you say to those who are losing hope, who see Omicron as setting us back to square one?Wen: We are not starting over. Far from it. There is a lot that's different now versus the beginning of the pandemic. We have vaccines, testing and therapeutics. We have infrastructure in place to respond to this variant and future variants. That said, we still need to be on guard and be prepared to deploy the tools we have. CNN: Many people have travel plans. Should they postpone them? Wen: If you have international travel plans, I advise you to consider that things are very fluid right now. With so many countries instituting travel bans or additional restrictions, you could end up stuck somewhere in mandatory quarantine or without easy flights out. People who are particularly vulnerable to severe illness might also want to postpone trips, especially with so much unknown about Omicron.That said, if you are fully vaccinated and boosted, and it's important for you to take the trip, you could still decide to do it. Make sure to check the guidelines for the location you are visiting and your country of origin, and be prepared to change your plans depending on the dynamics of the virus and various government policies.CNN: Are there things that people can do to prepare for Omicron? Wen: Know that the same measures that protect against other variants also protect Omicron, in that this is still Covid-19, a respiratory virus. Indoor masking, physical distancing and improved ventilation will reduce the likelihood of spread.Federal health officials are strongly urging booster doses. Individuals who are unvaccinated should get vaccinated as soon as possible. That includes children who are newly eligible for the vaccines. Those who have been vaccinated and are at least six months out from Pfizer or Moderna or two months out from Johnson & Johnson need to get their booster shots. We have gone through so much together and made tremendous progress. We can get through this next stage of the pandemic, too, including with this and other variants. 
Get booster shots as soon as you can, health experts say, as Omicron's spread collides with the relentless Delta variant.  (CNN)Health experts are doubling down on pleas for all eligible American to get vaccinated --- and boosted -- against Covid-19 as the Omicron and Delta variants spread.Less than two weeks after Omicron was first identified by South African scientists, it's already become the dominant variant in that country and has been identified in at least 20 nations.It's too early to tell whether Omicron is more contagious than Delta, which is still the dominant variant in the US. But the Delta variant is already fueling another increase in Covid-19 hospitalizations in some states as the weather gets colder and people spend more time indoors.Despite several unknowns about the Omicron strain, doctors say booster shots are the best weapon against Omicron, Delta and even more variants down the road. Here's why: Boosters have worked well against other new variantsModerna, Pfizer/BioNTech and Johnson & Johnson are testing the efficacy of their vaccines against the Omicron strain, and it might be two weeks before the results are known.But Dr. Anthony Fauci said there's plenty of reason to get vaccinated and boosted as soon possible."We know from experience that even with variants that are not specifically directed at by the vaccine, such as the Delta variant, if you get the level of antibody high enough, the protection spills over to those other variants," said Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.The 20 nations that have confirmed the Omicron variant in their Covid-19 cases includes Brazil, which on Tuesday became the first Latin American country to have citizens affected by that variant. Canadian health officials announced a sixth case, this one in Alberta. The variant has not yet been detected in the US. But if it's not already in the country, it's arrival is almost inevitable, said Dr. Francis Collins, director of the US National Institutes of Health."We do believe that this new variant, which will probably come to our shores, will also be something vaccines and boosters can help you with," Collins said.Of course, Omicron is different from other variants. "It has a lot of mutations -- more than 50," Collins said. "That's a new record."More than 30 of those mutations are in the spike protein — the part of the virus targeted by leading vaccines.Scientists are trying to learn how much Omicron might evade the antibodies produced from vaccination or natural infection."We worry if the spike protein is of a different shape, maybe the antibodies won't stick quite as well. That's the reason for the concern," Collins said.But here's the good news: "All of the previous variants, which have also had differences in the spike protein, have responded to vaccines -- and especially boosters," Collins said.The Delta variant keeps spreading this holiday seasonThe battle against the Delta variant is far from over as some states grapple with increasing hospitalizations.At least 20 states have reported more patients hospitalized with Covid-19 this past week than the previous week, according to data Tuesday from the Department of Health and Human Services.Many of those states are in colder parts of the country, such as the Northeast and Midwest. "The winter surge may be here, or we're just at the beginning," said Gov. Kathy Hochul of New York, where hospital admissions are increasing.  Unlike the 2020 holiday season, Covid-19 misery this year is largely preventable, Collins said. "Your best protection against Delta is to get vaccinated, and if you've already been vaccinated and six months have passed since you got Pfizer or Moderna, get your booster; two months since J&J, get your booster," he said."That was a reason already. But now add Omicron to the mix."The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is expanding surveillance at four major international airports to keep an eye out for the Omicron variant in travelers, the agency's director said Tuesday. Dr. Rochelle Walensky said the increased surveillance will take place in Atlanta, New York, San Francisco and Newark, New Jersey.Vaccines (and boosters) help prevent more variantsMany of the people weary of hearing about new variants -- or the possibility of new Covid-19 restrictions -- can help stop the cycle by getting vaccinated and boosted, experts say."The virus mutates when people get infected. It doesn't mutate in the air," said Dr. Jorge E. Rodriguez, an internal medicine specialist based in Los Angeles."There is no such thing as a good infection, even if you survived it with minimal symptoms," he said. "Even though you've got infected and you did fine, guess what? You may very well have contributed to mutations that will be stronger."But coronavirus still has plenty of opportunity to infect Americans. About 40.6% of Americans aren't fully vaccinated, according to data Tuesday from the CDC.Among the 197.1 million people who are fully vaccinated, just 20.9% have gotten a booster dose. Get your booster, CDC urgesWhile the CDC doubled down on its recommendation for eligible Americans to get booster shots, more Americans may be eligible for boosters soon."Everyone ages 18 and older should get a booster shot either when they are six months after their initial Pfizer or Moderna series or two months after their initial J&J vaccine," Walensky said Monday."The recent emergence of the Omicron variant (B.1.1.529) further emphasizes the importance of vaccination, boosters, and prevention efforts needed to protect against COVID-19," Walensky said in a written statement. "I strongly encourage the 47 million adults who are not yet vaccinated to get vaccinated as soon as possible and to vaccinate the children and teens in their families as well because strong immunity will likely prevent serious illness."Teens ages 16 and 17 might soon be eligible or boosters as well. Pfizer is expected to seek authorization from the US Food and Drug Administration for its vaccine booster for 16- and 17-year-olds, a source familiar with the plan told CNN.Collins said the United States needs everyone to help end the pandemic. And vaccinations and boosters are "the best chance we've got to drive this Covid-19 pandemic away."CNN's Maggie Fox, Jen Christensen, Deidre McPhillips, Kristina Sgueglia, Virginia Langmaid and Naomi Thomas contributed to this report.
Biden administration considering requiring stricter coronavirus testing for everyone traveling to US.  (CNN)Top US government officials are considering requiring everyone who enters the country to be tested for Covid-19 the day before their flight and having all travelers -- including US citizens and permanent residents -- be tested again after returning home, regardless of vaccination status, sources familiar with the discussions have told CNN.Officials were deliberating the potential changes Tuesday night and no final decisions have been made, but the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention confirmed in a statement that the agency is working to revise testing requirements for travelers because of the new Omicron variant. "A revised order would shorten the timeline for required testing for all international air travelers to one day before departure to the United States," a CDC spokesman said in a statement. "This strengthens already robust protocols in place for international travel, including requirements for foreign travelers to be fully vaccinated."Currently, vaccinated travelers are required to test three days before their departures. The move under consideration would shorten that timeline to one day.A mandatory quarantine for US citizens returning home is not under consideration, according to a White House official. "The administration continues to evaluate the appropriate measures to protect the American people from COVID-19, especially as we learn more about the Omicron variant, including considering more stringent testing requirements for international travel. Policy discussions are ongoing across the government and no final decisions have been made," a White House official told CNN. CDC Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky told reporters earlier Tuesday that the agency was "evaluating how to make international travel as safe as possible, including pre-departure testing closer to the time of flight and considerations around additional post-arrival testing and self-quarantines."Walensky also said the CDC is expanding surveillance at four major international airports to monitor for the Omicron variant among travelers. Dr. Vivek Murthy, the US surgeon general, said on CNN's "Erin Burnett OutFront" on Tuesday night that "the CDC is considering a number of measures right now. It hasn't fully decided on what it's implementing, but I do believe some of the measures its considering will have a substantial impact on our ability to detect virus before it arrives here."  On Monday, the US banned all travel from South Africa and seven neighboring nations, with the exception of US citizens and legal permanent residents, who must test negative to enter the US but not once they have arrived.Asked Tuesday how long current travel restrictions would remain in place, President Joe Biden said, "Well, it kind of depends.""It's going week-to-week, to determine what we need and what the state of affairs (is). We're going to learn a lot more in the next couple of weeks about the lethality of this virus, about how much it spreads, about whether what we have can control it, etc.," he continued. Biden on Thursday is slated to unveil a federal strategy to address Covid-19 this winter. The President has said the new strategy will be focused "not with shutdowns or lockdowns, but with more widespread vaccinations, boosters, testing and more."The Biden administration has indicated so far that further restrictions on travel are not anticipated. Research on the new variant -- including on its severity, transmissibilty and detectability -- is rapidly evolving.On Monday, Biden's chief medical adviser, Dr. Anthony Fauci, said on CNN's "The Lead" that while PCR Covid-19 detection tests and some rapid antigen tests could detect the new variant, it wasn't clear whether all rapid tests could detect it. But Jeff Zients, the White House's Covid-19 response coordinator, confirmed Tuesday that the FDA believes "the high-volume PCR and rapid antigen tests widely used in the US will be effective in detecting the variant."There are anecdotal reports suggesting that most cases of the Omicron variant Covid-19 have been mild so far. But scientists say it will take weeks to know how dangerous the new variant is.The Omicron variant hasn't yet been detected in the United States. However, public health and government officials have repeatedly emphasized that the current travel restrictions on countries in southern Africa won't necessarily prevent the variant's arrival to the US. Rather, they will give the country some lead time to prepare for it."(T)ravel restrictions can slow the speed of Omicron, it cannot prevent it," the President said on Monday. "But here's what it does: It gives us time. It gives us time to take more actions, to move quicker, to make sure people understand you have to get your vaccine."This story has been updated with additional details Tuesday.
Home prices jumped 19.5% in September .  (CNN)Home prices rose 19.5% in September compared to a year ago, according to the S&P CoreLogic Case-Shiller national home price index. But even that huge increase was a slight slowdown from August, when prices rose by 19.8%. September marked the first time year-over-year gains have decreased since May, according to the report."Housing prices continued to show remarkable strength in September, though the pace of price increases declined slightly," said Craig J. Lazzara, Managing Director at S&P Dow Jones Indices.Cities with the biggest price increases were Phoenix, which was up 33.1% from a year ago, followed by Tampa, with a 27.7% gain, and Miami with a 25.2% increase.Even the cities with the smallest annual price gains -- Chicago, Minneapolis and Washington DC -- all saw prices rise by more than 10% from a year ago.The strength in the US housing market has been driven by the pandemic, Lazzara said, including potential buyers moving from urban apartments to suburban homes. "More data will be required to understand whether this demand surge represents simply an acceleration of purchases that would have occurred over the next several years, or reflects a secular change in locational preferences," he said.A huge number of buyers fighting over a historically low number of homes for sale has pushed prices higher for months, all while mortgage interest rates have remained low. Beaten down during the most competitive months early in the summer, some homebuyers may have bowed out by September. "Today's S&P Case-Shiller Index spotlights an early fall housing market with fewer families actively looking for homes after the start of a new, and mostly in-person, school year," said George Ratiu, Realtor.com's manager of economic research.Another factor contributing to easing of home price growth was an increase in mortgage rates during September, he said. Freddie Mac's 30-year fixed loan moved from 2.87% at the start of September to 3.01% by the end of the month, which likely curbed buyers' ability to bid up prices. While the index shows prices easing up in September, the strong demand for homes continues. "As we approach the end of a tumultuous 2021, real estate markets continue to struggle with inventory, homes are selling quickly and prices continue to rise," Ratiu said.But, he said, he expects a slightly more buyer-friendly market in 2022."The market has cooled since the beginning of the year, when dozens of competing bids, contingency waivers and price escalation clauses made home shopping a struggle, especially for first-time buyers," said Raitu."A growing number of homeowners are preparing to list in the next six months, hinting at an uncharacteristically active winter season. In addition, inflation and rising mortgage rates are squeezing many household budgets," he said. "For buyers, the landscape looks more promising as we head into 2022."
Bugatti is the jewel in Volkswagen's crown. This 33-year-old is taking it over. New York (CNN Business)Bugatti, the French manufacturer of $3 million supercars, is over a century old. But now it faces what may be the most difficult maneuver it has ever had to carry out: transitioning to an electric future.The man now taking the wheel at Bugatti is Mate Rimac, a 33-year-old Bosnian-born engineering prodigy — and one who harbors no illusions about the challenges facing his industry. Famous today for some of the world's biggest and powerful gasoline engines ever put into a road car, Bugatti had been reborn in 2003 as the jewel in the crown of the Volkswagen Group. Besides VW, the global automaker's other brands include Audi, Porsche, Lamborghini and Bentley. Ever since, Bugatti has been a technological showcase for the company, pushing the limits of what engineers and customers thought possible. A car that could top 250 miles per hour? No problem. One that can do 300? Sure, as long as you've got the nearly $4 million it costs. And all that performance comes wrapped in an elegantly designed, carefully handcrafted body custom-made from expensive materials.But enormous engines fueled by petroleum products are no longer technological wonders. They're old school. And in 2021, Bugatti needs to finally enter the age of electric vehicles.Enter Mate Rimac, who in 2009 founded Rimac Automoblili, a Croatian startup making the 1,900 horsepower Rimac Nevera electric supercar. The genius of high-wattage performance had already grabbed headlines fresh out of high school and he's attracted the industry's attention ever since.In July, Bugatti merged with Rimac Automobili — creating Bugatti-Rimac, and transferring majority ownership of VW's luxury performance icon from one of the world's largest automakers to a small startup in the process.'Why was nobody using [this] to make cars fun and exciting?'For an auto industry CEO, 33-year-old Rimac is on the youthful side, and he looks even younger thanks to his dark brown hair and beard. (His first name is pronounced like "matzoh" without the Z — Maht-teh — while his last name, and the company's, is pronounced Ree-mahts with a slightly rolled R.)Rimac has had an incredible and rapid journey to such a vaunted position. It began when Rimac blew up the engine in a BMW while racing the car in his late teens: Instead of just fixing it, he decided to turn the BMW into an electric race car.This was long before Tesla was selling high-performance family sedans, let alone becoming one of the most valuable companies in the world. By then, Rimac's family had left what was then Yugoslavia — today the place he was born is in the country of Bosnia and  Herzegovina — and had spent about a decade in Germany before returning to the former Yugoslavia. This time, the family lived in the newly independent nation of Croatia. "Because I was in Croatia, I read a lot about Nikola Tesla, who was also born in Croatia. Nikola Tesla had invented the electric motor 160 years ago that we use now everywhere and I was wondering," he said, "this perfect machine that Nikola Tesla has invented, why was nobody using it to make cars fun and exciting?"His electric BMW, dubbed the Green Monster, went on to set records and garner media attention. But Rimac quickly realized putting electric motors into old cars wasn't a viable business for the long term. Instead, he decided he would engineer his own high-performance electric cars from the outset. Rimac was just out of high school at the time. He attended VERN' University of Applied Science in Zagreb but never graduated. "I had to learn everything from scratch, which was pretty difficult here without mentors and the supporting industry," he said. "Lots I had to learn the hard way."Rimac didn't have big investors to bankroll his idea, so while he and his first employees worked on that electric supercar, he also took on projects from established companies. Various automakers were looking to create electric and hybrid cars, and Rimac's clear understanding of the technology was valuable to them.That part of the business — selling EV technologies to other firms — became the firm's greatest source of actual income and was the reason Rimac Automobili was profitable almost from the start, Rimac says. Now that line of work has been spun off into a separate company he also runs, called Rimac Technology. That firm will continue developing new electric vehicle technologies for other automakers."First, it was companies you didn't hear about," he said, "and then starting to work for small carmakers like Koenigsegg, and then Aston Martin, and then to the bigger ones like Renault."Actually, most consumers might not have heard of Koenigsegg, either, but the Swedish maker of multi-million-dollar gasoline-fueled supercars is considered another bold innovator. And its founder and CEO, Christian von Koenigsegg, has been a mentor to Mate Rimac, as well as a Rimac customer."I met Mate when he came to the Geneva Motor Show as a 17-year-old and asked me, 'I want to build cars. I want to build electric cars. How do I do it?" Koenigsegg said. "So I kind of became his mentor."The relationship continues today and the two speak regularly, Rimac said.Two major automakers, Hyundai and Porsche, became big investors in Rimac Automobili. Neither would discuss their work with Rimac with CNN Business. Porsche, though, was instrumental in bringing together RImac and Porsche's sister brand Bugatti. Porsche now owns 45% of Bugatti-Rimac.A day with Mate RimacIt's normal to hear entrepreneurs in the electric car industry go on about the global importance of what they're doing. Things aren't that simple with Mate Rimac.Conversations with Rimac can result in a sort of cognitive whiplash. He loves cars, obviously. But it's like talking to a baker who keeps going on about the dangers of consuming too much refined sugar and carbohydrates — and then pointing out that, really, cake is delicious."Cars are actually the culmination of all human disciplines," he said. "It has to be beautiful. It has to smell well. It has to sound well. Everything, all the senses work with the car, all the material sciences, software simulations, fluid dynamics. Everything is in the car, everything humanity knows."But, in the long run, none of it really matters much."I don't like this bull----," he said in an earlier conversation about the hype surrounding the supercar industry. "Let's call things what they are, right? It's making beautiful machines for putting them on a wall and that's it."There was no deep disgust in his voice. He said it as if he were just stating a plain fact.We were sitting off to one side at The Quail, one of the major events during Monterey Car Week in California. Wealthy auto enthusiasts were checking out beautiful classic cars parked on neatly trimmed grass. Also on display were the latest models from brands like Lamborghini, Lotus, Bentley and Pininfarina, a company selling its own electric supercar with Rimac engineering. The Rimac Nevera was sitting right next to us. Of cars like the Nevera, Rimac said, "big picture, you zoom out, are going to be so irrelevant in 10 years because cars are not going to be driven by people anymore. They will be self-driving, and so on."The dusk of the automobile eraBut lest one think Rimac might someday take all this advanced million-dollar EV technology in the Nevera and use it to create affordable electric family cars, he is clear that he has no intention of going head-to-head against Elon Musk. Others might do that with Rimac technology, he said, but he equates that to working on better music CDs just when streaming services are coming out.Today, we are in the dusk of the automobile era, according to Rimac. He's just doing his part to make sure the sunset is spectacular.And, also, to turn a profit while there is money to be made in privately owned automobiles. Rimac will make its electric supercars in Croatia, while Bugatti will continue to assemble high-dollar gasoline-burning supercars at its current headquarters in Molsheim, France, where that brand was originally founded in 1909.  Each will serve a distinct sort of customer."The easiest [move] for us would be to take a Nevera and put a different design on it and call it a Bugatti," Rimac sad. "But that's absolutely not what we are going to do."Currently, Bugatti is building the last few dozen examples of the Chiron, its current core model.  After that, Rimac has indicated there will be a new Bugatti supercar that will probably be a plug-in hybrid. But they could also make other Bugatti models — though maybe not two-seat supercars — that will be fully electric.In apparent contradiction to his stated pessimism about the future of cars, Rimac says he expects Bugatti, founded 112 years ago, to long outlive him. He now has "the responsibility [of] the next 112 years," he said.What that next century and then some might bring could be decided not just by Bugatti-Rimac, but by Rimac's other company, Rimac Technology."I love cars, I make money by selling cars, but I think the big change that will come in the next decades," he said. "In the last decades, the phones didn't just change the phone industry. Apple didn't just disrupt Nokia and the others. It actually changed our lives."Rimac isn't ready to say just yet what that future will look like, one shaped by some radical redefinition of the automobile. But he's working on it.
Elizabeth Holmes testifies she was abused by former Theranos COO. San Jose, California (CNN Business)Elizabeth Holmes, flushed and holding back tears, testified Monday that she left Stanford to launch Theranos in part because she had been raped, and said she later entered into what she alleged was an abusive relationship with the person who would become her startup's chief operating officer.In an emotional moment during her fourth day on the stand in her criminal fraud trial, Holmes disclosed her sexual assault at college and said she stopped attending classes in the aftermath. Holmes said she left to pour herself into building her company instead."I was questioning what — how I was going to be able to process that experience and what I wanted to do with my life, and I decided that I was going to build a life by building this company," she said. Holmes testified that she later began a professional relationship that turned romantic with former software executive Ramesh "Sunny" Balwani, who would go on to serve as COO of Theranos while they dated. She first met him in China after she graduated high school when she was 18 and he was 38. When she later disclosed to him the trauma of her rape at Stanford, she testified: "He said that I was safe, now that I had met him." Holmes went on to paint a picture of how Balwani both coached and controlled her, criticizing everything from the tone of her voice in meetings to her being too feminine and behaving "like a little girl." "He told me that I didn't know what I was doing in business, that my convictions were wrong, that he was astonished at my mediocrity," she said, adding that he told her that "I needed to kill the person I was" to become successful.Holmes also alleged Balwani would "get very angry with me, and then he would sometimes come upstairs to our bedroom and he would force me to have sex with him when I didn't want to, because he would say that he wanted me to know that he still loved me."In court filings unsealed ahead of the trial, Holmes' legal team had signaled that the former Theranos CEO was likely to defend herself by claiming she was the victim of a decade-long abusive relationship with Balwani. Balwani's attorneys have denied those allegations.Holmes' testimony potentially gives jurors, through her own words, a glimpse into her state of mind at the time of the alleged fraud. According to legal experts, one of the most difficult things about fraud cases is proving intent.Holmes and Balwani were indicted on the same federal fraud charges over allegations that they knowingly misled investors, doctors and patients about Theranos' blood testing capabilities in order to take their money. Both have pleaded not guilty and face up to 20 years in prison.Their trials were severed after Holmes indicated she may claim she was the victim of a psychologically, emotionally and sexually abusive relationship and that, due to the nature of their relationship, she believed what she was being told about the company's technology and its business dealings. Balwani's trial is slated to begin early next year. In her prior testimony on the witness stand, Holmes has admitted to some of the prosecution's most damning allegations while offering up alternative explanations. She has attempted to sow doubt that she had any intention to deceive — a key part of what federal prosecutors are seeking to prove. She has also deflected responsibility onto others by simply naming who held certain roles at the company.On Monday, Holmes testified extensively about how Balwani shaped how she approached her business — and how she ultimately lost faith in him.Balwani told her that if she wanted to become a good entrepreneur, she needed to spend all her time on the business and only doing things that could contribute to making the company successful. That meant, she testified, not sleeping very much, only eating foods that "would make me pure." Holmes' attorney presented handwritten notes from Balwani to Holmes.In one note, Balwani said: "Every morning I will force myself out of bed and spend 30 minutes+ (never a minute less) to write what I want from my day." In other notes, Balwani said Holmes was going about her meetings wrong: "I will always give crisp, clean goals and feedback to my subordinates, even if they don't like it — especially if they don't like it.""He had taught me everything that I thought I knew about business and I thought he was the best business person that I knew," she said. "I think that I didn't question him in the way that I otherwise would have."Holmes said that view changed following the findings of the 2015 inspection by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services that would result in the license of its California blood-testing facility being revoked and Holmes being banned from running a lab for two years.Balwani oversaw the lab and Holmes testified that she went in thinking Theranos had one of the best labs in the world."He wasn't who I thought he was," she said. The two had a personal relationship for 13 years and a professional one for seven.Balwani left the company in May 2016. Holmes was living with him at the time but didn't continue her personal relationship with him after he left Theranos. Holmes testified that her brother helped her move out while Balwani was in Thailand.After detailing Balwani's influence, Holmes' attorney asked her if Balwani forced her to make statements to investors, retailers, board directors and journalists that jurors have heard about in the course of this case. Holmes testifies "no" to all.Her attorney followed up to ask, what impact, if any, did Balwani have on your work at Theranos in your view? "I don't know. He impacted everything about who I was and I don't fully understand that."
