'The only word I know to call it is hell': Turpin sisters share the details of their family's house of horror .  (CNN)Jordan Turpin was 17 years old when she found herself crawling out of a window of her family's home, hoping to save the lives of her 12 siblings.For two years, she had been planning her escape after decades of unspeakable emotional and physical violence inflicted by her parents in their Perris, California home. Equipped with nothing but an old cellphone she found in the house, Jordan ran out and called 911."I was always terrified that if I called the cops or tried to escape, I would get caught, and then I knew I would die if I got caught," Jordan, now 21, told ABC News' Diane Sawyer in an exclusive interview Friday. "But at the end, when I saw all my younger siblings, I knew that's what I had to do."During the chilling 911 call, she told police the house the family lived in smelled so badly that she could barely breathe, and she thought she and her siblings might need to go to the doctor. When the first police officer arrived, she immediately showed him the phone, full of photos and videos she took of herself and her siblings to prove the abuse.Her bold getaway in January 2018 led to the discovery of her siblings and uncovered what Riverside County District Attorney Mike Hestrin described as one of the "worst, most aggravated child abuse cases" he has ever seen. Some of the siblings, who ranged in age from 2 to 29, had been found shackled to beds with chains and padlocks. A few of the adults were so malnourished, they looked like young teenagers.That morning, Jordan sat in the back of a police car and watched as her parents, David and Louise Turpin, were arrested. The pair were each sentenced to 25 years to life in prison after pleading guilty to 14 charges of torture, adult abuse, child endangerment, false imprisonment and more. Their first glimpses of freedomWhen police arrived at the Turpin home and declared they were conducting a welfare check, it didn't take long for them to recognize the magnitude of the children's horrifying reality.They discovered a home reeking of human excrement, decaying garbage, and molding food, with every surface covered in trash, ABC News reported in the 20/20 program titled, "Escape From A House Of Horror." The children were found quietly sitting in filthy beds, limp, frail, caked in dirt, their arms covered in bruises.One child was found with his wrist and ankle chained to the bedpost; he had been in that state for weeks. Bodycam footage from that day show the heavy chains used on the children."'The only word I know to call it is hell," said Jennifer Turpin, the eldest of the children.The 13 Turpin kids were taken to a hospital, where their nurses and doctors began treating them for a long list of issues. Some were so emaciated they could barely walk, others suffered from heart damage due to a lack of nutrients. One preteen's arm was the size of a 4.5 month old baby, according to ABC.The children had limited language skills and knew little about the outside world.Besides suffering severe caloric malnutrition associated with muscle wasting, several had cognitive impairment and "neuropathy, which is nerve damage, as a result of this extreme and prolonged physical abuse," Hestrin said.The first thing Jennifer Turpin did to celebrate was dance in the middle of her hospital room."Music was playing, I got up," Jennifer, now 33, told Sawyer. "I made sure there was a little bit of a floor cleared out and I danced."There was also an exhilarating visit to a playground."I was so excited because I could smell the air, I could smell the grass. I was like, 'How could heaven be better than this'?" Jordan said. "Oh my gosh, this is so free, like, this is life.""If something happened to me, at least I died trying"The parents had starved their 13 children, shackling them with padlocks and taunting them with pies left on the counter of their home, authorities said. None of them had seen a doctor in more than four years, and none of them had ever visited a dentist.Usually, their only diet consisted of just peanut butter sandwiches, the sisters told Sawyer. On rare occasions, they were given frozen foods. And if they were still hungry and got caught trying to eat anything else, they were viciously punished.Sometimes the children were left so hungry, they ate packets of ketchup and ice cubes."When you have parents abusing their kids to this level, and they're their own flesh and blood, it begs this question 'How can any sane person do this?'" Hestrin said on the ABC News special. "And the truth of the matter is sane people commit evil acts all the time."The day before Jordan's escape, she said she overheard her parents saying they were moving the family to Oklahoma. If they moved, Jordan said, there was "a big chance" some of them would have died."That was my only chance," she continued. "I think it was us coming so close to death so many times. If something happened to me, at least I died trying."Jordan recalled when she first began considering what her life could be like if only she weren't trapped. It was because of singer Justin Bieber, she says, whose music and interviews spoke out to her.While her favorite Bieber songs are "As Long As You Love Me," "Boyfriend," and "Baby," it wasn't only his music that inspired her to take action."I started realizing that there's a different world out there," Jordan said. She enjoyed watching his interviews, learning new words from him while realizing the things they had in common. But one day, her mom caught her secretly watching a Bieber video and choked her."I thought I was going to die that day," Jordan said. "After that whole day happened, I kept having nightmares that she was killing me."Free, but still neglected Despite overcoming a life many could not even begin to imagine, the Turpin children aren't completely safe yet.ABC reported that a few of the Turpin children were placed with a foster family that was arrested and charged with abusing multiple children in their care, including at least one Turpin child.Another Turpin child who is now an adult was placed in a home where her foster parent told her she understood why her parents would chain her up."They felt betrayed," Melissa Donaldson, the Director of Victim Services in Riverside County, told the show. "Did we see kids having to not have a safe place to live or stay at times? Yes. Did they have enough food at times? They did not.""We have to fix it. You would think that this is the time to really get it together and do everything we can, and we didn't do it that way," she continued.At times, some of the Turpin children didn't have access to housing, and relied on couch surfing for shelter, Donaldson said, adding that they also went to churches to get food."I don't really have a way to get food right now," Jordan said. It began when she was released from the extended foster care system in July, without any help with food, healthcare, or housing, ABC reported.Unfortunately, her sister isn't in a much better position."Well, where I live is not the best area," Jennifer said.Despite receiving $600,000 from generous strangers across the country, the Turpin children have had difficulty accessing the money, and questions as to why have gone unanswered by county officials who cited court-ordered secrecy, ABC reported."They're living in squalor. They're living in crime-ridden neighborhoods. There's money for their education, they can't access it," Hestrin said."They have been victimized again by the system, and that's unimaginable to me that we could have the very worst case of child abuse that I've ever seen, maybe one of the worst in California history, and that we would then not be able to get it together to give them basic needs, basic necessities," he added.
'Ghostbusters: Afterlife' calls back to the original while adding a teenage twist.  (CNN)In a directorial father-son baton pass from Ivan Reitman to Jason Reitman ("Up in the Air"), "Ghostbusters: Afterlife" is undeniably nostalgic and fairly sweet, while who-ya-gonna-calling directly back to the 1984 original. And yet with its focus on teenage heirs to that legacy, the movie simultaneously feels as much like the Disney Channel version of "Ghostbusters" as a long-delayed sequel.Happily, the kids are the very talented Mckenna Grace ("Gifted," "The Handmaid's Tale") and "Stranger Things'" Finn Wolfhard, the grandchildren of Egon Spengler (originally played by the late Harold Ramis). Egon has died, leaving a remote farmhouse to his estranged daughter (Carrie Coon), who for financial reasons finds the move timely.Moving into the place, Phoebe (Grace) and Trevor (Wolfhard) discover a lot of strange stuff happening around town -- starting with all those unexplained earthquakes -- and some nifty artifacts among grandpa's possesses. Phoebe possesses scientific acumen far beyond her years, while her brother mostly just crushes on one of his new classmates (Celeste O'Connor).Mom, meanwhile, strikes up a somewhat unexpected relationship with one of the kids' teachers (Paul Rudd, seemingly everywhere at once), adding to an adult component that produces some laughs but frankly rides in the passenger seat for much of the movie. (Coon is a gifted actress, but there's a bit of the "E.T." mom syndrome here, where she can't see all the weirdness happening her.)Cleverly, the film (written by Jason Reitman, Dan Aykroyd and Gil Kenan) does set up a dense mythology connecting this flurry of spectral shenanigans back to the 1980s, while playfully incorporating visual touches that recall the "Ghostbusters" of the past. There are also funny unrelated gags, such as Rudd's character getting through summer school by simply running wildly inappropriate horror movies.In some respects, "Afterlife" represents a rather conspicuous exercise in fan service, after the bizarre temper tantrum thrown by some in response to the female version of the concept that premiered five years ago. While that movie was flawed, the reaction seemed completely out of whack, elevating "Ghostbusters" to an overblown level of "You ruined my childhood!" exaltation.The elder Reitman serves as a producer on the movie, which -- with Aykroyd, Bill Murray and Ernie Hudson promoting the movie -- isn't the only link to its Reagan-era roots. Still, this is one of those films that doesn't so much cross the streams as dip into a deep well of goodwill, hoping to bridge the gap between those who actually saw the original in a theater and kids and grandkids who will hopefully identify with the youthful protagonists.At its best "Ghostbusters: Afterlife" simply delivers a good time, combining the upgraded special effects with comedy and youthful angst, while taking a little too long to get to the good stuff.Broken down into those components, the younger Reitman has dutifully answered the call to carry on his family legacy, without quite conjuring the kind of sparks that would have made "Afterlife" completely rise to the occasion."Ghostbusters: Afterlife" premieres Nov. 19 in US theaters. It's rated PG-13.
Peng Shuai: UN calls for proof of Chinese tennis star's whereabouts; WTA chairman willing to pull out of China. Hong Kong (CNN)China is facing pressure from the United Nations over Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai's whereabouts as the organization called for an investigation into her allegations of sexual assault.Peng, who is one of China's most recognizable sports stars, has not been seen in public since she accused former Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli of coercing her into sex at his home, according to screenshots of a since-deleted social media post dated November 2."What we would say is that it would be important to have proof of her whereabouts and wellbeing, and we would urge that there be an investigation with full transparency into her allegations of sexual assault," Liz Throssell, the spokesperson of the UN Human Rights office, told reporters in Geneva on Friday."According to available information, the former world doubles No. 1 hasn't been heard from publicly since she alleged on social media that she was sexually assaulted. We would stress that it is important to know where she is and know her state, know about her wellbeing," Throssell said.The head of the Women's Tennis Association (WTA) Steve Simon has said he is willing to lose hundreds of millions of dollars worth of business in China if Peng is not fully accounted for and her allegations are not properly investigated. "We're definitely willing to pull our business and deal with all the complications that come with it," Simon said in an interview Thursday with CNN. "Because this is certainly, this is bigger than the business," added Simon."Women need to be respected and not censored," said Simon. The White House said Friday it is "deeply concerned". Jen Psaki, the White House Press Secretary, told reporters: "We are deeply concerned by reports that Peng Shuai appears to be missing after accusing a former PRC (Peoples Republic of China) senior official of sexual assaults. We join in the calls for PRC authorities to provide independent and verifiable proof of her whereabouts and that she is safe."  Peng's post on Weibo, China's Twitter-like platform, was deleted within 30 minutes of publication, with Chinese censors moving swiftly to wipe out any mention of the accusation online. Her Weibo account, which has more than half a million followers, is still blocked from searchers on the platform.The forceful intervention from Simon puts the tennis chief on a likely collision course with authorities in China, which have so far refused to publicly acknowledge Peng's allegations. Perceived criticisms of China, which is also due to host the 2022 Winter Olympics in February, have previously resulted in significant public and political backlash, as well as loss of access.'Staged statement of some type'Simon said the WTA had been in conversation with counterparts at the Chinese Tennis Association, who had provided assurances Peng was unharmed in Beijing. However, attempts to reach Peng directly had proved unsuccessful. "We have reached out to her on every phone number and email address and other forms of contact," he said. "There's so many digital approaches to contact people these days that we have, and to date we still have not been able to get a response."Earlier this week, Chinese state media released an email, purportedly sent to Simon from Peng, walking back her allegations and claiming she is fine.The alleged email was released only on English-language platforms and domestic Chinese media have not reported on its contents, despite Peng being a household name in China.When asked about the email, Simon questioned its veracity, describing it as a "staged statement of some type," noting he had yet to receive a follow-up reply, despite responding immediately. "Whether she was coerced into writing it, someone wrote it for her, we don't know," said Simon. "But at this point I don't think there's any validity in it and we won't be comfortable until we have a chance to speak with her," he added.Later on Friday, CGTN journalist Shen Shiwei tweeted three photos he claimed Peng had posted on WeChat along with the message "happy weekend."Shen said the photos were shared by one of Peng's friends. CNN could not independently verify when the photos were taken, whether Peng posted the photos herself, or whether they were posted at all.In a Twitter post on Saturday, Hu Xijin, editor of Chinese state-run tabloid the Global Times, republished the photos of Peng amid concerted efforts by government-controlled media to ease the intensifying concerns about the tennis star's whereabouts and welfare."I confirmed through my own sources today that these photos are indeed Peng Shuai's current state. In the past few days, she stayed in her own home freely and she didn't want to be disturbed," Hu tweeted. "She will show up in public and participate in some activities soon."Chinese state media Twitter accounts have been increasingly posting anonymously sourced information about the tennis star, ostensibly aimed at quelling the controversy without even acknowledging her claim against Zhang.All media organizations in China are strictly controlled by the country's propaganda authorities. Their tweets about Peng are not reported inside China, which has long banned Twitter and other international social media platforms.Tennis' popularity in China has grown rapidly over the past few decades, with several Chinese players breaking into the global rankings. The women's game, in particular, is a big market, thanks in part to the success of Chinese tennis star Li Na, who in 2011 became Asia's first grand slam singles tennis champion when she won the French Open, followed by a second major title at the 2014 Australian Open.In recent years, the WTA has made a big push into China. In 2019, the WTA Finals relocated from Singapore to the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen, entering into a lengthy ten-year deal. In an interview with the New York Times from 2018, Simon described the arrangement with authorities in Shenzhen, which reportedly includes the construction of a new multimillion dollar tennis stadium, as a "huge opportunity" for women's tennis in China."When you factor in the commitment to prize money and the commitments to the WTA, and you factor in the stadium build and real-estate elements, it's over a $1 billion dollar commitment they have made to the WTA Finals and the WTA," Simon was quoted as saying. On Thursday, Serena Williams joined a growing number of international tennis players to voice concern over Peng's whereabouts. "I am devastated and shocked to hear about the news of my peer, Peng Shuai. I hope she is safe and found as soon as possible," Williams wrote on Twitter. "This must be investigated and we must not stay silent."Tennis superstar Naomi Osaka on Tuesday said she was "in shock of the current situation." "Censorship is never OK at any cost, I hope Peng Shuai and her family are safe and OK," she wrote as part of a statement on Twitter alongside the hashtag #WhereIsPengShuai.The controversy risks impacting the forthcoming 2022 Winter Olympics, which are set to kick off in Beijing in less than three months. Calls for a boycott have been growing in recent months, owing to concerns over China's alleged human rights abuses. On Thursday, US President Joe Biden confirmed he is mulling a diplomatic boycott of the event. The international concern for Peng, who is a three-time Olympian, having represented China at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio, London in 2012, and Beijing in 2008, could now strengthen those calls. However, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) has distanced itself from putting pressure on Chinese authorities.In a response to CNN, the IOC said: "Experience shows that quiet diplomacy offers the best opportunity to find a solution for questions of such nature. This explains why the IOC will not comment any further at this stage." Human Rights Watch accused the IOC of being "silent on the Olympian's disappearance." In a statement, the global rights group said it is "astonishing that the IOC would accept the government's assurances, particularly at the expense of a female Olympian making grave allegations."Speaking at a press conference Thursday, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said Peng's accusation is not a diplomatic issue and declined to comment further.Amy Cassidy contributed to this report
Here's what legal experts say helped acquit Kyle Rittenhouse.  (CNN)After more than 25 hours of deliberations, a 12-person jury acquitted Kyle Rittenhouse of all five charges he faced after fatally shooting two people and wounding a third during protests in Kenosha, Wisconsin, last summer. Joseph Rosenbaum, 36, and Anthony Huber, 26, were killed, and Gaige Grosskreutz, now 27, was wounded. Rittenhouse was charged with five felonies: first-degree intentional homicide, first-degree reckless homicide, attempted first-degree intentional homicide and two counts of first-degree recklessly endangering safety.The two-week trial -- which captured America's attention and was in many ways emblematic of the divided nation -- featured testimony from more than 30 witnesses, including Rittenhouse himself, video clips from the night of the shootings and heated exchanges between the attorneys and the judge. And while the jury's decision drew harsh criticism from the victims' loved ones, legal experts say they were not surprised by the verdict. These were the factors experts said helped lead to Rittenhouse's acquittal. Rittenhouse's testimony was keyAmong the trial's most key moments was the testimony from Rittenhouse, who told the court he acted in self-defense when he shot Rosenbaum, who he said threatened him earlier, chased him, threw a bag at him and lunged for his gun. At one point, 18-year-old Rittenhouse broke down in tears while on the stand."If I would have let Mr. Rosenbaum take my firearm from me, he would have used it and killed me with it and probably killed more people," he testified.Rittenhouse referred to the other people he shot at as part of a "mob" chasing him, telling the court Huber came at him, struck him with a skateboard, and grabbed his gun. Rittenhouse shot him once in the chest, killing him. Finally, he said he saw Grosskreutz lunge at him and point a pistol at his head, so Rittenhouse shot him, he testified. Defense attorney Mark Richards told reporters Friday in his mind, 'it wasn't a close call' whether to put Rittenhouse on the stand. "We had a mock jury and we did two different juries, one with him testifying and one without him testifying. It was substantially better when he testified... and that sealed it," Richards said. "If you don't put a client on the stand, you're going to lose, period."His testimony was key for several reasons, according to legal experts. "Number one, you humanize him... More important, number two, he explained his uses of force," CNN legal analyst Joey Jackson said. Rittenhouse's testimony gave jurors the ability to hear what he thought at the time and whether he believed he was in danger -- a claim the prosecution, ultimately failed to undermine, former federal prosecutor Elie Honig said."They (prosecutors) pointed out some sort of minor inconsistencies and things he said on the night of, and said later, but nothing that undermines sort of the core defense argument, which was, he was attacked," Honig told CNN's Alisyn Camerota on Friday. "Every time he shot, he was attacked.""The prosecution did not make enough of a dent in Kyle Rittenhouse," Honig added.State did not prove Rittenhouse provoked violenceWhat the trial came down to, according to civil rights attorney Charles F. Coleman Jr. were two competing narratives: one of Rittenhouse being a victim who was attacked, and one of being a vigilante who provoked the violence."The jury bought the narrative of Kyle Rittenhouse being a victim, they thought that his self-defense claim was a lot stronger than the prosecution's provocation claim," he said. Wisconsin law allows the use of deadly force only if "necessary to prevent imminent death or great bodily harm." And because Rittenhouse's attorneys claimed self-defense, state law meant the burden fell on prosecutors to disprove Rittenhouse was acting in self-defense beyond a reasonable doubt. And it was an uphill battle to climb from the start, because of the facts in this case, experts said."(Prosecutors) weren't able to show that his response to each of these men, to each of these sets of threats was unreasonable," criminal defense attorney Sara Azari told CNN's Pamela Brown."When the jury came back a couple days ago and watched the videos... frame by frame, they were looking to see whether Kyle did something to provoke the threat and whether his response to that threat was reasonable in terms of using deadly force and they agreed with the defense that it was," Azari added.In addition, testimony from the trial challenged many assumptions previously surrounding the case and even some testimony from the state's witnesses supported Rittenhouse's self-defense claim, said criminal defense attorney Bob Bianchi. Former Marine Jason Lackowski, who testified for the state, said Rosenbaum acted "belligerently" and asked to be shot but was not perceived as a serious threat. Richie McGinniss, a video editor with The Daily Caller news site, testified Rosenbaum had lunged for the front of Rittenhouse's rifle moments before he was shot. Grosskreutz, who was wounded, testified he pointed a pistol at Rittenhouse and later clarified to the prosecution during redirect questioning he never intentionally pointed his gun at Rittenhouse."The prosecution ... has to disprove self-defense beyond a reasonable doubt to all 12 jurors. How do you do that when you saw no real provocation going on?" Bianchi said. "There wasn't a real trial lawyer ... that didn't sit here and say this is an amazingly good self-defense case."Prosecutors also took misstepsThere were mistakes the state made as well, including overselling the case by trying to paint Rittenhouse as an active shooter, Honig, the former federal prosecutor, said.In his closing arguments earlier this week, Kenosha County Assistant District Attorney Thomas Binger said Rittenhouse behaved in a way no reasonable person would, provoked the incident, fired his gun recklessly, lied numerous times and as a result, the crowd had a right "to try and stop an active shooter.""Trying to brand Kyle Rittenhouse as an active shooter did not stand up and the defense came back and showed, here he is walking through the streets, he's not shooting indiscriminately, that's what an active shooter does, he's only shooting people who have attacked him first," Honig said. Rittenhouse's defense attorney also pointed to the prosecution's active shooter argument during his news conference, saying, "justice is done when the truth is reached.""A prosecutor is supposed to seek the truth," Richards added. In addition, trying to paint Rittenhouse as provocative because he brought an AR-15 firearm did not work because of the culture of guns in Wisconsin, which aren't necessarily always equated with criminal activity, legal experts told CNN.'You've got to remember you're in a jurisdiction where this is not an unusual thing," Bianchi said.Honig added the prosecution team made other mistakes, which led to heated exchanges with Judge Bruce Schroeder. The judge twice admonished Binger for his line of questioning -- once for implicating Rittenhouse's silence after his arrest (a right guaranteed under the Fifth Amendment) and later for touching on questions related to an incident the judge had ruled would not be permitted to come into evidence."That is an absolute amateur move by the prosecutors," Honig said. Jury instructions were consequential, expert saysFinally, the jury instructions also helped lead to Rittenhouse's acquittal, CNN senior legal analyst Laura Coates said.Coates said the instructions said jurors had to look at the case through the eyes of then 17-year-old Rittenhouse, not in hindsight, and assess the reasonableness of his actions."The jury instructions were really centered around that term 'reasonable.' Defining the word 'reasonable.' And the jury instructions required this jury to look through the lens and perspective of Kyle Rittenhouse. Not Monday morning quarterback, not the jurors, or the court of public opinion in hindsight," Coates said. "What would he reasonably and what did he reasonably believe about the possibility of a lethal threat or harm and grave bodily harm?"That, in combination with having to disprove Rittenhouse's self-defense claim and show he provoked the violence during the chaotic night, meant the"deck was stacked against" prosecutors, Coates said."With all that combined, it's not surprising that an acquittal happened, but it came down really to that jury instruction about looking through the eyes of Kyle Rittenhouse," Coates said. 
Rittenhouse protesters shut down the Brooklyn Bridge. Portland demonstrators force open jail.  (CNN)Sporadic protests broke out around the country Friday after a jury in Kenosha, Wisconsin, found Kyle Rittenhouse not guilty in the shooting deaths of two people during protests there last year.In New York, demonstrators shut down the Brooklyn Bridge, and in Portland, Oregon, they forced open a jail gate, prompting the Multnomah County Sheriff's Office to declare a riot."The crowd, which was described as hostile, launched urine, alcoholic beverages, water bottles and batteries at deputies during the event," the sheriff's office said in a press release early Saturday morning.The protests were nowhere close to the scope of those in the aftermath of George Floyd's death in the summer of 2020, including the one in Kenosha, during which Rittenhouse shot and killed two people and wounded another. Still, some people were clearly upset that Rittenhouse was cleared of all five counts against him, including first-degree intentional homicide, first-degree reckless homicide, attempted first-degree intentional homicide and two counts of first-degree recklessly endangering safety.Rittenhouse claimed self-defense in the shootings. The Portland Police Bureau said that vandals broke the windows of the city government's print shop. "Additional vandalism was done to the Justice Center building," the PPB said. An image released by police showed spray-painted graffiti, including the message, "All Cops Are Kyles."One arrest was made, with five citations and 17 warnings issued, police said.In New York, protests began in Brooklyn, then moved over the Brooklyn Bridge and into lower Manhattan, CNN affiliate WABC reported. The bridge was closed briefly. The New York Police Department used Twitter to advise people to avoid the Manhattan-bound bridge and to expect closures and delays in the area.In Oakland, California, a crowd marched from city hall to the federal building, shouting "Revolution nothing else," according to CNN affiliate KGO. Demonstrators in Chicago marched downtown Friday night amid a "large police presence," CNN affiliate WBBM reported. A second demonstration is planned for Saturday afternoon. In Kenosha, about 65 miles to the north on Lake Michigan, things were "pretty quiet," CNN's Natasha Chen reported. There, families of Rittenhouse's victims were coming to terms with the verdict. "We're still in shock," the father of Anthony Huber, one of the victims, told CNN's Fredricka Whitfield on Saturday.  "That guy [Rittenhouse] gets to run free and he's now a hero, and this is my son right here. This is Anthony," John Huber said, holding up a small urn and a photo of his son. "We lost our son and there's no justice right now for our family and there's no closure."  "If one person's life, or two persons' lives don't matter, then none of our lives matter," Kariann Swart, the fiancee' of victim Joseph Rosenbaum, told CNN. "It feels like the victims' lives don't matter. And I don't think that's acceptable."The great-aunt of Anthony Huber told CNN's Chris Cuomo that while "people have a right to self-defense," her great-nephew "had a right to his life as well.""Kyle gets into a situation over his head in terms of his emotional maturity to handle it, walks away after killing two people and serious maiming another one. That doesn't seem equitable," the great-aunt, Susan Hughes, told CNN's Sara Sidner. In a trailer for a Tucker Carlson documentary, Rittenhouse said the jury reached the right verdict."Self-defense is not illegal," he said. Preparations for a civil suit are underway for the killing of his son, John Huber said on Saturday, but he did not provide any details. "We're gonna fight until there's justice," he said. CNN's Raja Razek, Sara Sidner and Melissa Alonso contributed to this report. 
Kyle Rittenhouse was acquitted on all charges. Here's what we know about the 3 men he shot.  (CNN)Kyle Rittenhouse -- accused of shooting three people, two fatally -- was acquitted on all charges on Friday by a jury in Kenosha, Wisconsin. The 12 jurors found him not guilty for the deaths of Joseph Rosenbaum, 36, and Anthony Huber, 26, and wounding Gaige Grosskreutz, now 27, using an AR-15-type rifle during protests on August 25, 2020, that followed the police shooting of Jacob Blake. Defense lawyers said Rittenhouse, then 17, was acting in self-defense.The jury also found Rittenhouse, now 18, not guilty of two felony charges of recklessly endangering safety. Rittenhouse took the stand and testified before the jury that he acted in self-defense. During emotional testimony, he broke down in tears as he recounted the shootings during the chaotic night of unrest. The prosecution sought to show Rittenhouse acted criminally and recklessly.   Here's what we know about the two men killed and the sole survivor of the shootings.Joseph RosenbaumOn the night of August 25, 2020, Kenosha's streets were filled with crowds protesting the police shooting of Jacob Blake, who was shot seven times in the back and side by a Kenosha police officer who said he was trying to detain him.During those demonstrations, Rittenhouse clashed with a crowd gathered near a car dealership and Rosenbaum, who did not have a firearm, threw an object that appeared to be a plastic bag at him and missed, according to a criminal complaint filed last year. Videos played at trial showed Rosenbaum throwing the plastic bag at Rittenhouse. His fiancée testified Rosenbaum had just be discharged from a hospital in Milwaukee and was carrying papers, socks, deodorant, a toothbrush and toothpaste in the bag. Rosenbaum had been discharged from the hospital after a suicide attempt, according to The Washington Post.Kariann Swart, Rosenbaum's fiancée, testified they were both homeless when they met in 2019 and were living in a motel at the time Rosenbaum was killed. "We just spent a lot of time talking, getting to know one another, and laughing and joking around. He was a very animated person like that," she said.She said Rosenbaum was on an antidepressant and medication she said was used to treat his bipolar disorder.Several clips played during the trial captured Rosenbaum briefly chasing Rittenhouse in a Car Source dealership before Rittenhouse fired four shots at him. Kenosha Police Detective Martin Howard testified one of the videos showed Rosenbaum hiding as Rittenhouse approached the lot and then Rosenbaum beginning to follow him.Rosenbaum and Rittenhouse moved across the parking lot and appeared to be close to each other when loud bangs were suddenly heard and Rosenbaum fell to the ground, the complaint said. Dr. Douglas Kelley with the Milwaukee County Medical Examiner's Office testified Rittenhouse shot Rosenbaum four times -- twice in the front, once in the back and once along the side of his head, and determined the fatal shot to his back came as his body leaned forward.As Rosenbaum lay on the ground, Rittenhouse made a call on his cellphone and said, "I just killed somebody" as he ran away, the complaint alleged.Defense attorney Mark Richards argued in court Rittenhouse feared for his life when he fatally shot Rosenbaum, describing Rosenbaum as the aggressor. But prosecutor Thomas Binger said during closing arguments Rittenhouse provoked the shooting by pointing his weapon at Rosenbaum and should have continued to run away instead of shooting."When the defendant provokes this incident, he loses the right to self-defense," Binger said." You cannot claim self-defense against a danger you create."Rittenhouse testified he knew Rosenbaum was unarmed when he ran at the teenager and said he pointed his rifle at Rosenbaum in an attempt to deter him, adding he knew pointing a rifle at someone is dangerous.Rosenbaum had spent more than a decade in prison in Arizona after being convicted of sexual conduct with a minor. "He wasn't down there as a rioter or a looter," Rosenbaum's fiancée previously told the Post in reference to August 25. "Why was he there? I have no answer. I ask myself that question every day."A verified GoFundMe page said Rosenbaum had a daughter. Anthony HuberHuber, who was in the crowd of protesters with his girlfriend, was killed as Rittenhouse fled the scene of Rosenbaum's shooting, according to the complaint. Huber had turned 26 just four days earlier, according to an obituary. Huber spotted the armed man in the crowded street and he ran toward danger, his girlfriend, Hannah Gittings, told CNN in an interview last year. "He pushed me out of the way and ran off. I tried to grab him," Hannah Gittings said.Videos from the scene show Rittenhouse carrying an AR-15-style rifle, walking the city's streets with a group of armed men. Gittings told CNN her boyfriend launched at the armed individual to protect her and other people nearby.Huber appeared to reach for Rittenhouse's gun with his hand while holding his skateboard in the other, the criminal complaint said. As Huber tried to grab the gun, Rittenhouse pointed it at his body and fired one round, according to the complaint. Huber was seen staggering away and then fell to the ground, the complaint said. He died from his gunshot wound. During his testimony, Rittenhouse said Huber was "holding a skateboard like a baseball bat," which he swung down, hitting Rittenhouse in the neck. Richards, the defense attorney, said before Rittenhouse shot Huber, the shooting victim "strikes him in the head" and is going for a "second lick," adding Huber's "other hand goes for the gun" in Rittenhouse's hand.DNA analyst Amber Rasmussen testified Huber's DNA was not found on Rittenhouse's firearm but said it was still possible he touched out.Huber was "completely indescribable" and stood by his beliefs and convictions, Gittings, his girlfriend, said last year. "He was an incredibly intelligent person, literally the smartest person I've ever met," Gittings said. "He knew exactly what was at risk for him chasing down somebody with a weapon."Huber was born and raised in Kenosha, said Anand Swaminathan, an attorney for his family. "He loved Kenosha," Swaminathan said. "In the years leading up to this event he was making a good life and he was having fun and he was happy and he was trying to do the most he could with himself."Huber struggled with mental health challenges when he was younger and skateboarding was among the things that brought him the most joy. He had found a community of people in Kenosha who shared the same passion, the attorney added. "It was something that brought him a lot of happiness, brought him a lot of peace," Swaminathan said. "He had really fought to get himself to a healthy place."People who talk about Huber talk about "a kid who wanted to help people," the attorney added. "His family feels like that nature in him is part of why he took the actions he did that night, he wanted to help, he wanted to stop this person," he said. This week, Binger, with the prosecution, asked the jury to consider Rittenhouse's true motivations and to contrast the teen's behavior with Huber's behavior."A man who was there because he knew Jacob Blake, who carried his skateboard everywhere, and who rushed towards danger to save other people's lives," Binger said, referring to Huber.Huber's father filed a federal lawsuit in August 2021 accusing Kenosha authorities of deputizing the armed people who were patrolling the streets and conspiring with them, alleging their actions "directly caused" Huber's death and were a "license for the armed individuals to wreak havoc and inflict injury." CNN reached out to Kenosha police, the city of Kenosha and a representative of the county. The Kenosha County Sheriff's Department declined to comment.Gaige Grosskreutz Rittenhouse shot and injured Grosskreutz, who approached him shortly after Huber was shot, the criminal complaint alleged. Grosskreutz testified he was at the protest to provide medical care, and had packed his medical supplies, including a tourniquet and gauze, as well as his handgun, as he routinely did at other demonstrations.He testified that on the night of the shootings, he believed Rittenhouse was an active shooter, saying "people were pointing out the defendant, saying he had just shot somebody, that he's trying to get away." At some point, Grosskreutz  testified, he drew his pistol. During cross-examination by Rittenhouse's attorney, Grosskreutz said his handgun was pointing at Rittenhouse during the shooting. On redirect questioning by the prosecution, he clarified he never intentionally pointed his gun at Rittenhouse.He said he saw Rittenhouse fire at Huber and then moved toward Rittenhouse, telling jurors his hands were up, holding his own gun and phone. Grosskreutz said he "thought there was a high likelihood that I would be shot myself." Richards, the defense attorney, argued Grosskreutz should have "retreated" and not confronted Rittenhouse.This week, Binger, the prosecutor, showed Grosskreutz's shooting frame-by-frame which shows him appear to retreat before Rittenhouse is seen aiming his gun at him from two to three feet away. Once Grosskreutz was shot, the bullet severing his bicep, his arm lowered in an involuntary action, the prosecutor said."At this point, yeah, absolutely. That right arm is probably dangling down towards the defendant," Binger said. "It's not going to be able to pull that trigger without a working bicep muscle, and it's not a voluntary thing. It's done because the defendant just blew his arm off."Grosskreutz was wearing his "paramedic" hat that night. He said his goal during the protest was to provide medical care to anyone who needed it. He had trained as a paramedic before deciding to attend a liberal arts college in Wisconsin."While my work as a paramedic was important to the community I felt it was reactive: somebody gets shot, somebody overdoses," Grosskreutz told CNN's Sara Sidner in a September 2020 interview. "I wanted to further my understanding of the world and further educate myself and then be on the proactive side. Stop people from getting shot, stop people from overdosing."Since the shooting, he told CNN he had to undergo several surgeries and treatments."I'm missing 90% of my bicep," he said last year. "This has not been easy emotionally, physically. I'm in constant pain, like excruciating pain that just doesn't go away -- both in my arm, in my heart."In October, Grosskreutz also sued the city and county of Kenosha and many of its officers alleging "Kenosha law enforcement officers and white nationalist militia persons discussed and coordinated strategy" that led to the shooting. The lawsuit said Grosskreutz had a tourniquet in his medic bag the night he was shot, adding "but for his training as an EMT, Grosskreutz would have likely been Rittenhouse's third killing.""Nonetheless, Grosskreutz's life has been changed immeasurably."CNN reached out to the former police chief, the city of Kenosha and its police department. An attorney representing the Kenosha County sheriff and the county said they plan to file a motion dismissing the case.  CNN's Brad Parks, Ashley Killough, Melissa Alonso and Carma Hassan contributed to this report.
After Rittenhouse verdict, it's time to question the law. Jennifer Rodgers is a former federal prosecutor, adjunct professor of clinical law at NYU School of Law, lecturer-in-law at Columbia Law School and a CNN legal analyst. The opinions expressed here are her own. Read more opinion at CNN. (CNN)Kyle Rittenhouse, on trial this month for killing two unarmed men and injuring another during a protest in Kenosha, Wisconsin, last summer, was acquitted Friday on all counts -- including first-degree intentional homicide and four other felony charges -- after the jury deliberated for more than 25 hours. The trial came down to two dueling narratives. To the prosecutors, Rittenhouse was a vigilante with an AR-15-style weapon who went looking for trouble. To the defense, Rittenhouse was the sobbing teenager who testified that he found himself under attack and in those lightning-fast moments made a reasonable decision to protect himself. The jury clearly believed the latter, which, given the facts, the law and other circumstances of the trial, is no surprise. This case was always going to be an uphill battle for prosecutors. The key issue was whether Rittenhouse acted in self-defense, which means that he reasonably feared for his life when he pulled the trigger and shot Joseph Rosenbaum, Anthony Huber and Gaige Grosskreutz that night. Trying to weigh Rittenhouse's self-defense claim amid the two dueling narratives was not an easy job for the jury. One could reasonably argue that Rittenhouse provoked the attacks on him by openly carrying his weapon in a threatening manner, and that he had the option to retreat or otherwise avoid using deadly force, even if defending himself. If the jury had found either of these things to be true, it would have defeated the self-defense claim. But there was also evidence -- including the critical videos of the events in question and the testimony of Rittenhouse himself -- that in the key moments right before he pulled the trigger, Rittenhouse acted in response to imminent threats to his personal safety because he believed he was in danger. The laws and applicable legal standards also created a tough road for prosecutors trying to win a conviction here. Our criminal justice system generally favors the defendant, because of our core belief that it is better to see a guilty man go free than to convict an innocent one. Thus in criminal cases, prosecutors carry the highest burden of proof known to our legal system: proof beyond a reasonable doubt. Like in many other states, Wisconsin law is sympathetic to homicide defendants claiming self-defense. Once a defendant raises self-defense as an issue, it requires prosecutors to prove, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the defendant did not act in self-defense. Finally, Judge Bruce Schroeder, who presided over the case with a mercurial demeanor and frequent tongue-lashings, didn't make things easy for the prosecutors. The judge's behavior seemed to some to betray a pro-Rittenhouse bias -- for example, when he ruled that prosecutors would not be allowed to refer to Rittenhouse's victims as "victims" and encouraged a round of applause for a defense witness on the stand because he was a veteran. We don't know exactly what the jury's reasoning was in rendering its verdict -- jury deliberations happen in secret, so unless jurors choose to discuss the experience afterward, we will not get a view into how they made their decisions or what pieces of evidence were most compelling to them. But it appears that with evidence supporting both narratives, the jurors concluded that the prosecution failed to meet its burden -- and based on this record, it's impossible to find fault with that. This issue -- whether a defendant acted reasonably in a stressful moment -- is a quintessential jury question. This is exactly why we have a jury system where 12 members of the community come together to judge their fellow man. We, as a democracy, prefer the law to be administered by a group of ordinary individuals who rely on common sense and everyday experiences to reach a collective decision.  Without question, Rittenhouse did not have to be in Kenosha with his weapon strapped across his body as he ran around the streets in what was clearly an unpredictable and ultimately dangerous situation. If he had exercised better judgment and decided not to go that night, Rosenbaum and Huber would almost certainly still be alive. But in Wisconsin, that initial decision, as poor a decision as it was, does not constitute a crime, and the jury found his later actions justified.Those of us who don't want to have to worry about whether people like Kyle Rittenhouse will continue to brandish guns at public gatherings, thereby greatly increasing the danger of violence, should direct our energy toward changing the open carry laws in Wisconsin. Public sentiment after an episode that is viewed as unfair -- and there are plenty of people who are incensed that Rittenhouse went free because of a self-defense claim when he placed himself in the situation in the first place -- can spark change. For example, in Georgia, after the shooting of Ahmaud Arbery, the legislature repealed the citizen's arrest law that Arbery's alleged killer and his co-defendants are relying on for their defense (although the defendants in the Arbery killing are still able to assert it). If public concern about Rittenhouse's conduct and its results leads to a re-examination of Wisconsin's gun laws, that will be one positive thing to come out of this tragic episode. 
There's nothing more frightening in America today than an angry White man.  (CNN)The Brute. The Buck. And, of course, the Thug.  Those are just some of the names for a racial stereotype that has haunted the collective imagination of White America since the nation's inception. The specter of the angry Black man has been evoked in politics and popular culture to convince White folks that a big, bad Black man is coming to get them and their daughters. I've seen viral videos of innocent Black men losing their lives because of this stereotype. I've watched White people lock their car doors or clutch their purses when men who look like me approach. I've been racially profiled.  It's part of the psychological tax you pay for being a Black man in America -- learning to accept that you are seen by many as Public Enemy No. 1.  But as I've watched three separate trials about White male violence unfold across the US these past few weeks -- the Kyle Rittenhouse trial, the Ahmaud Arbery death trial and the civil case against organizers of the 2017 Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville -- I've come to a sobering conclusion:  There is nothing more frightening in America today than an angry White man.   It's not the "radical Islamic terrorist" that I fear the most. Nor is it the brown immigrant or the fiery Black Lives Matter protester, or whatever the latest bogeyman is that some politician tells me I should dread.   It's encountering an armed White man in public who has been inspired by the White men on trial in these three cases. Here's what legal experts say helped acquit Kyle RittenhouseThe US' legacy of White male violence  I'm not suggesting we start racially profiling White men. The vast majority of White men are no menace to society. Countless White men swallowed tear gas and braved rubber bullets while marching with demonstrators during last year's protests over the murder of George Floyd. Plenty of White men -- like the Rev. James Reeb, a White Unitarian minister -- died for Black people during the civil rights movement.   There is nothing inherently violent about White men, or any human being.  But recent events have convinced me it's time to put another character on trial: A vision of White masculinity that allows some White men to feel as if they "can rule and brutalize without consequence."  This angry White man has been a major character throughout US history. He gave the country slavery, the slaughter of Native Americans, and Jim Crow laws. His anger also helped fuel the January 6 insurrection at the Capitol. It's this angry White man -- not the Black or brown man you see approaching on the street at night -- who poses the most dangerous threat to democracy in America.  That's a sweeping claim. But these trials represent something bigger than questions of individual guilt or innocence. They offer a disturbing vision of the future, and a choice about what kind of country we want to live in.  The facts of the trials are well known to many Americans.  In Wisconsin, a jury found Kyle Rittenhouse not guilty of all charges in the shooting deaths of two men and the wounding of another during a racial protest last year. Rittenhouse, who was 17 at the time, said he was in Kenosha during the protests after the police shooting of Jacob Blake to help protect property. He said he shot the men in self-defense.In Georgia, three White men are accused of chasing and killing Ahmaud Arbery, a 25-year-old Black man, last year while he was jogging. The men say they were trying to conduct a lawful citizen's arrest, and the man who shot Arbery says he acted in self-defense.  And in Virginia, a civil trial is underway to determine if organizers of the "Unite the Right" rally intended to incite racial violence. One person was killed and dozens injured there after White supremacists clashed with counter-demonstrators.   Race is an inescapable theme that runs through all the trials. At the center of each are White men who are accused of using unjustified violence, either against an unarmed Black man or during racial protests. In Rittenhouse's case, a jury cleared him of criminal wrongdoing. It's what's happening outside these courtrooms, though, that is most frightening. It suggests these trials are a symptom of a dangerous shift.  Our politics are becoming more menacingIf there was an Exhibit A to describe this shift, it might be an animé video. Earlier this month, Republican Rep. Paul Gosar posted a photoshopped animé video to his Twitter and Instagram accounts showing him attacking President Joe Biden and appearing to kill Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez with a sword.  The House voted this week to censure Gosar, with virtually no Republicans backing the resolution. Gosar took down the video after facing criticism but did not apologize, and later retweeted a post that contained the video. Gosar's video wasn't an isolated incident. Violent political rhetoric has been escalating among some members of the Republican Party. And while not all of it is fueled by White men, much of it starts at the top -- with former President Donald Trump. Trump's violent and sexist rhetoric has been well-documented. More White men now identify as Republican, and the gender gap between both major parties is as large as it's ever been in the last two decades.One New York Times columnist, under the headline "The Angry White Male Caucus," said this anger is driven by White men who fear a changing America "in which the privilege of being a white man isn't what it used to be."  The anger also seems to be getting worse. After President Joe Biden signed an infrastructure bill into law this month, some House Republicans who voted for it reported receiving death threats. Election officials and school board members across the country are also reporting escalating threats.  A recent poll revealed that 30% of Republicans believe that violence is justified to save the country. Political violence is not limited to the GOP. A Bernie Sanders supporter who publicly declared his hatred of conservatives shot five people at a Republican baseball practice in 2017. But talking about assaulting and killing political enemies has become so normal -- and seemingly acceptable -- in conservative circles today that a White man felt comfortable enough to ask a right-wing activist at a public forum in Idaho last month:"When do we get to use the guns? ... How many elections are they going to steal before we kill these people?" Add to this toxic political atmosphere another element: Laws that not only protect White vigilante violence but, in some cases, seem to embolden vigilantes.  Activists hoped that widely seen videos showing White police officers and White men shooting Black men like Arbery would inspire the courts and state legislatures to revisit laws that made such actions possible.But even after nationwide protests over the murder of George Floyd by a White police officer, little has changed. A growing number of Americans now want police funding increased. And though Georgia overhauled its citizen's arrest law, a reform bill called the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act died in Congress two months ago.    We could see more guns on the streets  The conservative-leaning US Supreme Court now seems poised to make it easier for people to carry guns in public, based on recent oral arguments over a New York gun control law.    The US' civilian population is already the most heavily armed in the world. And our streets could soon become even more violent. "A significant portion of the gun safety movement's current agenda is likely to come under attack in the coming years," Adam Winkler, a UCLA law professor and author of "Gunfight: The Battle Over the Right to Bear Arms in America," recently told Newsweek. "I think bans on assault weapons and bans on high-capacity magazines are ripe for the new Supreme Court, with its newly invigorated Second Amendment, to strike down."  The Supreme Court has also recently ruled once again in favor of "qualified immunity," the legal doctrine that shields police officers accused of misconduct. There's been little national movement on reforming "stand your ground laws," some of which allow people who believe they're facing an imminent threat to use lethal force without first trying to escape. At least 25 states have such laws, according to the National Conference of State Legislators.  And despite the shocking nature of the Arbery video, there's been little progress on reforming citizen's arrest laws, which allow private citizens to detain or arrest someone they suspect in a crime.  The White men on trial in the Rittenhouse and Arbery cases both said they acted in self-defense. One of the men in the Arbery case testified that the unarmed Black jogger tried to take his gun, and his life was at risk. But consider the potential danger of other White men -- or any person wielding a gun in public -- feeling emboldened to use deadly force against even an unarmed person by evoking the logic in those defenses, said Eric Ruben, a Second Amendment expert.  "In other words, their own decision to carry a gun became a justification to use it, lest it be wrested away from them," Ruben recently told the New York Times.  While prosecutors didn't show that Rittenhouse was angry that night, there is a perception -- fair or not -- that he went to Kenosha for reasons more than simply maintaining public safety. The comedian Trevor Noah reflected this sentiment in a comment that became a meme: "No one has ever thought, 'Oh, it's my solemn duty to pick up a rifle and protect that TJ Maxx." And finally, there's a growing fear that no one will be severely punished for the January 6 insurrection because most of the rioters were White. The trials of various defendants are winding their way through the courts now. Jacob Chansley, the so-called "QAnon Shaman," was sentenced to 41 months in prison for his role in the US Capitol riot.   But many believe the punishment will never match the severity of the crime. What if, say, a mob of Black Lives Matter protesters attacked the US Capitol in an attempt to overturn the election of a Republican president? How do you think conservative lawmakers would react?   We are seeing more threats, more guns and more suspicion that the courts will go easy on White people who employ violence. This is the combustible mix that makes more violence almost inevitable.   Angry White men have damaged democracy  We have enough problems with White male violence as it is. Mass shootings in the US are committed more often by White men than by any other group. Top law enforcement officials now say the nation's biggest domestic terror threat comes from White supremacists. And many of the most indelible news images of recent years include angry, red-faced White men, often armed with guns.  Consider scenes from the US Capitol riot, which were filled with angry White men wielding crude weapons and pummeling police. Or the snarling faces of young White men holding tiki torches during the 2017 rally in Charlottesville. Or the angry White men who clashed with anti-racist protesters across the US last year.  White male anger has become one of the most potent political forces in contemporary America. That anger helped a White man win the White House. Trump's rise to power is inconceivable without his ability to tap into White male anger and embody it.   Has there ever been an angrier modern president? He is the White male id unleashed.  This White male anger is causing many people -- including other White men -- to look over their shoulder when they go out in public. The two men who were shot and killed by Rittenhouse in Wisconsin were White, as was the man he wounded. Ijeoma Oluo, author of "Mediocre: The Dangerous Legacy of White Male America," wrote that she lives with the constant fear that angry White men will turn violent toward her and "countless other black people, brown people, disabled people, queer people, trans people, and women of every demographic." White male anger could prove to be one of the biggest roadblocks we face in building a successful multiracial democracy.Lee Drutman, a scholar who has studied political violence, recently told the New York Times: "I have a hard time seeing how we have a peaceful 2024 election after everything that's happened now. I don't see the rhetoric turning down, I don't see the conflicts going away. I really do think it's hard to see how it gets better before it gets worse." This isn't hyperbole. It's history. It happened before.  After the Civil War, the US attempted to build the first biracial democracy by incorporating formerly enslaved people into the country's political and economic life. That period, known as Reconstruction, was destroyed primarily by the violence of White men who used terrorist and vigilante groups like the KKK to assassinate elected officials, prevent Blacks from voting and overthrow state governments.   In 1898, for example, a mob of primarily White men staged a coup against the city government of Wilmington, North Carolina, which had elected a multiracial coalition of leaders. More than 60 Black people were killed, and Black residents of the city were barred from voting, and from elected office, for decades afterward.   The January 6 insurrection wasn't unprecedented. In many ways it was a sequel. No more lectures about Black 'thugs'  Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham warned the GOP that "We're not generating enough angry White guys to stay in business for the long term."  He was wrong. The angry White guy business is booming. Yet no matter how obvious it becomes that the country has a problem with White male violence, most Americans will escape what Black and brown men experience on a weekly basis. Not many drivers will lock their doors when White men approach at a stoplight. Few women will clutch their purse when they pass a White man on the street. Someone recently posted a meme about this double standard by evoking the memory of Tamir Rice, the 12-year-old Black boy who was killed in Cleveland by a police officer who authorities said mistook his toy pistol for a real firearm.  "Tamir Rice was 12 and killed for having a fake toy gun. Kyle Rittenhouse, 17, killed two people. Walked by police after killing two people. Got to go home and sleep."  That meme is why it's hard for me for to tolerate hearing another lecture about "Black thug culture" or a "Black culture of violence." My response to the White men who use these tired phrases: Look in the mirror. And look at these three trials, because they point to one frightening future. This is what that future looks like: More angry White men emboldened by "stand your ground" and citizen's arrest laws, inspired by a conservative interpretation of the Second Amendment.  And more dead Americans.
Peng Shuai: Chinese state media claims to show new video clips of Chinese tennis star .  (CNN)A reporter with Chinese state media posted two short video clips of Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai to Twitter on Saturday."I acquired two video clips, which show Peng Shuai was having dinner with her coach and friends in a restaurant," wrote Hu Xijin, who is the editor of Chinese state-run tabloid the Global Times. "The video content clearly shows they are shot on Saturday Beijing time."CNN cannot independently verify the two video clips or when they were filmed.China has been facing pressure from the United Nations over Peng's whereabouts as the organization called for an investigation into her allegations of sexual assault. The White House also said on Friday it is "deeply concerned" about Peng's safety. Peng, who is one of China's most recognizable sports stars, had accused former Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli of coercing her into sex at his home, according to screenshots of a since-deleted social media post dated November 2.Peng's post on Weibo, China's Twitter-like platform, was deleted within 30 minutes of publication, with Chinese censors moving swiftly to wipe out any mention of the accusation online. Her Weibo account, which has more than half a million followers, is still blocked from searchers on the platform.The head of the Women's Tennis Association (WTA) Steve Simon has said he is willing to lose hundreds of millions of dollars worth of business in China if Peng is not fully accounted for and her allegations are not properly investigated. 
Subway co-founder Peter Buck, who turned $1,000 into a billion, dies. New York, NY (CNN)Subway co-founder Peter Buck, who turned his initial investment of $1,000 into more than a billion dollars, died Thursday at the age of 90, the company confirmed. With more than 40,000 locations worldwide, Subway today is now the world's largest submarine sandwich chain. Buck, the company's last surviving founder, left a net worth of $1.7 billion, according to Forbes. "We are deeply saddened by the passing of one of Subway's founders, Dr. Peter Buck. He was a shining example of a dedicated, hands-on leader, and an integral member of the Subway family," John Chidsey, CEO of Subway, said in a statement. In 1965, Buck gave his family friend, Fred DeLuca, the idea to open a submarine sandwich shop to help the then-college freshman make money for college. Buck, who was a nuclear physicist, provided an initial investment of $1,000, and "Pete's Super Submarines" opened in Bridgeport, Connecticut. By 1974, the two owned and operated 16 shops in Connecticut and then began franchising them. According to the food service research and consultant firm Technomic, sales at Subway's US locations have fallen in recent years. Amid competition from other fast-food companies, system-wide sales at Subway's US locations have fallen to $8.3 billion in 2020, down from $12.3 billion in 2013, its best year of the past 15, according to Technomic's analysis. When Subway first rose to prominence in the 1970s and 80s, it "owned" customization, said Robert Byrne, director of consumer and industry insights at Technomic, meaning customers could choose what they want in real time. Now, customers can build their own burritos, salads, sandwiches or bowls, making for fierce competition in the space. As more restaurants offer custom options, "we want to continue to ... dominate that space," said Chidsey earlier this year. Subway revamped its menu with new recipes and toppings in July, which helped the company increase its sales in August 2021.Buck's fellow Subway founder DeLuca died in 2015 at age 67.Buck was born in 1930 in South Portland, Maine. He graduated from Bowdoin College in 1952 and earned his master's and doctoral degrees in physics from Columbia University. His philanthropic efforts were managed by The Peter and Carmen Lucia Buck Foundation, which he founded with his late wife in 1999. CNN's Danielle Wiener-Bronner contributed to this report. 
Here's why gas is so cheap at Costco and Walmart. New York (CNN Business)Gas prices are skyrocketing, and Americans want to save at the pump. That plays right into the hands of Costco, BJ's Wholesale Club and Sam's Club.The national gas price average jumped to $3.41 a gallon Friday, according to AAA, 61% higher than the average at the same time last year. The Biden administration has called for an investigation into whether oil and gas companies acted illegally to push up prices. The spike has pushed more shoppers to rely on these chains to fill up their tanks, say the companies, retail analysts, and fuel experts. Gas prices at warehouse clubs can be as much as 30 cents lower than traditional gas stations, and the chains offer members coupons to use in their stores when they fill up. Gasoline sales at the warehouse clubs are an important part of their business and draw customers inside."People are seeking out the clubs because of the gas," said Michael Baker, a retail analyst at D.A. Davidson. "It's US consumers' nature to go out of their way for lower gas prices."Costco, for example, is typically 20 cents a gallon below the market average, according to Tom Kloza, the global head of energy analysis at IHS Markit's Oil Price Information Service. BJ's says it's 10 cents below average.These companies are "winners when gasoline prices go skyward," said Kloza.Costco (COST), Sam's Club and BJ's (BJ) want you to fill up your tank in their parking lots and then go stock up on giant jugs of ketchup, boxes of snacks and clothing. (And why not buy a flat-screen TV or a new couch while you're at it?) Their gas stations give these warehouse stores an advantage that many retail competitors can't match.  Gas makes up around 10%, $20 billion annually, of Costco's overall sales and 9% of BJ's. Walmart (WMT), which owns Sam's Club, does not disclose what portion of its sales come from gas.Gas is a notoriously low-margin business, but retailers can make money from selling huge volumes of gas -- even while charging much less than independent gas stations, said Kloza, adding that it's not unusual for sales at a Costco location to reach up to 1 million gallons a month compared to an average of 80,000 gallons a month at typical gas stations.Despite their big-brand names, the vast majority of Exxon, Chevron, BP and Shell gas statons are independently owned, so they aren't able to make a volume play like wholesalers do. Although wholesalers are able to make a profit on gas, they're not making much: Costco, for example, reported that gasoline has a lower profit margin than the rest of its business. Rising gas prices typically help Costco's sales, but hurt its profits. "When there are inflationary pressures and prices are going up, people look to save on gas," said Richard Galanti, Costco's chief financial officer. For every 100 people who come to Costco to fill up on gas, more than half go shop inside afterwards, he said.Gas sales at BJ's Wholesale Club jumped 20% during its most recent quarter ending October 30 compared with the same time a year ago. BJ's is growing market share in gasoline "in leaps and bounds," CEO Robert Eddy said on a call with analysts Thursday. When gas prices hit over $3 a gallon, "members love us" and shift their gas spending to the club.Gas discounts are a tool Walmart uses to encourage customers to sign up for Walmart+ memberships, which also offer free shipping and discounts on prescriptions.Walmart said on Tuesday that it's actively trying to keep gas prices down to attract customers worried about how much they're paying at the pump, especially as federal stimulus benefits wane."Gas prices are a concern....They're up dramatically versus a year ago," Walmart CEO Doug McMillon said on an earnings call. "The customers had money [then]. And at some point, that's going to come to an end." 
Biden deemed 'fit to successfully execute the duties of the president' after first physical in office.  (CNN)President Joe Biden underwent his annual physical Friday morning at Walter Reed Medical Center, his first such appointment since he was inaugurated as the oldest first-term president in US history.Afterward, his physician Dr. Kevin O'Connor wrote in a memo Biden "remains fit for duty, and fully executes all of his responsibilities without any exemptions or accommodations."The doctor, who has been with the President since he served as vice president, singled out two areas of "observation" he set aside for detailed investigation: an "increasing frequency and severity of 'throat clearing' and coughing during speaking engagements" and the President's ambulatory gait, or walking abnormality, which O'Connor said was "perceptibly stiffer and less fluid than it was a year or so ago." Both have been noticeable elements of Biden's public appearances since taking office. In a detailed, six-page summary of Biden's health, O'Connor said X-rays showed Biden has arthritis of his spine and normal wear and tear damage for someone of his age. The doctor characterized that damage as moderate to severe, but said it was not severe enough to warrant any specific treatment. He wrote it would help account for some of Biden's recent stiffness and clumsy gait. An "extremely detailed neurologic exam" was "reassuring," O'Connor wrote, and showed no evidence of a stroke, multiple sclerosis or Parkinson's.Biden also has a condition known as hiatal hernia, which causes him to have reflux -- something O'Connor said could account for his more frequent throat clearing.The document contained a detailed accounting of the physical exam, including his height of 5 feet 11.65 inches; his weight of 184 pounds; and his blood pressure of 120/70. Biden does not drink or use tobacco and works out five times a week, according to the report. "President Biden remains a healthy, vigorous, 78-year-old male, who is fit to successfully execute the duties of the president, to include those as Chief Executive, Head of State and Commander in Chief," O'Connor wrote in his summary.Biden received a routine colonoscopy Friday while at Walter Reed. The process, which required anesthesia, meant that he temporarily transferred power to Vice President Kamala Harris, who became the first woman to assume presidential power for 85 minutes Friday morning.As he left Walter Reed, Biden said he "had a great physical and a great House of Representatives vote," alluding to the House passing his Build Back Better bill on Friday morning.The last extensive update on Biden's medical state came in December 2019, when the doctor he eventually recruited to serve as White House physician described him as "a healthy, vigorous, 77-year-old male, who is fit to successfully execute the duties of the Presidency."Biden, who turns 79 on Saturday, hasn't released a full report on his health since.Biden is not behind in releasing medical information compared to his recent predecessors, who waited a full year before undergoing a physical and authorizing details to be released publicly.The latest update on Biden's health came after he, then-president-elect, fractured his foot in November while playing with his dog. In February, Biden's physician said the foot fractures "are completely healed."Presidents are not required to publicly disclose results of their annual check-ups but have done so to be transparent and assure the American people in the face of questions about their state of health. Presidents, however, have also hidden their illnesses, the severity of their illness, or medical treatments.Dr. Kevin O'Connor, Biden's primary care doctor since 2009 and the White House physician, wrote the three-page medical summary Biden's presidential campaign released nearly two years ago. The 2019 summary showed Biden was being treated for non-valvular atrial fibrillation, or AFib -- an irregular heartbeat that O'Connor said Biden experiences no symptoms of. He was taking Crestor to lower cholesterol and triglyceride levels, as well as Eliquis to prevent blood clots, Nexium for acid reflux, and Allegra and a nasal spray for seasonal allergies.The most significant medical event in Biden's history, O'Connor wrote, was when Biden suffered a brain aneurysm in 1988. He was serving in the Senate at the time. During surgery, doctors found a second aneurysm that had not bled, which they also treated. While in the hospital after that surgery, Biden suffered deep vein thrombosis and a pulmonary embolism. Doctors at the time inserted an "inferior vena cava filter," which would prevent future blood clots from reaching the heart and lungs and treated him with an oral anti-coagulant for several months.Biden also had his gallbladder removed in 2003, and according to O'Connor he has had multiple surgeries and physical treatments for orthopedic injuries and sports medicine. Biden also has had several non-melanoma skin cancer lesions surgically removed. This story has been updated with additional information. 
Fire breaks out near Place de L'Opera in central Paris. ParisA large fire broke out in a building on boulevard des Capucines, near the Place de L'Opera square in central Paris on Saturday, sending clouds of smoke rising into the air."Firemen are intervening, avoid the area," the Prefecture de Police said in a statement on Twitter.It was not immediately clear what caused the fire.This is a developing story and will be updated.
Trump's ire grows as DeSantis' popularity with Republicans takes off.  (CNN)In a matter of months, Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis has gone from being a shining example in Donald Trump's eyes of a MAGA leader molded in his image to an average politician who forgot his roots as he rose to Republican stardom. People close to both men first noticed the palpable shift in Trump's posture toward DeSantis earlier this year as enthusiasm for the Florida governor swelled among donors and GOP operatives who praised his laissez-faire response to the Covid-19 pandemic. The more DeSantis' popularity soared, the more obsessed Trump became with receiving credit for his political celebrity. In April, Trump had told Fox News that DeSantis would "certainly" be under consideration for the VP slot if he were to launch a third presidential campaign in 2024. By October, the former President was demanding that he publicly rule out a White House bid of his own. "It's not that Trump is complaining about Ron... but he likes to remind Ron and others that he made him," said a person close to the former President, who added that Trump has been telling people around him that DeSantis could show more gratitude. Politico first reported the tension in their relationship last Friday. A statement to CNN from Trump spokesman Taylor Budowich appeared to confirm Trump's obsession with receiving credit for DeSantis' success. Budowich said the former President's 2020 victory in Florida "paved the way for Republicans, including Governor Ron DeSantis, to sweep the state in 2022" and suggested that Trump "catapulted" then-Congressman DeSantis "into the Governor's Mansion" with his endorsement in the 2018 GOP primary for Florida governor. "President Trump remains committed and supportive of Governor Ron DeSantis, who has been a champion for President Trump's America First agenda," said Budowich. Though the two remain in regular contact, Trump has become increasingly irritated at DeSantis' refusal to publicly dismiss a 2024 bid of his own if the former President himself decides to run. Two people close to the situation said DeSantis has privately assured Trump and others that he has no intention of challenging him in a GOP presidential primary, but they noted that Trump won't be fully satisfied until the governor says so publicly. "I don't think Trump appreciates the conundrum DeSantis is in. He wants him to say, 'I won't run,' but DeSantis isn't going to weigh in like that," said a former Trump aide, who suggested that DeSantis' current approach was politically savvy given his interest in securing another term as governor. "It's a very smart view. Until you get reelected, don't start to have a conversation about 2024. If you're trying to ask people for your vote and you're leaning into presidential speculation, it makes it a lot harder," the aide said. Though DeSantis has previously dismissed 2024 chatter about him as "nonsense," he has avoided taking the unequivocal public vow not to challenge Trump that other prospective Republican hopefuls have made. Earlier this month, he officially filed to run for reelection for Florida governor in 2022 and he recently told Fox News host Sean Hannity that's where his focus lies."I'm not considering anything beyond doing my job," DeSantis said.A spokesman for DeSantis did not respond to a request for comment. Helen Aguirre Ferré, the executive director of the Republican Party of Florida who has worked for Trump and DeSantis, told CNN, "I'm not going to get into that at all. I'll leave that for somebody else."What sets DeSantis apart Trump allies say it's the organic enthusiasm for DeSantis -- among deep-pocketed donors and the grassroots flank of the GOP -- that has fueled Trump's frustration with the governor, especially as it relates to 2024. When Trump's name was removed from a presidential straw poll at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference in February, it was DeSantis who led the pack with 43% support among the MAGA-friendly audience. Months later, at a September 13 press conference where he decried the Biden administration's pending Covid-19 vaccine mandate for large companies, DeSantis offered a bashful smirk when another state official pointed to someone sporting a "DeSantis 2024" T-shirt in the crowd. And for months, billionaire Republican donors who bankrolled Trump have opened their checkbooks to boost DeSantis in his bid for a second term as Florida's governor. Former Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross donated $50,000 to DeSantis' campaign in April, according to publicly available campaign finance data, as did close Trump pal and Home Depot co-founder Bernie Marcus, who contributed $250,000 in March. Interactive Brokers Group chairman Thomas Peterffy, whose last six-figure donation to the Trump Victory fund occurred in September 2017, also gave $250,000 to DeSantis in April. Peterffy told Bloomberg News earlier this fall that he would prefer to see DeSantis as the Republican presidential nominee in 2024 because he is less impulsive than Trump.Nick Iarossi, a Florida lobbyist and DeSantis bundler, claimed Trump supporters are the ones reaching out to support DeSantis, not the other way around. Another person close to DeSantis, who requested anonymity to discuss private conversations, said he had personally witnessed instances where the governor had to tell donors "who are all excited about a presidential bid, 'No, I'm not focused on 2024.'" "Everyone is talking about my governor," said Shawn Foster, a GOP state committeeman who helped organize a county fundraiser headlined by DeSantis in September that operatives believe was the largest in state history -- other than one once hosted by Trump. DeSantis has raised $56 million so far this year through a political committee, and in a sign of his growing national stature, almost half of his 2021 haul has come from outside Florida. His committee has spent sparingly -- just $2.3 million in the past 12 months -- though it has paid to keep up with demand for the brash, DeSantis-themed merchandise for sale on his website. DeSantis famously sold "Don't Fauci my Florida" koozies this summer as the Sunshine State became the epicenter of the country's coronavirus outbreak. Now for sale: DeSantis-branded golf balls with the slogan "Florida's Governor has a pair."Trump keeping tabs on potential competitorsThe simmering tension between Trump and DeSantis comes as the former President himself inches closer to another campaign for the White House in 2024. Trump has been closely tracking what rumored Republican presidential hopefuls have said about their own interest in running, and is most interested in those -- like DeSantis -- who command significant popularity with his core supporters. With an eye toward 2024, Trump has been working aggressively since leaving office to exert his control over the Republican Party with endorsements of insurgent GOP candidates, regular appearances on the campaign trail and intense demands for loyalty from Republicans across the local, state and federal level. One former Trump White House official said the approach Trump has taken to ensure that he remains in charge of the party spares no one -- not even elected Republicans who have demonstrated the utmost loyalty to him in most situations. "He wants to be top dog, not just nationally, but in these states" that will matter if he becomes the Republican nominee in 2024, said the former White House official. The official noted that DeSantis isn't the only GOP governor who has been on the receiving end of the former President's praise one day and resented the next."He was at the border with (Texas Gov.) Greg Abbott three or four months ago and then a month later, you get that statement where he was critical of Abbott," the official recalled, referring to a letter Trump wrote to the Texas governor in September demanding that he support a forensic audit of the state's 2020 election results. (Trump joined Abbott on a tour of the US-Mexico border in late June amid a surge of unauthorized border crossings under the Biden administration). "He changes his tune every other day with some of these guys and what you're seeing with DeSantis -- Trump being hot and cold -- isn't necessarily unique to him," said the former Trump White House official. If asked, Trump advisers believe the former President would campaign for DeSantis' re-election. Iarossi said he wasn't sure what Trump's involvement will be in 2022, but added: "Trump's brand is still great in Florida so I think he's a great ally to have."Some Trump foes have picked up on the former President's jealousy and are using it to advance their own objectives. Next week, Palm Beach televisions, perhaps including those in Mar-a-Lago, will once again air a commercial by the Lincoln Project intended to remind Trump that DeSantis is the new GOP "it" guy. Rick Wilson, one of the ex-Republicans behind the Lincoln Project, is hoping to provoke a very specific reaction from Trump. "We want Trump to kill his own babies," Wilson said. "We believe if we narrow the field and it's only Trump in 2024, it's an easy choice for Americans to say 'no.'"DeSantis, who once aired a campaign commercial reading Trump's "Art of the Deal" to his infant son, has ably navigated Trump to his own political benefit for years. As a candidate for US Senate in 2016, DeSantis repeatedly declined to endorse Trump in the GOP presidential primary. But after Trump won and his popularity skyrocketed among Republican voters, DeSantis regularly appeared on Fox News where he was a staunch defender of the President. Trump took notice, and tweeted his support for DeSantis in the 2018 gubernatorial primary for governor over a better-funded establishment favorite.Trump has often reminded DeSantis of that history, claiming at a 2020 rally that DeSantis was polling at 3% and "had no money" before Trump got involved. "He ran, I endorsed him, his numbers went through the roof," Trump told the crowd. But if Trump is waiting for DeSantis to return the favor by publicly ceding the 2024 nomination, he shouldn't hold his breath. With a reelection campaign still ahead, and Democrats already accusing DeSantis of campaigning for his next office, the governor's allies say it doesn't make sense politically for him to speak about the future."He hasn't said he's running in 2024," Iarossi said. "Why would he dismiss something that he hasn't expressed interest in running for?"
Why the tide may be turning on Trump. Frida Ghitis, (@fridaghitis) a former CNN producer and correspondent, is a world affairs columnist. She is a weekly opinion contributor to CNN, a contributing columnist to The Washington Post and a columnist for World Politics Review. The views expressed in this commentary are her own. View more opinion on CNN. (CNN)What's that we hear? Is it the sound of prominent conservatives and Trump allies openly rebuking former President Donald Trump? Are these the early murmurs of a conservative backlash against Trump? And is it possible a political lane is opening for another Republican presidential candidate in 2024?It's too soon to know, of course, and there's plenty of evidence that those who stand up against the vindictive Trump will end up crushed by either his bullying ways or by his loyal followers, with little support from the rest of the GOP. And yet, it is noteworthy that in the past few days we have heard from two major figures in the conservative camp telling Trump that he should stop whining about the election he lost and let the Republican Party focus on real issues, instead of his self-serving fantasies.The statements from Rupert Murdoch -- who controls a media empire that includes, among other properties, the shamelessly pro-Trump Fox News -- and from former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie -- an adviser who worked with the former president and helped him prepare for the presidential debates during the 2020 election -- may serve as a test for Republicans who understand just how harmful Trump's dominance of the GOP is, and how it could ultimately sink the party.It was startling when Murdoch, addressing his company at the annual shareholder meeting on Wednesday, said that the United States faces a number of major political decisions that conservatives will fail to shape unless Trump moves on. "The current American political debate is profound," he said, citing education, welfare and economic opportunity. "It is crucial that conservatives play an active, forceful role in that debate," he added, "but that will not happen if President Trump stays focused on the past."Murdoch is not alone in arguing that Trump is a threat to conservatives. Christie, who has just published a new book that looks very much like his unofficial entry into the 2024 presidential race, is making the same case, only more forcefully.Consider the title of Christie's book -- which effectively labels Trump a threat to the GOP: "Republican Rescue: Saving the Party from Truth Deniers, Conspiracy Theorists, and the Dangerous Policies of Joe Biden." Notice that Trump fits two of the three reasons the party needs saving (by Christie, presumably).Murdoch and Christie are not the first Republicans who have stood up to the former president --  but their rebukes of Trump are markedly different. Trump's early critics, like Senators Marco Rubio, Ted Cruz, Lindsey Graham and others, melted into passionate defenders once their criticisms proved perilous to their own standing. Their reversals bring to mind a quote often attributed to Groucho Marx: "Those are my principles, and if you don't like them...well, I have others." Christie says many in the GOP are frightened of Trump, whose "conduct is meant to instill fear." Conservative Republicans who refuse to fall in line, such as Rep. Liz Cheney, are being hounded out of a party that is increasingly remade into the former president's raging, iconoclastic and intolerant brand.Sure, it's possible Murdoch and Christie's words may also fail to change the course of the GOP, but their criticism is different. They both helped Trump throughout his presidency, and it's significant that they are the ones now speaking out against him. Their plea that he stop complaining about the last election, however, will only fall on deaf ears, since Trump is simply incapable of admitting he lost. But Murdoch and Christie are sending an important message to other members of the party -- and the rest of the country -- that to continue supporting Trump is a dangerous folly.Coincidentally or not, the chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, Ronna McDaniel, finally acknowledged Biden's win on Thursday, more than a year after the 2020 vote. "Painfully," she said, "Joe Biden won the election and it's very painful to watch. He's the President. We know that." Murdoch and Christie undoubtedly have their own personal motives for speaking out against Trump in this moment, and there's plenty of evidence to warrant accusations of hypocrisy. Murdoch, whose Fox News -- home of Tucker Carlson, a purveyor of harmful lies and propaganda about everything from the Covid vaccine to American democracy -- is still serving Trump's goals. But Fox News now faces billion-dollar defamation lawsuits brought by two voting technology companies that allege the network spread false claims of election fraud. Murdoch might be driven by a fear of liability and the potential damage additional lawsuits could inflict on his bottom line if Fox News continues to follow Trump down a rabbit hole of conspiracy theories and baseless claims. There is, also the possibility that he cares about the future of conservative politics, and genuinely fears the GOP might get trampled if Trump doesn't let up.Christie, for his part, is trying to promote his book and his prospects of occupying the White House.Still, it is remarkable that they have done the calculus and decided they can benefit from speaking out against the former president, even after other Republicans have been badly hurt by doing the same thing. I think their calculation makes sense. With President Joe Biden's ratings sinking, the conventional wisdom seems to be that Democrats are doomed. But it is Republicans who may be doomed if they continue to stick with the former president.There's no doubt the Biden administration is terrible at messaging. The economy is booming and yet consumers are feeling pessimistic. Meanwhile, Biden is making important legislative progress, and the inflationary pressures that are creating the false impression that the economy is failing could be resolved in time to boost Democrats' fortunes.Even if Democrats are still in the doldrums in 2024, it's hard to imagine that voters will be yearning for another four years of Trumpian chaos. Biden may look uninspiring now, but the former president, who had the most consistently poor approval ratings of any president in the modern era, remains highly unpopular and controversial. Do Republicans want a candidate embroiled in endless -- and serious -- legal troubles? According to the New York Times, prosecutors are likely to impanel a grand jury in Georgia in the criminal investigation of the former president's attempt to overturn the 2020 election (In September, he suggested he was being unfairly targeted, saying, "Even the Fulton County DA, district attorney, is after me.") Meanwhile, prosecutors in New York have convened a second grand jury to hear evidence about Trump Organization's business practices, according to the Washington Post. (The first grand jury, which convened this spring, charged two Trump companies and an executive with tax evasion. Trump, who was not charged, blasted the indictment and called the investigation a "political witch hunt.")A Pew poll conducted in September found that two-thirds of Republicans want Trump to remain a major force in the party, but only 44% want him to run again. One-third of Republicans and 92% of Democrats don't want him to be a major national political figure going forward. That's not the arithmetic of victory. There's the potential for a post-Trump Republican Party to gain ground. It still seems like a long shot at this point, but if his critics are successful in persuading the GOP to move in a different direction, there's a chance American democracy can return some semblance of normality, where political leaders debate what policies are best for the country, without fear of upsetting the tender, explosive feelings of a very bad loser.
Recall announced for certain onions due to Salmonella outbreak.  (CNN)The US Food and Drug Administration along with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention are advising consumers to avoid purchasing certain onions due to a Salmonella outbreak reported in 38 states and Puerto Rico, according to a CDC press release. Multiple companies have recalled whole yellow, red, and white onions due to potential risk of Salmonella, all of which were "supplied by ProSource Produce LLC and Keeler Family Farms and imported from the State of Chihuahua, Mexico, between July 1, 2021, and August 31, 2021," the CDC says. The FDA listed some of Green Giant Fresh's whole yellow and white onions, as well as onions in certain meal kits from EveryPlate and HelloFresh as those being recalled due to potential contamination.Three- and five-pound bags of onions from Alsum Farms & Produce Inc, Potandon Produce LLC, and Pier-C Produce imported from Chihuahua, Mexico, which were distributed between July and August are also part of the recall, according to the FDA. The CDC reported at least 892 illnesses and 183 hospitalizations connected to the Salmonella outbreak.
CVS had every advantage, but it lost the pandemic. Here's what happened. New York (CNN Business)CVS' announcement Thursday that it will close 900 stores over the next three years — around 10% of its pharmacies — may have caught some shoppers off guard.Isn't CVS doing really well right now? Haven't lots of people gone to drug stores during the pandemic to stock up on hand sanitizer, cleaning wipes and toilet paper? What about all those Covid-19 vaccine shots CVS gives out?Actually, CVS' closures shouldn't come as a surprise. They are the latest moves in the long-running contraction of the US retail pharmacy sector. CVS (CVS), Walgreens (WBA) and Rite Aid (RAD) have been shuttering stores for years, while independent pharmacies have come under pressure from chains. Drug store closures can hurt local communities, creating access gaps for medications and essentials.CVS, the largest drug store chain in the United States, pointed to "changes in population, consumer buying patterns and future health needs" as factors in its decision to close stores. Here's why CVS will close 900 stores.Pivot to health careThe future of CVS is not selling snacks, candy, shampoo and greeting cards. It's in health care.To that end, in 2018 CVS completed a $69 billion acquisition of Aetna, the largest health care deal in history, to create a gigantic customer base of about 40 million Americans. CVS bet that the deal will increase its profits from those patients' health plans while helping to lower its costs. CVS also has been revamping its retail strategy and said Thursday that its stores will have three distinct models: locations that offer primary care services; "HealthHub" stores that have on-site dieticians, nurse practitioners and lab services, and on-site treatment for chronic conditions such as diabetes and asthma; and traditional stores.CVS is "really pivoting and leaning into the health care aspects of the business," said George Hill, an analyst who covers the company and the health care industry at Deutsche Bank. "You'd much rather be selling health care services that are high-dollar value, high-margin versus greeting cards."Too many storesWhen you walk down the street or drive around the suburbs you'll typically pass a CVS. And then hit a Walgreens right next door. Rite Aid is probably pretty close, too. "There's too many pharmacies in the country and there's too much pharmacy capacity. That gives CVS a reason to go," said Hill.CVS closed 244 stores between 2018 and 2020, yet it still has more than 9,900 stores. That's more than Walmart (WMT), Target (TGT) Kroger (KR) and Costco (COST) — combined.Its latest closings will "reduce store density in certain locations," CVS said Thursday, which translates into the fact that CVS has too many stores too close to each other in some places.Competition from Amazon and Dollar GeneralAlso, fewer people are heading to CVS and other drug stores to fill their prescriptions and shop for household staples these days. (And they're not going into CVS to buy tobacco, either, which the company stopped selling in 2014.)Some shoppers have replaced their trips to stores like CVS by buying their supplies online from Amazon (AMZN), or from brick-and-mortar giants like Walmart and Target. The chains have built their own strong e-commerce businesses in recent years.Dollar General (DG) has also grabbed market share from drug stores, undercutting the sector with lower prices on similar items. And now Dollar General is launching its own health care initiative as it continues to take business from pharmacies.Online pharmacies and telemedicine have gained traction, too. Amazon bought PillPack in 2018 for more than $700 million and started shipping prescriptions to Prime members last year. Capsule and other digital pharmacies that deliver directly to customers' homes are also growing. Although brick-and-mortar pharmacies are still an important stop for many elderly people,or those who don't use the web or have access to it, they are increasingly becoming a thing of the past to the growing ranks of online shoppers.Rising costsClosing stores also reduces CVS' costs while still keeping most of its sales. Its labor and store operations costs increased during the pandemic because of safety protections like plexiglass, floor decals and masks. The company said in August it planned to raise its minimum wage to $15 an hour from $11 in a bid to retain and attract workers."There are cost pressures in all directions," said Hill, the Deutsche Bank analyst.Seventy-five percent of CVS' sales comes from filling prescriptions, but its profits from that segment have declined in recent years because of lower reimbursement rates.But when CVS closes a store, it can hold onto most of those sales by shifting the prescriptions to its nearest pharmacies, Hill said.Covid-19 vaccines weren't a huge boostCVS got a lift from people coming into its stores for their Covid-19 vaccines and tests. The company has administered 43 million vaccines and around 38 million tests, CEO Karen Lynch said on an earnings call earlier this month.But the vaccines were only a short-term gain for the company, which said they will generate only $3 billion in revenue in 2021. That will decline by up to 40% next year, along with whatever sales CVS racked up as shoppers browsed aisles while they waited to get vaccinated, Lynch said.People also visited their doctors less frequently last year and into 2021, and elective procedures were suspended early in the pandemic, which meant that CVS filled fewer regular and chronic care prescriptions than in the years before the pandemic. And fewer people have also been coming into stores to pick up cough and fever medicines — big business for CVS — because they're still wearing masks and spending more time at home than they once did.
Adele is having a moment. Count us in for the heartbreak — and renewal.  (CNN)All Adele. All day. Because really, what else do we need?The British singer is back with a new album, a new love and a new attitude.It all looks good on her, so this week's Pop Life Chronicles is all about Adele to make her feel our love. Three things to watch'Adele One Night Only'The sumptuous location, Adele in that couture gown and, oh, the music.Adele's CBS special owes us nothing, as she slayed with the tunes, the banter and the interview in Oprah Winfrey's gorgeous garden.And did we mention the absolutely precious marriage proposal that happened during the show at LA's Griffith Observatory?You can watch (or rewatch) it all happen on Paramount+, where it's currently streaming. 'Skyfall'No, Adele didn't act in this one, but she sang the theme song for the 23rd installment of the James Bond franchise.So come for the car chases, high-tech gadgets and Daniel Craig's suave demeanor, but stay for the music that earned Adele an Academy Award for best original song in 2013.Adele's Album of the Year win at the 59th GrammysIt's not a streaming movie or TV show, but I had to include one of the greatest Grammy speech moments ever.Adele took to the Grammys stage in 2017 to accept the award for album of the year for "25," talked about her life, praised her son and husband at the time, then tearfully said she couldn't possibly accept because the album of her life was Beyoncé's "Lemonade," which had also been nominated."It was so monumental, Beyoncé," Adele said to her fellow nominee, who was seated in the front row.The camera went to a pregnant, tearful Bey in the audience, mouthing her love for Adele. They were crying and we were, too, at how wonderful it was to see two queens supporting each other.It's on the Recording Academy's Grammys YouTube channel.Two things to listen toThis one is so easy because her new album, "30," has dropped.Adele's fourth studio album felt a long time coming since her last one was released in 2015.Her debut single from the new collection, "Easy on Me," blew up on the charts and streaming services — and the album has been expected to be a massive seller from the moment it had been announced.I feel like any album with a single titled "I Drink Wine" can't help but win.It's out now.For a bit of nostalgia, go back and listen to her "21" album from 2011. With hits like "Rolling in the Deep" and "Set Fire to the Rain," Adele defied the sophomore jinx, which often finds successful artists unable to do well with their second album.Not only did she gain critical acclaim, she could barely hold all the Grammys she won the following year. One thing to talk aboutAdele seems different these days, and we are not talking about her weight loss.Instead, she seems more confident and willing to let fans in on her life and thoughts.Opening up in an interview with Vogue and her sit-down with Oprah Winfrey, she seems relaxed and happier in her skin.She talked to Winfrey about how being in this new place in her life helped her find love with superstar sports agent Rich Paul."It's just timing," she said. "But it'd be interesting to see what my reaction is like in general to anything that hurts me now that I feel so secure in myself, and I'm talking outside of romance as well."Speaking of Adele and Paul, they are one of the Hollywood couples discussed in the latest episode of my weekly show, Pop Life Pop Off! Check it out here:Something to sip on For years, Adele would disappear from the scene and only come back when she had new music to drop.It was a risky strategy in a time when fans have come to expect celebrity visibility on social media and everywhere else.But the thing is, I don't think Adele gave a flying, ahem, thought about strategy.She appeared to simply just be living her life, which enabled her to write the songs that we have come to love.Now she has done her first Instagram Live (where she couldn't have been more charming) and allowed her followers to share in the excitement of the new album.And even if she chooses to drop off the scene again — remember this is a woman who said her last tour might be her final tour — she owes us absolutely nothing because artistically she has already given us so much.
A court battle is brewing over Prince Philip's will. A version of this story appeared in the November 19 edition of CNN's Royal News, a weekly dispatch bringing you the inside track on Britain's royal family. Sign up here. London (CNN)Here in the UK, a deep-seated debate on privacy is taking place after the Guardian newspaper announced it was taking legal action over the media's exclusion from a hearing on Prince Philip's will earlier this year.In September, Andrew McFarlane, president of the High Court's Family Division, ruled that Philip's will would be sealed for 90 years. Among the few present was a lawyer representing the duke's estate from law firm Farrer & Co, the Queen's private solicitors, and the attorney general, the government's chief legal adviser. The media weren't told of the hearing or permitted to attend, with the public interest represented by the attorney general.A Guardian News & Media spokesperson told CNN in an emailed statement that the High Court's decision to ban the media from the court hearing without informing outlets or allowing them to make representations "is a clear threat to the principles of open justice.""It is also concerning that the court appears to believe that only the attorney general can speak to the public interest," the spokesperson continued. "We are seeking permission to argue that the behaviour of the high court in this instance constitutes a failure of open justice and that the case should be reheard."According to British law, if a person prepares a will prior to their death, it becomes a public document after being admitted to probate, and anyone can obtain a copy from the Probate Registry for a fee.  However, anyone can ask the court to "seal" a will and keep it private, according to Geoff Kertesz and Judith Swinhoe-Standen from UK law firm Stewarts. "The court must be persuaded that it would be 'undesirable or otherwise inappropriate' to make the will public," they told CNN. "Historically, the courts have approved such applications only for senior members of the royal family. It is unclear under what, if any, other circumstances the court might agree to keep a will private."One recent senior royal whose will was made public was Diana, Princess of Wales, who gave up her HRH title when she divorced Prince Charles.Judge McFarlane said in his ruling that "it has become the convention that, following the death of a senior member of the Royal Family, an application to seal their will is made" and that "it appears that such applications have always been heard in private and have invariably been granted."He said it was understood that the first member of the royal family whose will was sealed was Prince Francis of Teck, the younger brother of King George V's wife Queen Mary, who died in 1910.Legal and royal expert Michael L. Nash told CNN: "It was Queen Mary who used these unusual royal powers and prerogatives never used before."Francis died suddenly at the age of 40, following a botched medical examination of his nose, according to Nash, who also authored "Royal Wills in Britain from 1509 to 2008." He said the prince was a "reckless gambler" but also an "extremely lovable character," who bequeathed treasured family jewels to his mistress in a draft version of his will.Nash, who has seen a copy of the draft will that surfaced in archives in Northern Ireland, said the prince was constantly in financial trouble, and upon his death "Queen Mary knew that the creditors, once they saw the will, would descend and everything that Frank died possessed of would have to be sold in order to satisfy these massive debts."He continued, "And she was absolutely mortified that the public would be able to know about the state that her brother had got himself into."Nash also pointed out that the family has faced legal challenges to the secrecy of royal wills before, the most recent of which was considered by the court in 2007. He highlighted an application by Robert Andrew Brown, who claimed to be the illegitimate child of the Queen's sister, Princess Margaret. Brown sought to open Margaret's will, as well as that of the Queen Mother, but the claim was dismissed as a fantasy, Nash said. Privacy has become the debate of the modern era for the British monarchy, with the question of how much privacy a family member deserves routinely emerging. Critics often say royals use their positions and privilege to secure exemptions and evade scandal, while also noting that the Windsors are funded by taxpayers.In his judgment, McFarlane said he was the custodian of a safe holding more than 30 envelopes, each of which supposedly contains the secret will of a dead royal. The most recent additions were made in 2002 with those of the Queen Mother and Princess Margaret.  McFarlane also touched upon why privacy was afforded for royal wills, saying: "The answer to the question 'why should there be an exception for senior members of the Royal Family?' is, in my view, clear: it is necessary to enhance the protection afforded to the private lives of this unique group of individuals, in order to protect the dignity and standing of the public role of the Sovereign and other close members of Her family."Lawyers Kertesz and Swinhoe-Standen said there was a notable difference in the handling of the Duke of Edinburgh's wills and those of royals before him."All previously sealed royal wills are to be kept private indefinitely, but Prince Philip's will is different in that its privacy is time-restricted to 90 years," the pair said. "After 90 years, certain officials may inspect it, and they may then invite the court to rule on whether the will should be made public at that point, or kept private for a further period."Nash described the time limit as an "important advance," as the previous position meant wills were concealed in perpetuity. "That gave serious misgivings to historians, lawyers, researchers -- everybody that had a valid reason for reading the will," he added."I can see in future cases that 90 years tumbling down to, say, 50 years or even less. So that there is at least some possibility of people living now being able to read (a will) at some time in the future during their lifetime."HAVE YOUR SAYSo, what do you think: Should or shouldn't the public be allowed to read a royal will, and why?It's certainly an interesting one to ponder. Let us know your thoughts on email (royalnews@cnn.com). Don't forget to include your name and where you are writing from, and your views could feature in a future edition of Royal News.WHAT ELSE IS HAPPENING?Meghan dishes on life on the West Coast. Unlike when she sat down with Oprah, the Duchess of Sussex's chat on The Ellen DeGeneres Show yielded few bombshells. This time, she revealed Archie and Lili's Halloween costumes and pranked street vendors on the studio lot where the show is filmed. Get the whole story. Queen is all smiles at first engagement since health scare.Elizabeth II warmly greeted the head of the Armed Forces when they met at Windsor on Wednesday -- her first face-to-face engagement since she missed the Remembrance Sunday service in London last weekend. "Her Majesty received General Sir Nicholas Carter at Windsor Castle today upon relinquishing his appointment as Chief of the Defence Staff," Buckingham Palace said. Dressed in an orange, green and white floral dress, the 95-year-old monarch stood to greet the outgoing general before the pair chatted in the Oak Room at Windsor Castle. Read more here. William heads to Microsoft HQ.The Duke of Cambridge visited Microsoft's offices just outside London on Thursday to find out how new AI-scanning tech is helping to tackle the illegal wildlife trade. William spoke with developers following a recent successful trial at London's Heathrow airport, where the software proved capable of detecting illegal ivory products hidden among baggage and cargo. The prince, who set up the Royal Foundation's United for Wildlife, explored poaching cases from end-to-end, learning how partner organizations are assisting in disrupting criminal networks.IN THE ROYAL DIARYCharles and Camilla visit Jesus' baptism site.The Prince of Wales and wife Camilla took a special trip while on their tour in Jordan Tuesday. The pair, who conducted their first major overseas visit since the start of the pandemic this week, traveled to a site on the river Jordan where Jesus is believed to have been baptized. The couple were permitted to dip their fingers in the water and are taking "five or six dozen bottles" of holy water home for future royal baptisms, according to the Daily Mail. The royal couple kicked off their four-day autumn tour on Tuesday. Clarence House said the trip was at the request of the British government and engagements would focus particularly on addressing the climate crisis. In Jordan, they were welcomed to Al Husseiniya Palace by King Abdullah II and Queen Rania, complete with two honor guards. After a packed schedule across two days, the royals traveled to Egypt, where they met President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi and first lady Entissar Amer at Al-Ittahadiya Palace. Charles then attended an interfaith reception at Al Azhar Mosque, where he met with the Grand Imam. They concluded their first day with a visit to the Great Pyramid of Giza and the Great Sphinx before attending a reception. They separated for engagements on their final day in Egypt, with the duchess visiting a Cairo veterinary hospital while Charles went to a business meeting downtown.PHOTO OF THE WEEKThe Duke and Duchess of Cambridge dressed in their finest for a night out at the Royal Albert Hall in London on Thursday. The couple left the children at home to watch the Royal Variety Performance. The annual show -- which this year marked a century of royal patronage -- is held to fundraise and support members of the entertainment industry. After the show, the couple were photographed chatting with comedian Bill Bailey and musician Ed Sheeran, among others. Thanks for reading today's send -- we hope you enjoyed it. Just a heads-up that we're taking a brief break over Thanksgiving next week but will be back to bring you all the comings and goings of the Windsors on December 3. --Max & Lauren
Princess Charlene of Monaco: A timeline of her health issues and absence.  (CNN)Princess Charlene of Monaco spent half a year away from the European principality to recover from a severe ear, nose and throat infection in her native South Africa. Just 11 days after returning home, Prince Albert II announced in an exclusive interview with People on Friday that the princess has entered a treatment facility "outside of Monaco" for exhaustion. Her return home "went pretty well in the first few hours, and then it became pretty evident that she was unwell," Albert told the publication.Though speculation swirled that her move resulted from a rift in her relationship with her husband , the son of Grace Kelly and Prince Rainier III, the palace, Albert and Charlene have affirmed that her health struggles grounded her on another continent. Mid-May: During a trip to her native South Africa to advocate against poaching and killing rhinos for their horns, Charlene experienced an ear, nose and throat infection severe enough that it "does not allow her to travel," the palace told South African outlet News24. June 24: Charlene's foundation confirmed to News24 was "undergoing multiple, complicated procedures" after contracting the infection. Her medical team advised her to stay in South Africa as she continued to recover and waited to receive further procedures, the foundation said. July 6: Charlene, unable to return to Monaco to celebrate her 10th wedding anniversary, told News24 in a statement that her illness and grounding in South Africa has "been a trying time." "I miss my husband and children dearly," she said. "What has been extremely difficult for me was when I was instructed by my medical team that I could not return home for my 10th wedding anniversary. Albert is my rock and strength and without his love and support I would not have been able to get through this painful time."September 2: Albert, speaking exclusively to People, said that his wife was "ready to come home" after undergoing months of medical procedures. September 4: Charlene left a South African hospital after she was treated for an ear, nose and throat condition, Monaco's palace told Reuters at the time. She was admitted to the hospital after fainting earlier in the week, though the palace said her collapse wasn't a major concern. September 8: In another interview with People, Albert denounced rumors that Charlene remained in South Africa due to issues in their relationship. "She didn't leave Monaco in a huff!" he told the outlet. "She didn't leave because she was mad at me or at anybody else ... It was only supposed to be a weeklong, 10-day maximum stay, and [she is still there now] because she had this infection all these medical complications arose."October 26: Albert told People that Charlene will return to Monaco within weeks after she completed her recovery from an early October surgery. November 9: Charlene returned to Monaco after half a year away, eagerly greeted by her children and husband. On Instagram, she shared a photo of herself in a black face mask with her children and husband, captioned, "Happy day today Thank you all for keeping me strong !!" with a heart emoji. November 16: The palace announced that Charlene, within a week of returning to Monaco, would avoid public duties as she continued her recovery. "A period of calm and rest is necessary to ensure the very best recovery for Princess Charlene's health," the palace said in a statement, according to Reuters. November 19: Charlene was absent from celebrations for the National Day of Monaco.Prince Albert told People his wife is suffering from profound "exhaustion, both emotional and physical."  Appearing on a balcony with their father at the public event, Charlene's 6-year-old twins, Prince Jacque and Princess Gabriella, held handmade signs honoring their mother. Gabriella's sign read "We miss you Mommy" with hearts, and Jacque wrote "We love you Mommy." 
Natalie Morales says goodbye to 'Today' after 22 years at NBC. New York (CNN Business)Natalie Morales said farewell on Friday to her viewers and colleagues on "Today" after 22 years at NBC. Morales, who worked as an anchor for "Today" and correspondent for "Dateline NBC," is leaving the network to join CBS as a host of its afternoon program, "The Talk." On Friday, "Today" shared a touching farewell segment in which Morales reflected on her career at the network."Dear viewer, from the minute I stepped in front of the camera and into your living rooms I knew it was an honor to be a part of your morning tradition and sacred time," Morales said. "With you, I've had a front row seat to moments that captured our hearts, moments I will forever cherish as I witnessed history."Morales recalled her coverage of the rescue of 33 Chilean miners, two royal weddings, eight Olympics and survivors of the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing crossing the finish line at the following year's race.  "I, too, was inspired to run and raise thousands for their cause thanks to your support," Morales said. "So many extraordinary people touched our lives, trusting us with their awe inspiring journeys.""Dear viewer, you and my 'Today' family have given me a place I will forever call home. Thank you for all those mornings and the lifetime of memories we now share. With all my love and gratitude, Natalie," she concluded. Morales sat with her "Today" co-hosts — Al Roker, Craig Melvin, Savannah Guthrie, Hoda Kotb and Carson Daly — for a sendoff toast.  "For 22 years, no matter what you have done, Natalie, you are still the same person," Roker said. "You are wonderful, warm. You have always been a good friend to everybody who's been here. You treat everybody equal. I adore you." Morales' final story for "Dateline NBC" premieres Friday. 
U.S. screened highest number of air passengers since start of pandemic. WASHINGTON, Nov 20 (Reuters) - The U.S. Transportation Security Administration screened 2.24 million airline passengers on Friday, the highest number of passengers since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, it announced on Saturday.TSA spokesperson Lisa Farbstein announced the milestone on Twitter, saying it was the "highest checkpoint volume" since March 2020, when the pandemic took hold in the United States, bringing travel and business to a halt.Earlier in the week, the TSA said it had expected to screen about 20 million air passengers during the busy Thanksgiving travel period - from Nov. 19 to Nov. 28 - and predicted volumes may be close to pre-pandemic levels.Major U.S. airlines had predicted an uptick in air travel over the last few days.Delta Air Lines said it expects to fly up to 5.6 million passengers from Friday through Nov. 30, nearly 300% over 2020's 2.2 million Delta passengers for the period but still below the 6.3 million passengers during the same period in 2019.United Airlines said it anticipates more than 4.5 million passengers during the Thanksgiving travel period - about 88% of 2019 volume.Last week, the Biden administration lifted travel restrictions for fully vaccinated air travelers from 33 countries, including China, South Africa, Brazil and much of Europe. (Reporting by Valerie Volcovici and David Shepardson; editing by Jonathan Oatis)
Storm systems may cause a headache for Thanksgiving travel.  (CNN)A significant storm system is forecast to bring powerful winds, which could mean disruptions at major airports Monday through Wednesday. It may not pack a hefty punch of precipitation. Still, the precipitation will be a nuisance and bring blustery winds more fit for Christmas travel than Thanksgiving travel."Deepening low pressure should allow for a period of breezy/gusty winds across much of the East Monday and Tuesday and possibly into the middle and latter parts of the week across the Northeast as low pressure lingers offshore," the Weather Prediction Center (WPC) reported. The two most common airport delays are low ceilings -- low clouds -- and wind during the winter months."The combination of airport surface winds and low ceiling and visibility conditions account for about 75 percent of delays," the Federal Aviation Administration explained.Along with the winds will come unseasonably cold temperatures, some snow, and rain early in the week. Another 'significant storm' is possible later in the week, the Weather Prediction Center noted.Here is a day-by-day breakdown of what to expect. SaturdayThis will by far be the best day to travel all week since the vast majority of precipitation will only happen in the intermountain West. Snow and rain showers will occur in areas of Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Utah, and western Colorado.Some thunderstorms are also possible in southern Florida throughout the day. SundayThe storm system begins to take shape across the Midwest. Rain showers are possible in the region Sunday morning and then maybe even some snow showers in the evening. But the wind picking up could steal the show. "Current indications suggest wind gusts could peak in the 35 to 40 mph range," the Chicago National Weather Service (NWS) said. Stay on top of the latest delays and the most recent forecast modelsThe wind combined with the cold could send the "feel's like" temperature down into the upper teens or single digits. "A little farther east, a wintry mix could develop over the northern Mid-Atlantic Sunday morning," the WPC said Friday.Some light rain could creep into the Northeast Sunday evening ahead of the cold front. MondayThe exact timing of the rain is still uncertain, but it is likely from any time Sunday night to mid-afternoon Monday as the cold front sweeps through. The front will stretch from Florida to Maine through the morning hours. By midday, the front is off the coast and dry conditions will settle in for most. "Moderate to heavy rainfall should continue into parts of New England though with the heaviest totals (in excess of an inch) across far northeast Maine on Monday," the WPC said in its forecast. Lake-effect snow is also possible on the east side of the Great Lakes. As of Friday afternoon, the low pressure expected to form along the coast will stay far enough offshore to prevent the major metro areas from seeing any increased precipitation. However, the storm system will intensify winds across the region leading into Tuesday.TuesdayThe coastal low will crank up the winds in the Northeast.  Northwest winds of 15 to 25 mph with gusts of 25 to 35 mph, with the strongest near the coast, are possible throughout the day, the New York NWS projected. The winds will impact flights across the region. And it won't just be the impact to the planes; anyone working on the ground outside will have to deal with extremely blustery conditions. "In fact, Tuesday highs will most likely be in the 40s (20s in mountains) for most areas with lows in the 20s for most areas," the NWS in Washington, DC said. "This will make it feel more like late December (normal high for December 25th is 47 degrees at DCA and 45 degrees at BWI)."Out in the Pacific Northwest, it may be slightly warmer. Still, another storm system will move in early Tuesday morning, bringing more rain to the saturated region.WednesdayNot much changes as the Pacific Northwest continues to see rainfall while gusty winds will continue in the Northeast.The storm in the Northeast may take its time exiting the region, leaving some gusty winds, rain and snow showers in New England. Models have trended on a quicker exit, but it is still too early to nail down timing. If you are skiing this holiday weekend, you are in luck as snow showers are possible for the Intermountain West. The snow may even dip down to the lower elevations, including Denver, Salt Lake City and Cheyenne, Wyoming.  A storm entering the Midwest will begin to ramp up and pull in moisture from the Gulf of Mexico. This will produce an expanding area of moderate to heavy rainfall from eastern Texas into parts of the Lower Mississippi Valley. ThanksgivingModerate to heavy rain will continue Thanksgiving Day for much of the South from Texas to Tennessee with up to 2 inches possible in some locations. Temperatures rebound mostly back to normal by Thursday for much of the eastern half of the US, but keep in mind "normal" can still be cold.  For example, New York will likely see temperatures in the low 40s, so for anyone venturing out to watch the big morning parade, make sure you bundle up! Friday into the WeekendThe return trip could be dicey for some as the Midwest storm system continues to push east. The models do not agree on the intensity or timing of the storm. One computer weather model shows mainly rain across the Southeast. While the other brings rain, ice and snow into the Northeast. It will be certainly something meteorologists and travelers alike will keep their eyes on.
They just moved to the US and wanted to experience their first Thanksgiving. More than 100 strangers responded with help.  (CNN)For many, Thanksgiving involves traveling to spend time with family and loved ones around the dinner table eating turkey and green bean casserole. It's a time to watch football and reflect on everything you're thankful for.But for international students in the US, Thanksgiving is an unknown territory.That was the issue for Susana Orrego Villegas and her husband, Edward White, who recently moved from Colombia to Brookline, Massachusetts, a few miles southwest of Boston.Both of them are international students on student visas. Orrego Villegas is studying medical sciences at Harvard Medical School, while White studies English.When Orrego Villegas's fellow classmates began discussing their Thanksgiving plans she got curious about this American tradition, since Colombia does not have a holiday like Thanksgiving.So, she opened her Nextdoor app to ask for some help.On October 26 she posted a photo of her and her husband asking if anyone was willing to share Thanksgiving dinner with them. In the post she wrote, "We are a super lovely couple and want to know more about American culture. I want to have our first traditional thanksgiving with an American family."And the neighbors weren't shy. Within a few days more than 100 people commented, some from across town."I made the post with no expectations, only for people to give us recommendations of restaurants," Orrego Villegas told CNN.Welcoming others to the tableWith the outpouring of invites, Orrego Villegas explained that it was difficult for them to decide where to spend the holiday. They messaged back and forth with many people to get to know them and narrowed it down to about 30 options.Nurse practitioner Carol Lesser, who lives 10 minutes away from the couple, was the chosen host. "She got a lot of offers of where to go," Lesser told CNN. "I told her, 'Wow we won the lottery, you guys are coming to us!'"And for Lesser the decision to open her home to the couple was easy. "I woke up one morning and saw it come across my feed and I had this instantaneous reaction to reach out," she said. "This beautiful woman's post spoke to me. She had a genuine curiosity in what we do here for the holidays."Lesser has always gathered with family during the holidays and, for more than a decade now, has been the hostess of the dinner. "If anybody comes to Thanksgiving in my house and enjoys it, they can always come back," she said. "My mom always made room at the table if somebody didn't have a place to go, so I was raised that way." This isn't her first time opening her home to strangers. Lesser told CNN that for nearly 30 years she's been renting rooms out in her house to international students in the area. "When I was young, I traveled and if it wasn't for the kindness of strangers I wouldn't have learned as much as I did about the cultures." Lesser added.This year the table will be set for more than 20 people, as Lesser's extended family and new Colombian friends gather.Staying connectedIf neighbors weren't available on Thanksgiving Day, they offered to meet up with Orrego Villegas and White another time. In fact, they've already met two families. "The people were super friendly," Orrego Villegas said. "One family gave us an American heritage book and the other showed us pictures of when they visited Colombia."Orrego Villegas and Lesser both say this experience has given them hope about the community.Orrego Villegas says her view on Bostonians has changed, "Here in Boston my first impression was that many people don't say hello on the streets. After this post I realized that people are super kind and welcoming."Lesser said, "It's a no-brainer for me, to act as though what you do makes a difference. It does. I like seeing times where it feels like a sense of normalcy where we can reach out, we can trust each other."As for the future of this friendship, both hope to stay in contact past the holiday season. "I hope we will meet again, and I would love to experience food from her country as well," Lesser said.
Phone glitch leaves some Tesla drivers locked out.  (CNN)One of the perks of owning a Tesla is using your smartphone as a key to open and drive your car. It does away with carrying a separate key fob in your pocket.But what if your smartphone app glitches? You could be stuck not being able to use your car, which seems to be happening to Tesla owners around the world.On Friday a number of Twitter users reported getting a "500 server error" when trying to use the Tesla app. That indicates something has gone wrong with an Internet server the app is trying to connect to."Still stuck in Seoul" wrote Jaehwan Cho on Twitter after earlier reporting the server error when trying to use it with his Tesla Model 3.The website Downdetector showed a large spike in reported Tesla server problems at around 5pm on Friday. It is unknown exactly how many Tesla owners are affected by the outage, or how many are locked out of their cars. Tesla, which hasn't engaged with professional news media for over a year, did not respond to a request for comment.Tesla cars also come with a key card that works like the wireless key fob many vehicles have today. So in a pinch, Tesla owners can still use that to get into their cars and start them. If properly set up, the phone can also connect directly to the car without going through the Internet server. But drivers who relied solely on the app using an Internet connection were stuck.The smartphone app also shows things like the car's level of battery charge and whether it's charging.Zachary Kiefer who, had driven an hour from his home in Indiana when the app stopped working, was stuck outside of his car for hours. He had lost his key card about a month ago and also had a new phone, he said. He ended up calling AAA but, luckily, the app started working again before the tow truck arrived.Tesla's customers service did not seem particularly helpful, he said. "I was pretty disappointed," he said. "They just didn't seem to care."
The supply chain is messing with the squishy golden dumpling everyone wants. New York (CNN Business)An animated dumpling called "Dart," with a shiny gold chrome body that pops out of its head when you squeeze its squishy cheeks, is creating quite a stir as parents scramble to score one of this year's must-have toys.Dart belongs to a family of interactive dumplings from toymaker WowWee that hit stores in mid July. They're basically what the name suggests -- squeezable but inedible dumplings big enough to fit into the palm of your hand.And they're increasingly difficult to find. Like with everything, blame the supply chain."It's a s**tshow," said Michael Yanofsky, the company's managing director of sales. "It's not just the holdup at the ports, it's labor shortages and backups all along the transportation network that's been a struggle to get the toys to retailers.""Our bet is made for Black Friday," said Yanofsky. "Whatever inventory of dumplings is in is it and we hope it all makes it onto store shelve. There's no chance of getting more unless we put them on planes."WowWee is trying to navigate the serious supply chain issues to ensure it has enough inventory overall of its dumplings to satisfy strong demand through to Christmas. The dumplings, like most toys sold in the United States, are made in China. Sold outThe first four in the lineup are named "Doe," "Dip," "Dee" and "Dot." They each speak a weird "Squish-Pop" language and giggle and laugh. The cheeks change color and the top of their head lights up to a color code that matches their current "mood" -- energetic, happy, silly. Then along came "Mel the Marshamallow, " "Peace the Peach" and "Coco the Cotton Candy Cloud."But it's Dart, the golden dumpling who flaunts 24K gold glasses, that everyone desperately wants. He's sold out on Amazon (AMZN) where WowWee launched him at the end September. Dart has been popping up on eBay  (EBAY)at twice the retail price.Its popularity even caught the attention of MyBookie.com, an offshore gaming site, which was accepting bets this month on whether the squishy little golden dumpling would sell out on Amazon before Black Friday. Hitting all the trendsThe $15 dumpling toy is popular because it's hitting a few dominant trends in toys right now, said Marissa Silva, editor-in-chief of The Toy Insider, a toy review and news website.She said kids are obsessed with collecting tiny cute toys that come in tiny packages, as proven by the Shopkins mania. "Dumplings are a little bit bigger but collectible," said Silva. "They're also affordable and not overly complicated for kids to figure out."Plus, the soft squishy texture of the dumpling and the popping out of their body also cleverly plays into the current bubble fidget poppers toy craze.There's one other appeal: the food inspiration."Food-themed toys continue to be very hot trend. We've seen this with Shopkins and with Mini Brands," said Jim Silver, a toy industry expert and CEO of Toys, Tots, Pets & More, an industry review website. Mini Brands are tiny shrunken versions of popular consumer products like a can of Spam, or a bottle of Dove Body Wash that come hidden in tiny bags.""These food-inspired toys are also so easy for kids to have fun with on social media," said Silver.The squishy dumplings are the brainchild of Sydney Wiseman, vice president of brand development and creative strategy for WowWee. She came up with the idea for them 18 moths ago. "I wanted to do a toy based on a dumpling for a long time," she said. And she wanted the dumpling characters to be in a band. That aspect is infused in their look and the accessories they wear.More are comingWowWee in August announced a partnership with Nickelodeon to produce animated digital music videos that feature the squishy characters in a band.Wiseman is thrilled with the dumplings popularity overall, and especially of Dart's, which WowWee only produced 100,000 pieces of as a very limited character. She said Dart holds a special meaning for the WowWee team. "He's named after a dear friend of ours at WowWee, Art Janis, who recently passed away," she said.There's still a possibility to score Dart after Black Friday. WowWee is launching a two-pack set with the golden dumpling and a rose gold dumpling on November 30 on Amazon.
