Hawaii governor declares state of emergency ahead of the threat of catastrophic flooding.  (CNN)The Hawaiian Islands could experience "catastrophic flooding" from a storm system lasting until Tuesday, according to the National Weather Service in Honolulu.Nearly one foot of rain has already fallen in Kula on Maui over the last 24 hours, according to the National Weather Service (NWS) in Honolulu. Rainfall storm total amounts of 10 to 15 inches are anticipated, with isolated areas of 20 to 25 inches possible, the NWS said.Hawaii Gov. David Ige declared a state of emergency Monday due to the heavy rains, which he said were "anticipated to continue to cause flooding damage to public and private property."The declaration allows the use of funds "to support state and county efforts in providing quick and efficient relief of suffering, damage, and losses caused by flooding and other effects of heavy rains," Ige said on Twitter.On the Big Island, 8 inches of rain have fallen in the past 24 hours in multiple locations. Rainfall is beginning to wind down Monday morning.However, heavy rain was still forecast to fall across Maui, Oahu, and Kauai throughout the day on Monday. A flash flood warning has been issued for the islands of Molokai and Maui."Localized rainfall rates of 2 to 3 inches per hour will exacerbate ongoing flooding from earlier rainfall. Portions of leeward Maui have received over 6 inches of rain over the past 6 hours, and runoff remains high," NWS Honolulu said.Landslides are expected and in some cases, highways may be closed due to flooding and landslides, potentially cutting off communities.A flood watch remains in effect through Tuesday afternoon local time for all Hawaii Islands. A 'Kona low' is responsible for pulling deep tropical moisture over the state bringing with it large bands of heavy rain. "Rain events of this size can cause catastrophic flooding and affect areas that do not usually flood. Low spots in roads will become dangerous and impassable due to severe runoff. Debris in streams and gulches may clog bridges and culverts resulting in dangerous flooding," according to the NWS."Numerous landslides are expected in areas with steep terrain. Urban areas, especially on Oahu, may have severe flooding," the NWS cautioned. "Isolated highways, such as the Belt Highway in the Big Island's Kau District, and Piilani Highway on Maui, may be closed in one or more locations, resulting in long detours or even the isolation of communities."Public schools in Hawaii's Maui County were closed Monday because of the potential for flooding."Parts of Maui County are already experiencing flash flooding and power outages, causing unsafe conditions," Hawaii Public Schools said Sunday evening.Blizzard warnings remained in effect over the weekend for mountain summits on the Big Island, where high winds and winter weather temporarily closed access to the summit on Mauna Loa last week."A Winter Weather Advisory was issued this morning for the summits of Mauna Kea and Mauna Loa on the Big Island above 12,000 feet elevation and will remain in effect through 6 PM HST," the NWS said. 
The world's newest nation is both drying up and drowning. Bentiu, South Sudan (CNN)Many of the main roads running through Unity State are now completely submerged, yet the traffic remains. There are no cars, just people, some of whom swim, others wade, pushing their way through the heavy silt-laden water. The more fortunate glide by on canoes with their livestock and whatever possessions they could salvage from the floods. In this traffic, between the cities of Bentiu and Ding Ding, is a group of women, pushing to dislodge their makeshift raft that has become stuck in mud, weighed down by six children. The men in the family went back north to keep their cattle safe, and the women were left to push for four days in the hope of reaching higher ground. Along the way, their food ran out, said one of the women, named Nereka. Her 5-month-old baby wails as she talks.  "Of course, I'm worried about my children," she said. "That's why we keep moving." Ravaged by years of conflict, there has barely been enough peacetime in the world's newest nation to begin building. Only 200 kilometers of its roads are paved. Now, South Sudan is dealing with biblical floods that began as early as June and were made worse by the climate crisis, which it had little hand in creating.This deluge, which is the worst in 60 years according to the UN, has swallowed not only the very roads that people here need to escape, but also their farms, homes and markets. For years, South Sudan has been experiencing wetter-than-normal wet seasons, while its dry seasons are becoming even drier. The rainy season has ended, yet the water that has accumulated over months has yet to recede. South Sudan is one of many places in the world struggling with this twin problem of drought followed by extreme rainfall, which together create prime conditions for devastating floods.More than 850,000 people have been impacted by the floods, the UN agency coordinating the relief effort there told CNN, and some 35,000 of them have been displaced. Remote towns like Ding Ding now sit largely abandoned. The traditional straw roofs of many homes here peak above the waterline, their walls still submerged.Some people searching for food here have resorted to eating the lilies that have started to sprout on the floodwater's surface, as an entirely new ecosystem begins to form in this radically changed landscape.It's a grim picture for a country that is only 10 years old. After gaining independence from Sudan in 2011, just two and a half years later, South Sudan descended into a brutal civil war that only ended last year. Deadly, inter-communal violence continues to be common as people fight over increasingly scarce grazing land.Competing for resourcesSouth Sudan is no stranger to seasonal flooding, but officials in Unity State say they haven't seen anything on this scale since the early 1960s. Ninety percent of the state's land has been affected by the flooding, and the next rainy season is only five months away. Officials in Bentiu say they are worried the situation will only get worse."We are told the water behind me will not go now, it will not recede or dry up. It's going to take a while because it's deep water," said Minister Lam Tungwar Kueigwong, the state's minister of land, housing and public utilities.Scientists are now able to calculate how much the climate crisis may have played a role in most extreme weather events. But in this part of the world, it is notoriously difficult to measure with certainty because it has such huge variations in its natural climate to begin with. Making projections for drought is particularly hard here, but what scientists do know is that the more the Earth warms, the more the Horn of Africa and its surrounding countries will experience extreme rainfall, making it more susceptible to flooding. That's largely because a warmer atmosphere can hold more moisture, which triggers more rain.The world is already 1.2 degrees Celsius warmer than it was before it began industrializing, and Africa overall is seeing higher rises in temperature than the global average. To those dealing with this problem in South Sudan, the climate crisis is clearly here already and offers the rest of the world a glimpse of what complications it could bring.  "We are feeling climate change. We are feeling it," said John Payai Manyok, the country's Deputy Director for Climate Change. "We are feeling droughts, we are feeling floods. And this is becoming a crisis. It's leading to food insecurity, it's leading to more conflict within the area because people are competing for the little resources that are available."While droughts and floods may seem like polar opposites, they have more of a relationship than is obvious."After you've had a long period of drought, soil may be hardened, may be very dry, and so you're going to get more (rainwater) runoff, and that will exacerbate the risk of flooding," said Caroline Wainwright, a climate scientist at the University of Reading, who studies the East African region."And all this potentially aids bigger storms too, and more intense rainfall. That's something we might expect to see more of -- periods of drying and these really intense storms."The question now is not only how to clean up the mess, but how to adapt to better withstand these extreme weather disasters. Like many nations suffering the worst impacts of the climate crisis, South Sudan accounts for 0.004% of the world's greenhouse gas emissions. The US, by contrast, accounts for more than 15%. But much of the suffering here comes from a lack of tools and systems to prevent an extreme weather event turning into a humanitarian disaster. Still, the industrialized world, which played the biggest role in the climate crisis, is still failing to deliver on a $100 billion a year it promised the developing world to help it cut emissions and adapt to the enormous changes. A UN report released in last month found that adaptation costs in the developing worlds are already five to 10 times greater than current funding. By mid-century, it is expected to reach $500 billion dollars.While its neighboring countries move ahead building dams and more permanent dikes, South Sudan has failed to adapt and remains at the mercy of its rivers, Manyok said. Human activity is also worsening the health of rivers and their capacity to hold water in during heavy rainfall.Manyok said the country desperately needs to adapt. "We must introduce technologies which are water friendly and efficient, and along the Nile, we must construct dams and remove the siltation," Manyok said.Siltation is usually caused by sediment or soil erosion, and can build up in rivers and block the natural flow of water, exacerbating flooding.A school destroyedSwaths of Rubkona, a market town next to Unity State's capital Bentiu, have been abandoned. The markets and homes here sit ghostlike, submerged under water that continues to rise at a slow, tortuous pace. Nearby, Pakistani engineers from the UN mission are using the few heavy machines available to repair and strengthen a hastily constructed mud dike that has kept the airport and a camp of nearly 120,000 displaced people on dry ground. UN officials say a breach here would be catastrophic.The battle is constant as each day water continues to crawl up the dike's wall. It seeps across the red clay road toward the runway and the camp's gates. The vast majority of the IDP's arrived years ago, having fled South Sudan's brutal civil war. They are now sharing space and increasingly limited resources with the new arrivals. A Doctors Without Borders hospital inside the camp is over capacity. Staff are treating a massive spike in the number of malnourished babies since the flooding began."We had 130 cases in the past month. Previously, we might have 30-40 in a month," Managing Director Kie John Kuol said.   Back in Ding Ding, the town's school, which was rebuilt in 2017 after it burned down during the civil war, is also partially submerged in the water -- progress is once again suspended. According to UNICEF, the flooding has destroyed, closed, or impeded access to more than 500 schools in South Sudan. As teacher Kuol Gany tours his classroom, the water reaches his knees. Behind him is a chalkboard scrawled with equations and English-language definitions for words. "Relief is the assistance given to the people during disaster," one definition reads.Gany only had a few years of teaching in this new building before the floods hit. He worries he'll have to abandon it, and even his town, for good. "It's still increasing, the water," he said. "There are diseases and there are snakebites. And we are drinking this water too.". James Ling, a resident of Ding Ding, said he returned briefly to see what he could salvage from his home of eight years. He waded through the water to reach his home, only to find nothing left, except for his children's drawings on the walls. "Since the conflict erupted, we have never had a rest," he said. "We have been constantly running, displaced. Our children have had no relief from the dangers." 
This is the hidden cost of Trumpism.  (CNN)By any measure, Charlie Baker is one of the most popular governors in the country.In 2018, he won reelection as Massachusetts' chief executive with 67% of the vote and his approval ratings regularly crested 60% -- even amid the worst throes of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020.That Baker did so as a Republican in one of the most Democratic states in the country is absolutely remarkable. In anything close to a normal Republican Party, Baker would be one of its stars -- someone touted as a future national leader.Instead, Baker announced late last week that he would not seek reelection next year. And, in so doing, he made clear that while he loved his job, he was far less interested in the prospect of another campaign."We want to focus on recovery, not on the grudge matches political campaigns can devolve into," said Baker and Lt. Gov. Karyn Polito in a joint statement sent to supporters announcing their plans.Left unsaid -- but not unnoticed -- was the fact that former President Donald Trump had endorsed Geoff Diehl, a Republican running against Baker in the 2022 primary.Baker had drawn Trump's ire by refusing to cast a ballot for him in 2016 or 2020 (he left both ballots blank) and by saying publicly that he believed the President should be removed from office following January 6.(The analog to Baker may well be Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp. But, unlike Baker, Kemp is running for reelection against Trump-backed former Sen. David Perdue.)While Diehl was not yet seen as a serious threat to Baker, the idea of having to prove his conservative bona fides in the face of an all-out personal onslaught from the former President was clearly deeply unappealing to the incumbent.And THAT is the hidden cost of the party's ongoing adherence to the Trump cult of personality. Rather than Baker running for a third term -- a race he would be heavily favored to win -- Republicans are now nearly certain to lose the seat next fall. ("'A real fight for our existence': Massachusetts GOP spirals in Baker exit," read a recent headline in Politico.)And, rather than rallying around and raising up a Republican who has clearly created a blueprint for how to win over Democratic voters, the Trumpist wing of the GOP is driving Baker into retirement.The Point: Baker is a political star with a track record of success. That he is retiring rather than face another campaign tells you everything you need to know about the current state of the GOP.
Kentucky Derby winner Medina Spirit dies at Santa Anita.  (CNN)Kentucky Derby-winning horse Medina Spirit died Monday at Santa Anita racetrack in Southern California, according to the California Horse Racing Board (CHRB).Medina Spirit collapsed near the finish line just as he was completing a workout and died immediately, the CHRB told CNN."Following the completion of a routine morning workout, Medina Spirit collapsed on the track at Santa Anita Park and died suddenly of a probable cardiac event according to the on site veterinary team who attended to him," Santa Anita Park said in a statement.The news was also confirmed by its Hall of Fame trainer Bob Baffert, who said the 3-year-old champion colt died from a "heart attack" following a workout, but the racing board will not determine cause of death until a necropsy and toxicology tests are complete. The examination and tests will be conducted at the University of California, Davis."My entire barn is devastated by this news," Baffert's statement read."Medina Spirit was a great champion, a member of our family who was loved by all, and we are deeply mourning his loss. I will always cherish the proud and personal memories of Medina Spirit and his tremendous spirit." As well as being an exciting racehorse, Medina Spirit was the subject of one of the sport's biggest controversies in the United States earlier this year. After crossing the line first in this year's Kentucky Derby, the horse failed a post-race drug test.Trainer Baffert was subsequently banned from fielding any horses at the Churchill Downs racetrack for two years following the confirmation of the test for a legal drug whose presence is banned on race day.Baffert later provided a lengthy statement claiming an ointment used to treat dermatitis may have caused the positive test. The Kentucky Horse Racing Commission said the investigation into the test is ongoing and paid tribute to the thoroughbred."The Kentucky Horse Racing Commission (KHRC) is saddened to hear of the death of Medina Spirit. He was a valued member of the thoroughbred industry's horse racing family."Medina Spirit raced four more times after the Derby, finishing third at the Preakness Stakes and winning two races in California. And he was second in the prestigious Breeders' Cup Classic in early November.He won half of his career 10 starts. A statement from the Santa Anita racetrack confirmed a full necropsy will take place to determine the exact cause of the sudden death. The racetrack has an unwanted record of equine fatalities, which prompted an investigation in 2019. CNN's Nick Watt contributed to this report.
Jussie Smollett denies staging attack, testifies he had a sexual relationship with prosecution witness.  (CNN)Former "Empire" actor Jussie Smollett took the stand in his criminal trial Monday in a high-stakes attempt to rebut charges that he staged a fake hate crime and lied to Chicago Police about it in January 2019.Last week, brothers "Bola" and "Ola" Osundairo testified that Smollett, who is Black and gay, directed and paid them to carry out a sham anti-gay and racist attack in order to garner sympathetic media coverage. Their testimony, as well as that of five Chicago police investigators, formed the core of the prosecution's case against Smollett.But under oath Monday, Smollett offered testimony over five hours in which he denied orchestrating the attack and suggested the brothers -- whom he knew from the "Empire" set -- may have had other motivations at play. The day finished with the actor still on the stand and court scheduled to resume Tuesday morning with special prosecutor Dan Webb picking up his cross-examination.FOLLOW LIVE UPDATESSmollett on Monday said Bola Osundairo, who he called "Bon," helped him get drugs, including cocaine. He also said a sexual relationship began to forge between the two at a particular Chicago bath house. One night the two were out, and Smollett testified they got a private room and "did more drugs and like, made out."On a separate occasion, Smollett told jurors he and Bola Osundairo snuck away from his brother after the three were at a female strip club together. Smollett testified they again got a private room and "made out a little bit, masturbated together."In testimony last week, Bola Osundairo denied they had a sexual relationship and said he "didn't know" there was even any sexual tension.Smollett testified further Monday he wasn't friendly at all with Ola Osundairo."He kind of creeped me out," Smollett told jurors. "Every time we were around him, he didn't speak to me. Every time we needed to leave, he made it seem like we needed to sneak off."After a "hate letter" was sent to Smollett in the mail at the "Empire" studio in Chicago on January 22, 2019 -- seven days before the alleged attack -- Smollett said Bola Osundairo approached him about becoming his personal security guard, something the actor told the jury Osundairo had repeatedly asked him.Following the letter, Bola Osundairo began asking him more about the need for security, Smollett said. The actor described being annoyed at the idea of always having a security detail around him."Around lunch time I would smoke my blunt, drive around the neighborhood of the studios. I don't want to be in someone's car," Smollett said. Smollett told the jury that while driving around with Bola Osundairo, there was never any discussion of planning a staged hate attack.  "Did you talk to him about some hoax?" defense attorney Nenye Uche asked."No," Smollett shot back."Did you give him the check as payment for some silly hoax?" Uche then asked."Never," Smollett said. In February 2019, Smollett rejected some of what has been reported, including that he told police his alleged attackers were wearing MAGA hats.Smollett testified Monday his relationship with Chicago police began to deteriorate after police mentioned the MAGA hats, favored by supporters of President Donald Trump. The actor said no when Uche asked whether he ever told police the alleged attackers were wearing the hats.Smollett added that one of the reasons he did not give a police detective his cell phone when she asked for it was because he didn't think police believed his story.Smollett appeared to briefly get emotional while describing the incident to jurors, prompting his attorney to ask whether he was all right. Smollett, 39, has pleaded not guilty to six counts of disorderly conduct, a charge for which a conviction is punishable by up to three years in prison. His defense attorneys have said he was a real victim and have suggested during the trial that homophobia may have been a motive in the attack.The decision to testify in one's own defense is a high-risk move because the prosecution is allowed to closely cross-examine the defendant. In recent weeks, two defendants in other high-profile homicide trials have taken the stand. Kyle Rittenhouse, who shot three people in Kenosha, Wisconsin, last year, testified in his own defense, and a jury ultimately acquitted him of all charges. In Georgia, a jury convicted Travis McMichael of murder in Ahmaud Arbery's death after he took the stand.Smollett's case involves far less serious charges, and is untied to civilians using lethal weapons.How the trial has gone so farThe prosecution called seven witnesses over the course of three days of testimony last week.First, five police investigators testified that Smollett told them two men had attacked him in the street, yelled racist, anti-gay and pro-Trump remarks, put a noose around his neck and poured bleach on him.Bola and Ola Osundairo testified that Smollett had actually directed them and paid them to stage a fake hate crime in an attempt to get sympathetic media coverage and further his acting career."Who was in charge of this thing?" Webb asked."Jussie was," Bola Osundairo told the jury.Smollett's defense, meanwhile, has argued he was actually attacked in a hate crime. They called three witnesses last week, including Smollett's former music manager and publicist.On Monday morning, an "Empire" executive producer testified that the show had received a threatening letter in the mail a week before the January 2019 incident. The producer, Brett Mahoney, said Smollett did not want the letter publicized.Overall, Smollett's defense has relied on inflammatory questioning of witnesses and outbursts that have led to several heated exchanges with Judge James Linn.For example, in cross-examination of Ola Osundairo, after Linn directed the defense to move on from a particular line of questioning, defense attorney Tamara Walker asked for a mistrial, sobbed in court and then said the judge had "lunged" at her during a sidebar conversation.The judge denied the accusation and denied the motion for a mistrial, saying he was stunned by the request."Ms. Walker, there were objections that had to be sustained and I was trying to get back on point," the judge said. "Just because you think you were allowed to go one way, we're all just doing our jobs."The trial is the culmination of a case that began when Smollett told police he had been attacked. Celebrities, politicians and advocacy groups rallied behind the actor, and police poured significant resources into solving the case and locating the two men.But after interviewing the Osundairo brothers and finding other evidence, authorities instead determined that Smollett paid them $3,500 to stage the hate crime against him so he could get publicity and a career boost.Smollett was indicted on 16 felony counts of disorderly conduct by a Cook County, Illinois, grand jury in March 2019, but Cook County State's Attorney Kim Foxx's office decided to drop those charges weeks later. The decision angered the mayor and police and sparked questions as to whether Smollett had received preferential treatment.A special prosecutor then took over the case, and a grand jury indicted Smollett on new charges in February 2020.The incident effectively put a halt to Smollett's acting career. His character was written off "Empire," which ended in 2020, and though he has since directed and produced a film, he has not appeared on screen again.CNN's Christina Maxouris and Bill Kirkos contributed to this report.
Mitch McConnell moves to cut deal on debt ceiling but faces GOP resistance.  (CNN)Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell is quietly moving to concoct a plan that would allow the nation's borrowing limit to be raised and force Democrats to ultimately cast the decisive and politically toxic vote — but he'll first have to sell it to Republicans.To accomplish his plan, Republicans will first need to cooperate under the rules of the Senate. And it's unclear if the necessary 10 GOP senators will do just that.McConnell, who has in the past developed creative ways to avoid a debt default without having Republicans cast the key vote, has been quietly working for weeks with Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer ahead of the December 15 deadline set by the Treasury Department. His positioning amounts to a sharp shift from the last debt ceiling standoff earlier this fall when he initially refused to provide any GOP votes before cutting a deal to raise the debt ceiling for two months — and later pointedly told President Joe Biden there wouldn't be GOP cooperation again.Now ahead of yet another deadline to avoid the nation's first-ever default, and the calamitous effects that would go with it, McConnell is eager to avoid a fiscal crisis that could be blamed on his party — especially as GOP fortunes are on the rise in next year's midterm elections."The country is never going to default," McConnell said confidently at a Wall Street Journal event Monday night. "We frequently have drama associated with this decision. But I can assure you the country will never default."So he and Schumer are privately floating creating a new process that would allow the debt ceiling to be raised by just 51 votes in the Senate — with just Democratic votes — and only in this specific instance. But to create that new Senate process, a law needs to be enacted first, meaning there would need to be 60 votes to break a likely GOP filibuster in order to advance legislation creating the process.To ease its chances of passage, Democrats and McConnell have discussed tying this new Senate process to the National Defense Authorization Act, a must-pass bill that sets the country's defense policy. Once the NDAA would be signed into law, then Congress could raise the debt ceiling under this new process — and do it on Democrats' votes alone.Democrats are eying three different options in the House: One would be to include a debt ceiling measure in the underlying defense bill; another would be to pass the Senate process bill separately from the defense bill; and a third would be for the House to approve a rule that would allow the new process to be added to the defense bill once it passes the House chamber and before Senate consideration.Each of those options would require 60 votes in the Senate to advance before the new fast-track process could become law.But Republicans were lining up in opposition to tying any debt ceiling measure to the defense bill."I think it confuses the message," Texas Sen. John Cornyn, a member of McConnell's leadership team, told CNN. "So if I vote for the NDAA, people are gonna say I voted to raise the debt limit? I'm not for that."To get the defense bill out of the House, GOP support is likely to be necessary since Democrats can only afford to lose three votes with their narrow majority and a number of liberals reject the growth of Pentagon programs.In a sign of the headwinds facing the plan, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy was actively criticizing tying the two bills together, tweeting: "Funding our troops through the NDAA should in no way, shape, or form be tied to the debt limit in process or substance."Other conservatives rejected the new proposed process altogether, with Republican Sen. Mike Lee of Utah tweeting that it "would neuter the Senate. IT IS AKIN TO 'NUKING THE FILIBUSTER!'"McConnell is likely to address his conference on Tuesday about the matter.But after years of sparring, McConnell and Schumer are working on their second fiscal deal in recent weeks — after they reached a deal last week to keep the government open until mid-February.In floor remarks Monday, Schumer vowed that they will "work to address the debt limit and preserve the full faith and credit of the United States" and thanked McConnell "for his cooperation in that regard."
Devin Nunes says he's leaving Congress by the end of the year.  (CNN)Republican Rep. Devin Nunes of California announced Monday he'll leave the House in the coming weeks to become CEO of the Trump Media & Technology Group. "I'm writing to let you know I've decided to pursue this opportunity, and therefore I will be leaving the House of Representatives at the end of 2021," Nunes said in a letter to his constituents.Moments after his statement, the Trump Media & Technology Group released its own saying Nunes would be its chief executive officer. Nunes, who faced the threat of a more-Democratic district through redistricting ahead of next year's midterms, is a close ally of former President Donald Trump. He previously served as chairman of the House Intelligence Committee when Republicans were in the majority, during which he led efforts among Trump's allies to discredit the FBI's Russia investigation and Special Counsel Robert Mueller's probe. Nunes was also an outspoken defender of Trump during his first impeachment, and the then-President awarded Nunes the Medal of Freedom in January.Trump praised Nunes in the media group's statement, calling him "a fighter and a leader.""He will make an excellent CEO of TMTG," Trump said.Nunes' role as an attack dog against the Russia probe raised his popularity among Trump's supporters, and he became a top fundraiser in the House GOP conference as he gained stature on the right.Rep. Elise Stefanik, the House GOP conference chair and third ranking House Republican, congratulated Nunes, tweeting, "Devin had a spine of steel and an unyielding commitment to fighting for the truth and the Constitution as Chairman and Republican Leader of the House Intelligence Committee. America is forever grateful."This story has been updated with additional developments Monday.CNN's Jeremy Herb contributed to this report.
Michigan authorities execute search warrant at the home of the man accused of helping the alleged school gunman's parents.  (CNN)Authorities executed a search warrant Monday at the home of the man who helped Ethan Crumbley's parents before they were arrested, Oakland County Undersheriff Michael G. McCabe told CNN.Andrzej Sikora, 65, and his attorney, Clarence Dass, voluntarily went into the Oakland County Sheriff's Office where Sikora was interviewed for about two hours Monday, according to a news release from the Oakland County Sheriff's Office. "Mr. Sikora fully cooperated and answered all of law enforcement's questions. Mr. Sikora did not assist the Crumbleys in evading law enforcement, did not know there was a warrant for their arrest, and did not know they were at his art studio at the time of their arrest," Dass said in a statement. "He has not been charged with any crime, and will continue to assist membersof  law enforcement in their pursuit of justice."Sikora, a metro-Detroit artist, was "questioned extensively" to determine if he assisted in hiding James and Jennifer Crumbley, the release said. "The issue for Detectives is what did Sikora know and when did he know it," the release said, adding the search warrant on Sikora's home was executed "immediately after questioning." "Sheriff's Detectives went to Sikora's Troy home and executed a search warrant, seizing several digital devices for examination. The information will then be presented to prosecutors to determine if charges are appropriate," the release said.Crumbley's parents were due to attend an arraignment Friday. Their failure to appear led authorities to search for the couple, who were found in an industrial building in nearby Detroit on Saturday.Dass told CNN on Sunday his client knew the Crumbleys were using his workspace, but he "did not really know what was going on" and didn't know the couple "had active warrants" when they were discovered and subsequently arrested.Sikora "got roped into it," Dass said, but he declined to say why he allowed the couple to stay in the workspace or provide additional details on their relationship other than to say "he knew them, but not well."Ethan Crumbley, 15, is accused of fatally shooting four classmates and wounding several others at Oxford High School last week. His parents were charged with four counts of involuntary manslaughter in the same incident, CNN has reported. All three have pleaded not guilty. Michigan Attorney General Dana Nessel told CNN's Dana Bash on Monday that while she doesn't have all the facts on the case, it does seem appropriate for the parents to face extra charges connected to the manhunt."If they are convicted, there are actually additional points that are scored for the obstruction of justice," Nessel said. "They're likely to get higher sentences and more time in the event they're convicted because of this." School officials had legal grounds to search gunman, prosecutor saysSchool officials at Oxford High School had legal grounds to search Crumbley's backpack and locker, but did not do so on the day of the shooting, Oakland County Prosecutor Karen McDonald told CNN on Monday.McDonald didn't say why such a search was not conducted, but noted, "We don't know exactly if that weapon was in his bag, where it was. We just know it was in the school and he had access to it."When asked whether school staff members might be prosecuted, McDonald replied to CNN's Brianna Keilar, "We haven't ruled out charging anyone."McDonald said the shooting last Tuesday could have been prevented and that the suspect's parents are being criminally prosecuted because "we have to start addressing how somebody like (Ethan Crumbley) can so easily get their hands on a weapon and we have to hold the people responsible who allowed that to happen." "I'm sympathetic to parents. My husband and I have raised five children," McDonald said, adding, "I'm certainly not suggesting that parents should be criminally prosecuted for any bad act of a child. But in this case, you can't possibly look at their actions and say that they didn't have reason to believe that there was real concern about a violent act." On the day of the shooting, Crumbley's parents met with school officials after a teacher became concerned by some of the teen's drawings and statements. But -- because he had no prior infractions on his record -- he was allowed to return to class."All of this could have been prevented if he hadn't had access (to a gun) or if just one of those parents had said, 'I'm concerned about what I'm seeing right now and I also want you to know we just bought him a gun for Christmas,' and that didn't happen," McDonald said. State attorney general offers to investigateNessel is offering a team from her office to conduct a "full and comprehensive" review of the events that led up to the shooting, her office told CNN in an email on Monday.The offer was made in response to a letter sent by Oxford Community Schools Superintendent Tim Throne to the school community Saturday saying the district would be requesting an independent review of the events surrounding the shooting.Nessel was critical of the district's decision to hire a third party to conduct an investigation, saying in an interview with CNN affiliate WXYZ she does not find it appropriate."We've seen this happen before, and unfortunately, and I'm not accusing Oxford schools of anything, but in the past, we've seen this where it's really more of an effort to protect the client who hired you than to get to the truth of the matter," Nessel said.CNN has reached out to the attorney general's office and the school district to determine what the next steps are.Speaking with CNN's Dana Bash on Monday afternoon, Nessel said she hopes the shooting prompts state lawmakers to address Michigan's lack of a safe storage law. "It seems like such a small inconvenience to safely store or secure your weapon to get a gun lock -- which most police departments give away for free -- in order to ensure that if you reside in a home where a child lives or is present, that that child cannot have unfettered access to that firearm," she said.Parents, son being held in same jailJames and Jennifer Crumbley and their son were being housed at the same facility and monitored under suicide watch, authorities said.Staff at the Oakland County Jail in Pontiac were checking on the three "multiple times an hour," Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard said at a news conference Saturday.Bouchard said the three are not able to communicate with each other in the jail. However, Ethan Crumbley is aware his parents are in custody, according to Paulette Michel Loftin, Crumbley's court-appointed attorney.Loftin told CNN she met with the suspect twice and told him that his parents were in custody and at the jail. Loftin said she has not yet seen any of the evidence that prosecutors have but expects to get it by Wednesday.Loftin said Crumbley's next court date is December 13 and will occur over Zoom. The proceeding will set a date for Crumbley's next court appearance and preliminary examination, during which prosecutors are expected to give even more evidence and the judge will decide to go forward with the trial.Ethan Crumbley was charged as an adult Wednesday with terrorism, first-degree murder and other counts in the shooting that killed Madisyn Baldwin, 17; Tate Myre, 16; Hana St. Juliana, 14; and Justin Shilling, 17. In court Wednesday, a defense attorney submitted a plea of not guilty on his behalf.James and Jennifer Crumbley have pleaded not guilty to the involuntary manslaughter charges, which were filed by prosecutors who allege they provided unrestricted access to the gun Ethan Crumbley is accused of using. Reopening plan for schools 'evolving'In a Sunday letter to the school community, Thorne said a reopening plan includes a "soft opening" with a law enforcement presence as well as trained clinicians to support students and staff."The plan for high school students is still evolving and we will communicate it to you once it is solidified. In the meantime, we are working to create opportunities for the students to be together in our community," Throne wrote.Elementary schools and a few select programs will return Friday for a half day and next Monday, December 13, for full days.CNN's Sonia Moghe, Claudia Dominguez, Amanda Watts, Sonia Moghe, Shimon Prokupecz, Carolyn Sung, Elizabeth Joseph, Brian Vitagliano, Mark Morales, Jason Hanna, Aya Elamroussi and Susannah Cullinane contributed to this report. 
The ominous signals Putin is sending . Frida Ghitis, (@fridaghitis) a former CNN producer and correspondent, is a world affairs columnist. She is a frequent opinion contributor to CNN, a contributing columnist to The Washington Post and a columnist for World Politics Review. The views expressed in this commentary are her own. View more opinion on CNN. (CNN)Is Russian President Vladimir Putin going to launch an invasion into neighboring Ukraine? Enormous movements of Russian troops and military equipment toward the shared border have raised the alarm among Ukrainians and their Western friends.Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov called it "hysteria," but the words of Russian officials have long lost their credibility. After all, it was Putin who turned gaslighting into a political weapon.Denials aside, the West is concerned enough about Putin's intentions that President Joe Biden and the Russian president are holding an urgent virtual meeting on Tuesday as experts warn about the growing risks of a new war.Putin's actions and intentions may be deliberately wrapped in a fog, but his track record is clear. If he's allowed to advance his goals without serious consequences, he will continue to escalate his foreign policy of bullying and intimidation.  In 2014, as "little green men," dressed in unmarked military uniforms deployed across Ukraine's Crimean Peninsula, Putin denied they were his forces -- until Russia took control of the territory and annexed it. Anyone who paid attention to how Russia stole that strategic peninsula from a sovereign country knows how much weight to give the Kremlin's words now. As US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken noted, "We've seen this playbook."This time, the Western alliance led by the United States wants to stop Russia before its "little green men" cross Ukraine's borders with all their heavy armament. In a secure call with Putin on Tuesday, Biden plans to make clear to the Russian president that he should stand back. Nobody knows for certain if Putin will give the order to invade. But US and NATO officials are extremely worried. US intelligence believes that Russia has a plan for an operation involving up to 175,000 troops --  more than half already in place -- along with heavy artillery and armor. According to Ukraine's defense minister, Russian troops could cross into Ukraine as early as next month. Part of Moscow's playbook includes creating a justification for an attack, and that part of the strategy is already moving forward. When Russia attacked Ukraine in the past, capturing Crimea and supporting pro-Russian separatists in Donbas, the region of Ukraine adjacent to Russia, the Kremlin claimed it was doing it to defend ethnic Russians living under Ukrainian rule. Putin is already deploying the argument for a future assault. An elaborate information operation, among other propaganda points, paints Ukrainian leaders as puppets of the West. Why would Putin risk provoking NATO, going to war against Ukraine or -- even if he decides to call off the suspected military offensive -- walking to the edge of such a dangerous precipice?Putin has several objectives. Above all, the Kremlin wants to destabilize Ukraine and prevent it from exercising its rights as an independent nation to craft its own future. Ukraine is drawing closer to the West; it wants to join NATO, and it is a fledgling democracy -- in sharp contrast to Russia. Ukraine's existence as a democracy alongside Russia, where Putin has become an increasingly repressive autocrat, makes the Kremlin uneasy.  Putin wants to secure what in the Cold War days was accepted as spheres of influence, aiming to keep the countries that used to be part of the Soviet Union under Moscow's sway. He has taken to saying Russians and Ukrainians are "one people," a statement that carries ominous portents and which many Ukrainians vehemently reject.The Ukraine gambit isn't just a push against Ukraine, it's also a push against the West.As his troops amass near Ukraine, Putin is also trying to paint his Ukraine concerns as defensive. He argues that he distrusts not just Ukraine's leaders but its NATO friends, arguing that NATO's expansion to Russia's border would be a threat to Russian security. Putin is making wholly untenable demands on the West, laying out what he describes as his "red lines."More specifically, Putin is demanding that NATO guarantee it will not expand toward the East, closer to Russia's borders. Biden said this weekend he would not agree to any red lines. Imagine NATO today saying it will ban not just Ukraine but any country near Russia (Finland, Sweden, Georgia?) from joining it either now or in the future. Putin has other demands -- he complains about anti-missile defensive systems in Poland, for example. Russia, too, by the way, has missiles capable of hitting major European cities Having watched Russia's behavior in recent years, its neighbors have good reason to seek protection.If Putin's goal was to draw Ukraine away from the West, there is no sign that is happening. The US is reaffirming its "ironclad commitment" to Ukraine's "sovereignty and territorial integrity," in Blinken's oft-repeated words. As Putin menaces the West with a military buildup along the Ukrainian border, he's trying to achieve other goals, too. He is showing once again that Russia can make trouble for the former Soviet Republics, its former Eastern European satellites and the West, where he has already shown himself willing to squeeze fuel supplies during cold winter months. (Putin claims the gas shortages are not Russia's doing, but not everyone is convinced.) An invasion now, however, is potentially much costlier than the swift Crimea operation. Over more than half a decade of fighting, Ukrainian troops have become battle hardened. Few expect NATO to go to war against Russia, but NATO is not impartial. Ukraine's toughened soldiers now have much better weaponry, provided by the West. A Russian invasion would provoke stiff resistance. Casualties on both sides could be enormous. In addition, Russia could be hit with more punishing Western sanctions. The Biden administration is already designing sanctions that would inflict, "significant and severe economic harm on the Russian economy," according to a US official. If Putin moves in, the Russian people may just experience another awful war, with young soldiers returning home in body bags and the economy limping from the cost of war and sanctions.As well, the move into Ukraine has the potential to create precisely the opposite result of what Putin claims he wants now. By invading, he would reaffirm the threat posed by Russia against its neighbors. An invasion wouldn't just bring Ukraine and the West closer, it would make the rest of the people living in Russia's neighborhood yearn for closer ties with the United States, Europe and NATO, just as the Soviet invasions of the Eastern European countries made them all rush to join NATO as soon as they were free of Moscow's clutches.
Ilhan Omar just put Nancy Pelosi on the clock over Lauren Boebert.  (CNN)The House only has four days left in session this year. And Minnesota Democratic Rep. Ilhan Omar said Sunday she expects Speaker Nancy Pelosi to use at least some of that time to sanction Colorado Republican Rep. Lauren Boebert for suggesting that she was a terrorist."I have had a conversation with the speaker, and I'm very confident that she will take decisive action next week," Omar told CNN's Jake Tapper on Sunday. She also noted that "it's important for us to say, this kind of language, this kind of hate cannot be condoned by the House of Representatives. And we should punish and sanction Boebert by stripping her of her committees, by rebuking her language, by doing everything that we can to send a clear and decisive message to the American public that, if the Republicans are not going to be adults and condone -- condemn this, that we are going to do that."Which, well  big deal!What to do about Boebert has been percolating in Congress since just after Thanksgiving when remarks by the controversial Colorado Republican came to light.  "I was getting into an elevator with one of my staffers and he and I were leaving the Capitol, we're going back to my office and we get in the elevator and I see a Capitol Police officer running hurriedly to the elevator. I see fret all over his face," Boebert recounted. "And he's reaching. The door is shutting. I can't open it. What's happening? I look to my left and there she is, Ilhan Omar, and I said, 'Well she doesn't have a backpack, we should be fine.'"Boebert quickly took to Twitter to apologize to "anyone in the Muslim community I offended." She then called Omar but after the Minnesota Democrat asked for Boebert to apologize publicly for her comments and Boebert refused, Omar ended the call.  At which point, Boebert posted to Instagram with this message: "I will fearlessly continue to put America first, never sympathizing with terrorists. Unfortunately Ilhan can't say the same thing and our country is worse off for it."Shortly after that came reporting from CNN's KFile of a speech Boebert gave in September in which she suggested that Omar was a terrorist in addition to being "black-hearted" and "evil."And then, well, not much.The question Pelosi's office is likely deciding is what, exactly, to do about Boebert.Earlier this year, after Republicans failed to act, the Democratic majority in the House voted to strip Georgia Republican Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene of her committee assignments after a series of past intolerant comments made by the Congresswoman came to light. Then, just last month, after Republicans failed to act, the Democratic-led House not only stripped Arizona Republican Rep. Paul Gosar of his committee assignments, but also formally censured him after he posted a photoshopped video that depicted him killing New York Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez."We cannot have a member joking about murdering each other or threatening the President of the United States," Pelosi said during the Gosar censure. "Disguising death threats as a video doesn't make it less real. It's a sad day for the House of Representatives, but a necessary day."Gosar was the first House member censured since 2010 when Rep. Charlie Rangel, a Democrat from New York, earned that dubious distinction.Given what the Pelosi-led House has already done in punishing Republican members this year, there's a real question as to whether anything short of censuring Boebert will be seen as enough of a penalty by Omar and liberal allies that include Ocasio-Cortez.Amid that potential blowback, Pelosi has to decide whether she is ok with censuring a second Republican in the span of a month -- after that rebuke had not been used in the previous decade in the House.What's clear is this: Omar has put Pelosi on the clock by going public with the Speaker's promise to take "decisive action" against Boebert this week. And that clock is ticking.
Better.com CEO fires 900 employees over Zoom. New York, NY (CNN)Better.com CEO Vishal Garg announced the mortgage company is laying off about 9% of its workforce on a Zoom webinar Wednesday abruptly informing the more than 900 employees on the call they were being terminated just before the holidays. "If you're on this call, you are part of the unlucky group that is being laid off," Garg said on the call, a recording of which was viewed by CNN Business. "Your employment here is terminated effective immediately." He then said employees could expect an email from HR detailing benefits and severance. "Having to conduct layoffs is gut wrenching, especially this time of year," CFO Kevin Ryan said in a statement to CNN Business. "However a fortress balance sheet and a reduced and focused workforce together set us up to play offense going into a radically evolving homeownership market." Garg cited market efficiency, performance and productivity as the reason behind the firings. Fortune later reported Garg accused the employees of "stealing" from their colleagues and customers by being unproductive and only working two hours a day. "This is the second time in my career I'm doing this and I do not want to do this. The last time I did it, I cried," Garg said on the call, which remained short and emotionless. Among those fired were the diversity, equity and inclusion recruiting team.The Softbank-backed mortgage lender announced in May it was going public through an SPAC and last week received $750 million in cash as part of the deal. The company is prepared to have more than $1 billion on its balance sheet. Garg has been involved in controversy before, as evidenced by an email he sent to staff that was obtained by Forbes."You are TOO DAMN SLOW. You are a bunch of DUMB DOLPHINS... SO STOP IT. STOP IT. STOP IT RIGHT NOW. YOU ARE EMBARRASSING ME," he wrote. The Daily Beast reported in August that one of Garg's most "loyal lieutenants" received massive perks, such as millions of dollars worth of stock options that could be vested immediately, not comparable to other employees. That person was later placed on administrative leave for bullying.  
Marijuana may make sleep worse, especially for regular users, study finds. Sign up for the Sleep, But Better newsletter series. Our seven-part guide has helpful hints to achieve better sleep. (CNN)It's a common assumption among marijuana users: Using weed will help you fall asleep and stay asleep. Scientists, however, aren't so sure that's true."This is an understudied but important area, as many people are increasingly turning to cannabis products as sleep aids," said sleep specialist Wendy Troxel, a senior behavioral scientist at RAND Corporation, who was not involved in the study."But we really lack solid evidence demonstrating whether cannabis helps or hurts sleep," Troxel added.Use of weed may actually harm sleep, a new study has found. The research, published Monday in a BMJ journal, revealed adults who use weed 20 or more days during the last month were 64% more likely to sleep less than six hours a night and 76% more likely to sleep longer than nine hours a night. Optimal sleep for adults is defined by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention as seven to eight hours a night. Moderate consumption  -- using weed less than 20 days during the past month -- didn't create short sleep problems, but people were 47% more likely to snooze nine or more hours a night, the study also found. Why is short and long sleep a problem?"Large population-based studies show that both short sleep and long sleep are associated with an increased risk of heart attacks and strokes, as well as the long-term progression of things like atherosclerosis, diabetes, coronary artery disease and any of the major cardiovascular diseases," said lead study author Calvin Diep, who is resident in the department of anesthesiology and pain medicine at the University of Toronto. "It seems with sleep there's kind of this 'Goldilocks phenomenon' where there's an amount that 'just right,'" Diep said.One in three Americans don't get enough sleep, according to the CDC. In addition, 50 million to 70 million Americans struggle with sleep disorders such as sleep apnea, insomnia and restless leg syndrome, which can ruin a good night's shut-eye.The CDC calls that a "public health problem," because disrupted sleep is associated with a higher risk of conditions including high blood pressure, weakened immune performance, weight gain, a lack of libido, mood swings, paranoia, depression, and a higher risk of diabetes, stroke, cardiovascular disease, dementia and some cancers.No clear evidence either wayThe study analyzed use of marijuana for sleep among 21,729 adults between the ages of 20 and 59. The data was gathered by the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, and is considered representative of over 146 million Americans.In addition to issues with short and long sleep, people in the study who used weed within the last 30 days were also more likely to say they have trouble falling asleep or staying asleep, and were more likely to say they have discussed sleep problems with a health care provider, Diep said."The problem with our study is that we can't really say that it's causal, meaning we can't know for sure whether this was simply individuals who were having difficulty sleeping, and that's why they use the cannabis or the cannabis caused it," he added.Prior studies have also found a connection between the two components of marijuana, CBD and THC, and poor sleep. CBD, or cannabidiol, is a key component of medical marijuana, while THC, or tetrahydrocannabinol, is the main psychoactive compound in cannabis that produces the high sensation.A 2018 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study -- the gold standard -- found no benefit from CBD on sleep in healthy volunteers. Other studies have also found high rates of insomnia when withdrawing from nightly use of marijuana."At this time there still isn't any clear evidence that cannabis is helping sleep," said Dr. Bhanu Prakash Kolla, a sleep medicine specialist in the Center for Sleep Medicine at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, who was not involved in any of the studies."We know that when people initiate use there is some benefit in the immediate short term but there is quick tolerance to this effect," Kolla said. "There currently is no good quality evidence to suggest that cannabis will help improve sleep quality or duration."Confounding factorsStill, people continue to believe that weed is helping their sleep. Surveys of marijuana users show they do indeed rely on the drug for better sleep."The issue is that there's a disconnect between these anecdotal reports of people reporting therapeutic benefits and the evidence behind it in terms of the data," Diep said.One possible reason, Kolla said, is that when people stop using cannabis after a period of regular use, the withdrawal effects from weed can cause sleep disruptions. That leads people to believe "the cannabis was in fact helping (sleep), while what they are actually experiencing are withdrawal symptoms."Another factor to consider is the increased potency of weed today as compared to when many of the studies on cannabis and sleep were conducted, said Dr. Karim Ladha, staff anesthesiologist and clinician-scientist in the department of anesthesiology and pain medicine at the University of Toronto. "A lot of the older data related to cannabis is based on lower doses of THC than what patients are using now, and there's very little research related to CBD," Ladha said. "Studies tell us about what happens at a population level, but on an individual level that discussion is much more personal," he said. "The studies just give us the possibilities that (marijuana) could hurt your sleep, but it may help and so we just don't know until you try it."That's why additional studies need to be done, he added."Patients are spending money and time and resources to obtain cannabis right now to help with sleep," Ladha said. "I think as the medical community, we need to do everything we can to make sure that we enable our patients to make the best possible decisions for their health."
The wit and grit of Bob Dole . David Gergen has been a White House adviser to four presidents of both parties and is a senior political analyst at CNN. A graduate of Harvard Law School, he is a professor of public service at the Harvard Kennedy School and co-founded its Center for Public Leadership. The views expressed in this commentary belong to the author. View more opinion at CNN. (CNN)When mourners gather this week to share stories about Bob Dole, what a feast they will have as they reminisce about the venerated politician's friendships, humor and, above all, his commitment to country. One of the GOP's longest-serving leaders, Dole could be a partisan. (He'd blamed his opponents, for example, for causing "Democrat wars.") But like the relationship between Tip O'Neill and Ronald Reagan, Dole might joust with an opposing president by day and call a truce by night if it was in service of the American people. He had many adversaries in Washington, but few enemies. His world view seemed formed on the battlefield, and one that Dole never left behind -- not even after decades on Capitol Hill. One of my favorite stories of the Republican leader, in fact, comes from across the aisle. In 2012, I visited the late Democratic Senator Daniel Inouye at his offices. For an hour, Inouye spun out tales of how he and Dole first met and became friends in a military hospital during World War II. Fighting a mountain apart, each had been wounded in battles to clear out Nazi soldiers from northern Italy. Both men had been grievously wounded.The two talked about what they wanted after they went home. Before the war, both Dole and Inouye had wanted to become physicians; however, the injuries each sustained prevented them from pursuing those dreams. Dole told Inouye that he now wanted to run for local office in Kansas and then run for office in Washington. That may have seemed far-fetched, as Dole had not yet graduated college, but he was determined. Strikingly, while in that same hospital, another future leader, Phil Hart, was also recuperating. All three men eventually went home and realized Dole's dream of becoming elected officials -- Inouye and Hart as Democratic US Senators, Dole as a Republican. Dole and Inouye not only kept close bonds but often worked together on legislation. The war seemed to leave a permanent imprint upon Dole. Having spent 39 months in military hospitals that saved his life, he always put country first.In 1993, during one of the toughest battles of the Clinton presidency, nearly all Republicans marched in lockstep to stop the health care reform plan dubbed "Hillarycare" while the White House was emphatically for it. But there were two key figures on Capitol Hill who were more interested in finding common ground -- Democratic Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, chair of the Finance Committee, and Dole, the minority leader. When it seemed that the talks might collapse altogether, Dole and Moynihan slipped each other a private note: "Time for Moynihan-Dole?" Both wanted a compromise. Sadly, ideologues in both parties refused. In retrospect, it appears almost certain that a bipartisan compromise would have done more to advance health care reform than that failure. On other occasions, Dole and the Republicans of his day were able to agree with the other side on compromises. Reform of Social Security was one, the creation of the Americans with Disabilities Act another, and revamping the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program was yet another. Dole was among those in his generation who had fought to save the union and came home eager to preserve it. To many who watched from afar, Dole could seem gruff and angry. His confidantes told me he usually woke up sunny but the process of dressing himself -- as he insisted -- was so laborious and painful that he was soon boiling. In truth, he was angry because he remained disabled and often in pain the rest of his life.Yet he also retained a sharp sense of humor that he used effectively -- not only to mask his physical discomfort, but as a potent political tool. You could fill a book with his jokes and repartee that was aimed at all political parties, and often even at himself.Mocking his failed presidential runs, he liked to kid about a time he walked into a nursing home to shake hands with residents. As he moved about the room, he received lots of blank stares. Finally, he walked up to a woman in a wheelchair and asked, "Do you know who I am?"  "Well, no," she replied, "but if you ask at the front desk, maybe they can tell you."Or there was the time, as legend has it, that he walked into a fancy Washington dinner and spotted Jimmy Carter, Gerald Ford, and Richard Nixon on the dais. Without missing a beat, Dole said: "Look up there. Hear no evil, see no evil ... and evil!"It was not that Dole disliked Nixon so much. He gave a eulogy at Nixon's funeral that made people weep. But Dole let little stand between him and a good one-liner. His time in the army and his bonding with other veterans were at the core of his being for 75 years. As he approached the end, Dole was a primary leader in building a memorial to World War II on the nation's mall. In recent years, the military has ferried planes full of veterans to Washington to see their honorary place there. Often times, Dole would greet the veterans with a salute, a handshake and a thank you. What stories they all have to tell.
Pregnant Jennifer Lawrence dazzles in golden gown at 'Don't Look Up' premiere.  (CNN)Oscar-winning actress Jennifer Lawrence is positively glowing.  The 31-year-old star, who is expecting her first child with husband Cooke Maroney, dazzled in a floor-length gold gown as she posed for pictures at the premiere of her upcoming film "Don't Look Up" in New York on Sunday night. She completed the shimmering effect with Tiffany & Co. Schlumberger earrings and styled her hair in an elegant updo. Lawrence joined co-star Leonardo DiCaprio at the premiere for the film, which gets its streaming debut on Netflix on December 24. Directed by "The Big Short" filmmaker Adam McKay, "Don't Look Up" stars Lawrence and DiCaprio as a pair of astronomers who go on a giant media tour to warn mankind of an approaching comet that will destroy Earth. In real life, Lawrence is also preparing for her own major event.Lawrence and Maroney, an art dealer, tied the knot in 2019 and a representative for the "Hunger Games" star confirmed the couple were expecting their first child to CNN in September. Later that month, Lawrence opened up about setting boundaries in a bid to protect her child's privacy. "If I was at a dinner party, and somebody was like, 'Oh, my God, you're expecting a baby,' I wouldn't be like, 'God, I can't talk about that. Get away from me, you psycho!' But every instinct in my body wants to protect their privacy for the rest of their lives, as much as I can," she explained during the wide-ranging interview with Variety. She added that while she is "grateful and excited," she doesn't "want anyone to feel welcome into their (her child's) existence," which "starts with not including them in this part of my work."Lawrence, who was named by Forbes as the world's highest-paid actress in 2015 and 2016, won an Oscar for her performance in the 2012 movie "Silver Linings Playbook," in which she starred alongside Bradley Cooper.
New 'Harry Potter' reunion trailer is here.  (CNN)Something pleasant lies ahead. A new trailer for the "Harry Potter 20th Anniversary: Return to Hogwarts" special, which will debut on HBO Max on Jan. 1, has released. (CNN and HBO are both part of WarnerMedia.)The new look features Emma Watson, who played Hermione Granger in the long-running franchise, and follows the first trailer for the special that released in November.Watson, Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint and many more are expected to take part in the special that will "celebrate the unparalleled legacy of the Harry Potter film franchise and its indelible impact on the hearts, minds, and imaginations of families and fans around the world," according to a release.Helena Bonham Carter, Robbie Coltrane, Ralph Fiennes, Jason Isaacs, Gary Oldman, Imelda Staunton, Tom Felton, James Phelps, Oliver Phelps, Mark Williams, Bonnie Wright, Alfred Enoch, Matthew Lewis, Evanna Lynch, Ian Hart and filmmaker Chris Columbus are among the names also set to appear.Author and franchise creator JK Rowling, whose statements regarding the transgender community in recent years have stirred controversy, is not part of the lineup so far.
Christmas trees burned by the heat, dwindling the supply. CNN Weather produces a weekly column, publishing Mondays, with the weather news you should be aware of as you plan out your week. Find updates each week here. If you enjoy this, sign up to get email updates on significant storms in your inbox. (CNN)For a state that produces more Christmas trees than anywhere else in the country, Oregon Christmas tree growers are struggling after Mother Nature put on a show in 2021. Oregon produces roughly 40% of the nation's Christmas tree supply, according to the National Christmas Tree Association, a trade association representing hundreds of tree farms and other affiliated businesses.This past summer's heat waves have resulted in losses of Christmas tree crops, as well as an increase in prices."I had 30% mortality, but every single seedling is damaged without question," says Tom Norby, who owns Trout Creek Tree Farm and is trying to overcome one of his toughest years.Norby is the president of the Oregon Christmas Tree Growers Association and says some farms across his state have experienced a total loss. "There are literally fields with hundreds of acres of dead seedlings. Just 100% mortality across the entire field. If you produce a million trees a year, you don't have time to deal with that," says Norby.  Norby says the state's farms were largely spared from the 225,000 acres that were scorched across the state from wildfires, but says the weeklong heat wave in June was the real killer. "The heat dome came at the absolute worst time. It came when those new seedlings were trying to take root on that fresh soil and push out new shoots, and they just couldn't compete with that heat," says Norby. The heat-scorched trees have led to less supply in California this year, but in Oregon, where saplings were significantly impacted, it could be the supply seven to 10 years from now seeing the pinch.The Pacific Northwest heat event occurred in late June, shattering heat records. Portland set an all-time, record-high temperature three days in a row, topping out at 116 degrees. Seattle hit 108 degrees.Lytton, British Columbia, reached 121 degrees, the highest temperature ever recorded in Canada, and around 48 degrees above what's normal for that time of year. That town burned to the ground a day later. Jeri Seifert, president of the California Christmas Tree Association and farm owner, says the heat wave had a huge impact on the farms in California, mainly from sunburn. When the tree is exposed to too much sunlight and heat, without sufficient moisture, parts of the tree or the entire tree can sunburn, resulting in tree damage or the tree completely dying."When the heat dome hit, most of the native trees were burned on their southern-facing sides, so you can't market a tree that's brown on one side," says Seifert. In a heat dome, high pressure acts as a lid on the atmosphere, and as hot air attempts to escape the lid forces it back down, warming even more as it sinks.Wildfires have also impacted farms in California. According to Seifert, one farm in her state lost 90% of its farm in one of the wildfires and even the owners' home. She has seen Christmas tree growers closing their doors left and right. "When you lose a plantation, there's a huge process that goes into regrowing those trees, so it takes many years to recoup," says Seifert. There's not a lot of money in Christmas tree growing, says Seifert, so younger generations aren't stepping up to run the farm and instead opting for higher paying jobs. "Many of our farmers here in California are approaching retirement, so as they move up in age and experience a forest fire ravaging through their farm, it's just time to close their doors," she says. This year's weather extremes has resulted in the loss of supply and, according to Seifert, prices of trees have gone up from 10 to 15%. It's been a calamity of weather events that has turned this industry on its head, one that both Seifert and Norby hope they can overcome. "This is a global warming event that's impacting Christmas," says Norby. His hope is that we don't have another extreme heat event next season. Norby believes he can salvage many of this damaged trees, since it takes eight years to grow one. But he says if another extreme heat event hits his farm next season, he may not be able to recover. Parts of Hawaii could receive 2 feet of rainJust days after the the higher elevations of Hawaii received snow with blizzard conditions, the entire state is now under a major flood threat. "Expect widespread heavy rainfall with this system, especially under the large heavy rain band, capable of producing catastrophic flooding, and strong southwest winds through Wednesday," says the National Weather Service office in Honolulu. An area of low pressure will meander in the region during the next few days, bringing the potential for life-threatening floods and landslides.In Maui County, nearly a foot of rain has already fallen, and more is expected. Because of the heavy rain, some areas will experience nearly zero visibility, making conditions on the roads even more dangerous. The rainfall is beginning to wind down across the Big Island, However, heavy rain is still forecast to fall across Maui, Oahu and Kauai throughout the day. "Localized rainfall rates of two to three inches per hour will exacerbate ongoing flooding from earlier rainfall," says NWS Honolulu. Parts of Maui have received 6 inches of rain in just six hours, and it's still coming down. READ MORE HERESome areas in the Northeast could see their first measurable snowfall of the season this weekThere is still quite a bit of uncertainty in the forecast, but it is looking more likely that several of the big cities along the I-95 corridor will see flakes. "The airmass should be cold enough to support light snowfall across the region on Wednesday with snow developing in the morning and exiting to the east by early evening," said the NWS in New York. Their forecast currently calls for an inch or two of snowfall for many areas east of New York City, with less than an inch elsewhere. "A reasonable worse case scenario may be up around two or three inches," they say.The NWS office in Boston is also tracking the system. "A coastal storm may bring some accumulating snowfall across southern New England Wednesday into Wednesday night, but there is considerable uncertainty," it said.Boston is calling for mainly frozen precipitation, but the amount of snow that will fall is uncertain. If the low tracks farther to the east, most of the heavy snow will stay offshore. However, if the low tracks closer to shore, coastal areas could see snow. Right now, Boston is forecasting one to two inches of snow for eastern areas, but that could likely change. Behind the system, temperatures will plummet. Lows Wednesday morning will range from the upper 20s inland to around freezing along coastal areas of New York. "While the snowfall is expected to be mainly light, sun angle as this time of year is low, so some minor accumulation on area roadways is possible even with these marginal temperatures," says the NWS office in New York.  California could finally get some much needed rain"Parts of Southern California may see the first rainfall in over a month," says the Weather Prediction Center. A notable storm system will make its way onshore this week, bringing rain to drought-stricken regions of the west and mountain snow to the Sierra and Rockies. The rain should begin in California on Wednesday and lasting through Thursday for many locations. The Bay area is one of those locations that will receive rain. Despite the fact it won't be much, any rain is helpful. "Definitely not a drought buster or big AR (atmospheric river), but much needed rainfall nonetheless," says the NWS in San Fransisco.  Their office is forecasting a few hundredths to a quarter of an inch of rain with this system. There will be much cooler air with this particular system as well, bringing snow to lower elevations. Snow totals in the Sierra mountains could reach up to a foot in some locations. "Definitely the coldest airmass so far this season," says the NWS in San Francisco. Lows will be in the 30s and 40s in the Bay area Friday morning, with chilly temperatures lasting through much of the weekend. Farther south, Los Angeles could even get in on the rain. "Amounts likely ranging from a tenth to a quarter an inch for the coast and valleys up to a quarter to half inch in the mountains," says the NWS office in Los Angeles. Some models are hinting at even higher amounts, but their forecast office isn't placing any bets yet. This rain is welcomed news for areas that so desperately need the rain, in hopes more could be on the way. "Is this storm door finally opening? Longer range guidance shows additional rain chances returning Dec 13," says the NWS in San Francisco. Have you ever heard a frozen lake?Steamboat Lake in Colorado is now frozen. Colorado Parks and Wildlife shared this tweet and you've got to hear it! The sounds coming off of this frozen lake are something out of this world. CNN Meteorologists Haley Brink and Judson Jones contributed to this column.
Ghislaine Maxwell said Jeffrey Epstein needed to have sex three times a day, woman testifies. New York (CNN)A woman who has accused Jeffrey Epstein of sexual abuse testified Monday that Ghislaine Maxwell set up their meetings and spoke often about sexual topics -- including Epstein's carnal needs."She said that he needed to have sex about three times a day," the woman told the court. The woman, testifying under the pseudonym "Kate," took the stand Monday morning to start the second week of Maxwell's federal trial on charges including sex trafficking of minors. Kate is not considered a minor victim in the charges because she was over the age of consent at the time of the alleged abuse, but jurors were still allowed to consider her testimony, Judge Alison Nathan ruled.Kate testified she first met Maxwell when she was 17 through her older boyfriend while on a trip to Paris. Maxwell invited her for tea at her London townhome a few weeks later and told Kate about her "philanthropist" boyfriend Epstein, who Maxwell thought would help Kate with her aspiring music career. "I understood that her job was to take care of Jeffrey's needs," Kate said. "I left there feeling exhilarated," she said. "Like somebody wanted me."Weeks later, Maxwell invited Kate to the townhome again to meet Epstein, pushing her to accept the invitation with a sense of "urgency," she recalled.There, Maxwell told her to give Epstein's foot a little "squeeze" to show him how strong she was despite her small frame, Kate testified. Epstein approved of the foot massage and also had her massage his shoulders. A couple of weeks later, Maxwell called Kate to ask whether she would do her "a favor" and come give Epstein a massage with her "strong hands," despite having no massage therapy experience. Maxwell led Kate upstairs in her townhome to a bedroom where Epstein stood in a robe, gave Kate massage oil, and closed the door behind her. Kate testified Epstein disrobed and initiated a sex act with her. Shortly after this incident, Maxwell called her back to the house and told her it's hard to keep up with his needs, Kate testified. "She said, 'I'm so glad you're here. You did such a good job last time (that) he wanted you to come back,'" Kate said. This time Epstein was standing fully naked when Maxwell brought her to the same room and closed the door behind her. "Have a good time," she recalled Maxwell saying as she left the room. Maxwell also asked her whether she'd "had fun" after both sexualized massage encounters, Kate said.Maxwell's trial, which began last week, has alternated between harrowing testimony from minor victims and illuminating testimony about some of Epstein's connections to high-profile figures such as Donald Trump, Bill Clinton and Prince Andrew. None are alleged to have committed wrongdoing in relation to the ongoing trial.Indeed, Kate testified Monday that Maxwell would talk about her friends Prince Andrew and Trump around her.Epstein, who pleaded guilty in 2008 to state prostitution charges, was indicted on federal sex trafficking charges in July 2019 but died by suicide in prison a month later. Maxwell, Epstein's confidante, was arrested a year afterward and has pleaded not guilty.In opening statements of her trial, prosecutors said Maxwell and Epstein created a "pyramid scheme of abuse" to lure underage girls into sexual relationships with Epstein. Her defense, meanwhile, said she was a "scapegoat" for Epstein's actions and attacked the memories and motivations of the women who say they were sexually abused.Witness recalls photos of nude young girls in Epstein's homeIn her testimony, Kate testified she traveled at Epstein's expense several times to New York; Palm Beach, Florida; and Little St. James in the US Virgin Islands, where Epstein had property. Maxwell would inform her of the travel arrangements, she said. During a visit to the Palm Beach residence when she was about 18, she said, a "school girl" outfit -- a pleated skirt, white panties, white socks and a shirt -- was left on her bed. When she asked Maxwell what it was for, she recalled, Maxwell said, "I thought it would be fun for you to take Jeffrey his tea in this outfit.""I didn't know how to say no," she said. She thought she might be forced to leave if she said no, Kate testified.She carried a tray while wearing the outfit to Epstein, who she recalled was working out with a trainer in the gym near the pool. Epstein initiated and engaged in a sex act with her there when the trainer left, she said. Kate also recalled photos of nude young girls scattered throughout the Palm Beach home in almost every room. "I remember that they were shocking," she recalled.She testified that Maxwell invited her to Epstein's private island to give him massages. Maxwell spoke of sexual topics often with Kate, asking her whether she knew any other girls who could give Epstein oral sex."You know what he likes -- cute, young, (and) pretty like you," Maxwell told her, according to her testimony. She never recruited other females of any age for Epstein despite the request, she testified. She did recall seeing a thin blonde girl who she thought was around her age, 17, on one of those occasions.On redirect, she testified Maxwell was next to her the first time she saw Epstein naked."I remember it so clearly because I was terrified and frozen," Kate testified. "Those events come back to me all the time. I have nightmares about them."Kate received $3.25 million from Epstein victim fundIn cross-examination, defense attorney Bobbi Sternheim worked to undermine her testimony by highlighting her ongoing contact with Epstein and questioning her motives.Kate said she kept in contact with Epstein until around 2012. She was about 24 when she last traveled with Maxwell and Epstein, but she continued contact with Epstein through her early 30s, she testified.She emailed with Epstein while he was in prison in 2008 about sending him photos of herself. She said she never sent him photos but did sign an email, "Best love always, 'Kate.'" She also testified that she reached out to Epstein to stay with him at his Manhattan home in 2011, but he was in Paris at the time. She described staying in contact with him as a mix of denial and fear."I did not want to admit what had happened to me and I felt that by ceasing communication I would have to acknowledge the events that had taken place and I would have to say something," she said. "I was also fearful of disengaging because I had witnessed how connected they both were and I was fearful."Sternheim also attempted to discredit the witness by pointing out media interviews in which she spoke about her big ambitions, asking about her previous failed relationships and about her history with substance abuse.Kate acknowledged in court she had a problem with cocaine, alcohol and sleeping pills in her late teens and early 20s. She testified the abuse has not affected her memory and that she was required not to take drugs or be drunk around Maxwell and Epstein.Kate has been cooperating with law enforcement since they first contacted her in 2019, she said. She said she's testifying under pseudonym despite making public appearances in the media previously because she has a child she doesn't want to subject to the attention around the case."I have a huge amount of humiliation and shame around the events that took place," she said. She said she received a $3.25 million settlement with the Epstein Victim Compensation Program. The money, she said, validated her experiences with Epstein."What the money meant to me was recognition of my pain. What it meant to me was that my truth was important," she said. Kate acknowledged that she inquired with the prosecution about a special visa for victims who cooperate with law enforcement but said she was not motivated financially or otherwise to testify in this case."This is the hardest thing that I've ever had to do and I'm here because I don't think there's anything more important, especially now that I'm a parent, than demonstrating to her that I can stand up for (myself) and demonstrating that the truth is important," she said.
Jeffrey Epstein's house manager says staff was instructed to 'see nothing, hear nothing, say nothing'.  (CNN)The longtime house manager of Jeffrey Epstein's home in Palm Beach, Florida, read aloud from an instruction booklet Ghislaine Maxwell gave him in 2001 or 2002 that instructed staff in minute detail how to handle Epstein's homes."I'm sorry to say that it was very degrading to me. Most of the pages they were just unbelievable to me," Juan Alessi, the manager, testified in federal court Thursday.The manual contained instructions for staff to maintain extreme discretion for Epstein, Maxwell and their guests. "Remember that you see nothing, hear nothing, say nothing except to answer a question directed at you. Respect their privacy," Alessi read from the manual.He took the rule as a warning to keep quiet about anything he saw."It means a kind of warning that I was supposed to be blind, deaf and dumb, to say nothing of their lives," he said."Unless otherwise instructed NEVER disclose Mr. Epstein or Ms. Maxwell's activities or whereabouts to anyone. If the caller is insistent you simply ask them to take a message, a time, a number where the caller can be reached. Do not be bullied and do not show any reaction or impatience. Simply be firm," Alessi read from the manual.Alessi flew commercial once to Epstein's estate in New Mexico to attend a "symposium" with other Epstein staff about how to clean his houses, he said.In Alessi's testimony Thursday, he explained what he witnessed while serving from 1991 to 2002 as the house manager of Epstein's estate in Palm Beach. Maxwell is charged with six counts, including sex trafficking of minors, in what prosecutors say was a scheme to lure and recruit underage girls for Epstein's sexual purposes.The trial has also illuminated some of Epstein's connections to high-profile figures like Donald Trump, Bill Clinton and Prince Andrew. None are alleged to have committed any wrongdoing in relation to the ongoing trial.Epstein, who had pleaded guilty in 2008 to state prostitution charges, was indicted on federal sex trafficking charges in July 2019 but died by suicide in prison a month later. Maxwell, the British socialite and Epstein's close confidante, was arrested a year afterward and has pleaded not guilty.In opening statements of her trial Monday, prosecutors said Maxwell and Epstein created a "pyramid scheme of abuse" to lure underage girls into sexual relationships with Epstein. Her defense, meanwhile, said she was a "scapegoat" for Epstein's actions and attacked the memories and motivations of the women who say they were sexually abused.House manager says Maxwell ran Epstein's many propertiesAlessi testified that he first met Maxwell in 1991 and understood her to be Epstein's girlfriend."From the day she came to the house, she right away took over and she mentioned to me that she was going to be the lady of the house and also, she was in charge of other homes," Alessi said in court.Alessi said he dealt with Maxwell on a daily basis because all of Epstein's orders funneled to him through her. Alessi testified he first got the house manager job with Epstein through a referral -- the mother of billionaire businessman Les Wexner was one of his maintenance clients, he said. Alessi's wife began working with him at the house around 1995 through 2002. Alessi testified that his own relationship with Epstein deteriorated from "cordial" to strictly professional over the decade he worked for him, as he dealt with Epstein less and less. Toward the end of his employment, Alessi said Maxwell told him, "Jeffrey doesn't like when you look at his eyes. You should never look at his eyes, just look at another part of the room and answer to him." Maxwell was with Epstein "95 percent" of the time when he'd stay at the Palm Beach house, according to Alessi. He said Epstein would spend most weekends and all holidays at the Florida home, typically leaving on a Monday or Tuesday and returning Thursday or Friday. Alessi and other house staff would prepare extensively for Epstein's return, he said, cleaning the house and cars, which had to be "immaculate." The staff would also stock all of Epstein's cars with $100 bills per instructions, Alessi said."They run the house like a five-star hotel," he said.There were 'many, many, many females' there, manager saysAlessi said there were "many, many, many females" that came through Epstein's Palm Beach home during his time working there. When women sat by the pool they'd be topless 75% to 80% of the time hanging out with Maxwell and Epstein, he said.He recalled specifically two girls coming to the house that he believed were underage: "Jane," who testified earlier this week that Maxwell and Epstein sexually abused her, and Virginia Roberts Giuffre, who has previously accused Epstein of abuse.Alessi recalled Jane coming to the house "at least three times" with her mother and several other times by herself. He testified that he personally picked her up more than once to bring her to Epstein's Palm Beach home and so did his wife. He once picked her up from the arts high school she attended locally. He recalled "maybe twice" driving Jane with Epstein, Maxwell and others onto the airport tarmac and watching them board one of Epstein's planes.Alessi testified that on a hot day he drove Maxwell around in a convertible to all the luxury spas and country clubs in Palm Beach County. He'd wait in the car for her at each stop including Mar-a-Lago. Maxwell told him to stop the car as they were driving out of the parking lot from Mar-a-Lago. She got out of the car and spoke to a young blonde in a white uniform that he later learned was Virginia Roberts.He saw the girl again later that afternoon around 5 or 6 o'clock when she came to Epstein's Palm Beach house, Alessi said. Alessi walked her to Maxwell at her desk and did not see where they went or what they did after that, he testified. He recalled driving Roberts onto the tarmac with Epstein, Maxwell, and others on more than one occasion. When asked how he knew that Roberts and the group got onto the plane, he said " 'Cause I brought them, I was the driver."In addition, Alessi testified that Maxwell, Epstein or someone from Epstein's New York office would tell him to schedule a massage for Epstein and if the masseuse was available he'd let Maxwell or someone else know the appointment was confirmed."I went to my office and I had a Rolodex with all the massage therapists and whoever they told me to call, I would call .... It was all different times of day. It was a massage in the morning, massage in the afternoon, and some of the massages after dinner, after the movies. They were scheduled to come after the movies 10-11 o'clock at night."Alessi testified that Epstein and Maxwell would go to the movies with others "almost every night" and sometimes he remembered Jane going with them.Defense attorney Jeffrey Pagliuca spent much of his cross examination Friday addressing excerpts from a deposition Alessi gave with a plaintiff's attorney representing Roberts at the time, among other Epstein accusers. The back-and-forth was tense at times. Alessi, breathing heavily, appeared frustrated with Pagliuca, who asserted that Alessi may have sought out massage therapists for Epstein at luxury spas in the area. "Never," Alessi said. The house manager maintained that he never sought out new massage therapists for Epstein but only called someone to make an appointment when explicitly directed by Epstein, Maxwell or another assistant. Alessi also testified Friday that he never saw any behavior suggesting distress or fear from women coming to give Epstein a massage. "No they never did, but I wish they could have done because I would have done something to stop it," Alessi said, when asked if anyone complained to him about being forced to do anything. On a few occasions Epstein told Alessi to remove photos of Maxwell from around the house when she wasn't there and another woman would be coming over. Alessi testified that he didn't know Epstein's intention and wasn't told to keep it from Maxwell. CNN's Eric Levenson contributed to this report.
Jeffrey Epstein's former pilot testifies Bill Clinton, Donald Trump, Prince Andrew flew aboard Epstein's private plane.  (CNN)Jeffrey Epstein's former pilot testified in Ghislaine Maxwell's sex trafficking trial Tuesday that a who's who of powerful men, including former Presidents Bill Clinton and Donald Trump, flew aboard Epstein's private plane.The pilot, Larry Visoski, said he would typically be given notice if Clinton or high-profile passengers like him would be flying.He recalled renowned violinist Itzhak Perlman flew to Michigan with Epstein for the Interlochen Center for the Arts summer camp. He said he remembered Prince Andrew, Maine Sen. George Mitchell, Ohio Sen. John Glenn and actor Kevin Spacey on flights. He also said he'd fly Epstein to Columbus, Ohio, where Epstein also had property, to see billionaire businessman Les Wexner. Epstein referred to Wexner as his client but Visoski said he believed them to be friends as well. None of the high profile passengers mentioned in Visoski's testimony Tuesday are alleged to have committed any wrongdoing in relation to the ongoing trial. Clinton's spokesman previously admitted to Clinton being aboard Epstein's plane four times but said the former president knew nothing about Epstein's "terrible crimes.""In 2002 and 2003, President Clinton took a total of four trips on Jeffrey Epstein's airplane: one to Europe, one to Asia, and two to Africa, which included stops in connection with the work of the Clinton Foundation," Clinton spokesman Angel Urena said in 2019. Visoski's testimony came on the second day of Maxwell's federal trial on charges of conspiracy and sex trafficking. The trial is likely to provide a glimpse into the enigmatic life of Epstein and illuminate some of his connections to high-profile figures like Clinton, Trump, Bill Gates and Prince Andrew.Epstein was found dead in his prison cell shortly after his arrest on sex trafficking charges in 2019. The medical examiner later determined the cause of death to be suicide by hanging.Maxwell, the British socialite and Epstein's close confidante, was arrested a year later and has pleaded not guilty to six charges, including conspiracy and sex trafficking.In opening statements Monday, prosecutors said Maxwell and Epstein created a "pyramid scheme of abuse" to lure underage girls into sexual relationships with Epstein. Her defense, meanwhile, said she was a "scapegoat" for Epstein's actions and attacked the memories and motivations of the women who say they were sexually abused.Pilot testifies he never saw any sexual activityVisoski, the prosecution's first witness, testified Monday and Tuesday about his experiences as Epstein's pilot beginning in 1991. He testified Maxwell frequently traveled on Epstein's private jet between 1994 and 2004 and would often facilitate travel plans with Visoski for Epstein. Maxwell was Epstein's "number two" and was his "go-to person to handle everything else that was not business related," the pilot testified.He described his memory of the pair's relationship as more personal than business-like, but more "couple-ish" than actually romantic. He didn't remember seeing them kiss or hold hands, he said.Logging the names of all passengers on Epstein's private flights was not a priority, but they tried their best to be accurate, Visoski said. For international flights, he had to report an accurate passenger log, he said. If he didn't know a passenger's name, he'd notate the passenger by their gender, he said.Minor Victim-1, identified in court with the pseudonym "Jane," testified after Visoski that she met Maxwell and Epstein as a 14-year-old, and described in graphic detail incidents of sexual abuse by Epstein that Maxwell would at times join in on, both in Palm Beach, Florida, and Manhattan, when she was 14, 15 and 16 years old. On Tuesday, Visoski testified about his memories of Minor Victim-1, who said, as prosecutors have alleged, that she met Epstein and Maxwell at the prestigious arts camp where Epstein was a benefactor for years.Visoski testified Epstein introduced him to "Jane" on his plane before it took off from Palm Beach sometime in the 1990s.Visoski said he remembered she appeared at the time to be a "mature woman" with "piercing powder blue eyes." However, he testified on cross examination that he couldn't be sure she actually flew on the flight or who else was there, and Maxwell's defense questioned whether "Jane" ever flew on Epstein's planes."I can't visualize her sitting in the passenger compartment like I would say President Clinton, it was so long ago," he said. Her true first name was notated on flight logs for three flights, but Visoski acknowledged on cross examination that Epstein had an assistant bearing the same first name and without a last name logged, he couldn't he sure who it was.  When asked on cross examination, Visoski said he didn't know the ages of passengers he flew but he never thought there to be underaged girls aboard as far as he could tell."I never saw any sexual activity, no," Visoski testified. When asked if he'd seen sex acts with underaged girls he said, "Absolutely not."  Visoski testified he never saw sex toys, used condoms or clothes strewn about in Epstein's planes, nor any indication sexual activity took place on the planes.   The cockpit door would be closed during flight, but Epstein would sometimes introduce his guests to Visoski before takeoff, he testified. Epstein also invited the pilots to pass freely through the cabins to use the restroom or get coffee during flights, Visoski said. He also said he wasn't instructed by anyone as to how he should interact with passengers or other staff members.   He said he kept passenger manifests and flight logs for every flight he flew and would drop off the records to Epstein's office every so often without keeping copies for himself.  He'd give the records to an assistant but not typically Maxwell."Ms. Maxwell had nothing to do with the passenger manifests," he said. In addition, Visoski testified that Epstein paid for his two daughters' education through college and gifted him acreage at the New Mexico ranch where Visoski built himself a home. The pilot noted that it was Epstein's practice to pay for the schooling of all his employees' children because he valued higher education. He also acknowledged signing a non-disclosure agreement as a part of his employment.
Who is Ghislaine Maxwell? Socialite and ex-girlfriend of Jeffrey Epstein goes on trial.  (CNN)British socialite Ghislaine Maxwell has gained global notoriety as the former girlfriend and social companion of the convicted pedophile and disgraced financier Jeffrey Epstein.Now, after more than a year in federal custody, she faces trial on sex trafficking charges in New York. The 59-year-old has pleaded not guilty to all counts.Maxwell is charged by New York federal prosecutors with conspiracy and enticing minors to travel to engage in illegal sex acts, and the transportation of minors to engage in criminal sexual activity for allegedly grooming and recruiting underage girls from 1994 through 1997.She is also charged with sex trafficking of a minor from 2001 to 2004, as well as one count of sex trafficking conspiracy.Epstein died by suicide in August 2019 while awaiting trial. Maxwell's counsel maintains she was charged only because he died.In the wake of the financier's death, public pressure mounted to hold those who might have assisted him -- perhaps including Maxwell and a coterie of young women who allegedly worked under her -- accountable not only for his actions, but also for their own roles.In that investigation, Maxwell has been a significant target. She has denied wrongdoing, and in a deposition has called at least one of her accusers "a liar."Maxwell's supporters argue she has been held in unusually harsh conditions since her arrest on July 2, 2020; her requests to be released on bail have repeatedly been denied. At her most recent bail hearing, Maxwell's attorney said she was subject to physical and emotional abuse by correction officers, forced to endure poor and unsanitary living conditions, sleep deprivation and insufficient nutrition, and had difficulty reviewing millions of legal documents. A pretrial hearing at the start of November heard she had not requested a plea deal. Her attorney, Bobbi Sternheim, maintained Maxwell was not guilty of a crime to warrant a plea deal. Maxwell spoke at the hearing only to say, "I have not committed any crimes."Who is Ghislaine Maxwell?Born in 1961, the British socialite grew up in the idyllic Oxfordshire countryside and is the daughter of Robert Maxwell -- a Czech-born newspaper tycoon and former British lawmaker who died under mysterious circumstances. The media magnate fell off his luxury yacht -- called "Lady Ghislaine" -- near the Canary Islands in 1991. He was posthumously discovered to have committed massive pension fraud against his employees.According to Roy Greenslade, who worked for the media mogul as editor of The Daily Mirror in the early 1990s, Maxwell "doted" on Ghislaine "in a way that he didn't on his sons.""He was a monstrous father," Greenslade recalls. "He treated his whole family very badly." But when it came to the youngest of his nine children, Maxwell "treated her more leniently than any of them."In his biography of the tycoon, "Maxwell: The Rise and Fall of Robert Maxwell and his Empire," Greenslade recalls one evening in particular when he was sitting in an office with Maxwell and the daredevil teenager wandered in. He says Maxwell gave his daughter a scolding for "always taking risks, doing stupid, dangerous things" after she had a near-fatal accident after diving off a boat."She was quite clever at dealing with him," Greenslade explains, adding that she always spoke sweetly to her father in ways that he found difficult to challenge.After Ghislaine left, Greenslade says Maxwell turned to him with a sense of pride in his voice: "She's like me." That, Greenslade says, indicates why he perhaps favored her the most.A 1991 inquest ruled that Robert Maxwell's death was due to a heart attack combined with accidental drowning. However, some believe that Maxwell's death was suicide with his business empire teetering on the brink of ruin.There were plaudits at the time for the way Ghislaine handled the family tragedy. "People who were there at the time (when Maxwell died), said she dealt with it brilliantly," Greenslade said. "Dry-eyed, dealing well with the press."Following her father's death, Maxwell reportedly moved to the United States."She was probably left with no money," Greenslade says, despite many speculating she secured income from a secret trust.In the US, Maxwell lived a public life and socialized in exclusive circles that included people connected to politics. According to eyewitness accounts, Maxwell was invited to former first daughter Chelsea Clinton's wedding and was even brought backstage at the Clinton Global Initiative summit in 2009. However Bari Lurie -- a spokesperson for Chelsea Clinton, says the only reason Clinton was acquainted with Maxwell was because the socialite was dating a friend of hers.Maxwell was also photographed in 2000 with Donald Trump and his future wife, Melania Trump, alongside Epstein.Maxwell was also in the background of the infamous photograph of Prince Andrew, which shows him with his arms around the waist of a young woman named Virginia Roberts. Roberts alleges that she was trafficked by Epstein with the help of Maxwell and forced to have sex with his friends, including Prince Andrew, when she was a minor. The prince has emphatically denied having sex with Roberts, and says he has "no recollection of the photograph ever being taken."In 2012, Maxwell founded a charity, the TerraMar Project, which sought to encourage ocean conservation. However, the non-profit ceased operations in December 2019, according to records at the UK's Companies House. The same year federal prosecutors in New York unsealed a criminal indictment charging Epstein with having operated a sex trafficking ring between 2002 and 2005 where he paid girls as young as 14 to have sex with him.How is she connected to Jeffrey Epstein?Maxwell was the ex-girlfriend turned social companion of Epstein, who died while awaiting trial on federal charges of sexually abusing underage girls and running a sex trafficking ring. He had pleaded not guilty to the charges. The pair are reported to have split in the 1990s, although the socialite remained close to the pedophile. Her name was frequently mentioned in a cache of documents that were unsealed last year that allege she was a procurer for Epstein and other high-profile people.Maxwell "had a personal and professional relationship with Jeffrey Epstein and was among his closest associates," says a US federal indictment also unsealed last year."In particular, between in or about 1994 and in or about 1997, Maxwell was in an intimate relationship with Epstein and also was paid by Epstein to manage his various properties."Epstein described Maxwell as his best friend in a 2003 profile with Vanity Fair.According to multiple people in affluent Manhattan circles, including two of her friends, Maxwell introduced Epstein to many of the social figures in his life.Maxwell was arrested in July 2020 in the northeastern US state of New Hampshire, having disappeared from view following Epstein's arrest the previous summer. What accusations does Maxwell face?"In particular, from at least in or about 1994, up to an including at least in or about 1997, Maxwell assisted, facilitated, and contributed to Jeffrey Epstein's abuse of minor girls by, among other things, helping Epstein to recruit, groom, and ultimately abuse victims known to Maxwell and Epstein to be under the age of 18," the indictment says.Those victims, according to the indictment, included girls as young as 14 years old.Virginia Roberts -- who now goes by the name Virginia Giuffre -- accused Maxwell of being the person who introduced her to Epstein and allegedly forced her to have sexual relations with Prince Andrew at a time when she was underage (17) in the US. Andrew has consistently denied the allegations.She says she was brought to London in 2001 where she was introduced to the prince and went dancing at a nightclub with him, Epstein, and Maxwell.In a 2015 defamation case brought against Maxwell -- which was settled in 2017, after the judge had ruled against a motion for summary judgment filed by Maxwell -- Giuffre says she was "forced to have sexual relations" with the Duke of York when she was a minor in "three separate geographical locations," including London, New York and the US Virgin Islands.Giuffre says when she left the London nightclub Tramp, where she danced with Prince Andrew, Maxwell gave her instructions. "In the car Ghislaine tells me that I have to do for Andrew what I do for Jeffrey and that just made me sick," Giuffre said, adding that she had sex with the prince at Maxwell's house in London's Belgravia area.Andrew, 61, denying the claims, told the BBC in 2019: "It didn't happen. I can absolutely categorically tell you it never happened. I have no recollection of ever meeting this lady, none whatsoever." The prince's legal team is fighting to have a sexual assault case brought against him by Giuffre in New York thrown out. In court filings, Maxwell and her attorney also portrayed Giuffre as an unreliable narrator, claiming there are errors in certain dates and figures she provided.In October 2021, London's Metropolitan Police force announced it would take "no further action" against Prince Andrew, following an investigation sparked by Giuffre's case. Bianca Britton contributed to this report.
