Hanukkah celebrations shine a light after a year of adversity.  (CNN)Celebrating Hanukkah, the Festival of Lights, is a bright spot for Jewish people after nearly two years of living in a pandemic. Over 5.1 million people have died worldwide from Covid-19, but rising vaccination numbers have allowed a mixture of virtual and in-person events this year. The ancient Hebrew calendar determines when Hanukkah is celebrated -- not the Gregorian calendar -- which is why the dates change from year to year. In 2021, the holiday will be celebrated from sundown on November 28 to sundown on December 6. The holiday often falls around Christmas, but the two have nothing in common.The ancient ruler King Antiochus IV abolished Jewish religion and forced Jews to worship the Greek gods. The Maccabees, an army made up of followers of priest Mattahias and his son Judah Maccabee, rose up and pushed out King Antiochus IV. The Jews reclaimed the temple in the 160s BC, which is what the holiday honors. A light in the darknessOne of the cornerstones of Hanukkah celebrations is lighting the menorah each of the eight nights of the holiday. Lighting the menorah reminds Alana Rudkin of Pittsburgh that a little bit of light can dispel a lot of darkness. "I would encourage folks to connect to their inner light, making room for self-reflection and growth," Rudkin said. Rudkin volunteers at The Friendship Circle of Pittsburgh, a Jewish community-based group that works to enrich the lives of youth and adults in the Pittsburgh area. Rudkin's family celebrations have also changed due to the pandemic. She usually makes latkes, which are fried potato pancakes, with her family, and then invites friends over to share the food. "My dad would have us hand-grating potatoes really until our fingers would bleed," Rudkin said.Last year, she decided not to invite friends over, but she still made latkes with her parents at home. Jewish people traditionally fry their latkes in oil to commemorate the miracle of the Maccabees' long-burning oil. Online family celebrationsIn 2019, New York City resident Lisa Gaetjens' family threw a party for dozens of family and friends filled with traditional foods like latkes and sufganiyot, which are fried jelly doughnuts. Her family decided to transition their party online last year, which was a smaller affair."It's very disappointing to not be able to physically be with our families for this holiday, but it's also the best option," Gaetjens said. Her mother-in-law coordinated food to be delivered to each attendee's home so everyone could enjoy the same meal together. Honoring traditionsRabbi-in-residence Avram Mlotek of Marlene Meyerson Jewish Community Center in New York City participated in virtual celebrations last year, with a latke cooking class and menorah lightings offered online. Meyerson believes that Jewish people are prepared to celebrate online because they had to do it early on in the pandemic. "When Passover was around and we had to celebrate in isolation, I reminded folks that actually the first Passover was also celebrated in a type of quarantine," Mlotek said. In the Bible, Mlotek said, the angel of death swept over Jewish homes, but because they marked their homes and stayed inside, they were safe. As a grandchild of Holocaust survivors, Mlotek is no stranger to darkness and despair. He hopes to reach a larger audience of current and future generations of Jewish people to celebrate life and Hanukkah this year.
Omicron variant puts world in a 'race against time', says EU Commission President.  (CNN)The world is in a "race against time" with the Omicron coronavirus variant, said European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen on Sunday, warning during a visit to Latvia that scientists and manufacturers will need weeks to fully understand the new variant. As more cases are identified and governments around the world mobilize to respond to Omicron, an urgent meeting of G7 health ministers will be convened on Monday, the United Kingdom said. It also announced on Sunday new domestic public health rules requiring face coverings in shops and on public transport starting this week. Omicron was first identified by scientists in South Africa, who raised alarm over its unusually high number of mutations on Thursday. Since then, at least dozen other have confirmed cases of the new strain, with several other reporting suspected cases. Apart from South Africa, the variant has been found in Botswana, Belgium, Canada, Australia, the Netherlands, Denmark, United Kingdom, Germany, Israel, Italy, the Czech Republic and Hong Kong.On Sunday, Dutch authorities announced that at least 13 people had tested positive at Amsterdam Schipol airport after traveling from South Africa. The Netherlands' National Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM) said in a statement that the variant had been detected through the sequencing of 61 positive Covid-19 samples that were obtained at the airport on Friday. It is "possible that the new variant will be found in more test samples," the institution noted.Biostatistician professor Sheila Bird said the test results from Amsterdam were concerning, but that more data was needed. "There may be household clusters among the 13 Omicron positives or clustering may have been induced by where passengers were seated on the flight from South Africa," she told the Science Media Centre, adding that the vaccination status and age distribution of those infected will also need to be considered before any conclusions are made about the variant. The situation should be seen with "alert rather than alarm until more is known," she said.Canadian health officials also confirmed the country's first two Omicron cases in Ottawa on Sunday. Both individuals carrying the variant had recently traveled from Nigeria, according to a joint statement by Deputy Premier and Minister of Health Christine Elliott and Chief Medical Officer of Health Dr. Kieran Moore. "We continue to urge the federal government to take the necessary steps to mandate point-of-arrival testing for all travelers irrespective of where they're coming from to further protect against the spread of this new variant," the joint statement also said. Variant of concernThe World Health Organization (WHO) has designated the Omicron variant, originally referred to as B.1.1.529, a "variant of concern." WHO said on Friday that early evidence suggest the Omicron variant, first identified in South Africa, could pose an increased risk of reinfection and said that some of the mutations detected on the variant were concerning.But WHO stressed that more research is needed to determine whether the variant is more contagious, whether it causes more severe disease, and whether it could evade vaccines."This variant has a large number of mutations and some of these mutations have some worrying characteristics," Maria Van Kerkhove, WHO's technical lead for Covid-19, said in a statement on Friday."Right now there are many studies that are underway ... so far there's little information but those studies are underway so we need researchers to have the time to carry those out and WHO will inform the public and our partners and our member states as soon as we have more information," she added.Travel bans and new quarantine requirementsThe variant's discovery and fast spread across the world is an uncomfortable reminder that the pandemic is far from over. A number of countries have slammed their borders shut to travelers from southern Africa, with the European Union, Japan, Australia, the United States, Canada, Rwanda and many others banning travelers from countries including South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique and Malawi.But South Africa and some of the other countries hit by the travel bans are pushing back. Speaking in Pretoria on Sunday, South African President Cyril Ramaphosa described the bans as baseless discrimination. "These restrictions are unjustified and unfairly discriminate against our country and our Southern African sister countries. The prohibition of travel is not informed by science, nor will it be effective in preventing the spread of this variant. The only thing the prohibition on travel will do is to further damage the economies of the affected countries and undermine their ability to respond to, and recover from, the pandemic," he said.South Africa's Ministry of International Relations and Cooperation has said the country was being punished for its transparency. "Excellent science should be applauded and not punished. The global community needs collaboration and partnerships in the management of the Covid-19 pandemic," the ministry said in a statement."A combination of South Africa's capacity to test and its ramped-up vaccination programme, backed up by world class scientific community, should give our global partners the comfort that we are doing as well as they are in managing the pandemic. South Africa follows and enforces globally recognized Covid-19 health protocols on travel. No infected individuals are permitted to leave the country," it added.Malawi's President Lazarus Chakwera also criticized the travel bans, saying they were "uncalled for." "Covid measures must be based on science, not Afrophobia," he said on his official Facebook page. Many experts said South African scientists deserved credit for their ability to quickly identify the risks stemming from the new variant. The move to impose bans has also sparked criticism from WHO. "We've seen in the past, the minute there's any kind of mention of any kind of variation and everyone is closing borders and restricting travel. It's really important that we remain open, and stay focused," WHO's Head of Emergencies Dr. Michael Ryan said Saturday."South Africa has very, very good genomic sequencing capacity and capability ... certainly South Africa and any other countries should not be stigmatized for reporting it and doing the right thing," Michael Head, a senior research fellow in global health at the University of Southampton, told CNN in a phone interview.However, Head said that travel bans, if used correctly, could play a role in controlling the outbreak. "It's difficult scenario. It can buy you a bit of time. So if countries are imposing a ban and using that time, which will be at the moment a few weeks, to increase the pace of vaccination rollouts to make sure that any new antiviral drugs are available within the country, to increase testing, genomic surveillance at airports, that sort of thing, that's something you can usefully do with a travel ban," he said. "If you just implement a travel ban and say 'right, job done' then that's no good to anyone. And if you do, as it were, punish countries for reporting new variants, we should really look to support them as well, whether it's infrastructure or funding or vaccine doses whatever might be appropriate."CNN's Larry Madowo in Paris contributed reporting. 
The Omicron Covid-19 variant is a crucial test for Biden. Dean Obeidallah, a former attorney, is the host of SiriusXM radio's daily program "The Dean Obeidallah Show" and a columnist for The Daily Beast. Follow him @DeanObeidallah. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion articles on CNN. (CNN) There are more questions than answers about the new Covid-19 variant known as Omicron first identified Thursday by South Africa's health minister. Still, with the World Health Organization announcing Friday Omicron  is a "variant of concern" and vaccine manufacturer Moderna adding the variant poses "a significant potential risk," alarm bells are sounding in the United States and across the world about what it may mean for all of us. This new variant may simply be a continuation of the same battle against Covid-19 that began in early 2020. But vaccine makers say there's a possibility our vaccines won't be effective against Omicron. Are we at risk of going back to square one against the pandemic?  While we await more details from scientists, this is the time for President Joe Biden and his administration to give a master class in effective and honest leadership in the face of a potential new crisis. Biden has already stepped up on that front, announcing just hours after South Africa's health minister released information about the new variant, flights have been banned from seven African nations where the variant has been spreading (in contrast, in early 2020, Former President Donald Trump waited until after 45 other countries had banned flights from China — given the virus spread there — to impose a ban of flights from that nation into the United States). From here, Biden should hold regular press briefings to update Americans on new developments, and, as he did when he first took office, these coronavirus briefings should be led by medical experts who can provide scientifically-based information to a nation eager to know. But Biden should be there himself to show Americans he is in charge, and on top of this. In a crisis, Americans look to the President for leadership. In fact, in March 2020, at the outset of the pandemic, then President Trump saw his approval ratings rise as Americans rallied around him in the face of a crisis. But the bump in the polls for Trump was short-lived. No doubt Trump's plummeting approval ratings were caused by his spewing lies and misinformation about the virus, even suggesting ingesting "disinfectants" to defeat it. Trump also chose to model dangerous  behavior during the pandemic by literally mocking people for wearing masks and repeatedly holding events in violation of social distancing guidelines at a time when there were no vaccines to protect us. PolitiFact summed up well Trump's overall message about the deadly pandemic: "The threat to your health was overhyped to hurt the political fortunes of the president."   Even though Trump is out of office, we got a reminder Friday of Trumpian-style lies about the virus from Trump's former advisor Stephen Miller. While on Fox News, Miller declared if Trump were still in office, "We would already have modified vaccines that deal with the new variant." Obviously, that's a lie. The variant was only first announced on Thursday and vaccine manufacturers explained Friday it will take about two weeks to study Omicron. From there, if all goes well, it will take about six weeks to adapt their vaccines accordingly, with the hope being 100 days later a "reformulated" vaccine can be rolled out.  If Trump were in office — given his track record — it's far more likely he would have dismissed the new variant as "fake news," or at least downplayed, if he felt it would hurt him or the GOP politically. But the bar for Biden's leadership is not — and cannot be — simply being better than a failed, one-term President. Biden shouldn't be hesitant in delivering the hard truths to the public. He should also announce plans now about how he would rapidly deliver the new Omicron-tweaked vaccine shots into arms, if needed, much the way his administration did with the original vaccines after he took office. (Reminder: When Biden took office, the Trump administration was averaging a little over 700,000 vaccines injected a day. Biden expanded that to averaging over three million vaccines a day within a few months before the numbers declined). This is not about politics but saving lives, and our economy. This is a time for President Biden to show Americans what effective, science-driven, compassionate leadership looks like. It's a crisis like this that explains why Americans chose to elect Joe Biden as president.  
Vaccine inequity and hesitancy made the Omicron variant more likely, scientists say.  (CNN)Many of the world's richest countries have spent the past year hoarding coronavirus vaccines, buying up enough doses to vaccinate their populations several times over and consistently failing to deliver on their promises to share doses with the developing world. The World Health Organization said the approach was "self-defeating" and "immoral."It might be starting to bite. A new and potentially more transmissible variant of the virus likely emerged from a region with low vaccination rates.The new variant, known as Omicron, was first identified in South Africa, although it is unclear whether it originated there or whether it was brought into the country from elsewhere in the region. What scientists do know is that the virus is much more likely to mutate in places where vaccination is low and transmission high."It has probably emerged in another country and has been detected in South Africa, which has very, very good genomic sequencing capacity and capability ... it might well be a consequence of an outbreak, probably in some parts of sub-Saharan Africa, where there's not a huge amount of genomic surveillance going on and vaccination rate is low," Michael Head, a senior research fellow in global health at the University of Southampton, told CNN in a phone interview.Head said the emergence of new variants was "a natural consequence of being too slow to vaccinate the world." "We still have large unvaccinated populations, like we have across sub-Saharan Africa, and these are susceptible to big outbreaks," he said. New variants of the virus that have caused problems in the past, Head added, have all emerged from places that experienced big, uncontrolled outbreaks, such as when the Alpha variant was first detected in the UK last December, or the Delta variant that was first found in India in February. The Omicron variant is already spreading across the world -- as of Sunday, it has been detected in a number of countries including South Africa, Botswana, Australia, the UK, Germany, Italy and Belgium. Many countries across the world have reacted to the news that South African scientists discovered the new variant by swiftly shutting their borders to travelers coming from countries in the region, including South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique and Malawi.But scientists and public health experts and advocates have warned that the huge gap between vaccination rates in the developed and developing world is likely to blame. Jeremy Farrar, the director of the Wellcome Trust, a health research charity, said the new variant shows why the world needs to ensure more equitable access to vaccines and other public health tools."New variants are a reminder, if we needed it, that the pandemic is far from over," he said on Twitter. "Inequity is what will extend the pandemic."According to the World Health Organization (WHO), only 7.5% of people in low-income countries have received at least one dose of the coronavirus vaccine. Across the eight countries most affected by the travel bans related to the Omicron variant, the proportion of populations that have had at least one vaccine dose ranges from 5.6% in Malawi to 37% in Botswana.Meanwhile, 63.9% of people in high-income countries have received at least one shot, according to WHO. In both the European Union and the United States, around 70% of people have received at least one shot, according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.While there are many reasons why a country might have a lower inoculation rate -- vaccine hesitancy remains a big problem in many countries, including South Africa -- Head said the lack of access to doses is a major problem. "One contribution to this is the richer countries hoarding doses above and beyond of what we actually need and not following through on commitments to donate vaccines to COVAX or directly to countries themselves," he said. COVAX is WHO's global vaccine-sharing program. As of last month, 537 million doses have been shipped through the scheme to 144 countries -- a small proportion of the 7.9 billion doses have been administered globally so far. WHO's target of having 40% of population of all countries vaccinated by the end of 2021 and 70% by the middle of next year appears to be out of reach, with only two African countries -- Morocco and Tunisia -- currently on track to reach the goal.Writing in The Guardian newspaper on Saturday, Gordon Brown, WHO's ambassador for global health financing and former UK Prime Minister, said that the world's "failure to put vaccines into the arms of people in the developing world is now coming back to haunt us. We were forewarned -- and yet here we are.""In the absence of mass vaccination, Covid is not only spreading uninhibited among unprotected people but is mutating, with new variants emerging out of the poorest countries and now threatening to unleash themselves on even fully vaccinated people in the richest countries of the world," he wrote.Head agreed with that assessment. "It's totally coming back to bite us ... until the pandemic is settled ... and that involves vaccinating every corner of the world, then it may well rebound, we saw that with Delta in India."And Dr. Richard Lessells, an infectious diseases specialist at the University of KwaZulu-Natal in Durban, South Africa, said the reaction of the rich world to the news that South African scientists discovered a new variant was an example of its own selfishness. "What I found disgusting and really distressing ... was not just the travel ban being implemented by the UK and Europe but that that was the only reaction, or the strongest reaction. "There was no word of support that they're going to offer to African countries to help us control the pandemic and particularly no mention of addressing this vaccine inequity that we have been warning about all year and [of which] we are now seeing the consequences play out," he told CNN.
Philadelphia 76ers star Joel Embiid on bout with Covid-19: 'I really thought I wasn't going to make it'.  (CNN)Philadelphia 76ers star Joel Embiid returned to the court on Saturday night after being forced to miss nine games due to a positive Covid-19 resultEmbiid told reporters after the game he thought he wasn't going to make it."That jawn hit me hard," Embiid said. "I really thought I wasn't going to make it. It was that bad. So, I'm just thankful to be sitting here. I struggled with it, but I'm just glad I got over it and I'm just here.""Jawn" is Philadelphia slang, which can be used in place of almost any noun.Embiid said he had trouble breathing and had "headaches worse than migraines.""The whole body was just done, I guess. It was not a good time," Embiid added.CNN has reached out to the 76ers to confirm Embiid's vaccination status, but the team wouldn't confirm.Embiid finished the game with 42 points and 14 rebounds in 45 minutes played in the 121-120 double overtime loss to the Minnesota Timberwolves."Honestly, I did not think I was going to play tonight after the workout last night," Embiid said. "Really couldn't go up and down more than three times. I guess, to me it's a miracle I even played this many minutes."The 76ers are currently 10-10 on the season and are next scheduled to play Monday against the Orlando Magic.
Taiwan scrambles fighters to see off Chinese warplanes as Xi meets top brass. Taipei (Reuters)Taiwan's air force scrambled again on Sunday to warn away 27 Chinese aircraft that entered its air defense zone, Taiwan's Defense Ministry said, the latest increase in tensions across the Taiwan Strait as China's President met his top generals.Chinese-claimed Taiwan has complained for a year or more of repeated missions by China's air force near the democratically governed island, often in the southwestern part of its air defense identification zone, or ADIZ, close to the Taiwan-controlled Pratas Islands.Taiwan calls China's repeated nearby military activities "gray zone" warfare, designed to both wear out Taiwan's forces by making them repeatedly scramble, and also to test Taiwan's responses.Over a four-day period beginning on October 1, when China marked its national day, Taiwan said that nearly 150 PLA military aircraft entered its ADIZ, not territorial air space but a broader area Taiwan monitors and patrols that acts to give it more time to respond to any threats.The latest Chinese mission included 18 fighters jets plus five nuclear-capable H-6 bombers, as well as, unusually, a Y-20 aerial refueling aircraft, the Taiwan ministry said.The bombers and six of the fighters flew to the south of Taiwan into the Bashi Channel which separates the island from the Philippines, then out into the Pacific before heading back to China, according to a map the ministry provided.Those aircraft were accompanied by the refueling aircraft, suggesting China refueled the shorter-ranged fighters inflight, a skill that the country's air force is still working to hone to enable it to project power further from China's shores.Taiwan sent combat aircraft to warn away the Chinese aircraft, while missile systems were deployed to monitor them, the ministry said.There was no immediate comment from China, which has in the past said such moves were drills aimed at protecting the country's sovereignty.However, Chinese state media reported that President Xi Jinping had held a three-day meeting which ended on Sunday with the country's top officers to discuss how further to strengthen the armed forces through talent cultivation.While the read out of his remarks made no direct mention of Taiwan, Xi did stress the need to modernize the military to be able to win wars."It is necessary to make great efforts to strengthen scientific and technological literacy and improve the actual ability to win modern wars," the official Xinhua news agency cited Xi as saying."It is necessary to strengthen practical experience and encourage and guide officers and soldiers to experience the wind and rain, see the world, strengthen their muscles and bones, and develop their talents in fiery military practice."
A small-town mom wanted to help her community. And then the community took aim at her child . Hastings, Minnesota (CNN)Kelsey and Chris Waits moved to Hastings, Minnesota, to build a dream home for themselves and their two children.  Chris had a promising job opportunity when he left the Navy but it was the neighborhood that drew them in.  "Kelsey said, 'Well, I hope the interview went well because we're moving here. This town is great, this town is perfect, this is what I want,'" Chris recalled his wife telling him.  The city of about 22,000 people is close enough to Minneapolis to be a distant suburb but just far enough away to be surrounded by green Midwest farmland. The historic downtown is in great shape, with a spiffy park along the Mississippi.  All around are nice houses, nice cars, nice shopping. But when the pandemic put pressure on the community, cracks began to appear. Stressed by school closures and debate over wearing masks, some neighbors started taking aim at the school board.  Kelsey Waits was the face and voice of that school board as its chair. The ugliness that followed in Kelsey's unsuccessful race to be re-elected to the board now has the Waits packing up their dream home to move -- and their love for Hastings likely tainted forever. "I do feel really betrayed by this community," Kelsey told CNN. "Not because I lost but because not only did people attack a child, but so many of them sat by and allowed it to happen."  Stepping up  The move to a new place proved bumpy for the Waits' oldest child, Abby, who struggled so much in classes that Kelsey decided to home-school her.  It hadn't been in the family plans, but it was something they could do and make a success of, Kelsey said.  Realizing that other children might have similar needs to Abby, now 11, but be in the public school system because their families did not have the means or desire to home-school, Kelsey says she decided to run for the school board to be their voice.  She'd been active in local Republican politics as a young woman, but became disillusioned and drifted away, particularly over the opposition to same-sex marriage. She says she was progressive on lesbian, gay and bisexual issues, but transgender people were not on her radar.  The 2016 election persuaded her to get involved again, but her interest in the school board proved confusing to some. "They just couldn't figure out why a home-school mom wanted to be on school board," Kelsey said.  So she knocked on doors, children often in tow, explained her goals and in 2017, she won the third seat on the Hastings School Board by 104 votes.  The school board work fascinated her, and she went back to college to study public policy and learn how public servants could be more effective.  She also impressed her fellow members and in January 2020, they elected her board chair, just two years into her first term.  And then the coronavirus pandemic swept through the US, bringing fear, lockdowns and closed schools.  At the start, Kelsey says she felt the community rallied together and dealt as best it could with the spring semester of distance-learning.  Tensions rose as the new academic year approached. And as the chair, it was Kelsey's role to speak for the board and answer all questions.  "I probably got about the same number of emails from parents saying, 'My child is not going to school if masks are required' as "My child is not going to school if masks aren't required,'" she said. "This community was very split and there were very strong feelings on both sides." But still, this seemed to the Waits to be usual politics within an interested community, even if some chose to attack Kelsey personally.  And then what Kelsey said was her most precious secret was revealed and used against her.  'Your little girl'  Chris and Kelsey's younger child was always the extrovert in the family.  Assigned male at birth, they were into more traditionally feminine things -- if there was a truck being played with, it was likely being driven by a Disney princess -- so the couple took it in stride when their child asked for a Kit Kittredge American Girl doll for a fourth birthday present. Kelsey wondered about the future but Chris just thought it was his child responding to living with a mother and sister while he was deployed overseas with the Navy Reserve."So we got this doll and Kit's eyes just lit up. And Kit was so happy and so excited to get this doll," Kelsey said. "About a week later, when dad was in Japan, and I was standing right there in the kitchen, Kit walks up to me and goes, 'Mom, can you call me Kit?' And my stomach dropped a little bit. Because all of a sudden, maybe things were making a little more sense. Click. And I said, 'Sure. Still my little ... boy?" And Kit goes, 'No, your little girl.'  "I was like, 'Absolutely, sweetie, you got it.' And then I ran into the other room with a panic attack and called Daddy in Japan and said, 'What the heck just happened?'"  Neither parent said they knew much about trans kids, and decided to let Kit be Kit while they figured things out.  It quickly became clear something very real was going on. When another fourth birthday gift arrived -- a custom Paw Patrol shirt bearing Kit's birth name -- Kelsey found herself face-to-face with something she had never seen.  "Kit saw that name on the shirt and shut down and walked across the room and sat in my lap and cried and didn't say anything to me. Just cried," Kelsey said. "That was my wake-up moment for this. This is the real thing. This is not a normal response from a child. This was not a temper tantrum fit. This was a kid who went into a very deep, dark place."  Kit's coming out lost the family some relatives and some friends who were unwilling to accept their identity. But it was not an issue that had to be addressed much more broadly.  And Kit, now 8 years old, wore their dresses, went to school, played with their friends and their toys, and lived a life familiar to any suburban kid.  'Most precious secret' Kelsey had thought about her own children before running for the school board, aware that putting her family into the public spotlight, however dim, had its risks for their privacy.  She says she ran to work for the community, especially the students.  "Being on school board is not about my kid. It's about protecting all kids. And transgender students are the most at-risk students in our schools for attempting suicide," she said.  She supported diversity in schools but the biggest goal pre-pandemic was creating an onboarding handbook for new members to explain the board's role as well as spelling out the myriad acronyms that can baffle a newcomer.  Then Covid hit and interest in and scrutiny of the work of school boards intensified in Hastings as across the country.  Central among concerns were mask mandates -- and in Minnesota the governor delegated the decision-making to local authorities. In Hastings, neighbors organized against mask mandates in a Facebook group  called "Conservative Parents of Hastings" when it was formed in July. A few weeks later that was changed to "Concerned Parents of Hastings." The group was closed, but it's a small town and Kelsey knew parents in the group and she knew they were working against her.   "I'm fine with that. That's politics," she said. "People can say they're frustrated with me, I understand that. Completely fine."  But after one parent posted a long complaint about a whole host of things involving Kelsey, another parent went uglier.   "She should be locked up for child abuse," the parent wrote. "Her younger 'daughter' is actually a boy."  Others jumped in, attacking the Waits as "woke parents" who had pushed their views onto their child.  Kelsey soon found out what was being written. "This was my most precious secret. The thing I protected most and the thing I was most afraid of ever being used in a political way because for me, this isn't political. This is my family, this is my child," she said. "I dropped to the floor, and I cried."  Kelsey decided to appeal to decency, writing a letter to the editor of the local paper.  "Even in this time of political division, a line must exist," she wrote. "Families are off limits,  this is true for my family and the family of anyone running for or holding office."  On Facebook, some of the "Concerned Parents" reacted with glee. "We made the paper!" one wrote. "Please inform Ms. Waits of our appreciation for the free press."  Local politics spurred safety concerns The hate spread and so did the Waits' fears.  "Every interaction we have with new people is me trying to figure out if my child is safe," Kelsey said.  "I'm not talking about if my kid's going to have fun with their kids, it's trying to figure out if my child is ... safe in that household?"  Kelsey and Chris held on to their anxiety for a month or so before the new school year loomed and they felt they needed to let their children know what people were saying to prepare them.  Acquaintances who had always known Kit as Kit started using the wrong pronouns for them.  And by the time of the election, winning was not on Kelsey's priority list.  She says she still campaigned and believed in what she was doing, but the issue had become not about politics but about her. Even more than about her motherhood, this had implications for the safety of her child. "You out a kid before they're ready, you're subjecting them to that sort of behavior that's going to increase their risk of suicide," Kelsey said. "This is not about my parenting practices. This is about the lives of kids."  She lost her bid for re-election by 403 votes, a result that Chris admits seemed like a relief.  But he says the election did not end the abuse. It may even have spread. The day after the election Chris says he was told by another parent that a middle-schooler was approached by another student and told: "My mom says that we won so now we can deal with sickos like you."  So the Waits are moving from the dream house they designed, the one where Kelsey spent hours hand painting murals. They are seeking more privacy, and they believe safety, in a new address that has not been publicized.  "That's where we're at right now. There are people that we know, that are not safe for our kids in our neighborhood," Chris said. "We can't trust our kids alone at the bus stop waiting for the bus, not because of the kids necessarily, but because of the parents."  They don't want to go too far from the city they thought would be their home forever, but they do need time and a safe space, to move forward, Kelsey said.  She still wants to serve the community and says she's not the type to let bullies win. But she needs to heal from being hurled into the gutter of American politics for running for a school board.  "I think with time, I will find forgiveness," she says. "I think it's going to take time."   
Defense Department wants former Sec. Esper to take out parts about Trump from forthcoming book, suit says.  (CNN)Former Secretary of Defense Mark Esper is suing the Department of Defense for not clearing his book manuscript for publication, after the agency told Esper he needed to take out parts of the book about his time working under then-President Donald Trump.Esper's disputes with the agency happened during the pre-publication review of his manuscript, a typical process government officials must go through to receive approval when writing about their service, so that state secrets and other protected information isn't made public. Beginning in October, a DoD staff member told Esper he needed to make redactions to his book, according to his lawsuit filed Sunday.Esper said the requested redactions covered quotes from Trump and others, conversations he had with Trump, and his views related to foreign countries. Trump fired Esper by tweet in early November 2020, days after losing the presidential election. Esper's increasingly tense relationship with Trump led him to prepare a letter of resignation weeks before, in an attempt to fashion a graceful exit in the widely expected event that the President decided to fire him, several defense sources previously told CNN.The New York Times first reported Esper's lawsuit.Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said in a statement, "We are aware of Mr. Esper's concerns regarding the pre-publication of his memoir. As with all such reviews, the Department takes seriously its obligation to balance national security with an author's narrative desire. Given that this matter is now under litigation, we will refrain from commenting further."In the Sunday filing, Esper's attorneys wrote that making the redactions "would be a serious injustice to important moments in history that the American people need to know and understand."But after the Defense Department spoke to him about the redactions, stories about the former secretary's time working for Trump then leaked to the press, he said, prompting Esper to believe the leaks were meant to "undermine the impact" information in his book would have if it first was made public in his forthcoming book.Esper added that he didn't believe the DoD's proposed redactions were classified information, according to his lawsuit. He said he reached out to the current Secretary of Defense, Lloyd Austin, earlier this month and didn't receive a response. Esper has now asked the DC District Court to allow the publication of unclassified information in the book.A HarperCollins imprint set a publication date of May 2022 for the book, titled "A Sacred Oath," the lawsuit said.This is the second time a high-ranking Trump official has had a public standoff with the agency he worked for over information he wanted to include in a book slated for publication. Esper's dispute arose after the Trump administration ended. A previous situation, where the Justice Department unsuccessfully sued former National Security Adviser John Bolton over a book he wrote that was heavily critical of Trump and did not get full sign-off to publish, played out while Trump was still President and, according to former officials, was disputed as a way to protect Trump politically. The Biden administration dropped the government's pursuit of Bolton in June."It was highly unusual for someone as high as a cabinet official to not have additional opportunities to discuss any expressed government concerns," Esper's attorney Mark Zaid said in a statement on Sunday. "Secretary Esper is the highest ranking official who has sued in order to challenge redactions. Unlike [Bolton], Secretary Esper is adhering and advancing the rule of law."Esper broke with Trump at various times during his time as defense secretary, including over the former President's plans to withdraw all US troops from Afghanistan, but the rift deepened in summer 2020 when he said he did not support using active-duty troops to quell the large-scale protests across the United States triggered by the killing of George Floyd at the hands of police.
The attacks on the 2024 election are already underway . Joshua A. Douglas is a law professor at the University of Kentucky J. David Rosenberg College of Law. He is the author of Vote for US: How to Take Back Our Elections and Change the Future of Voting. Find him at www.joshuaadouglas.com and follow him on Twitter @JoshuaADouglas.   (CNN)The foundations for a potential coup of the 2024 election are already being put into place. The very institutions that are supposed to protect our democracy are a big part of the problem.If Donald Trump steals the election in 2024, as he tried to do in 2020, it will likely be because he and his supporters are laying the groundwork right now. They are infecting key government institutions that can be exploited to thwart the will of the voters.    The Supreme Court is the first major concern. With three Trump appointees, the Court has upheld restrictive state voting rules and deferred to state legislatures on how to run elections, failing to protect the constitutional right to vote. In several cases leading up to the November 2020 election, the Court rejected lower court rulings that would have made it easier for voters to cast their ballots during a pandemic and have those votes count. In case after case, the Court essentially ignored the plight of voters and instead upheld states' authority to run an election as they see fit.That undue deference to states did not start in 2020. In a series of cases over the past few decades, the Court has required voters to show with specificity how a voting rule would burden their constitutional rights. But it has credited a state's generalized interest in rooting out voter fraud, even if the state cannot offer much evidence voter fraud is a real problem that needs fixing. The Court also essentially gutted the Voting Rights Act of 1965, which helped to secure minority voting rights in the face of racial discrimination, both in the Shelby County, Alabama case in 2013 and in a case this past July, in which the conservative majority set out rules that make it much harder for plaintiffs to bring a successful claim that a voting law has a disproportionate effect on minority voters.States are now emboldened to pass ever more restrictive voting rules, as we have seen in places like Georgia and Texas. Those rules will operate to make it easier for incumbent legislators to stay in power. Instead of a constitutional right to vote, we have a constitutional right for states to administer their elections however they want, with little fear of judicial oversight.  Next, state legislatures are skewing democracy through partisan gerrymandering, as they draw district maps to ensure their side has the best chance of winning a majority of seats. Already, reports suggest Republicans have gerrymandered enough congressional maps to easily flip at least five seats and take over control of the House of Representatives in 2022. Democrats are not blameless on this front, as they have also proposed egregious gerrymanders in places like Illinois. Politicians are choosing their voters instead of the other way around. And states are freer to engage in this gamesmanship knowing the Supreme Court will not intervene, as it ruled in 2019 the federal courthouse doors are closed to claims of unlawful partisan gerrymandering. A gerrymandered legislature cannot be trusted to carry out the will of the voters, which is especially dangerous if there are disputes over Electoral College votes in 2024.Finally, Trump supporters who believe—without any evidence whatsoever—that Joe Biden did not legitimately win the 2020 election are running for elected positions that will allow them to control the vote casting and counting process. The attempted coup in 2020 did not work in part because Republican election officials such as Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger refused to go along. Recall that Trump had asked Raffensperger to "find" 11,780 additional votes to allow him to win the state. Raffensperger recognized Trump was asking him to overturn the will of the voters. But if a Trump acolyte such as Rep. Jody Hice, who is running against Raffensperger, wins the seat, who knows if a similar request in 2024 will be rejected. Some state legislatures are also authorizing the potential takeover of local boards of election. Republicans in Wisconsin are reportedly considering a brazen move to disband the bipartisan state election commission, in an attempt to give themselves more authority over elections. Many election officials are leaving their posts in response to a constant barrage of harassment stemming from their work in 2020.   This attack on American democracy is multifaceted and the various strands reinforce each other. It's a vicious cycle. In 2024, we can't be sure these institutions will uphold the will of the voters.What can be done? First, because the Supreme Court is unlikely to suddenly change its jurisprudence to protect the right to vote, state courts must step in to fill the void to strike down the worst partisan gerrymanders and restrictive election rules. State constitutions have language that explicitly protects the right to vote and many also say elections must be "free and equal" or "free and open," so state courts should use those clauses robustly. Both the North Carolina and Pennsylvania Supreme Courts invoked state constitutional language to invalidate partisan gerrymandering in their states in the last round of redistricting; other courts should now follow their lead.In addition, we must treat the 2022 election as existential for the continued vitality of our democracy. Secretary of state races in places like Georgia and Michigan are perhaps the most important elections on the ballot, because they will determine who will run the 2024 election in those states. We must elect individuals who are committed to democracy, not just loyal to a particular candidate. We also must fill vacancies in local election offices with people dedicated to democracy.   Finally, Congress must pass meaningful voting rights reform. The 2024 election should be decided by all eligible voters, not just those who are able to jump through the various hoops states have set up. Republicans should negotiate with Democrats in Congress on best practices for election administration and independent redistricting. And if Republicans refuse to even come to the negotiating table, then Democrats will have the moral standing to go it alone and scuttle the filibuster to enact democracy reform.American democracy barely survived 2020. The attacks on 2024 are already underway. Whether they succeed will depend on what we do right now.
The latest in the January 6 investigation.  (CNN)The House select committee investigating the January 6 US Capitol riot is touting its extensive number of interviews and subpoenas, but a court hearing Tuesday may determine how much lawmakers will eventually be able to accomplish in their probe.Here's what's next and what you may have missed in the investigation:The Trump recordsA three-judge panel of the DC Circuit Court of Appeals will hear former President Donald Trump's latest effort to stop the National Archives from turning over documents from around January 6 to the House.Trump is claiming executive privilege, but the current White House says that's not his call to make anymore and is happy to assist the investigation. A district court judge ruled against Trump, writing: "Presidents are not kings. And Plaintiff is not President."But the handover is on hold pending the appeal.Roger Stone and Alex Jones get subpoenasThe panel subpoenaed five Trump allies directly involved in planning "Stop the Steal" rallies, including longtime Republican operative Roger Stone and conspiracy theorist Alex Jones.Dustin Stockton and Jennifer Lawrence, key players in the "Stop the Steal" movement after the election, and Taylor Budowich, who is currently the primary political spokesperson for the former President and serves as communications director for the Save America PAC, were also issued subpoenas.The 1st Amendment PraetorianAlso getting subpoenas was 1st Amendment Praetorian, a group founded in 2020 that recruits military veterans and former police officers to provide security at right-wing events.The group provided security at pro-Trump rallies in November and December 2020 that were followed by violence and arrests on the streets of DC. The group's founder, Robert Patrick Lewis, was a featured speaker at a January 5 event. He invoked the American Revolution in his brief address to the crowd, where he compared the "Stop the Steal" movement to George Washington's surprise attack on pro-British troops after crossing the Delaware River in 1776, CNN's Marshall Cohen reported.Mark Meadows -- will he answer questions?The cat-and-mouse game with former White House chief of staff Mark Meadows continues. Rep. Adam Schiff, a California Democrat who's a member of the House select committee, told CNN over the weekend that the committee will decide "this week" on whether it will refer Meadows for criminal contempt charges for defying a subpoena earlier this month, failing to turn over documents or appear for a deposition.Schiff told CNN Sunday: "I can't go into ... what communications that we're having or haven't had with particular witnesses, but we are moving with alacrity with anyone who obstructs the committee, and that was certainly the case with Mr. (Steve) Bannon," referring to the Trump ally who is pleading not guilty to the criminal contempt of Congress charges against him. "It will be the case with Mr. Meadows, and Mr. (Jeffrey) Clark or any others."Former Justice Department official Jeffrey Clark earlier this month stonewalled the House select committee, responding to a subpoena demanding he appear for an interview with the panel, but not answering questions posed to him, sources familiar with his appearance told CNN at the time.Democratic Rep. Pete Aguilar of California, another select committee member, told CNN's Jim Acosta on Saturday that Meadows still has a "small window in which he can still comply here ... But if he doesn't comply, the committee has made very clear just as we did with Steve Bannon that we're willing to use whatever means necessary."Committee members said recently that many of the questions for Meadows have nothing to do with Trump himself and that they wouldn't be subject to an executive privilege argument.RELATED: Meadows slams McCarthy and suggests Trump should be elected speaker if Republicans win HouseAguilar previously told CNN of Meadows: "His conversations about stopping a free and fair election, about criticizing and stopping the counting of electoral votes, about his coordination with campaign officials on private devices that were not turned over, all of those issues are not privilege worthy and he has some explaining to do."
Tony Bennett, 95, leaves his heart onstage in a moving final concert with Lady Gaga .  (CNN)Tony Bennett won over generations of fans crooning "I Left My Heart in San Francisco." And on his 95th birthday, the beloved singer left his heart on the stage of Radio City Music Hall.Six months after Bennett and his family revealed he is suffering from Alzheimer's, Bennett sang alongside Lady Gaga before sold-out crowds in a two-concert series in early August billed as his final New York performances. Now the rest of the world has a chance to take in the moving August 3 show in a TV special, "One Last Time: An Evening With Tony Bennett and Lady Gaga," which aired Sunday on CBS.In addition to his signature song, Bennett performed standards like "Fly Me to the Moon" and "Steppin' Out With My Baby" and duets with Lady Gaga including "Love For Sale" and "Anything Goes." His family members have said sometimes Bennett doesn't know where he is and what is happening around him. But onstage in the TV special, the legendary performer didn't miss a beat.Belting out "New York, New York" before Bennett took the stage, Lady Gaga teared up when she paused to talk about him."He's my friend. He's my musical companion. And he's the greatest singer in the whole world. And I'm counting on you, New York, to make him smile. So you better cheer. You better yell. You better laugh. You better cry. You better give your soul."The Radio City Music Hall audience held up its end of the bargain. Bennett got his first standing ovation before even singing a note -- and racked up at least a dozen more throughout the night. In "Fly Me to the Moon," when he crooned the line, "Let me sing forever more," the audience erupted in cheers. At one point the camera panned to an audience member shouting, "We love you!" Bennett, whose singing career spans eight decades, is no stranger to performing for throngs of adoring fans. Still, before the concert, family members told "60 Minutes" they weren't sure what would happen during the show. But wife Susan Benedetto said that once she saw him onstage that night, his eyes twinkling and arms outstretched toward the crowd, she knew everything would be alright."He became himself. He just turned on. It was like a light switch," she told "60 Minutes" in a segment that aired last month.That's because music and performing are so ingrained in the singer, according to Bennett's neurologist, Dr. Gayatri Devi. "People respond differently based on their strengths. In Tony's case, it's his musical memory his ability to be a performer. Those are an innate and hardwired part of his brain," Devi said on "60 Minutes." "So even though he doesn't know what the day might be, or where his apartment is, he still can sing the whole repertoire of the American Songbook and move people."Bennett released his first album with Lady Gaga in 2014. Their latest collaboration, a Cole Porter tribute album titled "Love For Sale," was released in October. Last week it garnered six Grammy nominations.After the nominations, Lady Gaga told BBC Radio 2's "The Zoe Ball Breakfast Show" that it's been heartbreaking to watch what Bennett is going through. She told "60 Minutes" that Bennett had been calling her "Sweetheart" every time she'd seen him since the pandemic began, and she wasn't sure he knew who she was.But when she came onstage to join him during the Radio City Music Hall concert, Bennett appeared to have no doubt. "Wow," he said as she twirled around in a shimmering gold gown. "Lady Gaga!"A look of joy flashed across Lady Gaga's face. She bent over, her head in her hands, before doing another twirl."I had to keep it together, because we had a sold-out show and I had a job to do," Lady Gaga told "60 Minutes." "But I'll tell you, when I walked out on that stage, and he said, 'Lady Gaga,' my friend saw me, and it was very special."After the successful Radio City Music Hall shows, Bennett canceled future tour appearances. His son and manager Danny Bennett told Variety those New York concerts would be his last."This was a hard decision for us to make, as he is a capable performer. This is, however, doctors' orders," Danny Bennett said. "It's not the singing aspect but, rather, the traveling. Look, he gets tired. The decision is being made that doing concerts now is just too much for him." Lady Gaga told "60 Minutes" she heard a powerful message in Bennett's last Radio City Music Hall performances."It's not a sad story. It's emotional. It's hard to watch somebody change. I think what's been beautiful about this, and what's been challenging, is to see how it affects him in some ways, but to see how it doesn't affect his talent," she said. "I think he really pushed through something to give the world the gift of knowing that things can change, and you can still be magnificent." 
Matthew McConaughey will not run for Texas governor.  (CNN)Actor Matthew McConaughey announced Sunday that a future in political leadership is not in the cards -- right now. After acknowledging that he had taken time exploring politics and considered a run for the governor of Texas, McConaughey said in a video message on Twitter that he's decided to focus his efforts in the private sector."As a simple kid born in the little town of Uvalde, Texas, it never occurred to me that I would one day be considered for political leadership. It is a humbling and inspiring path to ponder. It is also a path that I'm choosing not to take at this moment," he said.The decision brings an end to months of speculation about McConaughey's political ambitions in Texas after he publicly signaled interest in launching a gubernatorial campaign. The "Dallas Buyers Club" actor, who grew up in Texas, would've been something of a political wild card in what is shaping up to be one of the most high-profile contests in 2022."I'm measuring it," he had said of running for office on a podcast in September. "Look, it's going to be in some capacity. ... I just -- I'm more of a folksy and philosopher poet statesman than I am a, per se, definitive politician."He continued, "So I go, well, that's a reason not to, but then I go, no, that's exactly why you should, because politics needs redefinition, but I'm measuring, you know, what is my category? What's my embassy?"The actor said in his video Sunday that he has learned "a lot" studying Texas and American politics and that "our politics needs new purpose. That we have divides that need healing." McConaughey said that he is going to continue to support entrepreneurs, businesses and foundations that he "believes are leaders.""Establishments that I believe are creating pathways for people to succeed in life. Organizations that have a mission to serve and build trust while also generating prosperity -- that's the American dream," he said. "Politicians, the good ones, can help us get to where we need to go ... but let's be clear, they can't do anything for us unless we choose to do for ourselves."The Texas gubernatorial race began to draw national attention in earnest earlier this month when Beto O'Rourke, the former Texas congressman who ran unsuccessfully for the US Senate in 2018 and the Democratic presidential nomination in 2020, launched his campaign, which many Democrats in the state had identified as the party's only chance of denying Republican Gov. Greg Abbott a third term.This story has been updated with additional information Sunday.
Barbados is ready to ditch Britain's Queen. For many in the country, the move has been a long time coming.  (CNN)Queen Elizabeth will have one less realm after this week, when Barbados severs its final imperial links to Britain by removing the 95-year-old as its head of state and declaring itself a republic. The former British colony -- which gained independence in 1966 -- revived its plan to become a republic last September with the country's governor general, Sandra Mason, saying, "the time has come to fully leave our colonial past behind."Mason, a 73-year-old former jurist, will be sworn in as the first-ever president of the island nation of just under 300,000 at a ceremony late on Monday night. The Barbadian parliament elected Mason last month.Present at the festivities will be Prince Charles, heir to the British throne and future head of the Commonwealth, a 54-member organization of mostly former British territories. He accepted an invitation from Prime Minister Mia Amor Mottley to be guest of honor at the transition celebrations, according to Clarence House. "Becoming a republic is a coming of age," said Guy Hewitt, who served as Barbados high commissioner to the United Kingdom between 2014 and 2018. "I make the analogy to when a child grows up and gets their own house, gets their own mortgage, gives their parents back the keys because it says we are moving on."Barbados's decision marks the first time in nearly three decades that a realm has opted to remove the British monarch as head of state. The last nation to do so was the island of Mauritius in 1992. Like that country, Barbados too intends to remain part of the Commonwealth. A royal source told CNN last year the decision was a matter for the government and people of Barbados, adding that it was not "out of the blue" and had been "mooted and publicly talked" about many times.Colonial pastThe changeover comes nearly 400 years since the first English ship arrived on the most easterly of the Caribbean islands. Barbados was Britain's oldest colony, settled in 1627, and "governed in an unbroken way by the English Crown to 1966," according to Richard Drayton, professor of imperial and global history at Kings College London.  "At the same time, Barbados also provided an important source of private wealth in 17th and 18th-century England," he said, adding that many made substantial family fortunes from sugar and slavery. "It was the first laboratory for English colonialism in the tropics," added Drayton, who grew up in the country. "It is in Barbados that the English first pass laws, which distinguish the rights of people who they call 'Negroes,' from those who are not, and it is the precedence set in Barbados in terms of economy and law, which then come to be transferred to Jamaica, and the Carolinas and the rest of the Caribbean, along with institutions of that colony." A decades-old debateThe writing has long been on the wall for a break-up between Barbados and Britain, with many calling for the removal of the Queen's status over the years, according to Cynthia Barrow-Giles, a professor of constitutional governance and politics at The University of the West Indies (UWI) at Cave Hill, Barbados. She told CNN the desire to become a republic is more than 20 years old and "reflected the input in the governance consultations across the island and its diaspora.""The conclusion then was very simple," Barrow-Giles said. "Barbados had reached the stage of maturity in its political evolution where what ought to have been part and parcel of the movement to independence was not for pragmatic reasons. Fifty-five years later this failure is rectified by a prime minister who is determined to complete the process of nation-building which has obviously stalled for the last four decades or so."She explained that while most Barbadians are supportive of the transition, there has been some concern over the approach to it. Others have questioned the timeframe of just over a year that the government gave itself to make the transition, aligning the birth of the republic with the country's 55th anniversary of independence on Tuesday. Hewitt believes Mottley's government wanted to act quickly to "try to take attention off of what is a very difficult time in Barbados.""The world suffers and struggles against the Covid-19 pandemic, but for Barbados, as a tourist-based economy, it has been particularly difficult," he said. "If you accept the notion of a republic being a system being given to the people, the challenge we face is there's not been a lot of consultation on becoming a republic. Yes, it was included in the throne speech. But the people of Barbados have not been part of this journey." He added: "What we are dealing with now is just the ceremonial, cosmetic changes and I feel that if we were really going to republic, it should have been a meaningful journey, where the people of Barbados were engaged in the entire process of conceptualization to actually bringing it to fruition," he added.It's a sentiment shared by Ronnie Yearwood, an activist and lecturer of law at the UWI Cave Hill campus in Barbados. While he too supports the declaration of a republic, he also feels "robbed of an opportunity to have my beautiful moment." "The process was so badly managed, the government made a decision on the type of republic that we were going to become, without asking me the voter, me the citizen, what form of republic do you want?"The Barbadian government "focused on the endgame" rather than the process of transition, a move Yearwood described as "backward." Yearwood said he and many others felt that the government should have held a public referendum and engaged in a longer period of public consultation before making the switch. "If you're going to do this, you do it in a holistic way, remove everything. You don't piecemeal the Constitution," he added. Will other countries follow?Prime Minister Mottley, who recently charmed world leaders at the COP26 climate summit in Glasgow, Scotland, did not need to hold a public referendum on the subject to push forward. In May, her government created a Republican Status Transition Advisory Committee, a 10-member group tasked with helping manage the transition from a monarchical system to a republic. The only hurdle was securing a two-thirds majority in parliament, which was a relatively straight-forward process given her party has held a majority since her landslide victory in 2018. Barrow-Giles said that the government "was able to determine what legally and politically were required to patriate the constitution" adding that Barbados's changeover "is consistent with the road traveled by other jurisdictions.""The fact that Prince Charles will be in Barbados for this very important occasion for the country is testimony to the lack of opposition to the move by the royal family and essentially an endorsement of the transition," she added.With such an amicable split, other nations could follow Barbados's lead, according to Drayton. "I would imagine this issue will now sharpen the debate within Jamaica, as well as elsewhere in the Caribbean," he said. "The decision in some ways doesn't reflect any evaluation of the House of Windsor. I do think it reflects more of a sense of people within Barbados now think it's a little bit absurd to have your head of state determined by the circumstances of birth in a family which resides 4,000 miles away."Hewitt, too, anticipates more countries may opt to break with the British monarchy but suggests that will happen after the reign of Elizabeth II comes to an end "simply because the Queen is held in such high regard." "People would see it as almost a personal slight against her to do it now. But I feel that once the Crown passes, people will feel that it is time."CNN has launched Royal News, a new weekly dispatch bringing you the inside track on the royal family, what they are up to in public and what's happening behind palace walls. Sign up here.
Lindsay Lohan announces she is engaged.  (CNN)Actress Lindsay Lohan announced she is engaged to Bader Shammas in a series of cuddly Instagram photos on Sunday morning."My love. My life. My family. My future," Lohan wrote on her verified Instagram account, tagging Shammas and adding a diamond ring emoji.The post features four low-resolution photos showing the two in a happy embrace, including a look at Lohan's sparkling engagement ring.Lohan, now 35, is best known for her star performances in "The Parent Trap," in which she played identical twins, and the teen comedy "Mean Girls."Once a fixture of the tabloid media, she had several prominent legal and personal struggles about a decade ago, but she has had a lower public profile in recent years. She still has an Instagram following of 9.7 million people, while Shammas has a private profile with just under 600 followers.
Sexual assault prevention in the military needs these two fixes. Ashley Merryman is co-author of "NurtureShock: New Thinking about Children," and "Top Dog: The Science of Winning and Losing." She served in the Pentagon from 2018-2020, first as the Special Advisor on Diversity and Inclusion for the Chief of Naval Operations and then as an advisor to the Department of the Navy's Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office.  The opinions expressed in this commentary are  her own. View more opinion on CNN. (CNN)For years, there had been little progress made when it came to the ongoing tragedy of military sexual assault. However, that all changed last year, following the brutal killing of Army Specialist Vanessa Guillen at Fort Hood by a fellow soldier. Since Guillen's death, proposed reforms for how the US military prosecutes sex-related crimes have garnered widespread support. Even Pentagon leaders now advocate some change. While individual proposals can be debated, it's laudable that everyone is serious about improving prosecution of military sexual assault. Unfortunately, though, there is little evidence that the same seriousness is applied when it comes to sexual assault prevention. If there's doubt that prevention efforts have been little more than a joke, consider how, this April, the services recognized "Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month," an annual observance since 2009. Festivities included a Space Force wing's barbecue; an Army garrison served up teal-colored pancakes with a side of inspiration ("Be a hero, Eat a pancake"). An Army brigade had a sexual-assault themed escape room (At least they didn't seem to chain up participants, as Fort Bragg's once did), while the Navy encouraged its commanders to sponsor scavenger hunts, chalk art and trivia nights.These exercises sound trivial, and yet there's little proof that most large-scale prevention initiatives from the Department of Defense are much more effective. For years, experts have complained that too few DOD efforts are evidence-based, and most programs are never assessed for efficacy or even accuracy. For example, the office charged with leading Navy and Marine Corps sexual assault prevention efforts has obsolete regulations on its website.  Two steps could move the military a long way in the right directionFirst, the Pentagon needs to change the regulation that dictates how military leaders should respond to complaints of sexual harassment. This change could, on its own, reduce the incidence of sexual assault. Consider that, according to a 2020 analysis by the DOD of  active duty service members surveyed, women who were sexually harassed in 2018 were 12 times more likely to be sexually assaulted that year. Men who were sexually harassed were 42 times more likely to be sexually assaulted that year. Perpetrators of sexual assault use sexual harassment as a tool to identify victims, looking for the vulnerable and socially isolated. They also use harassment to test witnesses — to see who will report them and who will just look the other way.  The military flunks that test. Currently, the defense department and the services have zero tolerance policies relating to sexual harassment, and sexual harassment is a crime under the Uniform Code of Military Justice. But that's empty propaganda. That is because the military also has regulations that informal complaints of harassment should be resolved at "the lowest appropriate level."  This is where prevention must begin: Striking this practice from the books. As long as this policy remains, every other reform — including changes to the military justice system — will be meaningless.  "Lowest appropriate level" is jargon for a military custom that, when people have a minor personal dispute, they should work it out on their own, ideally without the involvement of supervisors.Although this may be effective in some contexts, when it comes to sexual harassment, the Department of the Navy policy, as recently as 2020, spells out in its directive what the "lowest appropriate level" means: "Individuals who believe they have been sexually harassed will be encouraged to address their concerns or objections regarding the incident directly with the person demonstrating the harassing behavior via the informal resolution procedures; however, informal resolution is not required." Further, "The purpose and intent of an informal resolution procedure is to put in place an effective system to resolve complaints of sexual harassment at the lowest appropriate level.... [The] system will: a. Emphasize the individual accountability of the recipient, accused, co-workers and chain of command. b. Clarify the roles for co-workers and the chain of command. c. Teach interpersonal communication skills...."It bears repeating. Military law says crime victims should confront the alleged perpetrators about the crime. When doing so, victims should admit any "accountability" they may have for being victimized —  perhaps because of their presumptively deficient communication ability. (Similarly, Black or Jewish service members may be told to work out issues with a racist coworker, since the "lowest level" policy also applies to racial, religious, ethnic, sexual orientation and gender discrimination.) Demonstrating the force of the lowest appropriate level policy,  24% of women and 6% of men in the military endured severe, persistent sexual harassment, according to a DOD report from FY2018. Of those who tried to complain, the majority were told to drop the matter, the report said.Sexual harassment leads to sexual assaultInvestigation into Army Specialist Guillen's Fort Hood killing revealed that, prior to her death, she had been sexually harassed by a supervisor, but no action was taken. While not referring to that incident, one soldier who was interviewed during the investigation described how Fort Hood's leaders responded to complaints of sexual harassment by supervisors: "...leadership like[s] to keep it to the lowest level and try their hardest to convince victims and witnesses not to make an official complaint." While we can never say for certain if the "lowest appropriate level" policy contributed to Guillen's death, we can say that, as long as it remains in place, others are at greater risk.The military should replace the "lowest appropriate level" requirement for sexual harassment with a requirement that leaders take all such reports seriously and respond appropriately.  That brings us to the second step on the path to prevention: Military leaders are responsible for establishing a safe command climate and must be held accountable if they fail to do so. For two decades, researchers such as University of Iowa's Anne G. Sadler have known that leaders make the difference: When commanders don't take reports of sexual assault seriously or fail to express zero tolerance for sexual harassment, the odds are five times higher that someone at that command will be assaulted. By contrast, when leaders take strong stands against these behaviors, fewer incidents occur. And of those that do happen, more are reported because subordinates trust their leaders will respond. The military unit commander is responsible for everything that occurs in their command, often because they create the conditions that determine the outcomes and performance of the command. This should include sexual harassment and assault, but that's not how it goes in the vast majority of cases. In the past, this might have been excused on the grounds that leaders can quantify the dangers of tactical incompetence; they know what can happen when a watch team is poorly trained or a gun is poorly maintained. But there's been no equivalent tool to predict when someone's at risk of sexual assault.   Until now. In 2020, Department of Defense researchers identified about 30 specific behaviors and attitudes in five categories --- sexual harassment, gender discrimination, lack of responsibility and intervention, lack of respect and cohesion and workplace hostility -- that, when analyzed collectively, predict when a service member is at increased risk of sexual assault. This initiative is now known in the Pentagon as The Watch List.Importantly, most of the specific behaviors are already prohibited under existing regulations. But the Watch List, for the first time, quantifies the harm of failing to live up to those standards. For example, respect for and from the chain of command, unit cohesion — they've been a part of military culture for centuries. Now, a leader can know that, when a command lacks them, women face more than double the risk of sexual assault while men have 5.8 times the risk.    Would Fort Hood leaders have maintained their laissez-faire approach to Guillen's concerns if they knew an Army female who is sexually harassed is 16 times more likely to be sexually assaulted? Or that a male being harassed was 60 times more likely to be assaulted? In other words, they are being targeted for assault. It is unimaginable that a leader could know that and fail to act. And it is incomprehensible that, if they did not, they would remain in any leadership capacity.  Some believe military justice reform will eventually deter future crime. Others claim the answer to military sexual assault is a new Pentagon bureaucracy that would change every aspect of military life and culture. But these aren't serious proposals: The best case scenario is that, at untold cost, they'd take years to have a real impact, and there's no hard evidence either will ever reduce the incidence of sexual assault. It's time to get serious about prevention. And the fastest, easiest and possibly most effective methods would be to eliminate the policy of handling sexual crimes at "the lowest appropriate level" and to educate commanders, holding them accountable if they establish a climate with a higher risk of likelihood for sexual assault. In short, to require the military live up to the culture and code it already has. 
‘I truly believe that he would have killed me.’ Why three women did not report their military rapists before time ran out. 
Going to the store may be your smartest bet to navigate the supply chain crisis this holiday. New York (CNN Business)The supply chain crisis means last-minute gift buyers may have little choice but to go shopping the old-fashioned way this holiday season.High demand, combined with supply chain delays, materials' shortages and troubles hiring workers, are shrinking the availability of items both online and at stores. As customers get closer to the last minute, physical stores will become a more appealing option for shoppers than waiting around for delivery, analysts expect. Even if customers can't find exactly what they're looking for at a store, it's usually easier to browse around for an alternative in person — and they can try it on."Brick and mortar may be more attractive for consumers later in the season," Rod Sides, a vice chairman at Deloitte and leader of its US retail and distribution practice, said in an email. "Shoppers can leave with goods in hand, versus waiting on promised dates from shippers." Consumers saw more than 2 billion out-of-stock messages while browsing online in October, according to Adobe Analytics. That's a big reason why, in physical stores, sales will rise by 8% this year — a 10-year high — as shoppers return to in-person shopping and try to avoid shipping delays, according to real estate research firm CBRE.Analysts also believe buy online, pickup in store orders will boom this holiday because of shipping concerns.Shoppers will lean on curbside pickup "more than ever to give them peace of mind about their holiday purchases" with wait times and items out of stock high on consumers' minds, said Andrew Lipsman, a retail analyst at market research firm Insider Intelligence.Retailers will heavily promote pickup as an option for customers on their websites and mobile apps, in marketing emails, and on television to appeal to customers anxious about buying online late in the season, Lipsman expects.Stores say they have greater control over inventory in stores and through curbside pickup than they do on home delivery orders — meaning it's less likely there will be a mistake or delay on an order."The closer I got [to the holiday], I would absolutely be using the ship to store because that's going to give more confidence in being able to actually get the thing in time," Ben Johns, the general merchandising manager for action sports at outdoor equipment retailer REI, said in a recent interview.When customers order online and pick up their items in stores, products are either in the store already or REI sends them from one of its warehouses using its own trucks. That means REI doesn't need to rely on third-party delivery carriers it has less control over to deliver to customers' homes, he said.$5 off orders and free blanketsRetailers have an incentive to draw shoppers into their stores. It's typically more profitable for retailers to have you shop in person than order to your home because they have to pay expensive last-mile delivery costs. Return rates are also higher for items purchased online, and retailers have to eat the costs for customers' returns.Top retailers are pushing customers this year to visit their physical stores to shop or order online and scoop up their items in person. Kohl'  (KSS)is offering customers $5 off orders when they pick them up in stores. It's also trying to make the pickup process smoother for customers by adding temporary new pickup locations and more designating parking spots for pickups, as well as a self-pickup test where customers can access their orders using a link and code. Kohl's expects increased demand for pickup orders this year in part because it "eliminates the added stress of waiting for packages to arrive on your doorstep," Paul Gaffney, Kohl's chief technology and supply chain officer, said in an email.Carter', (CRI) the children's clothing chain, is offering customers gifts as an extra perk if they purchase items on certain days in stores — but not online — such as blankets from November 19 to November 21 and a Skip Hop toy from December 10 to December 12.Randa Apparel & Accessories, which sells brands such as Levi's, Tommy Hilfiger, Calvin Klein and others, has shifted a large portion of its advertising spending to push customers to stores, instead of buying online. It's also directing more of its inventory to stores than e-commerce."When inventory is limited, we prefer to drive consumers to in-store purchases over online purchases," said David Katz, Randa's chief marketing officer.Customers purchasing products in stores is more profitable for Randa than online sales, which often come with "very large reverse logistics costs" on return orders. "We've paid the tuition for this education, and it was an expensive lesson to learn," he said.When shoppers come into stores, they also tend to make impulse purchases or buy related items nearby — belts, for example, near the pants they're buying. This happens less frequently when buying online.Overall, Katz said, "the frustration level is lower when you go to mortar and brick, particularly when inventory is limited."
Craft beer might get even more expensive. San Francisco (CNN Business)Your next can of craft beer might be a lot more expensive.Ball Corp (BLL)., one of the world's largest suppliers of aluminum cans, is sending shockwaves throughout the craft beer world after lifting the minimum number of cans certain producers must order and saying it will raise prices. Ball said it will now require that non-contract customers -- who include many smaller breweries -- order no fewer than five truckloads (roughly 1.02 million cans) per each of their beverages starting on January 1. The previous purchase minimum was one truckload per product.Additionally, starting in 2022, Ball wrote that it would no longer be able to store excess cans from those non-contract customers in its warehouses and that the price-per-can would increase by nearly 50% for at least some non-contract customers, according to notices sent to breweries. The news has many small and regional breweries scrambling to secure cans and has spurred fears of heftier costs, reduced variety and higher prices for consumers. "I do see this as an economic killer for some, and certainly most small brewers are going to have to raise prices significantly or rethink their entire models," said Garrett Marrero, chief executive officer and co-founder of Maui Brewing Co. in Hawaii.The tight-knit craft beer industry was already reeling from pandemic-spurred restaurant and taproom closures, inflationary pressures, can shortages and other supply chain disruptions.Then, a little over a week ago, notices from Ball landed in the inboxes of hundreds of craft brewers across the country, according to the Brewers Association, the trade organization representing small and independent brewers. The Denver Westword was the first to report about Ball's purchase minimums. In the letters, copies of which were provided to CNN Business, Ball wrote that demand for aluminum cans continues to outstrip supply."Ball is making investments to bring additional capacity online, and in the meantime we remain in a tightly constrained supply environment for the foreseeable future," according to the letter. "This environment is making it difficult for us to deliver the quality customer experience our customers expect from Ball, and we are making some adjustments to how we do business to remedy that."With fewer than six weeks until the new year, hundreds of craft brewers will no longer be able to buy their pre-printed cans directly from Ball and instead will have to secure one of the most critical components of their business from new sources, said Bob Pease, president and chief executive officer of the Brewers Association."This is still pretty darn new, so we're still trying to gather information from our members that are being impacted," Pease told CNN Business. The Brewers Association is weighing its options and considering reaching out to policymakers, Pease said, and was hoping to talk with executives at Ball, which is a longtime member, he added. On Friday, Pease said he heard back from Ball's senior leadership, and the two sides are working to set up a meeting in December to discuss the recent changes. Ball isn't completely abandoning the craft beer industry, a company spokesperson told CNN Business. "The new model will increase our overall efficiency and allow us to actually produce more cans for our contracted customers, including craft brewers," Ball spokesperson Scott McCarty wrote in an email.  McCarty added that Ball is building five plants in the United States to produce more cans, adding that "each year, we evaluate supply and demand and will continue to invest where it makes sense."As potential solutions for customers that couldn't meet the raised minimums, Ball offered up contact information for four distributors that could take smaller orders, provide warehousing, and offer labeling options such as stickers and plastic shrink wrap. 'It will force us out of business'When Upslope Brewing Company launched in Boulder, Colorado in 2008, it was one of only a handful of craft brewers to package their beer solely in aluminum cans. "My first phone call for cans was to Ball," co-founder Matt Cutter told CNN Business. "They said, 'That's fine, you can buy a truckload.'"That wasn't doable then for Upslope, a business whose startup funds came from the second mortgage of Cutter's house. But a few years later, when Upslope's snowmelt-based beer was being consumed throughout the Mountain West region, it certainly was possible. "And Ball kept knocking on our door," he said. Ball, also a Colorado-based company, had a can-making facility just down the highway, and offered up services such as storage and cheaper shipping. Upslope, which has bought its cans by the truckload from Ball since 2014, now feels left out in the cold. Cutter fears that the higher costs -- including raw material, storage and any added margins from working with new distributors -- could ultimately lead to craft six-packs sold at stores being $1 to $2 more expensive by next spring. Ultimately, he said, these higher costs might not be sustainable for smaller businesses. "As craft brewers, we're not rolling in the dough here," he said. "We can't absorb this. It'll force us out of business." In Pueblo, Colorado, one of the co-founders of Walter Brewing Co. was frantically trying to get up to speed on what Ball's plans may mean for his brewery.Walter Brewing has purchased cans for its Walter's Original Pilsner and Walter's Pueblo Chile Beer from groups that buy from Ball, as well as directly from Ball. "It would take us more than a year's time to go through [a truckload]," said Andy Sanchez, one of Walter Brewing's co-owners. The newly required five truckloads is out of the question."With six weeks' notice, it's a lot to digest in that short time," Sanchez said. "It would be crucial for all small breweries if Ball would rethink the path and maybe think of a way to mitigate the short-term impacts."Maui Brewing, because of its scope of operations in Hawaii and close relations with Ball's plant there, should be relatively insulated from major disruptions, Marrero said. However, he fears that breweries on the Mainland and Maui Brewing's efforts to expand production there face complications. He's concerned brewers that can't float the costs to shift suppliers will be forced to change their operations, close or consolidate. He said he's also worried this may lead to a greater use of less-sustainable materials, such as plastic labels."This is going to create a paradigm shift in craft beer moving forward," he said.
