Jeffery Lynn Johnson, 'Tiger King' participant, died by apparent suicide at 58.  (CNN)Jeffery Lynn Johnson, 58, who appeared in "Tiger King: Murder, Mayhem and Madness," died by an apparent suicide during an argument with his wife, the Oklahoma City Police Department told CNN on Monday.  Johnson -- a former reptile dealer -- was one of several people interviewed in episode 4 of the enormously popular 2020 docuseries on Netflix. According to a police incident report, officers were dispatched to the Johnson family home shortly after 10 p.m. on September 8 for a reported attempted suicide.Johnson's wife, Charity, told police her husband killed himself in front of her during an argument in their garage. Their 4- and 5-year-old children were inside the house at the time, the report says.  Johnson still had a pulse on the scene and was taken to a hospital but was later pronounced dead, according to the report.  An attorney for Joseph Maldonado, the show's central figure known as Joe Exotic, confirmed he had spoken to Johnson's widow about the incident.According to the report, Johnson had "no mental health history."   "Tiger King 2" is currently streaming on Netflix. 
Police identify the driver they say plowed into a Waukesha Christmas parade, leaving 5 dead and 48 injured.  (CNN)Authorities in Wisconsin have identified the driver of a red SUV who they say intentionally drove his SUV through barricades and into a crowd celebrating the Waukesha Christmas parade.Darrell E. Brooks Jr., 39, is believed to have acted alone Sunday and is the only suspect, Waukesha Police Chief Dan Thompson said Monday. Brooks faces five counts of first-degree intentional homicide, with additional charges based on the investigation, Thompson said.Brooks had been released from jail less than two weeks ago in a domestic abuse case, on a $1,000 bail that prosecutors recommended and now say was "inappropriately low." Brooks will have his initial court appearance at 4 p.m. CT Tuesday at which initial charges will be filed, according to a statement from the Waukesha County District Attorney's Office. The hearing will be available via livestream for the public to view."We are working closely with the City of Waukesha Police Department to review the matter and decide what criminal charges will be issued," read the statement. Thompson said Brooks was involved in a domestic disturbance with another person just prior to driving his SUV through the parade Sunday afternoon. Police were not able to respond to the initial call about the domestic incident because they had to respond to the parade so quickly after receiving the call, the chief said.Police stressed there was no police pursuit leading up to the incident. Thompson said there is no information that Brooks knew anyone in the parade.  Five people were killed in the incident. They ranged from age 52 to 81 years old, Thompson said.The city identified the victims as:Virginia Sorenson, 79LeAnna Owen, 71 Tamara Durand, 52 Jane Kulich, 52 Wilhelm Hospel, 81 The police chief acknowledged the heroism of onlookers at the scene, saying first responders and residents worked together to triage the victims and get them as stable as possible.He said officers and citizens took victims to the hospital in their personal vehicles.At least 18 children were hospitalized after the parade, said Children's Wisconsin, a pediatric hospital in nearby Milwaukee.Thompson said the incident is not a terrorist event. The crash also does not appear to be connected to the recent verdict in the Kyle Rittenhouse trial in Kenosha, Wisconsin, according to multiple law enforcement sources familiar with preliminary investigation findings.Suspect had been released on bail from earlier incident, DA saysBrooks was released on $1,000 bail earlier this month, according to court records and the Milwaukee County District Attorney's office, which said in a statement that the bail had been set "inappropriately low."Brooks posted the bail on November 11 in relation to charges including domestic abuse. The charges stemmed from a November 2 incident in which Brooks is accused of running over a woman with his car while she was walking through a gas station parking lot, according to a criminal complaint. "Officers observed tire tracks on her left pants leg," the criminal complaint read.Prosecutors filed five charges related to the incident including: obstructing an officer, second-degree recklessly endangering safety with domestic abuse assessments, disorderly conduct with domestic abuse assessments and misdemeanor battery with domestic abuse assessments.Brooks was also charged with bail jumping, because he was already out on bail following a July 24, 2020, incident, according to court documents.In a statement, the Milwaukee DA's office now says it should not have recommended such a low bail for Brooks and have launched an internal review into the decision."The State's bail recommendation in this case was inappropriately low in light of the nature of the recent charges and the pending charges against Mr. Brooks," the office's statement said. "The bail recommendation in this case is not consistent with the approach of the Milwaukee County District Attorney's Office toward matters involving violent crime, nor was it consistent with the risk assessment of the defendant prior to setting of bail."CNN reached out to Brooks' attorney from the 2020 and earlier November 2021 incident about the DA's statement, but has not yet received a response.With the 2020 incident, Brooks is accused of firing a handgun during an argument, according to a charging complaint. While arresting Brooks, authorities say they found a stolen handgun and three "multicolored pills," which later tested "presumptively positive" for methamphetamines.Brooks was charged with two counts of second-degree reckless endangering safety while using of a dangerous weapon and one count of possession of a firearm by a felon.Bail had initially been set at $10,000 in that case but because Brooks had asked for a speedy jury trial, which could not be met, bail was reduced to $500. Brooks was released on bail in that case on February 21, according to the district attorney's office.Brooks has an outstanding arrest warrant in Nevada in an unrelated case for which he was arrested and jumped bail, authorities said. CNN has reached out to a previous attorney for Brooks with no response.  Authorities in Nevada issued an active warrant on Brooks on August 15, 2016, for jumping bail, according to Sarah Johns, Washoe County Sheriff's Office spokesperson. Johns said detectives later determined Brooks was in Wisconsin. "However, detectives did not have viable intelligence on Brooks' exact location."How the disaster unfoldedFamilies, including children in strollers, bundled up in the chilly wind and lined the parade route on Main Street. The city's live stream of the parade showed a marching band had just started playing "Jingle Bells" when a red SUV barreled into the parade from behind. Onlookers shrieked in horror.Another video captured by a paradegoer showed a young girl in a pink coat and hat dancing in the street as the SUV sped by, missing her by just a few feet.Another witness, Nathan Bryce, captured video of the SUV plowing through barricades.On Monday morning, the belongings of paradegoers were still strewn across the scene as authorities try to confirm what led up to the calamity."This is still a very fluid investigation," the chief told reporters Sunday night. He said children are among the injured.A Waukesha police officer opened fire to try to stop the driver, and no bystanders were struck by the officer's gunfire, the chief said. Thompson added he doesn't believe any shots were fired from the vehicle."The scene is now safe and secure," Thompson said.Victims include Milwaukee Dancing Grannies membersAuthorities have not released any details of the five people killed, but the Milwaukee Dancing Grannies said some members of the group were among the victims."Our group was doing what they loved, performing in front of crowds in a parade putting smiles on faces of all ages, filling them with joy and happiness," the dance troupe posted on Facebook."Those who died were extremely passionate Grannies," the group said."Our hearts are heavy at this most difficult time, as more information and updates become available it will be posted. Please keep them their families, friends,  the Milwaukee Dancing Grannies and everyone who lives have forever changed in your thoughts and prayer."Taylor Smith said her mother, Jane Kulich, 52, was representing her employer -- Citizens Bank -- at the parade when she was fatally struck. "She was an amazing mom and grandma. Everyone loved her," Smith told CNN. Kulich is survived by her three children and three grandchildren.In a Facebook post, Smith wrote: "My mom was killed last night. We are told she didn't suffer."At least several of the injured were in critical conditionAurora Medical Center-Summit, a hospital in Waukesha County, said it was treating 13 patients as of Sunday night: three listed in critical condition, four in serious condition and six in fair condition.Froedtert Hospital in Milwaukee -- the only Level I trauma center in southeast Wisconsin -- said it was also treating patients from the parade incident but is not providing a specific number nor conditions. Level I trauma centers typically care for the most critically ill patients.The 18 children hospitalized at Children's Wisconsin had injuries ranging from "facial abrasions to broken bones to serious head injuries," said Dr. Amy Drendel, medical director of Children's Wisconsin Emergency Department and Trauma Center.The children's ages range from 3 to 16, and those hospitalized include three sets of siblings, Drendel said.'It hit at least two people right away and rolled over them'A video obtained by CNN shows the moment the vehicle struck pedestrians. A red SUV is seen hitting a person in a marching band. Then the vehicle continues forward, hitting and running over others in the band and crowd before driving away. Angela O'Boyle, who lives in an apartment on the fifth floor which overlooks the parade route, told CNN she was on the balcony watching the festivities. "The next thing I heard were screams, and turned my head and saw the car come and plow into the band that was just past my balcony at that point," she said."It hit at least two people right away and rolled over them. And then continued down the road to People's Park which is at the end of the block -- and then kept going, it didn't stop."Boyle said she heard screaming and people yelling out their children's names, adding "it was not something that I wanted to see ... a little freaked out."Kaylee Staral, a Milwaukee Journal Sentinel intern who witnessed the incident, said "probably around 20 to 30 minutes into the parade, a red SUV came running down the middle of the street -- there were a lot of screams -- and we almost thought maybe it was Santa, but it was a red SUV and it hit a lot of people."Staral went on to say "there were multiple people on the ground.""Right in front of me in the little spot where I was sitting, probably four people were down, so there were a lot of people that ran to go check on them," Staral said. "I believe that the four people in front of me were still breathing but they were down, they were not moving." Schools closed as a community mournsFlags are to be flown at half-staff at "all buildings, grounds and military installations" statewide, Gov. Tony Evers said Monday."Today, I've ordered the U.S. and Wisconsin flags to be flown at half-staff as we continue to pray for the Waukesha community and the kids, loved ones, and neighbors whose lives were forever changed by an unthinkable tragedy last night," the governor tweeted.The school district of Waukesha said it canceled classes on Monday and will determine whether classes will resume Tuesday.  "The District will have additional counselors available during the school day at all buildings for all students that may be in need of support services," school officials said in a statement. The White House is in touch with state and local officials, according to a White House official, and President Joe Biden has been briefed."The White House is closely monitoring the situation in Waukesha and our hearts go out to everyone who has been impacted by this terrible incident," the official said. "We have reached out to state and local officials to offer any support and assistance as needed."CNN's Shimon Prokupecz, Evan Perez, Claudia Dominguez, Justin Lear, Kay Jones, Alaa Elassar, Natasha Chen, Caroll Alvarado, Andy Rose, Arlette Saenz and Conor Powell contributed to this report.
Wind, rain and snow could all delay holiday travel this week. This article originally appeared in a weather alert from CNN's meteorologists. To receive these in your inbox, sign up here.  (CNN)Holiday travelers should be thankful as Thanksgiving week kicks off on a tranquil note across much of the Lower 48, says the Weather Prediction Center (WPC).  Later in the week, when the weather isn't so tranquil, do what my colleagues at CNN do; #BlameJudson. As a meteorologist, I am used to taking the blame for something we ultimately have no control over. So, blame me and spend your extra time being thankful you are getting the chance to travel once again. AAA is predicting travel this holiday week will be back to near pre-pandemic levels.With higher travel numbers combined with the weather, it could add up to some delays on the roadways and in the air this week. This week, thankfully, the early storm system does not seem significant. However, regardless of the weather this week, due to the busy holiday travel, any normal or even weak storm could significantly impact what millions of you do in the US this week, which is why I bother telling you this.  "As the holiday week gets off and running, much of the continental US will be devoid of hazards the first half of the week," the WPC says. The latter half looks more ominous.  Jennifer Gray and I (Judson Jones) drop these dispatches into your inbox when we think a storm warrants it. You can sign up to receive them in your inbox here. Here is what we expect ahead of Thanksgiving Many in the East -- including yours truly -- woke up to the pitter-patter of light rain falling on their roofs. A cold front is pushing through the region and although the rain and low clouds could bring some slight delays to the roadways and air traffic, I don't expect much to mount Monday morning. You can always get the latest airport delays and weather forecast here. Monday afternoon winds will really begin to kick up behind the storm front. Wind gusts could top out at 30 mph.  The two most common airport delays are low ceilings -- low clouds -- and wind during winter. "The combination of airport surface winds and low ceiling and visibility conditions account for about 75 percent of delays," the Federal Aviation Administration explained. Although not incredibly strong, the wind direction could be problematic this afternoon for the way runways are configured in the New York metro area. So, expect delays.These winds will be persistent through Tuesday and possibly even into Wednesday across the Northeast.  Chicago is another major airport hub that could see delays from wind Monday and other points during the week. Especially on Wednesday, when winds will reach gusts of up to 40 mph. If you want more information, you can also check out the FAA's official delay page, or Flight Aware's misery map.Cold Canadian air dips south Cold Canadian air will infiltrate the eastern third of the US behind the cold front.  "It certainly feels like the Holiday Season is upon us in the East where below normal temperatures look to set up shop through Wednesday morning," the WPC says. Temperatures will struggle to get out of the 30s in much of the Great Lakes region.  "The Upper Great Lakes will receive several inches of snow today as cold air rushing over the warm Great Lakes activates the lake effect snow machine downwind of Lakes Superior, Michigan, Erie, and Ontario," the WPC says.  With temperatures dropping to near the freezing mark in some locations, air travel delays due to deicing are also possible, especially during the overnight and early-morning hours.  Temperatures are running about 10-20 degrees below normal and will push farther east into the major Northeast cities by Tuesday.  "There is a chance that temperatures reach the freezing mark for the first time this season at Central Park," Monday night into Tuesday, the New York National Weather Service office says. "Even in the Southeast, daily temperature anomalies of 10 to 15 degrees below normal are anticipated into Wednesday," the WPC says. The heaviest snow is in the Northwest Early in the week, the snowiest and most unsettled weather will be confined to the Northwest, from the Pacific coast and as far inland as the Northern Rockies.  "By Wednesday morning, the heaviest snowfall totals likely occur in the Cascades where over a foot of snow in the highest of elevations is expected. Parts of the Bitterroots and Lewis Range can also expect 6 to 12 inches of snowfall," the WPC says. Thankfully, the lower elevations will not see the heavy rainfall they have experienced the past few weeks. Instead, it will be the lighter variety people in Seattle are more used to seeing.  The rain will take a break a little on Wednesday in this region, but rain will vary from light to moderate most of the week.  Thanksgiving liquid sunshine Temperatures are likely to moderate back near normal across the East Coast and the winds will have died down. Which is excellent news for anyone venturing down early to the historic parade route in Manhattan to see the new Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade balloons. As family traditions carry on, the storm system meteorologists are all keeping our eyes on continues building across the central US. Texas will get the most rainfall on Thanksgiving Day.  Or, as my dad would positively say, "liquid sunshine."  Moderate rainfall, possibly heavy at times, is expected over parts of eastern Texas into Thanksgiving Day, the WPC says.   Return travel looks more dicey Rainfall is forecast to spread across the eastern US into the weekend.  It may even set the stage for a more massive disruption at airports Friday and Saturday in the Northeast.  On Friday, another front associated with this system will push through the Northeast. Rain will again fall in the major metros. Behind the front, winds will pick up and are forecast to be stronger than the winds earlier in the week. With this system, once again comes the colder air and lake effect snow.  If this storm system does prove to be stronger than what we will have experienced early in the week, don't blame others, just #BlameJudson; it may make it easier to be thankful for the travel that way.   In the meantime, we will keep an eye on the forecast. You can continue to track the storms here.The latest weather stories are always available along with your local forecast here.  Jennifer and I are both thankful for all of you who have stuck with us through this hurricane season. We are also grateful the end of the season ended far more quietly than anyone expected.  We aren't going anywhere now that the season is coming to an end. Many of you have asked that we keep this going through the winter season to be here for any major winter storms that pop up this winter. So, we expect we will drop into your inboxes once or twice over the coming months.  And if you are wondering, I plan on enjoying the weather on Thursday morning with my family next to our fire pit, smoking our turkey using this recipe, while drinking this morning cocktail. You're welcome in advance.  Happy Thanksgiving!
Here's what we know about the suspect in the Waukesha parade tragedy.  (CNN)Darrell E. Brooks, 39, of Milwaukee has been identified as the suspect who drove an SUV through a Christmas parade in Waukesha, Wisconsin, leaving five people dead and 48 injured, authorities said Monday."We are confident he acted alone," Waukesha Police Chief Dan Thompson said at a news conference. "There is no evidence this is a terrorist incident."Brooks faces five charges of intentional homicide and more charges are possible, Thompson said.The chief said no motive is known. Brooks was involved in a domestic disturbance earlier Sunday and left that scene just prior to driving his SUV through the parade, Thompson said.Police officers tried to engage Brooks as he approached the parade in his SUV but Brooks drove through barricades. "When the suspect was driving through and into the crowd, one officer did discharge his firearm and fire shots at the suspect to stop the threat but due to the amount of people, had to stop, stop and fire — not fire any other additional shots," Thompson said.Brooks was not injured in the incident.The five deceased victims range in age from 52 to 81 and include four women and one man, Thompson said.Brooks was out on bond before the crash, DA saysBrooks had been released on $1,000 bail earlier this month, according to court records and the Milwaukee County District Attorney's office, which said in a statement released Monday that the bail had been set "inappropriately low."Brooks posted the bail on November 11 in relation to charges including domestic abuse. The charges stemmed from a November 2 incident in which Brooks is accused of running over a woman with his car while she was walking through a gas station parking lot, according to a criminal complaint."Officers observed tire tracks on her left pants leg," the criminal complaint read.Prosecutors filed five charges related to the incident including: obstructing an officer; second-degree recklessly endangering safety with domestic abuse assessments; disorderly conduct with domestic abuse assessments; and misdemeanor battery with domestic abuse assessments.Brooks was also charged with bail jumping, because he was already out on bail following a July 24, 2020, incident, according to court documents.In a statement, the Milwaukee DA's office now says that they should not have recommended such a low bail for Brooks and have launched an internal review into the decision."The State's bail recommendation in this case was inappropriately low in light of the nature of the recent charges and the pending charges against Mr. Brooks," the office's statement said. "The bail recommendation in this case is not consistent with the approach of the Milwaukee County District Attorney's Office toward matters involving violent crime, nor was it consistent with the risk assessment of the defendant prior to setting of bail."CNN reached out to Brooks' attorney from the 2020 and earlier November 2021 incident about the DA statement, but has not yet received a response.With the 2020 incident, Brooks is accused of firing a handgun during an argument, according to a charging complaint. While arresting Brooks, authorities say they found a stolen handgun and three "multi colored pills," which later tested "presumptively positive" for methamphetamines.Brooks was charged with two counts of second-degree reckless endangering safety while using a dangerous weapon and one count of possession of a firearm by a felon.Bail had initially been set at $10,000 in that case but because Brooks had asked for a speedy jury trial, which could not be met, bail was reduced to $500. Brooks was released on bail in that case on February 21, according to the district attorney's office.Brooks also has an outstanding arrest warrant in Nevada in an unrelated case for which he was arrested and allegedly jumped bail. CNN has reached out to a previous attorney for Brooks with no response.  Authorities in Nevada issued an active warrant on August 15, 2016, for jumping bail, according to Sara Johns, Washoe County Sheriff's Department spokesperson. Johns said detectives later determined Brooks was in Wisconsin; "however, detectives did not have viable intelligence on Brooks' exact location."
Milwaukee Dancing Grannies have long brought joy to parades. Now they grieve after Wisconsin incident.  (CNN)The tragedy in Waukesha, Wisconsin, on Sunday brought the Milwaukee Dancing Grannies into a sad spotlight.Members of the group were among the five people killed when an SUV driver slammed into a Christmas parade, according to its Facebook page.The Grannies who died "were extremely passionate," the post said. "Their eyes gleamed.....joy of being a Grannie. They were the glue....held us together."Who are the Grannies and what do they do? For one, they probably aren't your grandma's grandmas.The Milwaukee Dancing Grannies have been bringing joy to Wisconsin parade crowds from Memorial Day to Christmas, sashaying with their pompoms in costumes that fit the occasion, for decades."They have won many trophies, but it's the enthusiasm and smiles from children and adults of all ages that warm the hearts of the Milwaukee Dancing Grannies," the group's website says. The only requirement to be a member is to be a grandmother, the group says. The Dancing Grannies was formed in 1984 from what was originally a jazzercise group, one of the members told CNN affiliate WDJT earlier this year.The group practices once a week, and it's clear that it brings them almost as much joy as they bring to parade crowds. "Who doesn't like to hear wolf whistles at this age?," one member told WDJT.When the group passes the veterans stand, they do kicks and "some kind of sexy hip thing," another said.The time together builds camaraderie and even family. They go out to dinners together and carpool to a parade in Minnesota once a year, a member told WDJT. "It's a good time," she said. "We all truly love each other, I think," one said. "We are like sisters," she said in the WDJT interview that included a clip of the group dancing to "We are family," by Sister Sledge. And they are dedicated. They practice at home to make sure they have their routine down, one member told WDJT. It's all "wonderful aerobic exercise," a member said in a 2016 interview with CNN affiliate WTMJ. "The crowds love us, it's amazing," one member told WTMJ. "And what's amazing is what that does to us. That adrenaline starts going, and you just want to do your very, very best."The group was devastated by Sunday's tragedy, the group said in Facebook."Our group was doing what they loved, performing in front of crowds in a parade putting smiles on faces of all ages, filling them with joy and happiness."
A member of the Milwaukee Dancing Grannies and a beloved grandmother were among those who were killed in Waukesha parade.  (CNN)Five people were killed and 48 were injured after a red SUV sped into Waukesha's Christmas parade Sunday afternoon. The five deceased victims from Sunday's incident range in age from 52 to 81 and include 4 females and one male, according to Police Chief Dan Thompson.The city of Waukesha confirmed the names of the victims Monday as Virginia Sorenson, 79; LeAnna Owen, 71; Tamara Durand, 52; Jane Kulich, 52 and Wilhelm Hospel, 81.The Milwaukee Dancing Grannies: LeAnna Owen The Milwaukee Dancing Grannies posted a statement on Facebook Monday, saying members of the group were among the dead Sunday in Waukesha, Wisconsin."Those who died were extremely passionate Grannies," according to the group's statement.One of those women was LeAnna (Lee) Owen, who had been the manager at Packard Glen Apartments for almost 10 years, property owner Dave Schmidt told CNN. His staff posted a statement for residents informing them of her death, as a member of the group. "This was one of her passions that she truly loved," the statement said. "She was so proud to be part of this group and lit up when she talked about it." The Milwaukee Dancing Grannies did not mention how many members of the group were affected or injured in the incident.The group goes on to say they "are devasted (sic) by this terrible tradegy (sic) with of loss of life and injuries in the Waukesha Christmas parade.""Our group  was doing what they loved, performing in front of crowds in a parade putting smiles on faces of all ages, filling them with joy and happiness." CNN has reached out to the Milwaukee Dancing Grannies and police this morning, but has not heard back.Jane Kulich, 52Milwaukee native Jane Kulich, 52, was representing her employer, Citizens Bank, in the parade when she was struck and killed, according to her daughter Taylor Smith."She was an amazing mom and grandma. Everyone loved her," Smith told CNN.Kulich is survived by her three children and three grandchildren.In a Facebook post, Smith wrote, "My mom was killed last night. We are told she didn't suffer."The family has started a GoFundMe page to help pay for Kulich's funeral costs. Charges expected tomorrow A person of interest is in custody, according to authorities, and an investigation into the incident is ongoing. The Waukesha County District Attorney's Office said in a statement that charges will be filed tomorrow and additional charges will be filed at a later time. "This tragedy has affected our entire community. We would like to acknowledge the work of the men and women in law enforcement who have done a tremendous job to save lives and protect our community," the statement said. CNN's Kay Jones, Raja Razek, Carroll Alvarado contributed to this report.
Trump's next January 6 circus looms after Stone and Jones are subpoenaed .  (CNN)Steve Bannon turned the January 6 committee into a politicized spectacle but Alex Jones and Roger Stone could conjure a theater of the absurd out of the probe into one of the most jarring assaults on democracy in US history.The Infowars demagogue and the Nixonian self-proclaimed "dirty trickster" became the latest acolytes of ex-President Donald Trump to get hit by subpoenas by the House select committee on Monday.The move was another indication the panel is digging into the organization and funding of Trump's "Stop the Steal" rally, in which both men were allegedly involved, which mushroomed into the Capitol insurrection. Their testimony -- should they appear before the panel -- could shed light on the key question for the committee about whether the rally had a pre-ordained purpose to trigger an uprising designed to halt the congressional certification of Joe Biden's election win. The subpoenas underscored a fast-track strategy by a Democratic-led committee that is unlikely to survive if Republicans, who have long protected Trump, win the House in next year's midterm elections. The panel is working feverishly and has interviewed more than 200 witnesses, including many members of the Trump administration who came forward voluntarily.But given the penchant of Stone and Jones for histrionic legal fights, the committee is unlikely to expect quick cooperation. Past behavior is not always predictive, and Stone especially has just emerged from a costly legal fight after his conviction for lying to Congress in another Trump-related case, for which he was pardoned by the ex-President. But like Jones, he has a long record of using moments of accountability to stage political stunts and promote extremism.Stone said in a statement that he had "no advance knowledge" of the events at the Capitol on January 6 and that any claim or report alleging or implying he did was "categorically false." He later told CNN affiliate KOKI he would "would probably assert my 5th Amendment right, decline to be interviewed."The committee has also shown it is ready to hold recalcitrant witnesses to account, after the House cited Bannon, another longtime Trump political adviser like Stone, for criminal contempt. The Justice Department has initiated a prosecution. Like Bannon, neither Jones nor Stone appears to have a strong case to claim contacts with Trump are shielded by executive privilege since neither were serving as administration officials. But arguing the point in court could use time that the committee does not have given grim prospects for Democrats of keeping the House in 2022. Former White House chief of staff Mark Meadows, who has a stronger claim to executive privilege, is locked in a standoff with the committee. He is refusing to testify but has not been cited for contempt.The reputations of Stone and Jones, who are both political bomb throwers who pushed the lie that Trump won the election, suggest that neither will be able to resist the notoriety of a public duel with the panel."If you think Steve Bannon upped the drama queen value on responding to a charge of a misdemeanor, my guess is we ain't seen nothing yet," said Andrew McCabe, a former deputy director of the FBI who is now a senior CNN law enforcement analyst.But Democratic Rep. Zoe Lofgren of California -- a committee member who, as a law student worked in Congress on the Watergate scandal involving Stone's mentor, President Richard Nixon -- said that Stone and Jones had no option but to testify."You don't lie to Congress or else you're going to fall into other trouble, criminal law trouble. They are characters, but they have to come in and tell the truth," she said on CNN's "The Situation Room."Stone and Jones were not the only new witnesses targeted on Monday. The committee also sent subpoenas to Dustin Stockton and Jennifer Lawrence, key players in the "Stop the Steal" movement, and Taylor Budowich, who currently serves as Trump's spokesman.A committee with a grave purpose A new round of exhibitionism by spotlight-hungry members of Trump's orbit will not disguise the critical purpose of the committee. Trump, after all, tried to use the powers of the presidency to violate the will of voters and to destroy democratic institutions based on a lie of a stolen 2020 election. And given that Trump could run again for the White House as an unmasked wanna-be autocrat, the panel's eventual findings could be vital reading for voters in 2024.The ex-President's selfish refusal to accept the will of voters was laid bare in a Washington court room on Monday. In a plea hearing for a Capitol riot defendant, federal Judge Reggie Walton compared Trump to former Vice President Al Gore after the Supreme Court decided the disputed 2000 election in George W. Bush's favor."Al Gore had a better case to argue than Mr. Trump, but he was a man about what happened to him," Walton said. "He accepted it and walked away."In another stark reminder of the stakes for the committee, unsealed documents revealed an apparent threat to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi from Mark Mazza of Indiana, who was charged with carrying a loaded firearm onto the Capitol grounds. Mazza told investigators that if he had reached the speaker's office on January 6, they'd "be here for another reason."Besides seeking testimony from officials and outside allies who were close to Trump and his campaign, the January 6 committee has been fighting him in court over his effort to assert executive privilege over memos, schedules, visitor logs and other documents related to the January 6 period. Lawyers for the House said in a court filing on Monday that the investigators needed the ex-President's private papers in order to consider legislation to prevent future repeats of the insurrection. "Any inquiry that did not insist on examining Mr. Trump's documents and communications would be worse than useless—the equivalent of staging a production of Hamlet without the Prince of Denmark," their filing said.Digging deep into 'Stop the Steal'Stone has rarely been far from controversy since Trump transformed American politics by launching his campaign in 2015. He was found guilty in November 2019 of lying to and obstructing Congress in a case that shed light on the extent of Trump's knowledge about the release of stolen Democratic emails in 2016 by Wikileaks. So he has already established his reputation as a witness who is unlikely to turn on the ex-President. In an unrelated tax case Monday, his attorneys argued he was being hounded over his support for Trump."This case would never have been brought if it didn't involve Roger Stone," the filing said.The House select committee has previously issued several subpoenas to organizers of rallies in Washington, DC, on January 5 and 6 that preceded the insurrection. CNN has reported that the investigation has included questions about security forces at the rallies and those associated with Stone and others.Court records show prosecutors accused two members of the far-right extremist group the Oath Keepers of text messaging about providing security to Stone. An Oath Keeper who appeared to be protecting Stone on January 6 later joined an angry mob outside the Capitol, according to video and images reviewed by CNN and four sources who confirmed his identity.In its letter to Jones, the committee stated that he was denied a speaking spot at the January 6 rally but that his previous comments indicate he was designated to "lead a march to the Capitol, where President Trump would meet the group." The committee acknowledged that once at the Capitol, Jones told people "not to be violent." Trump never showed up on Capitol Hill.Jones' subpoena landed less than two months after he was found legally responsible in two lawsuits for damages caused by his false claim that the 2012 school massacre in Newtown, Connecticut, in which 26 people including 20 young children died, was a hoax.Lofgren told CNN's Jim Acosta on "The Situation Room" that Stone had raised money for security for the "Stop the Steal" rally through his websites and that Jones had claimed to raise most of the cash needed to stage the January 6 event.There is nothing wrong with staging a political rally. Even Trump's lies about the election being stolen are protected free speech. But the committee appears to be trying to find out whether the Capitol riot was a direct mob reaction to those lies peddled by Trump at the rally or if the ex-President or those in his orbit specifically laid the groundwork for the protest turning into an insurrection.CNN's Katelyn Polantz, Whitney Wild, Zachary Cohen, Ryan Nobles and Annie Grayer contributed to this story. 
The 'Biden 2024' debate is a straight-up loser for Democrats.  (CNN)Joe Biden is less than a year into his presidency and already his party is fractured over the question of whether he will -- or should -- run again in 2024."Biden and aides tell allies he is running in 2024 amid growing Democratic fears," reads the headline of a Washington Post story detailing the machinations over whether the 79-year-old President is, in fact, planning to run again.(My favorite part of the Post story is that after assurance after assurance that Biden is in fact running, they drop this quote: "One Democrat involved in campaigns said they couldn't think of a single person they had spoken to in the last month who considers the possibility of Biden running again to be a real one.")On Monday, White House press secretary Jen Psaki doubled down on Biden's plans to run telling reporters on Monday, "Yes, that's his intention."The is-he-or-isn't-he news cycle comes hard on the heels of a series of stories -- led by this one on CNN -- detailing growing concerns over how Vice President Kamala Harris is handling the job of vice president and whether she really will be the frontrunner many expected her to be whenever Biden does step aside.Add it up and you get a whole lot of nerves and confusion -- all for an election that is almost three years away.And, at root, these stories raise two questions. There's the obvious one: Is Biden, who will be almost 82 by Election Day 2024, going to run again?And the less obvious one: Is a Biden 2024 candidacy the best thing for the Democratic Party's chances at holding the White House?The first question is utterly unknowable. I assume Biden hasn't even considered making a decision about it yet.The second question is more interesting to me -- since it speaks to where Democrats think they are and what they need.On the one hand, Biden would be running in 2024 as an incumbent -- almost always a good thing -- and a known commodity to the public. That, plus Harris' struggles to adapt to the VP role, suggest Biden may well be the party's best choice.On the other, Biden's approval rating is stuck in the low 40s. He has struggled to bridge the divide between the liberal and moderate wings of the party. And again, he will be in his early 80s when his first term ends.It's clear from the Post story -- as well as all the handwringing around Harris -- that Democrats are divided on whether Biden runs again, and whether that is a good thing for the party.The Point: While Democrats have some time to figure it all out, having this debate in public is not a great look.
Defense lawyer prompts outrage for bringing up Ahmaud Arbery's toenails in closing arguments.  (CNN)A sentence uttered by a defense attorney in the trial of those accused in the killing of Ahmaud Arbery brought an audible gasp from people in the courtroom Monday -- and elicited outrage from his family and legal experts. The defense attorneys for Gregory and Travis McMichael, who are charged with Arbery's murder, repeatedly have tried to present Arbery as a criminal. On Monday, Laura Hogue, one of Gregory McMichael's lawyers, went further."Turning Ahmaud Arbery into a victim after the choices that he made does not reflect the reality of what brought Ahmaud Arbery to Satilla Shores in his khaki shorts with no socks to cover his long, dirty toenails," Hogue told jurors.Arbery was Black. The three defendants, who also include William "Roddie" Bryan, are White and face charges including malice and felony murder in the killing of Arbery after chasing him in a neighborhood near Brunswick, Georgia, on February 23, 2020. They have pleaded not guilty.Arbery's mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones, got up and left the courtroom after Hogue's remark, saying "I gotta get out of here."Later Monday, she told CNN that the comment was very disturbing. "I thought it was very, very rude to talk about his long, dirty toenails and to totally neglect that my son had a huge hole in his chest when he was shot with that shotgun," she said. The defense is just trying to deflect from the fact that they "don't have the proper evidence to get a conviction," Cooper-Jones said."So they're actually going to any measure to get it, to get a conviction, which is not there for them," she said. Legal pundit says comment used racist tropesLegal pundits took exception to Hogues' comment.In that moment, Hogue took the opportunity to portray Arbery as a "runaway slave," said Charles Coleman Jr., a civil rights attorney and former prosecutor"Her word choice was intentional, her descriptions were unnecessary. And the description ultimately is inflammatory," Coleman told CNN.It was an "attempt to sort of really trigger some of the racial tropes and stereotypes that may be deeply embedded in the psyche of some of the jurors," Coleman said. Glynn County, where the trial is being held, is made up of 69% White residents and 27% Black. Just one of the 12 jurors is Black. "It was disrespectful, it was horrific, and attorney Hogue should be ashamed of herself, to bring up his feet in the middle of trial. What is wrong with you?," said civil rights attorney L. Chris Stewart, "Not only disrespecting Ahmaud, but you know his mother's right there. It was horrific," Stewart said. Hogue's comment appears to be based on the autopsy of Arbery's body by the forensic sciences division of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, which states that "the toenails are long and very dirty."Former prosecutor Mark Eiglarsh said Hogue had the pulse of the jury."I did find the defense lawyer's comments, personally, extremely offensive," Eiglarch said. "That said, I'm going to defend her right to make it, because her job is to do everything that she can to get an acquittal, as long as it's within the confines of what the law allows.""As outrageous and offensive as I found it personally, I know that she wouldn't have made it if she didn't think it would resonate with those particular jurors," Eiglarsh said. "And that's what she did." Monday's closing statements by the defense attorneys follow 10 days of proceedings and testimony from 23 witnesses.On Tuesday, prosecutor Linda Dunikoski will give her rebuttal. 
Tucker Carlson exalts Kyle Rittenhouse during first post-verdict interview: He's a 'sweet kid'.  (CNN Busienss)A version of this article first appeared in the "Reliable Sources" newsletter. You can sign up for free right here.The exalting of Kyle Rittenhouse reached new heights on Monday evening when Tucker Carlson used his top-rated Fox News prime time program to lavish even more praise on the teenager.Before airing his interview with Rittenhouse, Carlson declared, "During the course of our long conversation, Kyle Rittenhouse struck us as bright, decent, sincere, dutiful, and hardworking." Carlson went on to say that Rittenhouse is "exactly the kind of person you would want many more of in your country. He's not especially political. He never wanted to be the symbol of anything." Later in the program, Carlson described Rittenhouse as a "sweet kid." None of that is particularly surprising, given how Carlson has previously covered the case. But it shows how the dominant sector of right-wing media, led by Carlson, is continuing to work to elevate Rittenhouse as a role model for others. Not only are people like Carlson excusing the general concept of vigilante justice, they are actively encouraging it. There are some voices in conservative media who have pushed back against this narrative. Notably, Carlson's Fox News colleague, Gillian Turner, pointed out earlier on Monday that while Rittenhouse was acquitted "he's not a hero here." As she said, "There are no heroes, there are no winners. There is no victory lap for Kyle or anybody else to take." But Turner's microphone pales in comparison to Carlson's. And it's hard to see the interview Carlson conducted with Rittenhouse, in which he (predictably) attacked the news media and others, as something other than a victory lap... "I don't think he is a crazy right-winger" An hour after Rittenhouse's interview with arguably the most prominent right-wing conspiracy theorist in the business aired, his attorney, Mark Richards, appeared on CNN and portrayed his client in a different light. Chris Cuomo asked about Carlson, Fox News, and whether Rittenhouse is aligned with such forces in right-wing media. Richards replied, "I don't think he is. ... I don't think he is a crazy right-winger."Cuomo then asked Richards about the lionization of Rittenhouse: "What kind of message do you think this sends?" Cuomo asked, noting how some gun shops are promoting sales tied to Rittenhouse's name and how a GOP lawmaker offered him an internship. "Is that something Kyle endorses?" Richards replied, "I don't think that is something he endorses. I think it sends a message that certain people are morons..."
Jury to begin third day of deliberations in Unite the Right civil trial . Charlottesville, Virginia (CNN)The jury in the civil case involving White nationalists who organized a two-day rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, in 2017, will begin a third day of deliberations Tuesday morning, a day after asking the judge about reaching unanimous decisions on the six counts.On Monday the 12-member panel asked US District Judge Norman Moon whether they need to be unanimous on each of the final three counts if they cannot reach a unanimous decision on first three counts, which related to conspiracy claims.Two of the counts -- five and six -- are related just to actions by James Alex Fields Jr., who sped his car into a crowd of protesters, killing one person and injuring dozens. The other involves a statute on racial, religious or ethnic harassment or violence.Without the jury present, the judge said, "I don't know why there's any misunderstanding about that. I think I'm going to tell them they must continue to try to reach a unanimous decision on all six counts." The jury will decide in each count whether each defendant is liable for damages. In a civil trial, plaintiffs' attorneys have to show a defendant is liable by a "preponderance of evidence," Moon told jurors, meaning 50.1% or greater chance of the claim is true.Among other questions the jury has asked was one about whether words also mean violence. Attorneys for the plaintiffs and defendants debated the issue without the jury present, with defense attorneys arguing words are protected by the First Amendment. The plaintiffs' attorneys suggested referring the panel back to jury instructions.Monday was the second day of jury deliberations and concluded around 5 p.m. ET. Court resumes Tuesday at 9 a.m.Planned removal of statue sparked the rallyThe Unite the Right rally was held over on August 11 and 12, 2017, to oppose the planned removal of a statue of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee. As the violence unfolded, it reached a tipping point when Fields -- who was protesting the statue's removal -- drove his car into a crowd of counterprotesters, killing 32-year-old Heather Heyer.Fourteen people and 10 White supremacist and nationalist organizations were listed as defendants in the civil lawsuit.The plaintiffs, who include town residents and counterprotesters injured in clashes, are seeking compensatory and statutory damages for the physical and emotional injuries they suffered due to the violence at the rally. They also contend rally organizers engaged in a conspiracy and planned the violence to ignite a race and religious war. Defense attorneys and two high-profile defendants who are representing themselves argued none of the plaintiffs had proven the defendants had organized racial violence.Closing arguments concluded Thursday. The jurors got 77 pages of final instructions and verdict forms Friday morning and started deliberating. To succeed on the primary conspiracy claim, the plaintiffs must prove the existence of a conspiracy involving two or more people, according to instructions given to the jurors. Also, plaintiffs must prove the conspiracy was partially motivated by "animus" toward Black or Jewish people or because the plaintiffs supported those communities and that such conspiracy aimed to deprive them of their right to be free from racially motivated violence, the jury instructions say.Finally, the plaintiffs must prove at least one person in the conspiracy "took an overt act" in continuing the racial violence and the plaintiffs were injured because of that act, according to the instructions.The plaintiffs who were hit by Fields' car are seeking $7 million to $10 million in compensatory damages while others are asking for $3 million to $5 million, according to one of the attorneys representing the plaintiffs, Roberta Kaplan. Plaintiffs' attorneys say defendants were looking to fightA large team of powerful lawyers under the umbrella of the nonprofit Integrity First for America are representing the plaintiffs in their civil case. In closing arguments, attorneys representing the plaintiffs told the jury that the defendants prepared for the "Battle of Charlottesville" and messages sent between them and their actions after the violence were proof of a conspiracy. The lawyers showed texts, messages on the online platform called Discord, and even Facebook Messenger, to show how organizers not only wanted counterprotesters, who they referred to as antifa or communists, to show up, but they were looking forward to a brawl. Organizers wanted the fight so much, they even tried trolling counter-demonstrators in hopes they would throw the first punch, the attorneys said.  Defense says no proof of conspiracyDefense attorneys and two high-profile defendants who are representing themselves countered that none of the plaintiffs had proven the defendants had organized racial violence.  "Plaintiffs have to prove an agreement. An agreement isn't a virus that can be passed around at a rally," said attorney Bryan Jones, who represents three defendants. The defendants have spent the entire trial making the argument that not only do they not know each other, but that they were just taking security measures in case they were attacked antifa. Defendants also made the claim that their hate speech is nothing more than off-color jokes that shouldn't be taken seriously. CNN's Mark Morales reported from Charlottesville and Steve Almasy reported and wrote in Atlanta. CNN's Aya Elamroussi and Amir Vera contributed to this report. 
Kevin Spacey ordered to pay nearly $31 million to 'House of Cards' production company.  (CNN)An arbitrator has ordered Kevin Spacey to pay almost $31 million to Media Rights Capital, the production company behind "House of Cards," the Netflix series in which the actor starred for five seasons until he was fired in 2017.The revelation came in a petition filed Monday in the Los Angeles County Superior Court, in which MRC is asking the court "to confirm the award in its favor and enter judgment against Spacey and his loan-out and producing companies."Spacey and MRC have been battling in the years since the actor was dismissed from the production over allegations of misconduct on and off the set.In its filing, MRC states that in October of 2020, an arbitrator found Spacey "repeatedly breached his contractual obligations" while starring as Frank Underwood on the Emmy-winning show and that his behavior "rendered him (and his affiliated entities) liable" for the millions of dollars lost by MRC.  MRC says the company suspended Spacey following CNN's report in 2017, in which several current and former members of the "House of Cards" production staff came forward with allegations of sexual harassment. One person also accused Spacey, who was an executive producer on the series, of sexual assault. "MRC had no knowledge whatsoever of any such conduct by Spacey with any cast or crew associated with the Show," the filing states. Shortly before CNN's report, actor Anthony Rapp told BuzzFeed News that the actor made a sexual advance toward him at a party in 1986 when he was 14 years old. MRC says it halted the production "to address any concerns of the show's cast and crew" in wake of the allegations, according to the filing. Following Rapp's claims, Spacey issued a statement claiming he did not recall the incident and apologized for what he said would have been "deeply inappropriate drunken behavior."After Spacey was terminated, the petition says that MRC had to "rewrite the entire season to omit Spacey's character, and to shorten Season 6 from 13 to 8 episodes to meet delivery deadlines" and suffered monetary losses as a result.Following the arbitrator's decision, MRC released a statement on the ruling, "The safety of our employees, sets and work environments is of paramount importance to MRC and why we set out to push for accountability." CNN has reached out to Spacey's attorneys for comment. 
LeBron James suspended for one game after a strike to an opposing player's face leads to an on-court scuffle.  (CNN)Los Angeles Lakers star LeBron James on Monday was suspended for a game without pay for the first time for making contact with Detroit Pistons star Isaiah Stewart in the face.James had been ejected during a game against the Pistons on Sunday.The ejection was only the second in James' career -- the first coming in 2017 for comments made to a referee. Sunday's altercation occurred with 9:18 remaining in the third quarter and the Lakers trailing 78-66 in Detroit. As a free throw was being attempted, James swung his arm backward while boxing out for a rebound, hitting Stewart. The foul led to a prolonged game stoppage while Stewart, with blood coming down his face, had to be held back by Detroit coaches and players as he tried to confront James on several occasions. Stewart was also ejected from the game.The Lakers went on to win 121-116.The NBA issued a release Monday saying that Stewart will be suspended for two games without pay for "escalating" the confrontation and "repeatedly and aggressively" pursuing James. James and Stewart did not speak to the media after the game. CNN has reached out to the Lakers for comment.Lakers teammate Anthony Davis came to the defense of James after the game, saying that James isn't a "dirty guy" and that he wasn't sure why Stewart reacted the way he did."I've never, in 10 years, seen a player try to do that as long as I've been playing, at least in basketball. It's uncalled for. You got a cut above your eye, accidental -- like, it wasn't on purpose. And we weren't going to allow him to keep charging our brother like that," Davis said.Lakers head coach Frank Vogel said he spoke to James in the locker room after the game."Yeah, that's really something that should stay in the locker room," Vogel said. "I mean, I talked to him, yup, but I'm not going to disclose what his message was."Stewart was "upset," Pistons coach Dwane Casey said after the game. "I told him, 'Don't let this define who you are. It doesn't define your game whatsoever.' I felt for the young man because he's such a competitor and he plays so hard. He's a great kid but he felt like he got cheap-shotted across his brow and on the street, it would be a different story," Casey said.
Al Gore 'was a man' about his election loss, unlike Trump, federal judge says.  (CNN)A federal judge took aim at former President Donald Trump on Monday for lying about voter fraud during the 2020 presidential election, saying that former Vice President Al Gore had a better standing to challenge the 2000 election results but that he was "a man" and walked away."Al Gore had a better case to argue than Mr. Trump, but he was a man about what happened to him," Senior District Judge Reggie Walton said of Gore's decision to end his presidential bid following weeks of legal battles. "He accepted it and walked away."The comments from Walton came during a plea hearing for Capitol riot defendant Adam Johnson, who was photographed carrying House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's lectern through the Capitol building. He pleaded guilty on Monday to a low-level charge of entering and remaining in a restricted building or grounds."What concerns me, sir, is that you were gullible enough to come to Washington, DC, from Florida based on a lie," Walton said, "and the person who inspired you to do what you do is still making those statements, and my concern is that you are gullible enough to do it again."Walton, who was appointed by the man who defeated Gore, former President George W. Bush, is the most recent to add his voice to a chorus of judges criticizing Trump for lying to his supporters. Last week, a federal judge also suggested Trump had some responsibility for the attack on the Capitol and called the rioters "pawns" who were provoked into action. Johnson, 36, told Walton that he accepted responsibility for getting "caught up in the moment," and said that a "hard couple of years" led him to spend a lot of time "listening to a lot of information and reading things" online.Investigators identified Johnson days after he was photographed smiling and waving as he carried the lectern through the Capitol building on January 6. According to prosecutors, Johnson started running to the Capitol building from the "Stop the Steal" rally at the Ellipse after someone in the crowd shouted "Pence didn't do it!" Johnson admitted that he brought a knife with him to Washington, but discarded it in the bushes on his way to the Capitol.Once inside the building Johnson wandered around until he came across Pelosi's office suite. He jiggled a door handle, prosecutors say, but it was locked. He then grabbed the lectern and carried it to the Capitol rotunda, posing for several pictures along the way. After he had discarded of the lectern, Johnson joined a crowd attempting to breach the House chamber. At one point, according to the plea agreement, Johnson said that a nearby bust of George Washington would be a "great battering ram" to get through the doors to the chamber. During the hearing, Johnson revealed that he may write a book about his involvement in the riot. He agreed that the government can seize any money he makes publicizing the event for the next five years as part of his plea deal.Johnson was originally charged with three federal crimes including theft of government property, but those charges will be dropped as part of his plea deal. He could face a sentence of up to six months in prison, according to his agreement with prosecutors read at his plea hearing on Monday. He will also pay $500 in restitution for damage done to the Capitol during the riot.More than 130 defendants have pleaded guilty so far to charges connected to the Capitol riot, with most to date admitting to misdemeanor charges.Man who organized bus travel sentenced to 60 days in jailFrank Scavo, who told local news outlets and the FBI he organized several buses to bring people from eastern Pennsylvania to Washington for the January 6 rally, was sentenced to 60 days in jail on Monday and received the maximum fine of $5,000.The sentence, handed down by Senior DC District Judge Royce Lamberth, was much heavier than the 14 days of incarceration that the Justice Department had asked for. Scavo pleaded guilty to illegally demonstrating in the Capitol, a misdemeanor offense, in September.Before issuing the sentence, Lamberth told Scavo he gave him "credit for the fact that you did not put anyone at risk" or engaged in violence but said that "without you and other people" the attack on the Capitol "would not have happened."Scavo told the judge he had a "deep sense of regret" for his actions on January 6, adding later that "it was a crime.""From the point the jig was up, you've done everything you could," Lamberth told Scavo in a brief comment following the sentence. "Good luck to you."According to the Justice Department, Scavo had captured assaults on Capitol Police officers while filming on his phone and bragged about "storm(ing)" the Capitol. On his Facebook page that day, Scavo posted that "PENCE IS OUT OF CAPITOL" and "No certification Today!!!""He had more or less a front-row seat" to the Capitol siege, Assistant US Attorney Seth Meinero said during the hearing, adding that Scavo saw the crowd push into the east front of the Capitol after the Trump rally.
Brendan Hunt sentenced to 19 months in prison for threatening to assault or murder members of Congress. Washington (CNN)Brendan Hunt -- whose father is a retired judge and who allegedly threatened the lives of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, now-Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez -- was sentenced Monday to 19 months in prison after being found guilty of one count of threatening to assault or murder US officials. "We will not tolerate threats to members of the United States Congress or calls to overthrow our democratically elected government," US Attorney of the Eastern District of New York Breon Peace said in a statement. "Not only will we investigate and vigorously prosecute these crimes, but today's sentence sends a clear message that those who seek to harm our representatives and bring chaos to our democracy will be punished," he said.Hunt, the son of retired New York City family court judge John Hunt, had been convicted by a jury in Brooklyn federal court in April.Prosecutors argued at the time that Hunt had posted videos of himself at his Queens home in January discussing the January 6 riot at the US Capitol, threatening to kill senators and encouraging others to go back to the Capitol on Inauguration Day and take their guns.Hunt took the stand in his own defense during the trial, telling the court that he didn't really mean what he said in videos and messaging apps about killing elected officials. Hunt testified that he didn't think his rhetoric about killing elected officials could bear real penal consequences because he'd seen the prevalence of "kill Trump" rhetoric, especially from celebrities.In a Facebook account registered to HuntBrendan, prosecutors said, Hunt posted his praise in December for people who have fought back against Covid-19 mitigation protocols -- and praised violence against police but also said people should instead "go after a high value target" like Pelosi, Schumer or Ocasio-Cortez.Prosecutors also showed the jury text messages that Hunt allegedly sent to his father around the time of the presidential election. In the string of messages, Hunt allegedly mentioned Adolf Hitler and said the American people would support then-President Donald Trump if he overrode the democratic process like Hitler did to remain president despite the election looking like it was leaning in now-President Joe Biden's favor.When asked about discriminatory rants to his father in private text messages, Hunt testified that he purposely said extreme statements to anger his dad but doesn't actually hold racist beliefs.CNN's Rob Frehse contributed to this report. 
Lobsters and crabs are sentient beings and shouldn't be boiled alive, UK report says. Sign up for CNN's Wonder Theory science newsletter. Explore the universe with news on fascinating discoveries, scientific advancements and more. (CNN)Octopuses, crabs and lobsters are capable of experiencing pain or suffering, according to a review commissioned by the UK government, which has added the creatures to a list of sentient beings to be given protection under new animal welfare laws.The report by experts at the London School of Economics looked at 300 scientific studies to evaluate evidence of sentience, and they concluded that cephalopods (such as octopuses, squid and cuttlefish) and decapods (such as crabs, lobsters and crayfish) should be treated as sentient beings. Vertebrates, animals with a backbone, are already classified as sentient in new animal welfare legislation currently under debate in the United Kingdom. "The Animal Welfare Sentience Bill provides a crucial assurance that animal wellbeing is rightly considered when developing new laws. The science is now clear that decapods and cephalopods can feel pain and therefore it is only right they are covered by this vital piece of legislation," said Animal Welfare Minister Lord Zac Goldsmith in a statement.The Bill, which isn't yet law, will establish an Animal Sentience Committee, which will issue reports on how well government decisions have taken into account the welfare of sentient animals. It is part of a wider government Action Plan for Animal Welfare.The report said lobsters and crabs shouldn't be boiled alive and included best practices for the transport, stunning and slaughter of decapods and cephalopods.Learning more about cephalopods and decapodsThe report used eight different ways to measure sentience including learning ability, possession of pain receptors, connections between pain receptors and certain brain regions, response to anesthetics or analgesics, and behaviors including balancing threat against opportunity for reward and protection against injury or threat. It found "very strong" evidence of sentience in octopods and "strong" evidence in most crabs. For other animals in these two groups, such as squid, cuttlefish and lobsters they found the evidence was substantial but not strong. However, the report said these varying degrees of evidence reflected disparities in the amount of attention different animals have received from scientists. "Scientific attention has gravitated towards some (animals) rather than others for reasons of practical convenience (e.g. which animals can be kept well in labs) and geography (e.g. which species are available where a lab is located). Because of this situation, we think it would be inappropriate to limit protection to specific orders of cephalopod, or to specific infraorders of decapod," the report said. The recent Netflix documentary "My Octopus Teacher" showcased the unique abilities of octopuses. The brain structure of octopuses is very different from that of humans, but it has some of the same functions as mammal brains, such as learning abilities, including being able to solve problems, and possibly the ability to dream. 
5 Georgia officers are indicted on murder charges in death of 24-year-old man.  (CNN)Arrest warrants were issued Monday for five Georgia police officers indicted on murder charges for the 2019 killing of a 24-year-old man. Fernando Rodriguez died of asphyxiation after being placed in a prone position while he was handcuffed and held down, allegedly in violation of state law.  The indictment accuses Henry County Police Department officers Robert Butera and Quinton Phillips and former Hampton Police Department officers Mason Lewis, Marcus Stroud and Gregory Bowlden in Rodriguez's death on September 20, 2019, following contact with police outside a concert at the Atlanta Motor Speedway.  The indictment, handed down by a Henry County grand jury Friday night, charges all five officers with one count of malice murder, two counts of felony murder, one count of aggravated assault, and violation of oath of office.  A spokeswoman for the Henry County District Attorney's office said arrest warrants for the five officers were issued Monday morning. Each officer will be held on $100,000 bond and must turn himself in by 5 p.m. on Tuesday, the spokeswoman said.   The five-page indictment says that Rodriguez died of asphyxiation. Body-camera footage shows him walking down a street fully naked, away from the officers when they tased him more than a dozen times.   The indictment accuses the officers of contributing to Rodriguez's death by stretching him out "on the ground in a prone position, while he was handcuffed and shackled, holding him down and applying pressure to his body, contrary" to state laws.  "Rodriguez, who lived in the Atlanta area, was leaving the Imagine Music Festival at the Atlanta Motor Speedway in Hampton when officers encountered him," the district attorney's office said in a press release. "In addition to holding his naked body down on the ground, the officers struck Rodriguez more than a dozen times with their Tasers." In an interview with CNN on Monday, the Rodriguez family attorney called video of the incident "revolting.""This is a clear civil rights violation, and apparently the DA agrees," family attorney Page Pate said. The City of Hampton has already settled a multimillion-dollar civil lawsuit, according to Pate. The city did not respond to requests for comment. "They paid the family $3 million as soon as they saw the complaint," Pate said, adding that he anticipates Henry County to settle a similar suit.  Two lawyers representing the officers in their civil lawsuits did not respond to CNN's request for comment. Criminal defense attorneys for the five officers could not immediately be reached comment.  "The family is very pleased [with the indictment]" Page told CNN. "They've been waiting patiently for justice. We know this is long process, but this is a good start."  The Georgia Bureau of Investigation conducted the probe into Rodriguez's death, according to the DA office's press release. 
5-year-old found dead last month in a Massachusetts state park died by homicide, officials say.  (CNN)Elijah Lewis, a 5-year-old found dead in a Massachusetts state park after being missing for more than a month, died by homicide, officials said Monday. An autopsy found the boy's cause of death "was determined to be violence and neglect, including facial and scalp injuries, acute fentanyl intoxication, malnourishment and pressure ulcers," the New Hampshire Attorney General's Office said in a news release.Elijah's remains were found by state police on October 23 in Ames Nowell State Park in Abington, about 20 miles southeast of Boston. His body was discovered in what investigators referred to as a grave, the attorney general's office said at the time.Elijah's disappearance was brought to the attention of authorities by New Hampshire's Division for Children, Youth & Families (DCYF) on October 14. He wasn't reported missing prior to this time, officials said.Police in Merrimack, New Hampshire, began investigating and were joined by New Hampshire State Police and the New Hampshire Department of Justice, according to the attorney general's office. New Hampshire Senior Assistant Attorney General Susan Morrell told CNN affiliate WMUR last month that investigators believe they narrowed down the time frame Elijah went missing back to September 1.Elijah's mother, Danielle Dauphinais, 35, and her boyfriend, Joseph Stapf, 30, were arrested on charges of child endangerment and witness tampering on October 17 and are being held without bond, the attorney general's office said.Witness tampering charges against Dauphinais and Stapf stem from evidence showing the pair allegedly asked people to lie about Elijah's whereabouts and where he was living, knowing child protection services were searching for the boy, the attorney general said in an October statement.CNN has reached out to the attorneys for Dauphinais and Stapf for comment but did not immediately hear back.CNN's Sahar Akbarzai, Artemis Moshtaghian and Kiely Westhoff contributed to this report.
Coach of NWSL soccer team resigns, a day before report alleges verbal and emotional abuse of players.  (CNN)The coach of the Chicago Red Stars resigned Sunday, a day after leading his team to the National Women's Soccer League title game and a day before a Washington Post report alleged that players had accused him of verbal and emotional abuse.Rory Dames' resignation was announced in a press release dated Sunday from the Red Stars, which lost Saturday 2-1 to the Washington Spirit. The statement made no mention of the allegations.The story Monday in the Post is the latest chapter to roil the 10-team league, which has been facing a reckoning over the treatment of its players. The Post reported players had turned to the US Soccer Federation for help about the alleged abuse instead of the NWSL. CNN has reached out to Dames for comment.Last month, the NWSL commissioner Lisa Baird resigned and the league called off weekend matches following a report by The Athletic detailing allegations of sexual coercion and misconduct against Paul Riley, who coached three NWSL franchises over eight seasons. Riley in an email to The Athletic denied the claims.In addition, the CEO and managing partner of the Washington Spirit resigned and referenced a recent request by the players, who cited concerns over workplace environment, as part of the reason for stepping down.FIFA, the international governing body for soccer, announced an investigation as did US Soccer, the latter retaining former acting Attorney General Sally Yates of King & Spalding LLP to lead the probe into allegations of abusive behavior and sexual misconduct.On October 29, the players association said the league had agreed to meet all the players' demands for cultural changes and transparency following the earlier reports of sexual misconduct.Dames said he was resigning to focus on his familyIn a statement Monday, the Red Stars said they stood with the players "who are fiercely advocating for change, and we are committed to doing our part to ensure a safe environment" for players, staff, volunteers and fans. When Dames' resignation was announced, neither the team nor the coach referenced the allegations. "For 11 years, I have dedicated myself to help build the Chicago Red Stars into one of the top international clubs," Dames said in the team's press release. "Effective today, I'm refocusing my attention to my family and future endeavors, and I am resigning as coach of the Chicago Red Stars."In the same statement posted on the Stars' website, the team said that "under Rory's leadership we have been a remarkably consistent and excellent club on the field," adding that it was time to begin a new chapter with the search for new leadership.The Post reported one of the players who complained about Dames was Christen Press, a member of the US Women's National Team and a former Red Stars player. According to the Post, Press said she told then-US Soccer president Sunil Gulati her concerns about Dames in 2014, and she filed a formal complaint to US Soccer about Dames in 2018. CNN has reached out to Gulati for comment.The NWSL Players Association said in a statement that the system has failed the players. "Nothing short of a complete transformation of our league will suffice," the association said.CNN's Jill Martin contributed to this report
This cult teen brand is quitting social media amid growing safety concerns. New York (CNN Business)Trendy soaps brand Lush Cosmetics is quitting Facebook, Instagram, TikTok and Snapchat on Friday in a radical move to draw attention to how those platforms are damaging people's mental health.The company said Monday that its accounts will be deactivated on Nov. 26, the day after Thanksgiving, when most other brands and retailers kick their social media activity into high gear to win over holiday gift shoppers.Lush, which has more than 900 stores worldwide, including 240 across the United States and Canada, said it will remain off those social media channels globally until the platforms ensure a safer environment for their users. As much as Lush is known for its cruelty-free and organic bath bombs, shampoos and soaps, the brand also actively champions social and environmental causes such as Black Lives Matter, fights against deforestation and promotes sustainability to its 659,000 Instagram followers, 275,000 Twitter fans and more than 1 million Facebook followers.This isn't the first time Lush, a Millennials and Gen Z -favored brand, has tried quitting social media. The company made a similar attempt with its UK accounts in 2019 saying "It was tired of fighting with algorithms" and wanted to talk directly with its customers.The latest effort, however, is happening at a time when social media companies are under even more intense scrutiny over how their platforms may be contributing to mental and physical health issues, especially among younger individuals.Facebook is currently in the middle of possibly the biggest crisis in its 17-year history over issues about hate speech and misinformation, which have been amplified on the platform."As an inventor of bath bombs, I pour all my efforts into creating products that help people switch off, relax and pay attention to their wellbeing," Jack Constantine, chief digital officer and product inventor at Lush, said in a release. "Social media platforms have become the antithesis of this aim, with algorithms designed to keep people scrolling and stop them from switching off and relaxing."The company said it hopes social media companies will ultimately enact stronger best practice guidelines. Lush said it will continue to be active on Twitter and YouTube. 
Eddie Redmayne says playing a trans character in 'The Danish Girl' was a mistake.  (CNN)Eddie Redmayne has addressed the controversy surrounding his Oscar-nominated role in "The Danish Girl," calling his decision to play transgender pioneer Lili Elbe in the 2015 drama a "mistake."  The "Fantastic Beasts" star, who is preparing for a new West End production of "Cabaret," was speaking to UK publication the Sunday Times. "The Danish Girl," directed by Tom Hooper, is inspired by the story of Elbe, one of the first people to undergo gender reassignment surgery. Although Redmayne was nominated for a string of awards for his performance, his casting as Elbe  prompted complaints, with many critics arguing that the role should have gone to a trans actor.At the time, trans writer Carol Grant described his casting as "regressive, reductive, and contributes to harmful stereotypes." She said: "What should've been a celebration of a very complex, compelling transgender figure is instead transmisogynist, and just plain-old misogynist in general." In his interview with the Sunday Times, Redmayne said the criticism was justified, admitting that while he had the best intentions, taking the role was a "mistake" and he wouldn't accept it if it were offered today. "No, I wouldn't take it on now," the 39-year-old star said, adding: "The bigger discussion about the frustrations around casting is because many people don't have a chair at the table. There must be a levelling, otherwise we are going to carry on having these debates." Redmayne can next be seen playing the Emcee in "Cabaret," opposite "Chernobyl" actress Jessie Buckley as Sally Bowles. Liza Minelli famously played Bowles and Joel Grey was cast as the sexually ambiguous Emcee in the 1972 film adaptation Redmayne asked those who might criticize his decision to take on a role often played by LGBT actors to suspend judgment. "Of all the characters I've ever read, this one defies pigeonholing. I would ask people to come and see it before casting judgment," he said. "Cabaret" opens opens at London's Playhouse Theatre on December 12.
How to avoid the world's second biggest economy in your portfolio. New York (CNN Business)The Chinese economy presents some unique challenges for investors. On one hand, China is home to several of the most dynamic and rapidly growing companies on the planet, such as electric car makers Xpeng and Nio (NIO) as well as privately held TikTok owner ByteDance.But China's recent crackdown on the tech sector has slowed earnings momentum at big brand name firms including Baidu (BIDU), Alibaba (BABA) and WeChat owner Tencent (TCEHY). Continued human rights concerns, brought to the forefront once more following questions about the safety of tennis star Peng Shuai, are also a problem for some investors. So can (and should) you avoid the world's second largest economy? Some experts think that's exactly what investors should be doing."Investors have underestimated autocracy risk," said Perth Tolle, sponsor of the Freedom 100 Emerging Markets (FRDM) ETF, a fund that has no exposure to Chinese stocks. "You can't always factor in the risk of a government coming in overnight and saying to a company 'you can't really make a profit,'" she said. Tolle told CNN Business that investors should be more concerned about capital flowing out of the country due to worries about Beijing exerting more control over companies in mainland China.That's why her fund has more exposure to other markets such as Taiwan and South Korea instead of China. Taiwan Semiconductor (TSM) and Samsung (SSNLF) are two top holdings in the FRDM ETF.Emerging markets funds doing better without China exposureTolle isn't the only one screening out China from emerging markets funds. Big fund companies such as iShares and Columbia Threadneedle also have emerging market ETFs that leave Chinese companies out of their holdings. The funds have outperformed broader emerging markets funds this year, too, showing that investing for social good can be profitable. The FRDM ETF, as well as the iShares MSCI Emerging Markets ex China ETF (EMXC) and Columbia EM Core ex-China ETF (XCEM), are each up between 6% and 8% in 2021. That's compared to a 2% drop for the broader iShares MSCI Emerging Markets ETF (EEM), which owns Tencent, Alibaba and Chinese food delivery service Meituan as top holdings. Other investing experts argue that Chinese president Xi Jinping's recent push to crack down on big tech firms is not a good sign for earnings in the short-term."We like the longer-term view, but in the near- term, we're more cautious," said Jeff Mortimer, director of investment strategy at BNY Mellon Wealth Management. "Some other emerging markets have better growth potential.""The move from promoting more entrepreneurship to an equal growth sharing of the pie changes the equation," he added. "We took some money off the table and reduced our exposure to China."Another portfolio manager argued that trying to predict which companies or sectors will come under the "Xi Jinping thought sphere of influence" makes investing there a challenge. Major Chinese education stocks have taken a hit this year as well due to regulatory concerns. "The investor perception of risk has risen in China, and it has risen with cause," said Paul Espinosa, portfolio manager with Seafarer Capital Partners.   Espinosa also said China isn't as attractive as other emerging markets simply because stocks outside of the country are better bargains. Companies in Brazil and others parts of Latin America are more compelling values than Chinese-based firms, Espinosa said. He's also looking at investment opportunities in the Middle East."Everyone is so focused on China, and it is dominated by growth investors," he said. "But there are more opportunities outside of China." 
Here's why gas is so cheap at Costco and Walmart. New York (CNN Business)Gas prices are skyrocketing, and Americans want to save at the pump. That plays right into the hands of Costco, BJ's Wholesale Club and Sam's Club.The national gas price average jumped to $3.41 a gallon Friday, according to AAA, 61% higher than the average at the same time last year. The Biden administration has called for an investigation into whether oil and gas companies acted illegally to push up prices. The spike has pushed more shoppers to rely on these chains to fill up their tanks, say the companies, retail analysts, and fuel experts. Gas prices at warehouse clubs can be as much as 30 cents lower than traditional gas stations, and the chains offer members coupons to use in their stores when they fill up. Gasoline sales at the warehouse clubs are an important part of their business and draw customers inside."People are seeking out the clubs because of the gas," said Michael Baker, a retail analyst at D.A. Davidson. "It's US consumers' nature to go out of their way for lower gas prices."Costco, for example, is typically 20 cents a gallon below the market average, according to Tom Kloza, the global head of energy analysis at IHS Markit's Oil Price Information Service. BJ's says it's 10 cents below average.These companies are "winners when gasoline prices go skyward," said Kloza.Costco (COST), Sam's Club and BJ's (BJ) want you to fill up your tank in their parking lots and then go stock up on giant jugs of ketchup, boxes of snacks and clothing. (And why not buy a flat-screen TV or a new couch while you're at it?) Their gas stations give these warehouse stores an advantage that many retail competitors can't match.  Gas makes up around 10%, $20 billion annually, of Costco's overall sales and 9% of BJ's. Walmart (WMT), which owns Sam's Club, does not disclose what portion of its sales come from gas.Gas is a notoriously low-margin business, but retailers can make money from selling huge volumes of gas -- even while charging much less than independent gas stations, said Kloza, adding that it's not unusual for sales at a Costco location to reach up to 1 million gallons a month compared to an average of 80,000 gallons a month at typical gas stations.Despite their big-brand names, the vast majority of Exxon, Chevron, BP and Shell gas statons are independently owned, so they aren't able to make a volume play like wholesalers do. Although wholesalers are able to make a profit on gas, they're not making much: Costco, for example, reported that gasoline has a lower profit margin than the rest of its business. Rising gas prices typically help Costco's sales, but hurt its profits. "When there are inflationary pressures and prices are going up, people look to save on gas," said Richard Galanti, Costco's chief financial officer. For every 100 people who come to Costco to fill up on gas, more than half go shop inside afterwards, he said.Gas sales at BJ's Wholesale Club jumped 20% during its most recent quarter ending October 30 compared with the same time a year ago. BJ's is growing market share in gasoline "in leaps and bounds," CEO Robert Eddy said on a call with analysts Thursday. When gas prices hit over $3 a gallon, "members love us" and shift their gas spending to the club.Gas discounts are a tool Walmart uses to encourage customers to sign up for Walmart+ memberships, which also offer free shipping and discounts on prescriptions.Walmart said on Tuesday that it's actively trying to keep gas prices down to attract customers worried about how much they're paying at the pump, especially as federal stimulus benefits wane."Gas prices are a concern....They're up dramatically versus a year ago," Walmart CEO Doug McMillon said on an earnings call. "The customers had money [then]. And at some point, that's going to come to an end." 
CVS had every advantage, but it lost the pandemic. Here's what happened. New York (CNN Business)CVS' announcement Thursday that it will close 900 stores over the next three years — around 10% of its pharmacies — may have caught some shoppers off guard.Isn't CVS doing really well right now? Haven't lots of people gone to drug stores during the pandemic to stock up on hand sanitizer, cleaning wipes and toilet paper? What about all those Covid-19 vaccine shots CVS gives out?Actually, CVS' closures shouldn't come as a surprise. They are the latest moves in the long-running contraction of the US retail pharmacy sector. CVS (CVS), Walgreens (WBA) and Rite Aid (RAD) have been shuttering stores for years, while independent pharmacies have come under pressure from chains. Drug store closures can hurt local communities, creating access gaps for medications and essentials.CVS, the largest drug store chain in the United States, pointed to "changes in population, consumer buying patterns and future health needs" as factors in its decision to close stores. Here's why CVS will close 900 stores.Pivot to health careThe future of CVS is not selling snacks, candy, shampoo and greeting cards. It's in health care.To that end, in 2018 CVS completed a $69 billion acquisition of Aetna, the largest health care deal in history, to create a gigantic customer base of about 40 million Americans. CVS bet that the deal will increase its profits from those patients' health plans while helping to lower its costs. CVS also has been revamping its retail strategy and said Thursday that its stores will have three distinct models: locations that offer primary care services; "HealthHub" stores that have on-site dieticians, nurse practitioners and lab services, and on-site treatment for chronic conditions such as diabetes and asthma; and traditional stores.CVS is "really pivoting and leaning into the health care aspects of the business," said George Hill, an analyst who covers the company and the health care industry at Deutsche Bank. "You'd much rather be selling health care services that are high-dollar value, high-margin versus greeting cards."Too many storesWhen you walk down the street or drive around the suburbs you'll typically pass a CVS. And then hit a Walgreens right next door. Rite Aid is probably pretty close, too. "There's too many pharmacies in the country and there's too much pharmacy capacity. That gives CVS a reason to go," said Hill.CVS closed 244 stores between 2018 and 2020, yet it still has more than 9,900 stores. That's more than Walmart (WMT), Target (TGT) Kroger (KR) and Costco (COST) — combined.Its latest closings will "reduce store density in certain locations," CVS said Thursday, which translates into the fact that CVS has too many stores too close to each other in some places.Competition from Amazon and Dollar GeneralAlso, fewer people are heading to CVS and other drug stores to fill their prescriptions and shop for household staples these days. (And they're not going into CVS to buy tobacco, either, which the company stopped selling in 2014.)Some shoppers have replaced their trips to stores like CVS by buying their supplies online from Amazon (AMZN), or from brick-and-mortar giants like Walmart and Target. The chains have built their own strong e-commerce businesses in recent years.Dollar General (DG) has also grabbed market share from drug stores, undercutting the sector with lower prices on similar items. And now Dollar General is launching its own health care initiative as it continues to take business from pharmacies.Online pharmacies and telemedicine have gained traction, too. Amazon bought PillPack in 2018 for more than $700 million and started shipping prescriptions to Prime members last year. Capsule and other digital pharmacies that deliver directly to customers' homes are also growing. Although brick-and-mortar pharmacies are still an important stop for many elderly people,or those who don't use the web or have access to it, they are increasingly becoming a thing of the past to the growing ranks of online shoppers.Rising costsClosing stores also reduces CVS' costs while still keeping most of its sales. Its labor and store operations costs increased during the pandemic because of safety protections like plexiglass, floor decals and masks. The company said in August it planned to raise its minimum wage to $15 an hour from $11 in a bid to retain and attract workers."There are cost pressures in all directions," said Hill, the Deutsche Bank analyst.Seventy-five percent of CVS' sales comes from filling prescriptions, but its profits from that segment have declined in recent years because of lower reimbursement rates.But when CVS closes a store, it can hold onto most of those sales by shifting the prescriptions to its nearest pharmacies, Hill said.Covid-19 vaccines weren't a huge boostCVS got a lift from people coming into its stores for their Covid-19 vaccines and tests. The company has administered 43 million vaccines and around 38 million tests, CEO Karen Lynch said on an earnings call earlier this month.But the vaccines were only a short-term gain for the company, which said they will generate only $3 billion in revenue in 2021. That will decline by up to 40% next year, along with whatever sales CVS racked up as shoppers browsed aisles while they waited to get vaccinated, Lynch said.People also visited their doctors less frequently last year and into 2021, and elective procedures were suspended early in the pandemic, which meant that CVS filled fewer regular and chronic care prescriptions than in the years before the pandemic. And fewer people have also been coming into stores to pick up cough and fever medicines — big business for CVS — because they're still wearing masks and spending more time at home than they once did.
