A plumber found cash and checks stashed in a wall at Joel Osteen's Houston mega-church.  (CNN)A plumber doing repair work at pastor Joel Osteen's Lakewood Church found hundreds of envelopes of cash and checks hidden in a wall that police think is connected to a massive 2014 theft at the Houston mega-church.Officers were called to the church on November 10 to investigate the discovery, according to a statement from the Houston Police Department."Church members stated that during a renovation project, a large amount of money -- including cash, checks and money orders -- was found inside a wall," the statement said.Police said that evidence from the recovered checks suggests that the envelopes are connected to the March 9, 2014, theft of undisclosed amounts of money from the church.CNN reported at the time that about $600,000 -- $200,000 in cash and $400,000 in checks -- was taken from a church safe. The money came from contributions given on March 8 and 9 of 2014.Burglary and theft officers inventoried and documented the recovered money and left it in the custody of the church, because it was property found on its premises, the statement said.Police said the investigation is ongoing.Lakewood Church confirmed the discovery in a statement provided to CNN, but it did not provide additional information because the investigation is still active."Recently, while repair work was being done at Lakewood Church, an undisclosed amount of cash and checks were found," the statement said. "Lakewood immediately notified the Houston Police Department and is assisting them with their investigation."News of the find became public on Thursday when a man who identified himself as the plumber called into Houston radio station 100.3 The Bull and shared the story with the Morning Bullpen show."There was a loose toilet in the wall and we removed the tile ... Went to go remove the toilet and I moved some insulation away and about 500 envelopes fell out of the wall, and I was like, 'Oh wow,'" the caller said.The caller said he contacted the maintenance supervisor and turned the money in.Co-host George Lindsey told CNN that they talked to the man, who said his name was Justin, off the air to make sure it wasn't a prank. "I wish we had video of our faces because we were all just like, 'holy cow,' Lindsey said. He said he was impressed that Justin did the right thing and turned in the money."He could have stashed some of this money in his pocket and walked out and never said anything to anybody, but [he] was an honest, stand-up kind of guy," Lindsey said.Crimestoppers of Houston had offered a $25,000 reward in 2014 for information leading to an arrest in the case, but the organization says that money is no longer available because the statute of limitations has expired in the case.
Students are fed up with racist slurs and bullying. Now they're walking out of class.  (CNN)Some Black students are being told they stink while others are being called monkeys by their White peers. The n-word has been written on the walls of school restrooms as other students are the targets of racist rants on social media.Students of color are facing racial slurs and bullying in and outside the classroom, and many who are fed up have been walking out of class, speaking at board meetings and even suing school districts.In Minnesota, a 14-year-old Black girl spoke in front of a crowd to condemn a video widely shared online that she said encouraged her to take her own life. Meanwhile, a community in Utah is scrutinizing a school district after the family of a Black and autistic student said she was bullied by classmates before dying by suicide.As some lawmakers and parents attempt to limit teachings about racism and schools' diversity and inclusion efforts are met with protests, numerous reports of racist bullying have recently surfaced in classrooms from coast to coast."It's everywhere, it's not a new thing. This isn't something that is just now happening. It's just now getting attention, more than it has (gotten) before," Sean Sorkoram, a high school student in Tigard, Oregon, who was part of a walkout on Wednesday, told CNN affiliate KPTV.  Students at Tigard High School staged the walkout in protest of a video posted on social media that appears to show students using racial slurs. In October, the Tigard-Tualatin School District said reports of hate speech incidents were rising in its schools."Students are reporting that they have been the victim of hate speech or observed firsthand hate incidents happening in our buildings," Superintendent Sue Rieke-Smith wrote in a message to parents. In a new report released last week, the Government Accountability Office estimated that 5.2 million students aged 12 to 18 were bullied in the 2018-2019 school year and one in four of them experienced bullying related to their race, national origin, religion, disability, gender or sexual orientation. In the same school year, the report says, there were 1.6 million students who were subjected to hate speech due to their identity. Among those incidents, half targeted students' race and 24% related to their national origin.The agency found that while students experience a range of hostile behaviors, hate is widespread in schools. More than 1,500 schools reported having at least one hate crime occur and about 5.8 million students said they saw hate words or symbols written at schools. That included anti-Semitic slurs, references to lynching, the Holocaust, and anti-immigrant rhetoric, the report indicates. Students are protesting and seeking legal actionDozens of students attended protests and solidarity events in Minnesota last month after a racist video was shared widely on social media. In that video, a young girl is seen spewing hateful, racist slurs toward a Black high school student, encouraging her to take her own life.Nya Sigin, a 14-year-old student at Prior Lake High School, told CNN last month that she was the target of the video, which is now being investigated by police in Savage, Minnesota. The investigation was launched after the girl's older sister and multiple students from several schools reported it to school officials. Savage Police Chief Rodney Seurer has described the video as a horrific, hateful and racist, saying such behavior won't be tolerated in the city.Chioma Osuoha, a student activist who led a solidarity event with the girl and students who have been victims of racial incidents, told CNN her "heart dropped" and she was "so angry" when she first watched the video. It led her to start working to bring attention to the video and she contacted the girl.Since the video began drawing local and national attention, there has been an outpouring of support from students and community members outraged by the video, something that Osuoha says shows that many people are willing to have discussions about race and learn how to become allies."The power is in the people, we must do things in numbers and (I) believe that's exactly what happened," Osuoha, 18, said.In Michigan, the parents of a 15-year-old Black student filed a $150 million class-action federal lawsuit against school officials on her behalf days after several students protested over their school district's response to racist messages being plastered on school walls. The lawsuit, filed last month in US District Court, argues Black students and their parents "have experienced racist, unfair, hurtful, and at times dangerous interactions" at Bloomfield Hills High School by both White staff and students. District officials, the lawsuit argues, have failed to take steps to stop racial discrimination.In a statement, the Bloomfield Hills Schools district declined to comment on "the specifics of pending litigation." "Most importantly, irrespective of any legal filings, the topic of equity and inclusion will continue to be a top priority for Bloomfield Hills Schools, as it has for the past several years. The district will emerge stronger and better as a result of these conversations, undeterred from its commitment to all students and facilitate a school environment of safety and support for every student," the statement said.How racism takes a toll on students' mental healthIn recent weeks, the death of a 10-year-old Black and autistic student in Utah prompted more scrutiny for a school district that was already investigated by the Justice Department. It also became a stark reminder of the toll that bullying can take on students' mental health.The parents of Isabella "Izzy" Tichenor said she was being bullied by classmates. Some told her she stank and they used the n-word, the family's attorney Tyler Ayres told CNN last month. The parents reported the bullying to multiple school officials at Foxboro Elementary in Farmington, Utah, but they felt like nothing was done, Ayres said.Izzy's death by suicide on November 6 left her community shocked and led the Davis School District to launch an independent investigation that remains ongoing. The girl's death came weeks after the Justice Department detailed a disturbing pattern where Black and Asian American students at the Davis School District were harassed for years, and officials deliberately ignored complaints from parents and students. Last week, the district pledged to hire a more diverse staff and appointed a new assistant superintendent who will be working on diversity and equity issues and the district's recent settlement with the DOJ.A spokesman for the district declined to provide further comment about how school officials are handling the recent controversies linked to racial tensions.A study released last month found that young adults who experience discrimination about their bodies, race, age or sex have a greater risk of dealing with mental health problems than those who do not. Those who faced discrimination frequently -- at least a few times per month -- were around 25% more likely to be diagnosed with a mental disorder and twice as likely to develop severe psychological distress than people who didn't experience discrimination or did less often, according to a study published in the journal Pediatrics.The findings mirror what experts have said about the effects that discrimination and hostile behaviors have on children. Experiencing a negative racial climate at school can impact K-12 students in a number of ways, including lower grades, low engagement and their mental health, said Charity Brown Griffin, a certified school psychologist and an associate professor of psychological sciences at Winston-Salem State University."If you have to frequent a place every day where you feel like you don't belong, that you're left out and where you don't don't feel safe, that is certainly going to take a toll on your mental health," Griffin told CNN. Society often considers schools as race neutral places, she said, but they can be platforms for racial stress and trauma due to negative racial climate experiences. While diversity training and initiatives targeting systemic issues can help students, another way to protect students is to help them "create a buffer" from negative experiences by encouraging positive feelings toward their racial identity and culture, Griffin said her research shows."Black students and other students of color are still able to thrive, they're still able to perform well because they have these buffers -- but that doesn't mean that the systemic issues do not exist," she said. "The cultural assets have created opportunity for them to rise above and be resilient in spite of."
A Utah school district ignored hundreds of racial harassment complaints against Black and Asian American students, DOJ says .  (CNN)Black and Asian American students were harassed at a school district in Utah for years and officials deliberately ignored complaints from parents and students, a federal civil rights investigation found. The Justice Department detailed the disturbing pattern at the Davis School District in Farmington, Utah in a report and settlement agreement released this week. The agency had been investigating the school district since July 2019.Black students were called the n-word, told "you are my slave" by other students and told their skin was dirty or "looked like feces" numerous times. Meanwhile, Asian American students were called slurs and told to "go back to China," the report states. The school district had knowledge of the hostile environment and documents showed records of at least 212 incidents in which Black students were called the n-word in 27 schools between 2015-2020, according to the Justice Department.But district officials frequently ignored the complaints, dismissed them, and at times "told Black and Asian-American students not to be so sensitive or made excuses for harassing students by explaining that they were 'not trying to be racist,''" the DOJ report states.CNN has reached out to the school district for comment. Chris Williams, a spokesman for the Davis School District told CNN affiliate KSTU the district feels "sorry for any student who felt this is not the place to be.""We have a lot of work to do. We are not happy with what we read. We'd like to think that it is not us but it is us. We really have to work hard," Williams told KSTU.As a result of the investigation, the Davis School District has signed a settlement with the Department of Justice. The district has agreed to numerous changes, including the creation of more training for staff to investigate and respond to racial harassment, creating a new equal opportunity department and developing an electronic system to receive and manage reports of racial harassment and discrimination. "Pervasive racial harassment and other forms of racial discrimination in public schools violate the Constitution's most basic promise of equal protection," said Kristen Clarke, assistant attorney general  for the agency's civil rights division. "This agreement will help generate the institutional change necessary to keep Black and Asian-American students safe. We look forward to Davis demonstrating to its students and school community that it will no longer tolerate racial discrimination in its schools." Teachers and staff chose not to intervene Students told investigators staff members have ridiculed students in front of their peers, retaliated against those who reported harassment and endorsed stereotypes, according to DOJ. A complaint reviewed by the DOJ indicates a teacher singled out a Latino student and taunted him for working at a taco truck, even when the student was not employed there. The findings state several teachers admitted to investigators they heard students using racial epithets but did not report it to administrators.There are about 73,000 students enrolled in the district. Black and Asian American students each represent about 1% of the student population. Investigators found Black students were disciplined more harshly than White students for similar offenses in the 2017-2018 and 2018-2019 school years. "In several cases, Black students were excluded from class through in- or out-of-school suspensions whereas their white peers received a conference," the DOJ report said. The district has previously faced accusations of discrimination. In 2019, it settled a civil rights lawsuit filed by the family of a biracial student who was dragged by a school bus. The boy's family alleged a then-bus driver closed the vehicle's door on the student's backpack and dragged him about 150 feet because of his "racial animus" toward students of mixed race. The complaint cited at least two prior incidents involving other students dating back to September 2017.
A small-town mom wanted to help her community. And then the community took aim at her child . Hastings, Minnesota (CNN)Kelsey and Chris Waits moved to Hastings, Minnesota, to build a dream home for themselves and their two children.  Chris had a promising job opportunity when he left the Navy but it was the neighborhood that drew them in.  "Kelsey said, 'Well, I hope the interview went well because we're moving here. This town is great, this town is perfect, this is what I want,'" Chris recalled his wife telling him.  The city of about 22,000 people is close enough to Minneapolis to be a distant suburb but just far enough away to be surrounded by green Midwest farmland. The historic downtown is in great shape, with a spiffy park along the Mississippi.  All around are nice houses, nice cars, nice shopping. But when the pandemic put pressure on the community, cracks began to appear. Stressed by school closures and debate over wearing masks, some neighbors started taking aim at the school board.  Kelsey Waits was the face and voice of that school board as its chair. The ugliness that followed in Kelsey's unsuccessful race to be re-elected to the board now has the Waits packing up their dream home to move -- and their love for Hastings likely tainted forever. "I do feel really betrayed by this community," Kelsey told CNN. "Not because I lost but because not only did people attack a child, but so many of them sat by and allowed it to happen."  Stepping up  The move to a new place proved bumpy for the Waits' oldest child, Abby, who struggled so much in classes that Kelsey decided to home-school her.  It hadn't been in the family plans, but it was something they could do and make a success of, Kelsey said.  Realizing that other children might have similar needs to Abby, now 11, but be in the public school system because their families did not have the means or desire to home-school, Kelsey says she decided to run for the school board to be their voice.  She'd been active in local Republican politics as a young woman, but became disillusioned and drifted away, particularly over the opposition to same-sex marriage. She says she was progressive on lesbian, gay and bisexual issues, but transgender people were not on her radar.  The 2016 election persuaded her to get involved again, but her interest in the school board proved confusing to some. "They just couldn't figure out why a home-school mom wanted to be on school board," Kelsey said.  So she knocked on doors, children often in tow, explained her goals and in 2017, she won the third seat on the Hastings School Board by 104 votes.  The school board work fascinated her, and she went back to college to study public policy and learn how public servants could be more effective.  She also impressed her fellow members and in January 2020, they elected her board chair, just two years into her first term.  And then the coronavirus pandemic swept through the US, bringing fear, lockdowns and closed schools.  At the start, Kelsey says she felt the community rallied together and dealt as best it could with the spring semester of distance-learning.  Tensions rose as the new academic year approached. And as the chair, it was Kelsey's role to speak for the board and answer all questions.  "I probably got about the same number of emails from parents saying, 'My child is not going to school if masks are required' as "My child is not going to school if masks aren't required,'" she said. "This community was very split and there were very strong feelings on both sides." But still, this seemed to the Waits to be usual politics within an interested community, even if some chose to attack Kelsey personally.  And then what Kelsey said was her most precious secret was revealed and used against her.  'Your little girl'  Chris and Kelsey's younger child was always the extrovert in the family.  Assigned male at birth, they were into more traditionally feminine things -- if there was a truck being played with, it was likely being driven by a Disney princess -- so the couple took it in stride when their child asked for a Kit Kittredge American Girl doll for a fourth birthday present. Kelsey wondered about the future but Chris just thought it was his child responding to living with a mother and sister while he was deployed overseas with the Navy Reserve."So we got this doll and Kit's eyes just lit up. And Kit was so happy and so excited to get this doll," Kelsey said. "About a week later, when dad was in Japan, and I was standing right there in the kitchen, Kit walks up to me and goes, 'Mom, can you call me Kit?' And my stomach dropped a little bit. Because all of a sudden, maybe things were making a little more sense. Click. And I said, 'Sure. Still my little ... boy?" And Kit goes, 'No, your little girl.'  "I was like, 'Absolutely, sweetie, you got it.' And then I ran into the other room with a panic attack and called Daddy in Japan and said, 'What the heck just happened?'"  Neither parent said they knew much about trans kids, and decided to let Kit be Kit while they figured things out.  It quickly became clear something very real was going on. When another fourth birthday gift arrived -- a custom Paw Patrol shirt bearing Kit's birth name -- Kelsey found herself face-to-face with something she had never seen.  "Kit saw that name on the shirt and shut down and walked across the room and sat in my lap and cried and didn't say anything to me. Just cried," Kelsey said. "That was my wake-up moment for this. This is the real thing. This is not a normal response from a child. This was not a temper tantrum fit. This was a kid who went into a very deep, dark place."  Kit's coming out lost the family some relatives and some friends who were unwilling to accept their identity. But it was not an issue that had to be addressed much more broadly.  And Kit, now 8 years old, wore their dresses, went to school, played with their friends and their toys, and lived a life familiar to any suburban kid.  'Most precious secret' Kelsey had thought about her own children before running for the school board, aware that putting her family into the public spotlight, however dim, had its risks for their privacy.  She says she ran to work for the community, especially the students.  "Being on school board is not about my kid. It's about protecting all kids. And transgender students are the most at-risk students in our schools for attempting suicide," she said.  She supported diversity in schools but the biggest goal pre-pandemic was creating an onboarding handbook for new members to explain the board's role as well as spelling out the myriad acronyms that can baffle a newcomer.  Then Covid hit and interest in and scrutiny of the work of school boards intensified in Hastings as across the country.  Central among concerns were mask mandates -- and in Minnesota the governor delegated the decision-making to local authorities. In Hastings, neighbors organized against mask mandates in a Facebook group  called "Conservative Parents of Hastings" when it was formed in July. A few weeks later that was changed to "Concerned Parents of Hastings." The group was closed, but it's a small town and Kelsey knew parents in the group and she knew they were working against her.   "I'm fine with that. That's politics," she said. "People can say they're frustrated with me, I understand that. Completely fine."  But after one parent posted a long complaint about a whole host of things involving Kelsey, another parent went uglier.   "She should be locked up for child abuse," the parent wrote. "Her younger 'daughter' is actually a boy."  Others jumped in, attacking the Waits as "woke parents" who had pushed their views onto their child.  Kelsey soon found out what was being written. "This was my most precious secret. The thing I protected most and the thing I was most afraid of ever being used in a political way because for me, this isn't political. This is my family, this is my child," she said. "I dropped to the floor, and I cried."  Kelsey decided to appeal to decency, writing a letter to the editor of the local paper.  "Even in this time of political division, a line must exist," she wrote. "Families are off limits,  this is true for my family and the family of anyone running for or holding office."  On Facebook, some of the "Concerned Parents" reacted with glee. "We made the paper!" one wrote. "Please inform Ms. Waits of our appreciation for the free press."  Local politics spurred safety concerns The hate spread and so did the Waits' fears.  "Every interaction we have with new people is me trying to figure out if my child is safe," Kelsey said.  "I'm not talking about if my kid's going to have fun with their kids, it's trying to figure out if my child is ... safe in that household?"  Kelsey and Chris held on to their anxiety for a month or so before the new school year loomed and they felt they needed to let their children know what people were saying to prepare them.  Acquaintances who had always known Kit as Kit started using the wrong pronouns for them.  And by the time of the election, winning was not on Kelsey's priority list.  She says she still campaigned and believed in what she was doing, but the issue had become not about politics but about her. Even more than about her motherhood, this had implications for the safety of her child. "You out a kid before they're ready, you're subjecting them to that sort of behavior that's going to increase their risk of suicide," Kelsey said. "This is not about my parenting practices. This is about the lives of kids."  She lost her bid for re-election by 403 votes, a result that Chris admits seemed like a relief.  But he says the election did not end the abuse. It may even have spread. The day after the election Chris says he was told by another parent that a middle-schooler was approached by another student and told: "My mom says that we won so now we can deal with sickos like you."  So the Waits are moving from the dream house they designed, the one where Kelsey spent hours hand painting murals. They are seeking more privacy, and they believe safety, in a new address that has not been publicized.  "That's where we're at right now. There are people that we know, that are not safe for our kids in our neighborhood," Chris said. "We can't trust our kids alone at the bus stop waiting for the bus, not because of the kids necessarily, but because of the parents."  They don't want to go too far from the city they thought would be their home forever, but they do need time and a safe space, to move forward, Kelsey said.  She still wants to serve the community and says she's not the type to let bullies win. But she needs to heal from being hurled into the gutter of American politics for running for a school board.  "I think with time, I will find forgiveness," she says. "I think it's going to take time."   
Black parents say movement to ban critical race theory is ruining their children's education.  (CNN)When Danielle Atkinson's daughter brought home a second-grade assignment that highlighted Christopher Columbus's explorations, Atkinson said she began to notice inequities in the curriculum being taught in the school district. There were plenty of lessons about Columbus and other historic White figures, but the contributions of Black Americans were largely missing in the coursework at Royal Oak Public Schools in Michigan, she said.Atkinson and other Black and brown parents felt the students weren't learning enough about the civil rights movement, the Harlem Renaissance, the desegregation of schools and the importance of Black History Month so they formed the Royal Oak Multicultural Parents Association in 2016. They demanded more culturally diverse curriculum from the district, but Atkinson said she's seen little progress."Our children are not having the education around race and history that they should, and it's to our detriment and it's a disservice to our children," said the mother of six, who is also founder of the Michigan-based Mothering Justice, a group that advocates for Black and brown moms. Now Atkinson feels like their calls for inclusion are being drowned out by a strong force of conservative, mostly White suburban mothers who have made national headlines for their efforts to ban critical race theory from schools.The largely White group of parents, many of whom have protested and spoken out at riotous school board meetings, helped ignite a national debate about whether anti-Black racism should be taught in America's public schools. The concept has become a social and political lightening rod with several states banning critical race theory this year and Republicans pledging to make it core to their midterm election strategy. Educators insist that critical race theory -- which acknowledges that racism is both systemic and institutional in American society -- is generally not included in grade school curriculum. The concept is usually taught in law school or graduate school. Many Black parents, meanwhile, don't see their voices reflected in the national conversation. They too have shown up at school board meetings, formed parent groups to lobby for Black history curriculum, and rallied against the racism their children experience in the classroom. And they are determined to be heard. "Most of our parents left traditionally Black communities (for majority White schools)... for us to have a better education," Atkinson said. "We shouldn't also have to lose our voice and our children's cultural education because of it." Reckoning with a racist past Some Black parents believe teaching the history of anti-Black racism would help children understand the harm behind it and where it originated. Monica Hutchinson said her child was in second grade at a school in southwest Virginia when a White classmate called them the n-word about 10 years ago.Hutchinson said she was frustrated that a White teacher did not respond in a way that spoke to the gravity of the racial slur or offered enough historical context to the students about why the word should not be used. "I don't know a Black parent that doesn't have stories that they can share," she said. "Just about every Black parent has got them."Hutchinson argues the grievances about White parents with critical race theory are often elevated at the expense of all other concerns. In Henrico County, Virginia, where Hutchinson's two younger children now attend public schools, a White mother at a school board meeting last month spoke out against the book "Out of Darkness," a 2015 historical young adult novel by Ashley Hope Pérez that depicts a relationship between Mexican American and Black teens. The book explores sex, sexual abuse and racism — and has been denounced by conservatives as "pornography." At the request of a school division administrator, the book has now been temporarily removed from high school libraries across the county while a committee reviews the book. "This is a way for them to stop, or try to prevent the schools from actually teaching, and practicing, equity, diversity and inclusion across the schools," Hutchsinon said. "I hear a lot of White mothers say they think their child is too young to learn about racism. You know what, my child's not too young to experience it."The pledge to ban critical race theory was a core part of Republican Governor-elect Glenn Youngkin's successful gubernatorial campaign in Virginia even though the state's public schools maintain the academic framework is not part of the curriculum. Some political observers say his campaign against critical race theory was key to his victory. In the final days of the race against Democrat Terry McAuliffe, Youngkin featured White conservative activist and mother Laura Murphy lamenting the content of the Toni Morrison Pulitzer Prize-winning novel Beloved, though Murphy did not specifically name the book in the ad. "Beloved" is considered a seminal work of American fiction and centers on the story of Sethe, a former slave and a mother who kills her child to spare her from slavery. Democratic Michigan Sen. Erika Geiss, a mom of two, shared Hutchinson's sentiments. Earlier this year, Geiss said she voted against the bill proposed to a Senate committee by Republican Michigan Sen. Lana Theis to ban critical race theory from schools. While the bill was approved by the committee, it is awaiting a full Senate vote, Geiss said. Geiss said conservatives have created a "boogeyman" around teaching critical race theory as if they refuse to acknowledge the country's past sins. The enslavement of Black people, Geiss said, had a systemic impact on race relations that fueled redlining, the Black maternal health crisis and many other inequities. Children need to learn this so they don't repeat the wrongdoings of American history, she said. "We (Black parents) are the ones who when a child calls our kid a slave we have to pick up those pieces and wipe those tears," Geiss said. "When (teaching race) is framed as only an issue that White parents have, they are missing an entire fragment of the population."The broader impactSome experts and activists say placing the spotlight on White suburban moms and critical race theory could potentially weaken other movements traditionally led by Black mothers. Jennifer R. Farmer, a prominent publicist who authored a self-help book "First & Only" for Black professional women this year, said if she were advising Democrats on counter messaging on critical race theory, she would tell them to "get resources to grassroots groups who are already working on education and equity." For example, Farmer said there have been organizations such as the Advancement Project led by Black mothers to address the school to prison pipeline, which is the link between the disproportionate number of Black minors who receive harsh punishment in schools like suspensions and expulsions who ultimately end up incarcerated. "You can't have progress on these issues without talking about race," Farmer said.  Judith Browne Dianis, executive director of the Advancement Project, said Black women and Black educators have always fought for racial justice for youth as well as more inclusive curriculum. But the movement of mostly White moms against critical race theory has become more politicized, particularly leading into the 2022 midterms."We know that a school culture that is inclusive is important in ensuring that young people are in an environment that is nurturing and where they are not subject to the school to prison pipeline," Dianis said. "And so there's like these connections to what could become of our school when these conversations about race and racism and Black history, if they get erased from the school building?" 
Bob Dole, giant of the Senate and 1996 Republican presidential nominee, dies .  (CNN)Bob Dole, a Republican Party stalwart and presidential hopeful who espoused a brand of plain-spoken conservativism as one of Washington's most recognizable political figures throughout the latter half of the 20th century, died Sunday."Senator Robert Joseph Dole died early this morning in his sleep. At his death, at age 98, he had served the United States of America faithfully for 79 years," according to a statement from his family.He had announced in February that he was being treated for advanced lung cancer. President Joe Biden visited Dole shortly after learning of the diagnosis.Biden on Sunday released a statement mourning Dole."Bob was an American statesman like few in our history. A war hero and among the greatest of the Greatest Generation. And to me, he was also a friend whom I could look to for trusted guidance, or a humorous line at just the right moment to settle frayed nerves," Biden said. "I will miss my friend. But I am grateful for the times we shared, and for the friendship Jill and I and our family have built with Liddy and the entire Dole family."Dole, who was seriously wounded during World War II, had suffered a series of health ailments in previous years. In 1991, he received surgery for prostate cancer, received abdominal aortic aneurysm surgery in 2001, was hospitalized in 2005 after a fall in his home and was treated for a leg infection in 2009. Dole is survived by his wife, former Sen. Elizabeth Dole of North Carolina, and daughter Robin Dole.  Arriving in Washington at the dawn of the Kennedy administration, Dole would serve for 27 years as a US senator from Kansas, including two stints as the Senate majority leader, though he might be best known for his unsuccessful run as the Republican presidential nominee against Bill Clinton in 1996, his third attempt at the White House. He also served as President Gerald Ford's running mate in 1976 after Nelson Rockefeller declined to stay on as vice president.  Early in his Senate career, he was labeled a "hatchet man" by his critics and drew national attention for his vehement defense of President Richard Nixon throughout the Watergate scandal. He considered Nixon a friend and a mentor -- later eulogizing Nixon at his funeral in 1994 as the "most durable public figure of our time." In a notable departure from his sour public image, he choked up at the end of his remarks.    But in taking up the mantle of GOP leader in the Senate, Dole's reputation became that of a whip smart lawmaker and a tough negotiator willing to work across the aisle with Democrats on issues such as Social Security reform, the Americans with Disabilities Act and landmark nutrition legislation.  "By all rights, he and I should have had a lousy relationship," former Democratic Sen. Tom Daschle, who was the Senate's top Democrat during Dole's second stint as majority leader, said in a 2000 speech. "The fact that we did not was due to Bob Dole -- to his civility, to his pragmatism, to his quick wit and self-effacing humor, and to his love of this country and to this United States Senate. His sense of fairness and decency is a standard for which everyone in public life should aim."  In his book "What It Takes" about the 1988 election, journalist Richard Ben Cramer described Dole as a Senate leader who was always ready with a joke and a greeting and was "never more cheerful, more at peace, than he was in the wee hours, when a deal was going down and he was waiting for someone to crack, while he drank a milkshake and told old stories in the Senate dining room." Three-time presidential hopefulIn 1996, he resigned from the Senate as the chamber's then-longest serving GOP leader to focus on running for the White House, quipping it was either "the White House or home." He entered the race as the front-runner and fended off an early challenge from his right from Pat Buchanan to secure the nomination, then selected former congressman and supply-side economics champion Jack Kemp as his running mate. But he lost the election handily to incumbent President Bill Clinton, who at the time was riding a strong economy and drew a contrast between his image as a Baby Boomer and the 73-year-old Dole, who was portrayed as old and out of touch. It was the last of Dole's bids for the White House. His first, in 1980, gained little traction, but his second, in 1988, initially provided a strong challenge to eventual nominee George H.W. Bush after Dole won the Iowa caucuses. The race between the two men eventually turned nasty, culminating with Dole testily telling Bush in a live television moment on the night he lost the New Hampshire primary, "Stop lying about my record." The rivalry between the two men would fade over time; in 2018, when Bush laid in state at the Capitol Rotunda, Dole was helped to his feet from his wheelchair to salute his one-time opponent. Despite never winning election as either president or vice president, Dole's long career on the national stage and as a leader of the Republican establishment is abundantly clear in one piece of party history: 14 GOP presidential tickets from 1952 to 2004 (all of them except for 1964) included either Dole, Richard Nixon, George H.W. Bush or George W. Bush. Dole also had a notably warm personal relationship with Clinton, who told the audience at their first presidential debate, "You can probably tell we like each other." A few months after his loss to Clinton, Dole would receive the Presidential Medal of Freedom for his service in World War II and Congress from his former rival and flashed his sense of humor.  "I, Robert J. Dole, do solemnly swear ..." he quipped during the ceremony, pretending to take the oath of office. "Sorry, wrong speech. But I had a dream that I would be here this week, receiving something from the president, but I thought it would be the front door key."  Clinton and Dole later co-chaired a scholarship fund that initially raised over $100 million for families of those killed in the September 11 terrorist attacks and subsequently teamed up for a weekly debate segment on CBS News' "60 Minutes."  He also demonstrated his ability to take a joke when he appeared on "Saturday Night Live" in 1996 following his loss alongside Norm MacDonald, who had mercilessly lampooned him during the election. As he put it to NBC in 2005, humor is needed in Washington "to break the tension sometimes and you can do it with just -- without offending anybody."   War hero and legislatorDole was born on July 22, 1923, in the small town of Russell, Kansas, and grew up during the years of the Great Depression. At the age of 19, while a student-athlete at the University of Kansas studying to become a doctor, Dole enlisted in the Army in 1942 following America's entry into World War II and was called up to active duty the following year, he wrote in his memoir "One Soldier's Story." Sent to fight in Italy in 1945, Dole was seriously wounded while trying to carry a fellow soldier to safety. He spent 39 grueling months in and out of hospitals, recuperating from his near fatal injuries, which left his right arm permanently disabled and his left arm minimally functional. Dole received the Purple Heart twice and two Bronze Stars with an oak leaf cluster for his service in World War II.   His injuries changed the trajectory of his life, leading him to pursue a law degree and a career in politics. He served a term in the Kansas House of Representatives and later for eight years as Russell County prosecutor. Dole was elected to the US House to represent Kansas in Washington in 1960, serving four terms before he was elected to the US Senate in 1968.  Beyond his career in Washington, Dole advocated for the nation's veterans throughout his career, including serving as co-chair of a 2007 presidential commission that investigated Walter Reed Medical Center. After leaving public office, he served as the National Chairman of the World War II Memorial Campaign, helping to raise millions to construct the first memorial dedicated to all World War II veterans. In his 90s -- as one of the longest-living and most prominent members of the Greatest Generation -- he spent his Saturdays greeting his fellow veterans as they visited the memorial in Washington after it opened to the public in 2004. In January 2018, Dole became the eighth US senator to receive the Congressional Gold Medal, the highest civilian honor bestowed by Congress. Dole was the only former Republican nominee to support Donald Trump's candidacy in the 2016 election, and Trump recognized his service to his country at the medal ceremony."In hearing (Dole's) story they will truly learn what it means to be a great American," Trump said at the medal ceremony. "Bob, that is the legacy that you have left our nation and it will outlive us all."  Dole was one of the key Republicans to say plainly after the 2020 election that Biden had won. In a July 2021 interview with USA Today, Dole said that while he is still "a Trumper," he was "sort of Trumped out."     This story has been updated with additional information.CNN's Aaron Pellish, Ashley Billings, Phil Gast, Chandelis Duster, Jeff Zeleny and Sarah Fortinsky contributed to this report.
Days after school shooting, Rep. Thomas Massie posts family photo with guns, asks Santa for ammo for Christmas.  (CNN)US Rep. Thomas Massie is drawing criticism after tweeting a photo of him and his family holding guns in front of a Christmas tree, just days after four teenagers were killed in a school shooting in Michigan."Merry Christmas!, ps. Santa, please bring ammo," read the Saturday tweet by the Republican representative from Kentucky, which showed everyone in the photo holding various types of guns.The reaction of parents who have lost children in school shootings was swift. "@RepThomasMassie, since we are sharing family photos, here are mine," tweeted Fred Guttenberg, whose daughter Jaime was one of 17 people who died in the 2018 shooting at a high school in Parkland, Florida. "One is the last photo that I ever took of Jaime, the other is where she is buried because of the Parkland school shooting." Manuel Oliver, whose son Joaquin also died in the Parkland shooting, told CNN's Jim Acosta Saturday Massie's tweet is "the worst taste ever." "This is also something that should teach us who should we elect and not," Oliver said. "It's a very nasty post." CNN has reached out to Massie and a spokesperson for the representative for comment but has not yet received a response.On Tuesday, four students were killed in a shooting at Oxford High School in Michigan, and seven people were wounded. A 15-year-old boy is accused of the shooting and faces murder, terrorism and other charges, and his parents face four counts of involuntary manslaughter in connection with the shooting. The attack was the deadliest US school shooting since eight students and two teachers were slain in May 2018 at Texas' Santa Fe High School, according to a CNN tally. There have been 48 shootings this year on K-12 campuses, 32 of them since August 1.
School district releases details of key events leading up to Michigan shooting.  (CNN)Days after a 15-year-old student allegedly killed four classmates at a Michigan high school, the district's superintendent has requested an independent investigation into the incident -- the deadliest school shooting at a US K-12 campus since May 2018.  Ethan Crumbley is accused of carrying out Tuesday's shooting at Oxford High School in suburban Detroit and faces a slew of charges as an adult, including terrorism and first-degree murder, among others. His lawyer entered a not-guilty plea during his arraignment Wednesday.His parents, James and Jennifer Crumbley, were also each charged with four counts of involuntary manslaughter in connection with their son's alleged actions.The shooting claimed the lives of Madisyn Baldwin, 17; Tate Myre, 16; Hana St. Juliana, 14; and Justin Shilling, 17, authorities said.On Saturday, Tim Throne, who heads the Oxford Community Schools district, detailed in a letter the school's account of several key events leading up to the shooting. "It's critically important to the victims, our staff and our entire community that a full and transparent accounting be made. To that end, I've asked for a third-party investigation be conducted so we leave no stone unturned, including any and all interaction the student had with staff and students," Throne wrote in the letter addressed to the Oxford community.The day before the shooting On Monday, a teacher saw the suspect looking at photos of ammunition on his cell phone during class, which prompted a meeting with a counselor and another staff member. During that discussion, the student told them that he and his mother had recently gone to a shooting range and that "shooting sports are a family hobby," Throne wrote in the letter. The school tried to reach the student's mother that day, but didn't hear back until the following day when his parents confirmed the student's story, Throne said. After school officials reached out to Jennifer Crumbley regarding her son searching the web for ammunition, she texted him saying, "LOL I'm not mad at you. You have to learn not to get caught," prosecutors have said.The morning of the shooting Then on Tuesday -- the day of the shooting -- a teacher alerted school counselors and the Dean of students to "concerning drawings and written statements" that the student had created, according to the letter. He was "immediately removed from the classroom" and taken to a guidance counselor's office, Throne explains. The student told a school counselor that "the drawing was part of a video game he was designing and informed counselors that he planned to pursue video game design as a career," Throne said. Following that discussion, the student stayed in the office for an hour and half as school staff called his parents and waited for them to arrive to the school, the letter noted. While waiting the student said he was concerned about missing his homework assignments and "requested his science homework, which he then worked on while in the office," the letter said."At no time did counselors believe the student might harm others based on his behavior, responses and demeanor, which appeared calm," Throne said. Upon the parents' arrival, the school counselors asked the student "specific probing questions" about his potential for self-harm or harm toward others, Throne said. The answers he provided "led counselors to again conclude he did not intend on committing either self-harm or harm to others," according to the letter.School counselors told the parents they must seek counseling for their son within 48 hours, otherwise the school would contact Child Protective Services, Throne wrote. When asked to take their child home for the rest of the day, Throne said the student's parents "flatly refused," leaving their son behind to "return to work." And because the student had no prior disciplinary actions on his record, school counselors decided to allow him to return to his class, rather than send him to what they thought would be an empty home, Throne explained."While we understand this decision has caused anger, confusion and prompted understandable questioning, the counselors made a judgment based on their professional training and clinical experience and did not have all the facts we now know," he said.Throne noted the decision to send the student back to class was not shared with the principal or assistant principal. The shootingKaren McDonald, the Oakland County prosecutor who is leading the case, has said Crumbly allegedly had the gun used in the shooting in his backpack during the meeting with school officials and his parents.In his letter, Throne said he does not know whether or not the gun was in the student's backpack as it "has not been confirmed by law enforcement to our knowledge nor by our investigation at this time."The alleged shooter started firing a gun "during passing time between classes when hundreds of students were in the hallway transitioning from one classroom to the other" on Tuesday, Throne said. "Before the shooter was able to walk a short distance to enter the main hallway, students and staff had already entered classrooms, locked doors, erected makeshift barricades and locked down or fled according to their training," Throne explained. "The suspect was not able to gain access to a single classroom."An initial review of videos of the shooting shows that "staff and students' response to the shooter was efficient, exemplary and definitely prevented further deaths and injuries," Throne said. Parents plead not guilty to charges related to school shootingCrumbley and his parents spent Saturday night in the same Oakland County jail, but were kept separated. James and Jennifer Crumbley pleaded not guilty to the involuntary manslaughter charges during an arraignment Saturday morning. The court appearance came after authorities had spent hours searching for them, a manhunt that began when they failed to show up to a scheduled arraignment Friday.Police said the couple was found in Detroit warehouse early Saturday morning, but their attorneys said they intended to turn themselves in. During the parents' arraignment, prosecutors alleged they allowed their son "free access" to the gun used in the shooting. But one of the parents' attorneys, Shannon Smith, said the gun was locked. "When the prosecution is stating that this child had free access to a gun, that is just absolutely not true," Smith said. "This court is going to see ... there is far more going on than what this court has been made aware of."Prosecutors have said James Crumbley bought the gun his son allegedly used in the shooting -- a 9mm Sig Sauer SP2022 semiautomatic pistol -- four days prior, on Black Friday. Shortly after, Ethan Crumbley posted a picture of a gun on an Instagram account and captioned it, "Just got my new beauty today. SIG SAUER 9mm" with a heart-eyes emoji, McDonald said. Jennifer Crumbley also posted about the gun on social media, calling it "his new Christmas present," McDonald continued.An Oakland County judge set bond for James and Jennifer Crumbley at $500,000 each.CNN's Shimon Prokupecz, Carolyn Sung and Elizabeth Joseph  contributed to this report. 
CNN fires Chris Cuomo. New York (CNN)CNN said Saturday that anchor Chris Cuomo has been "terminated" by the network, "effective immediately."The announcement came after an outside law firm was retained to review information about exactly how Cuomo aided his brother, former New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, when the then-governor was accused of sexual harassment.CNN suspended Cuomo "indefinitely" on Tuesday. The law firm retained by the network submitted its findings on Friday, according to a source with knowledge of the matter, and CNN Worldwide president Jeff Zucker fired Cuomo on Saturday.The producers and other staffers who work on "Cuomo Prime Time" will remain in place. Michael Smerconish, Cuomo's regular substitute, will host the 9 p.m. Eastern hour next week.CNN said in a statement: "Chris Cuomo was suspended earlier this week pending further evaluation of new information that came to light about his involvement with his brother's defense. We retained a respected law firm to conduct the review, and have terminated him, effective immediately.""While in the process of that review, additional information has come to light," CNN's statement added. "Despite the termination, we will investigate as appropriate."In a statement of his own Saturday, Chris Cuomo said, "This is not how I want my time at CNN to end but I have already told you why and how I helped my brother. So let me now say as disappointing as this is, I could not be more proud of the team at Cuomo Prime Time and the work we did as CNN's #1 show in the most competitive time slot. I owe them all and will miss that group of special people who did really important work." A few hours after CNN's announcement, the New York Times reported that a lawyer, Debra Katz, had on Wednesday told CNN of an allegation of sexual misconduct made against Chris Cuomo by a client of hers. According to the Times, the client is "a former junior colleague [of Cuomo's] at another network."Katz did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Neither did a spokesperson for Cuomo, though the spokesperson did comment to the Times, saying, "These apparently anonymous allegations are not true."A CNN spokesperson said in a statement, "Based on the report we received regarding Chris's conduct with his brother's defense, we had cause to terminate. When new allegations came to us this week, we took them seriously, and saw no reason to delay taking immediate action."While the contours of Chris Cuomo's involvement with the governor's office were reported several months ago, the specifics were detailed in a massive document dump on Monday. The documents --  released by New York Attorney General Letitia James after an investigation into the governor -- showed that Chris Cuomo, while working as one of CNN's top anchors, was also effectively working as an unpaid aide to the governor.The cozy and improper nature of the relationship was conveyed through text messages obtained by James' office. The texts between the anchor and several aides and allies of the governor revealed that Chris Cuomo sought to use his connections in the press to help prepare Andrew Cuomo's team as accusers started to make their stories public.On the day his brother resigned, back in August, Chris Cuomo told viewers that "this situation is unlike anything I could have imagined."He pointed out that he never reported on the sexual harassment scandal or tried to interfere in CNN's coverage. And he acknowledged that he "tried to be there for my brother" when the scandal erupted. "I'm not an adviser. I'm a brother. I wasn't in control of anything. I was there to listen and offer my take," he said.CNN management showed support for Cuomo, and "Cuomo Prime Time," often the network's highest-rated show, stayed on the air throughout the controversy.But as "Reliable Sources" reported at the time, some CNN staffers were angry at Cuomo and his violations of journalistic norms.The dissent only intensified after James' office released the text messages, sworn testimony and other raw materials from her investigation into the ex-governor.When the documents were released on Monday, CNN management said the "thousands of pages of additional transcripts and exhibits" would be reviewed "over the next several days."Then on Tuesday evening, CNN indicated that the contents were serious enough to merit a suspension."When Chris admitted to us that he had offered advice to his brother's staff, he broke our rules and we acknowledged that publicly," the network said in a statement. "But we also appreciated the unique position he was in and understood his need to put family first and job second.""However," the network said, "these documents point to a greater level of involvement in his brother's efforts than we previously knew. As a result, we have suspended Chris indefinitely, pending further evaluation."Cuomo initially declined to comment. He said on his radio show on Wednesday that the suspension was "embarrassing" but understandable. He also said he never wanted to "compromise any of my colleagues" and said he would respect the process.According to Saturday's announcement, the process included an outside law firm, a fact that was not previously known.With information in the texts and documents pointing to a serious breach of CNN standards, Cuomo was notified of his termination on Saturday.
The US is averaging more than 100,000 new Covid-19 cases a day, the highest level in two months.  (CNN)For the first time in two months, the US is averaging more than 100,000 new Covid-19 cases each day, shortly after millions of Americans traveled for the Thanksgiving holiday. The seven-day moving average of new cases was 121,437 as of Saturday, according to data from Johns Hopkins University (JHU). Prior to this week, the US last topped the 100,000-cases-a-day mark in early October.Also on the rise is the number of Covid-19 deaths, with a seven-day average of 1,651 people dying from the virus each day as of Saturday, the JHU data showed. Average daily deaths haven't been this high in more than a month. The vast majority of new cases in the US continue to be from the Delta variant, but US health officials have detected the new Omicron coronavirus variant in at least 16 states as of Saturday. The first case was found in California on Wednesday, and by the weekend the variant had been identified in 15 other states: Colorado, Connecticut, Hawaii, Louisiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Utah, Washington, and Wisconsin.The Omicron variant has been alarming officials because early indications show it could be more contagious than the original strain, and the significant number of mutations it carries poses a potential risk of reducing some of the effectiveness the current vaccines provide. Scientists are working to determine the severity and transmissibility of Omicron -- but that could take weeks, officials have said. Still, the US is more equipped now to deal with the newly detected variant than it was during the onset of the pandemic, US Surgeon General Dr. Vivek Murthy said Thursday."We are in such a different place now than we were one year ago because we've learned a lot more. We have vaccines available. We have far more tests available, and what we've got to do to get through this winter is to make sure that we are doubling down on our vaccination strategy," Murthy told CNN. The surgeon general stressed that even though there's a lot to learn about the new variant, mitigation efforts, including masks and hand hygiene combined with physical distancing, remain effective in providing some protection.Just under 60% of the total US population is fully vaccinated and nearly 23% of those have received a booster, according to the latest data from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).Delta remains the dominate strain in the world While the Omicron variant has the potential to become the dominate strain in the US, the Delta variant continues to show up in 99.9% of coronavirus cases, according to Dr. Rochelle Walensky, director of the CDC."We know what we need to do against Delta, and that is get vaccinated, get boosted if you're eligible and continue all of those prevention measures, including masking. And those are very likely to work against the Omicron variant," Walensky told CNN chief medical correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta. The Delta variant managed to take over the entire nation in the early weeks of summer, changing the outlook as vaccines were rolling out and becoming more widely available. The variant continues to rage in hotspots across the country.More than 59,000 Americans are hospitalized with Covid-19, according to data from US Department of Health and Human Services. And overall, hospitalizations have been on the rise for more than three weeks.The World Health Organization said the Delta variant has outcompeted other variants in most countries -- making it the most common strain in much of the world."Even if the Omicron strain doesn't turn out to be any worse, we are losing close to a thousand people every day from the Delta variant, and that in and of itself is a reason for people to get boosted," Dr. Richard Besser, former acting director of the CDC, told CNN earlier this week. Stricter travel rules to begin Monday Dr. Anthony Fauci said earlier this week that traveling during the holidays is OK -- but getting vaccinated and boosted are a must. "Just as I said and I'll say it again, if you have a vaccinated situation, enjoy the holidays with your family in a family setting," said Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, at a CNN Global Town Hall. For international travelers, proof of a negative Covid-19 test within one day of departure for the US will be required as of Monday, the Biden administration announced Thursday. Previously a test could be taken up to three days before entering the country. Plus, any foreign national who travels to the US must be fully vaccinated, though there is no vaccination requirement for American citizens for air travel, either globally or domestically.However, the White House said this week that a vaccine requirement for domestic travel remained on the table as an option for the future.CNN's Deidre McPhillips, Jamie Gumbrecht, Jen Christensen, Maggie Fox, Travis Caldwell and Naomi Thomas contributed to this report. 
What comes next after the Supreme Court's signal on abortion rights.  (CNN)At stake in the Mississippi abortion case heard by the Supreme Court December 1 is access to the procedure for millions of people across the country. As Justice Brett Kavanaugh made clear at Wednesday's hearing, the justices are not considering whether to outlaw abortion nationwide. But a decision that overturns current Supreme Court precedent on abortion rights -- and one that specifically reverses the landmark 1973 Roe v. Wade opinion -- could lead to bans on abortions being implemented in several states across the country. Such a scenario would further cement an environment where a person's access to the procedure depended on the state she lived in, as state legislatures and state courts would get to decide how much abortion should be restricted. RELATED: John Roberts has a plan that would gut -- yet save -- Roe v. Wade. Can it work?A dozen states already have on the books so-called "trigger" laws, where bans on abortion would be put into force by a Supreme Court decision reversing Roe. Where legislators are considering passing new restrictive laws after the Supreme Court's decision, major legislative and legal battles are brewing in anticipation that the Supreme Court is about to green light severe restrictions or outright bans. "There are going to multiple fights in the states, and then waiting to see what the court will do, and all of it will be very intense across the country," said Elizabeth Nash, a senior state issues manager at the think tank the Guttmacher Institute, which favors abortion rights.  When will the court be announcing its decision in the case? The most likely scenario is that the decision is handed down in June, as the court typically issues its most high-profile opinions right before it wraps up for a summer break. The case, Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization, stems from a lawsuit filed by abortion providers challenging Mississippi's 2018 law prohibiting abortion after 15 weeks into pregnancy. The ban is currently on hold due to lower court orders that cited the current Supreme Court precedent protecting the right to an abortion until fetal viability, a point around 24 weeks into the pregnancy. It's also possible the justices will issue an opinion sooner in a separate abortion case, coming out of Texas, that will hint at where the court is headed on Roe v. Wade. In the Texas case, concerning the state's 6-week ban, the justices were reviewing the procedural mechanism the state is using to implement the prohibition, so the dispute doesn't require them to address Roe head on. But the lack of urgency from the court in handling the Texas case has been seen by some as a sign that the conservative majority may be planning to overturn Roe as soon as next year. RELATED: If the Supreme Court curtails abortion rights it could flip the script on the 2022 midterm electionsWhat will happen if the Supreme Court overturns Roe? If Roe is fully reversed, states across the country will be able to implement full bans on abortion, as well as other types of restrictions that had previously been blocked under Roe and other Supreme Court precedents. For the states that already have trigger laws in place, how long it will take for those laws to go into effect will depend on their design and on how clear cut the court's opinion is. Some states' trigger laws carve out a role for the state's attorney general to certify that the court's opinion satisfies the conditions laid out in the law for triggering the ban. Some trigger laws also set out specific timelines for when the bans will go into effect after the ruling."If (the opinion) is not that clear, the state AGs will have a really important role in helping the legislature and the governor understand what the ruling does mean for state laws," said Katie Glenn, the government affairs counsel for the anti-abortion group Americans United for Life.In addition to the 12 states that have trigger laws, several others have bans or other types of extreme limits that restrict abortion after the early stages of the pregnancy that are currently blocked by courts under Roe.  "There will be a lot of governors and AGs excited to go back to court and get some of those injunctions removed," Glenn said, pointing to Arkansas' successful efforts to revive blocked laws after an opinion written by Chief Justice John Roberts in a 2020 case.How long will it take for post-Roe bans or restrictions to take effect?While some laws already in place may take effect quickly, others will face additional rounds of litigation that could take years resolve, Glenn said. "There will be so many states and so many courts," Glenn said, including states like Florida, Iowa and Montana where their state Supreme Courts will likely have to weigh in. Other states that don't have extreme limits or bans on the books may act quickly to pass them. States like Florida, Indiana, Montana, Nebraska and Wyoming -- where Republicans control the governorship and the legislatures -- appear poised to act quickly in the event of that Roe is overturned. Depending on when the court's opinion comes down, some states may consider convening special legislative sessions to do so. What kind of new laws might be passed?  Some GOP-controlled states might not go as far banning abortions, but would instead pass other types of restrictions that might not otherwise have been delayed in court under Roe. Glenn pointed to the type of clinic regulations that were at the heart of a 2016 Supreme Court case, where the court struck down a Texas clinic regulation.Republican legislators have shown a particular interest in cracking down on medication abortion, especially in light of an expected move by the Biden administration to loosen up FDA regulations around that method. "Medication abortion has really become a major method of abortion over the last 10 years, it's all pointing towards conservative states placing more restrictions on it," Nash said. Will it just be red states that are impacted? The aftermath of a Roe reversal would not just be felt in the red states that would then implement new restrictions, where abortion-seekers could need to travel great distances to reach their nearest clinic. Blue states that would maintain access to procedure would likely see a spike in out-of-state patients, which could in turn affect how easy it is for their own residents to obtain the procedure. According to an analysis from the Guttmacher Institute that assumed that 26 states would ban abortion if Roe was reversed, Illinois would offer the closest clinic for some 9 million women in the states most likely to ban abortion. The fallout from the Texas six-week ban previews the impact for abortion-friendly states if other states are allowed to ban the procedure. Providers in Oklahoma said in the Texas litigation that the flood of Texas patients seeking appointments at their clinics significantly increased the time it took to secure an appointment. Before the ban, appointments could be made just a few days in advance; after the Texas law went into effect, the wait stretched to as much as three weeks, according to court filings.Is it possible that the court doesn't overrule Roe? What happens then? Despite the signals Wednesday from five of the justices that they were inclined to reverse Roe, there's still the possibility that the court takes an ostensibly middle ground approach that would give states more flexibility to restrict the procedure without fully wiping away the current precedent. That was the route Roberts appeared to be advocating for.Roberts seemed to be hinting at an opinion that would uphold Mississippi's ban with a reworked standard around people having a "fair choice" to obtain the procedure. Based on the justices' comments, there wasn't much interest on the rest of the court for taking that approach. Still, the Supreme Court has produced surprises in the past. If Roberts does wrangle such a compromise, it will still represent a severe undermining of Roe and open up the door to all sorts of limits on the procedure. RELATED: The inside story of how John Roberts negotiated to save ObamacareA ruling that nixed court's precedent around viability, Nash said, "really takes the strength out of the (Roe) decision and leaves us with a lot unknowns and the potential for many more restrictions." "We could be looking many more restrictions on how abortion clinics are regulated, or restrictions that make it harder to get to care -- like even longer periods," Nash said, "or more hoops to jump through to access various methods of abortion." This landscape would yield complicated and contradicting legal fights, as any ambiguity in this hypothetical new standard would be interpreted differently by different judges. Judges in the parts of the country where federal courts lean more to the right may be inclined to uphold almost any restriction under whatever middle ground standard Roberts is thinking, while other judges may interpret it in a way more favorable to abortion rights. What will be happening while we wait to see what the court does? With the signs pointing to the court doing something aggressive to roll back abortion rights, advocates on both sides of the issue are seeking to lay the groundwork for what comes next. Some state legislatures may seek to pass legislation in their sessions next spring in anticipation for a Roe reversal. In blue states, that could be bills that shore up access -- like a New Jersey proposal that would loosen up certain abortion regulations and require insurance coverage of the procedure. "I could see more legislation in the progressive states doing what more they can to protect abortion rights," Nash said, as she pointed to such plans announced by Democratic Colorado lawmakers after Wednesday's hearing.Another place to watch is how the fight over abortion rights is shaping up in state courts. If the Supreme Court says there are no protections in the US Constitution for abortion rights, state constitutions -- particularly those that have clauses concerning privacy or equal rights -- will be a tool used by abortion rights advocates to fight restrictions in court. Several red states have amended their constitutions to make clear that they don't protect abortion rights, and states like Kentucky and Kansas are already seeking to do so in ballot initiatives next year. Where the question of a state constitution's protection for abortion rights hasn't been clarified, expect battles in state courts that will test the ability of legislators to restrict the procedure. "There are a couple of state court cases that are going to have a profound impact," Glenn said, while pointing to litigation already underway in Montana over measures passed this year that scale back abortion access.. "A Roe reversal will help with them," Glenn said, "but ultimately they will need to argue it in the state system." 
Our story of pregnancy loss shows the trauma state abortion bans could cause. Joshua Replogle is a photojournalist for CNN. He has worked as a reporter for several local television stations and the Associated Press. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his. Read more perspectives via CNN Opinion. (CNN)"Is my baby dead?"I'll never forget the sound my wife made. I've heard her cry any number of times, but not like this. It was a whimper as she lay on a medical table. She squeezed my hand and moaned. I was frozen. My chest tight. I couldn't breathe. My eyes were locked on the ultrasound monitor that showed what was happening inside of my wife's uterus. A doctor I'd never met before rushed in to relieve the ultrasound technician, and their hurried movements caused my heart rate to spike. My eyes were so wide, they hurt.I watched as the physician spread teal goo around my wife's abdomen. She pushed and prodded. Whatever she was looking for, she couldn't find it. What was taking so long? I could see legs on the screen -- ribs, a head. But there was no sound. That rhythmic whooshing music was absent.  No heartbeat.  The stranger in the doctor's coat looked up at me and said, "I'm sorry."  I wanted to punch something. To scream. I wanted to wake up. Instead, I felt panic. This was supposed to have been baby number three for us. But, like 24,000 other pregnancies in the US this year, ours came to a sudden halt. At 20 weeks, our unborn baby's heart stopped. Our doctors offered little closure, telling us there could be a million reasons as to why. My wife wanted options. She wanted a footprint, a 3D ultrasound and hand molds. She wanted to savor the last moments and keep mementos.That's what she wanted, but what she needed was to protect her mental health. Surgery was one way to do that, with a specialized procedure known as a dilation and evacuation. A D&E removes tissue in the uterus, ensuring those suffering pregnancy loss are spared the pain of birthing a stillborn child.For my wife and me, to endure that would have been unimaginable. But medical experts say that such a scenario could happen more often in some states that are adopting severely limiting abortion legislation.As my wife's OB/GYN told us, an anti-abortion law like the one passed this year in Texas could make it difficult to get access to a D&E -- making that law poised to have unintended consequences for couples suffering a loss like ours."The challenge is (that) doctors who do dilation and evacuation procedures frequently are doctors that perform abortions. So, it may be harder to find specialists that do D&Es in Texas in the future," said the doctor, who asked not to be named because he's not authorized to speak for his hospital network.I'm not sharing my family's painful story to take a stance on abortion. That's a journalism taboo. That's not what this is. I share our hardship to show how important it is to have options in reproductive health care.Even in states without a restrictive abortion ban in place, "the D&E is not widely available," said Dr. Hala Bunni, an OB/GYN whose practice is in Florida. "You can't just walk in anywhere and get one. In our medical group, we only refer to one person [for this procedure]. I only have that one person whom I trust."The fear is that "as a result of this law, we're going to lose specialists who perform D&E's," Bunni told me.And "if D&E specialists are pushed out, a ripple effect could occur," said Dr. David Berry, an OB/GYN in Virginia. Women like my wife who are experiencing a second trimester stillbirth could be limited to having only one of the two available options: A D&E, or "a labor and delivery situation," Berry said."I think it would be a travesty if D&E's done properly couldn't be used to help a grieving couple experiencing a second trimester stillbirth," he added.In the Virginia suburbs outside Washington, DC, my wife underwent the D&E with little fanfare.While we hoped and longed for a baby, we needed the skills of someone trained to end pregnancies.We have two beautiful, healthy kids, thank G-d. Hugs from my 2-year-old helped us heal. Snuggles with my 5-year-old brought us back from despair. We know what could have been with the third child. We know he could have grown from that lifeless image on the ultrasound screen.I still dream about holding my fragile newborn. I imagine joys and experiences my unborn child could have had and it makes me weak.That's what hurts thinking about the parents in Texas -- or Mississippi or elsewhere -- who may have to birth a stillborn because of the ripple effect of politics. What does limiting options accomplish? For my wife and me, it would have inflicted agony.The pain and screaming of labor and birth is supposed to be rewarded with newborn cries echoing down the maternity hallway. To deprive women suffering pregnancy loss a surgical option and leave no other choice but to go through labor and contractions to deliver a lifeless baby is heartless. To know the delivery is a doomed process, for many, would no doubt compound the trauma.I can only hope that parents everywhere who suffer this same loss will have any options they desire to lessen the pain.
The College Football Playoff will feature Alabama v. Cincinnati and Michigan v. Georgia.  (CNN)The Alabama Crimson Tide, Michigan Wolverines, Georgia Bulldogs and the Cincinnati Bearcats will compete in the College Football Playoff, the selection committee announced on Sunday.In the semifinal games scheduled for December 31, No. 1 Alabama (12-1) will face off against No. 4 Cincinnati (13-0) at the Cotton Bowl Classic at AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas, while No. 2 Michigan (12-1) will play No. 3 Georgia (12-1) at the Orange Bowl at Hard Rock Stadium in Miami Gardens, Florida. The winners will square off in the national championship game at Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis, Indiana, on January 10 (8 p.m. ET).Cincinnati, a member of the American Athletic Conference, is the first school from a non-Power Five conference to play in the CFP since its inception in 2014. The Power Five conferences consist of the Atlantic Coast Conference, the Big 12 Conference, the Big Ten Conference, the Pac-12 Conference and the Southeastern Conference.Alabama is making a CFP-best seventh appearance after winning the SEC Championship Game 41-24 over Georgia on Saturday. Under coach Nick Saban, the top-ranked Crimson Tide rolled past Ohio State last year in the national title game, earning Alabama its sixth title in 12 seasons.Michigan dominated Iowa 42-3 to win the Big 10 championship on Saturday, the first for coach Jim Harbaugh. It will be playing in its first playoff.Georgia lost its final game but had been the top team for most of the season and will be playing in its second playoffs.The fifth-ranked team heading into the bowl season is the Notre Dame Fighting Irish (11-1). Notre Dame head coach Marcus Freemen will make his coaching debut at the team's upcoming bowl game. Freeman replaced Brian Kelly, who left the school to become head coach at Louisiana State University earlier this week.Ohio State Buckeyes (10-2) finished at No. 6.
A North Carolina man accidentally bought 2 identical lottery tickets -- and won 2 jackpots.  (CNN)A North Carolina man wasn't sure if he had bought a ticket in the state's Lucky for Life lottery drawing, so he filled out the online form."I was just laying in bed watching a basketball game on TV and I couldn't remember if I filled it out or not," said Scotty Thomas, 49, from Fayetteville, according to the North Carolina Education Lottery."I went ahead and filled it out again and the next morning my son asked why there were two different amounts listed. I realized, 'I think I filled it out twice.'"It turned out he had won $25,000 each year for life with each ticket in the November 27 drawing. That prize is the Lucky for Life's drawing second-biggest prize, behind a $1,000 a day for life payout, according to the lottery. "When I realized I won, I had to lay down on the floor because I really just couldn't believe it," Thomas said. "It's just a blessing."Thomas, a dump truck operator, opted for a lump sum of $780,000 for both tickets instead of annual payments, according to the lottery, saying he wanted to invest in his business, pay off bills, help his family and perhaps buy a house. After taxes, he netted $551,851, the lottery said. 
Spotify pulls some comedy content amid royalties dispute.  (CNN)Spotify is not joking around amid a dispute over royalties for comedy content. The streaming giant has removed the work of hundreds of comedians from its platform -- including Tiffany Haddish, Kevin Hart and the late Robin Williams -- according to rights agency Spoken Giants.Spoken Giants, which represents some of the affected comedians, describes itself as "the first global rights administration company for the owners and creators of spoken word copyrights," and aims to get streaming platforms to pay comedians for writing jokes in the same way songwriters are paid.The group told CNN that the take-down happened on November 24, and said that it never requested the content's removal. "Unfortunately, Spotify removed the work of individual comedians rather than continue to negotiate," CEO Jim King told CNN."With this take-down, individual comedians are now being penalized for collectively requesting the same compensation songwriters receive," he added. "After Spotify removed our members' work, we reached out but have not received a response. We have now requested an immediate meeting to resolve this situation."A Spotify spokesperson told CNN that the streaming platform had already paid "significant amounts of money" to offer the comedy content to listeners, and "would love to continue to do so.""However, given that Spoken Giants is disputing what rights various licensors have, it's imperative that the labels that distribute this content, Spotify and Spoken Giants come together to resolve this issue to ensure this content remains available to fans around the globe," the spokesperson said.Although the content is still available on other platforms including Pandora and Sirius, Spoken Giants said comedians with lower profiles and revenues could suffer from losing Spotify as a platform. On social media, New York-based comedian Joe Zimmerman called the move "corporate bullying." Another New York-based comedian, Liz Miele, tweeted that her albums had also been removed from the platform because comedians "had the audacity to ask for money owed to us," and jokingly compared herself to singer Taylor Swift.Swift was previously engaged in a dispute with Spotify, arguing artists were not paid enough. The singer pulled her entire catalog from the platform in 2014, but reversed her decision in 2017. 
Bitcoin plunges overnight. New York, NY (CNN)Bitcoin prices plummeted overnight to a low of about $43,000. As of 10:30 am EST Saturday, the cryptocurrency had dropped more than 13% in the previous 24 hours, from $56,294 to $48,309 -- a loss of almost $8,000. That's a stark contrast from its all-time high of just last month, when Bitcoin reached almost $69,000 on November 9. It's a slight rebound from a plunge of more than 17% earlier in the day. Ether, the second most popular cyrptocurrency, fell almost 10%. The drop for bitcoin follows a volatile week for financial markets. Global equities and benchmark U.S. bond yields tumbled on Friday after data showed US job growth slowed in November and the Omicron variant of the coronavirus kept investors on edge.Data from another platform, Coinglass, showed that nearly $1 billion worth of cryptocurrencies had been liquidated over the past 24 hours, with the bulk being on digital exchange Bitfinex.Correction: A previous version of this story misstated Bitcoin's lowest point in its drop in value overnight. It fell to about $43,000.
A man jumped out of taxiing airplane at Phoenix's Sky Harbor International Airport .  (CNN)A 30-year-old man jumped out of an airplane as it was taxiing at Phoenix's Sky Harbor International Airport Saturday.Southwest Flight 4236 arrived safely in Phoenix from Colorado Springs, Southwest Airlines said in a statement."Initial reports indicate that while the flight was taxing to the gate, a Customer onboard exited the aircraft via a rear galley door,"  Southwest Airlines spokesperson Dan Landson said. "The flight's Captain stopped the aircraft and notified Air Traffic Control (ATC)."It is unclear how the aircraft door was opened. Sky Harbor International Airport has not responded to CNN's request for comment.Phoenix Fire Station 19, which is located at the airport, was notified of the incident at around 8 a.m., Phoenix Fire Department Captain Todd Keller said in a statement. The man landed on the tarmac and made his way to the fire station, entered the building and locked himself inside a dormitory room, Keller said."After a few minutes, firefighters were able to get the adult male to unlock the door where he was then evaluated, treated and transported to a local hospital for a lower extremity injury," the fire captain added.Authorities responded to the incident, after which the flight "continued to its designated gate," Southwest Airlines said.A Phoenix Police spokesperson told CNN they "are aware of this incident, and at this time the investigation is ongoing." It is unclear if the man will face charges.
Music critics mock Kenny G's 'safe sax.' But a new documentary will change how you see him.  (CNN)If the Jazz Police began launching midnight raids against musicians who offended their sensibilities, Kenny G would be at the top of their list.The 65-year-old saxophone player has been called the best-selling instrumentalist of all time, someone whose songs have formed the sonic backdrop of so many weddings, shopping mall and dental office visits that one music critic said he's "part of the musical furniture of American culture."The Jazz Police -- fans and critics who are self-appointed enforcers of jazz purity -- have called Kenny G's music "safe sax" and compared it to takeout Chinese food ("an hour later you're hungry again"). Jazz guitarist Pat Metheny has dismissed Kenny G's style as "lame-ass, jive, pseudo bluesy out-of-tune, noodling." But a new documentary film by Penny Lane may lead some of Kenny G's critics to reconsider. "Listening to Kenny G," which premiered this week on HBO Max, offers surprising glimpses into the songs and private life of the skinny, White guy who became the face -- and hair -- of smooth jazz. The film suggests that Kenny G, who just released his first album in six years, is not only unappreciated but a groundbreaking artist who pursues perfection and innovation in his own sweet way. The documentary also asks bigger questions outside of music. It explores racial prejudice and the art vs. commerce debate, and offers some lessons on what it takes for someone to be successful in any field.What comes through is that Kenny G probably would have been successful at whatever he chose to do. He is relentless striver -- practicing his sax at least three hours each day -- with a compulsive need to get better at everything, even if it's just baking an apple pie in his opulent kitchen.Many critics have disparaged his musicKenny G's devotion to his craft, though, will probably not impress his critics. His music has been described as bland and soporific -- like an aural hit of Ambien. It has furnished many Internet memes, and shows like "Saturday Night Live" and "South Park" have made fun of his "Snooze Jazz."Some of the funniest scenes in the documentary come when jazz critics are asked to appraise Kenny G's music. Many squirm like toddlers at the dentist, with looks of discomfort across their faces as Kenny G standards like "Songbird" play in the background.When Ben Ratliff, a well known jazz and pop music critic, was asked what he thought of Kenny G's music, he struggled to give an assessment. "I'm sure I heard of a lot of Kenny G's music -- while waiting for something," Ratcliff says, referring to the piped-in music he hears in stores or during visits to his bank.Another critic, though, cited Kenny G's massive popularity -- he has sold at least 75 million records -- as a form of defense."It can't simply be that millions of people are just stupid and Pat Metheny is the smart one," says Jason King, a musician and scholar at New York University. The center of the documentary, though, is Kenny G himself. His canny deflections of his detractors take the film in unexpected directions.Kenny G refrains from labeling his own music. Is it jazz, pop? You tell me, he says. He also dismisses the notion that he deliberately set out to create jazz Muzak that would appeal to the masses."These are songs from my heart," he says. "This is just the way I hear it. They [critics] think I just decided to play these songs because I knew they would sell well. If only I was that smart."Even so, he created a signature soundBut the film makes clear, as it traces his rise in the musical world, that Kenny G is a lot smarter than people realize.He was born Kenneth Bruce Gorelick in Seattle, Washington, a quiet Jewish kid who was expected to take over his father's plumbing business one day. But young Kenny became enthralled by the silky music of jazz saxophonist Grover Washington Jr., whose hits like "Just The Two of Us" heralded the 1980s rise of the smooth jazz genre.Kenny G's high school music teacher recalls him as a shy kid with no girlfriend who was "super, super smart." The teacher tells a funny story about Kenny G stealing the show during one of his first live gigs by holding a prolonged note -- a signature stage move that would be recognizable to any of his fans today.Some of the best scenes show Kenny G's cockiness. He's also an outstanding golfer as well as a pilot and a successful investor. "That's a hard lick and I just played it really well," he says with a self-satisfied smile after an impressive practice run on his soprano sax.The film also does a good job explaining why some jazz critics despise him. Many say his music is not jazz. Jazz, they say, is about improvisation and vigorous interplay between musicians who are testing musical boundaries. Those qualities don't describe Kenny G's music.But even some of his critics concede that Kenny G created a new type of instrumental music with massive hits like "Songbird" and "Silhouette."  What's inarguable is that he has a distinctive sound that's sold millions of records. How many musicians can claim that?"I don't think a lot of people could say they created a new sound, but I did," he says.Some dismiss that sound as "easy listening," but Kenny G seems nonplussed by the label."When you hear the words, 'easy listening,' it almost sounds bad," he says. "Well, I don't see anything wrong with something that's easy to listen to."His music sparks debate about what is authentic jazzJazz purists criticize Kenny G because they don't think his music reflects any exceptional jazz chops or innovation. They also complain that he's earned so many millions from his music while many jazz musicians who are much more skilled toil in relative obscurity.As the film makes clear, the debate over what constitutes true jazz is as old as jazz itself.Louis Armstrong is widely seen as the greatest jazz musician of all time for his virtuoso trumpet playing and singing. But is "What a Wonderful World," one of his biggest hits, jazz? And if not, does it tarnish his legacy?Miles Davis, another jazz legend, was accused of selling out when he went electric on his album "Bitches Brew," which helped launch jazz fusion music in the 1970s. Yet no one would claim Davis isn't an authentic jazz artist.Besides, there is another purpose that jazz, and all music, serves.Music offers people an escape, a way to feel good. Some of the most moving passages in the documentary show Kenny G's wide appeal. His fans come in all races, age groups and nationalities (he's huge in China). The film depicts them all blissfully nodding along to his music with the same contented look.The great jazz drummer Art Blakely once said that "jazz washes away the dust of everyday life."Kenny G's music may not fit the classical definition of jazz. And it may put some listeners to sleep.But maybe we shouldn't underestimate a musician who can wash away the dust of everyday life for many listeners who are worn down by living in an increasingly divided world.If we go by that standard, Kenny G just might be a maestro.
Prince William reveals 'cringing' moment with Taylor Swift, some of his favorite tunes and car rides with his mom and Harry. London (CNN)The Duke of Cambridge will take listeners on a walk down memory lane when he joins forces with Apple Fitness+ for a special festive episode of its "Time To Walk" audio series.William, 39, is hoping to encourage people to take a break and go for a walk for their mental wellbeing over the Christmas period. CNN understands the duke is a fan of the series and approached Apple about the project.William opens the episode contemplating his father's love of walking and that while growing up, Charles "used to try and force Harry and I out of the house the whole time" adding that "we weren't really having any of it.""But now, as you get older, you appreciate it a lot more and you see it for what it is," William says.The royal is the latest star to record a walk-and-talk for the series, available on Apple Watch with a Fitness+ subscription.Each episode, which ranges between 25 and 40 minutes in length, is designed to be an immersive experience. Featured guests take a stroll in a meaningful location and reflect on life's lessons while sharing memories and experiences through stories, photos and songs.William's walk -- which he recorded back in the spring -- takes him across his family's sprawling 20,000-acre Sandringham Estate in Norfolk, eastern England. Starting at Sandringham House, he takes in the sights and sounds of "the great British countryside, as we like to call it" while heading towards St. Mary Magdalene Church, where the royals are due to attend Christmas Day church service later this month. He ends the journey standing outside Anmer Hall, the home he shares with wife, Catherine, and their children. Reflecting on his family's annual Christmas Day pilgrimage, William talks of his "strong memories" of his grandfather plowing ahead while "there'd be us at the back with little legs trying to keep up."During the episode, the prince discusses the importance of keeping mentally fit and recalls one moment nearly a decade ago that left him sweating at a black tie event.Musing that he "can't believe I'm actually tell this story," he talks about a 2013 fundraising gala at Kensington Palace that US singers Jon Bon Jovi and Taylor Swift attended, "which nearly knocked me off my feet."William says there's always "a lot of handshaking to do those nights" where he tries to "be charming and interactive." He then goes to watch the performance thinking his main tasks of the evening -- primarily to welcome guests -- are over and he can relax a little."I'm sat next to Taylor Swift. She's on my left. And after Jon does his first song, there's a pause, and she turns to me. She puts her hand on my arm, looks me in the eye, and says, 'Come on, William. Let's go and sing,'" he remembers."To this day, I still do not know what came over me. Honestly, even now I'm cringing at what happened next, and I don't understand why I gave in. But, frankly, if Taylor Swift looks you in the eye, touches your arm, and says, 'Come with me...' I got up like a puppy and went, 'Yeah, okay, that seems like a great idea. I'll follow you.'"William continues his anecdote describing walking towards the stage "in a trance" and trying to desperately remember the lyrics to "Livin' On a Prayer." "Beneath my black tie, there was a lot of sweating going on. I felt like a swan, where I was trying to keep myself composed on the outside, but inside, the little legs are paddling fast," the royal says, adding that while he's very comfortable delivering speeches, he has less experience singing live."At times, when you're taken out of your comfort zone, you've got to roll with it," he adds.During the episode, the duke also reveals the impact his time as an air ambulance pilot had on his mental health. He details one experience helping a young boy hit by a car.William says he "went home that night pretty upset but not noticeably" and was conscious that "something had changed... a real tension inside of me." He describes compartmentalizing his feelings and returning to work but "it really hit me weeks later.""My personal life and everything was absolutely fine. I was happy at home and happy at work, but I kept looking at myself, going, 'Why am I feeling like this? Why do I feel so sad?' And I started to realize that, actually, you're taking home people's trauma, people's sadness, and it's affecting you." He says that he was "lucky" he had someone to talk to from the Air Ambulance service, adding that he has spoken to frontline workers throughout the pandemic who are struggling with mental health and encourages listeners to seek support like he did.The episode also features a few musical selections from the prince, including Tina Turner's "The Best" which his mom used to blast in the car as she drove her sons back to boarding school."Sitting in the backseat, singing away, it felt like a real family moment," William says. "And my mother, she'd be driving along, singing at the top of her voice. And we'd even get the policeman in the car, he'd be occasionally singing along, as well."These days, the father-of-three says he's amazed that his own children "already have inherited my family's love of music.""One of the songs that the children are loving at the moment is Shakira, 'Waka Waka,'" he explains. "Charlotte, particularly, is running around the kitchen in her dresses and ballet stuff and everything. She goes completely crazy with Louis following her around trying to do the same thing." William's episode concludes the show's second season, with previous guests including British heavyweight boxing champion Anthony Joshua, actor and comedian Stephen Fry and CNN's own Dr. Sanjay Gupta. Three leading mental health charities chosen by the duke will receive a charitable donation from Apple -- Shout in the UK, Crisis Text Line in the USA and Lifeline in Australia. Shout and Crisis Text Line offer a free 24/7 confidential service for people in crisis over texts, while Lifeline provides complimentary round-the-clock crisis support and suicide prevention services.The special episode drops for Fitness+ subscribers on Monday 6 December. The company will also stream three free airings of the show on Apple Music 1, its flagship global radio station on Apple Music, starting from 8 a.m. GMT, 12 a.m. PST and 7 p.m AEDT.  Sign up for CNN's Royal News, a weekly dispatch bringing you the inside track on the royal family, what they are up to in public and what's happening behind palace walls. 
Taylor Swift sends flowers to Don McLean after song breaks record held by 'American Pie'.  (CNN)Taylor Swift's rerelease of her hit song "All Too Well" has broken the record for the longest song to take the top spot on the Billboard Hot 100 chart -- and Swift has handled the win with grace.The songstress sent flowers to Don McLean, whose song "American Pie" first set the record when it hit No. 1 in 1972, with a runtime of around 8 minutes and 37 seconds. The new version of "All Too Well," a part of Swift's rerelease of her 2012 album "Red," clocks in at just over 10 minutes."What a class act!" Mclean said of Swift in an Instagram post thanking the artist for the flowers. In a note to McLean, Swift wrote about the singer's impact on her music."I will never forget that I'm standing on the shoulders of giants," Swift wrote. "Your music has been so important to me. Sending love one writer of LONG SONGS to another."Last month, McLean spoke about losing the top spot in a statement, expressing zero regret after holding the record for almost 50 years."There is something to be said for a great song that has staying power," McLean said. "'American Pie' remained on the top for 50 years and now Taylor Swift has unseated such a historic piece of artistry. Let's face it, nobody ever wants to lose that #1 spot, but if I had to lose it to somebody, I sure am glad it was another great singer/songwriter such as Taylor." This record isn't the only one Swift has broken following the release of "Red (Taylor's Version). With the album, she also set the record for most simultaneous US Hot 100 entries by a woman, with 26 songs from the album making the Hot 100 chart. The record was previously 18 songs, which she set in 2019 with the album "Lover."The Grammy award-winning singer dropped "Red (Taylor's Version)" last month, a recording of her acclaimed 2012 album "Red," known for hits like "I Knew You Were Trouble" and "We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together." The rerelease is part of Swift's efforts to regain ownership of her early catalog, after record executive and music manager Scooter Braun gained control of her first six albums' master recordings in 2019 via an acquisition deal.
Henry Winkler is auctioning off his Fonz jacket and more 'Happy Days' memorabilia.  (CNN)Aaay! Who wants the Fonz's leather jacket?"Happy Days" star Henry Winkler is auctioning off a treasure trove of costumes, props and other memorabilia from his acting career, on December 8 in the "TCM Presents ... Hollywood Cool" sale at Bonhams auction house in Los Angeles. TCM is part of Warner Media, CNN's parent company.Winkler's complete Arthur "Fonzie" Fonzarelli outfit, which includes the Levi's jeans, white T-shirt, black engineer boots and, of course, the iconic leather jacket is expected to sell for between $50,000 and $80,000, according to Bonhams.The jacket is one of at least seven purchased for the show, according to the auction website. One of the jackets is in the Smithsonian Institution.The silver Triumph motorcycle "The Fonz" rode throughout the ABC comedy's 10-year run is expected to sell for $80,000 to $120,000, Bonhams said.Also up for sale are the Fonz's mechanic coveralls, a uniform shirt from his brief stint in the US Army Reserves and the cowboy boots he wore in the dude ranch episodes in Season 6."I never will say goodbye because it is always in my heart and always in my mind. It was the show that threw me out into the world and I will always be grateful," Winkler told CNN affiliate KABC. "Letting a physical thing go doesn't, in any way, diminish the enormity of the experience."Winker also saved scripts, photos, letters and all sorts of other things from other projects over the years that are going into the auction.He told KABC he is donating much of the proceeds of the sale to a non-profit his daughter Zoe started with two friends that helps separated and recently reunited families at the US border.The sale also includes one of Greta Garbo's makeup case, four of Dorothy Lamour's evening gowns, and one of Will Ferrell's Buddy The Elf costumes from the movie "Elf." 
How Costco, Sam's Club and BJ's won the pandemic. New York (CNN Business)Few companies have gained more of an advantage during the pandemic than America's warehouse club giants.During the early days of Covid, shoppers flooded into Costco, BJ's and Sam's Club — which were deemed "essential" businesses and stayed open through lockdowns — to load up on groceries and household staples such as toilet paper. Those customers are still coming 22 months later and many are buying even more stuff for their homes and families than they did before the crisis.Millions of customers signed up for club memberships for the first time and held onto them, pushing the chains' member rolls to all-time highs.Warehouse clubs have "gained quite a bit of share during Covid and continue to," said KK Davey, the president of strategic analytics at market research firm IRI. "Lots of members have signed up. Once you're in the club, you continue to buy."Club stores gained 0.5% of market share in 2020 and 0.5% in 2021, adding up to around $16 billion, according to IRI data. They have also had the fastest sales growth in 2021 from last year of any retail channel.Their sales and profits have surged during the pandemic, lifting their stock prices.Shares of Costco (COST) — the largest club and third-biggest retailer in America behind Walmart (WMT) and Amazon (AMZN)— have increased around 90% since March of 2020. Sam's Club, the second largest, is a subsidiary of Walmart (WMT), and its sales have increased at a faster clip than Walmart's.BJ's, (BJ) the smallest of the three clubs, has seen its stock explode around 240%.But 2022 may bring more challenges for these chains, say analysts. As prices stay high, some shoppers may cut back on the discretionary subscriptions they aren't using as much. If you have an Amazon subscription, a Netflix (NFLX) subscription, an Apple (AAPL) one, Walmart+ and countless others, do you really need to pay 50 or 60 bucks a year just to step foot in a shopping club?Buying in bulkWhen the Covid outbreak started, many customers cut out their third and fourth favorite stores and focused on visiting only one or two.They made fewer trips to stores to minimize potential exposure to the virus, but loaded up when they were inside and spent more. This played right into the hands of warehouse clubs, which specialize in selling giant packages of ketchup, toilet paper and cleaning wipes.This trend has continued into 2021.Many people are still working remotely or are in a hybrid model. That means they're still spending more on groceries than they were before the pandemic and sprucing up their living rooms, home offices and backyards.Warehouse clubs had the highest growth of customer visits to stores of any retail channel in 2021, according to IRI data. The membership model also leads customers to spend more than they would without one, say analysts. A sunk-cost fallacy often drives people to keep buying to try to get the most bang for their subscription fees.Clubs are more than happy you take that approach: "The more members buy, the more valuable the membership is to them," Sam's Club CEO Kathryn McLay said in an email.Delivery or curbside pickup?Covid also pushed more people to buy online. While warehouse clubs have not traditionally been a top choice for online delivery, the companies took steps before the pandemic to build out their e-commerce businesses and technology options. Wholesale clubs "haven't always been convenient," BJ's CEO Bob Eddy said in an email. "We have changed that."All three chains partnered with Instacart to offer same-day grocery delivery from stores. Sam's Club launched Scan & Go, which allows members to scan items without waiting in line. In the early stages of the pandemic, Sam's Club and BJ's also added same-day curbside pickup for customers buying online.These moves have paid off, helping clubs draw members eager to avoid stores and instead order for delivery or curbside pickup.BJ's online sales increased 44% during its latest quarter ending October 30 from the same stretch a year ago. Costco's increased 12.1% during the nine weeks ending October 31 — its latest figures. They boomed 42.6% last year. Sam's Club's e-commerce sales grew 32% during its previous quarter ending October 31.Sam's Club is finding that first and second-year members are likelier "to be more digitally engaged" than veteran members, CEO McLay said.Young families and new homesThe warehouse club model only works if these chains can sign up members every year and convince them to renew. They make money off membership dues, and the more members who pay them, the lower the clubs can drive prices. Without that fee income, the concept unravels.The companies have locked in new members during the pandemic, many of them younger families who moved to the suburbs and purchased their first homes. Sam's Club does not publicly disclose membership numbers, but they are at a all-time company highs, McClay said.The majority of new members at Sam's Club are Millennial families, who buy in bulk for their kids and growing household needs, she said.BJ's has added around 600,000 new members since Covid-19 began, bringing its membership base to more than 6 million."The pandemic has led to younger families moving out of cities to the suburbs," said CEO Eddy. "Many of our members join when they start a family."Costco has added more than 6 milliolan members during the pandemic and now has close to 62 million members. Millennials make up the majority of new members at Costco, said finance chief Richard Galanti, adding that his chain has answered some analysts' doubts that Costco was only a store for young shoppers' parents.  "One of the concerns people have had over the years is that we're for old people," he said. "But where else can you get an 8-pack of organic fresh kale?"As more Millennials become parents and buy homes in the suburbs, Costco will "see a new wave of members" entering their peak spending years, Chuck Grom, an analyst at Gordon Haskett Research Advisors, said in a November 10 report upgrading Costco's stock. The future of clubsDespite these clubs' success during the pandemic, their path gets trickier from here.As more people return to offices, eat out at restaurants, go to movie theaters and resume pre-pandemic patterns, they may decide to cut back on $300 or $400 runs to Costco or Sam's. That would squeeze sales.Rising prices may also lead some members to let their memberships lapse, especially ones who recently joined.As the help of federal stimulus fades and most goods get costlier, shoppers may be forced to make trade-offs. If they're not using their warehouse club memberships as frequently as Amazon Prime and other ones, clubs may get cut."As budgets get tighter, there will be a rationalizing" of memberships, said KK Davey from IRI.Still, the clubs say people will be looking to save money on groceries and other stuff as prices rise.Low prices are "why they pay the membership fee," BJ's Bob Eddy said. "That becomes even more relevant in today's inflationary market." 
Man-made diamonds are the new engagement ring trend. New York (CNN Business)For many couples who recently cemented their commitment to each other with an engagement, the choice of ring featured not natural but man-made gemstones — including the center diamond.While a diamond continues to be the most popular type of engagement stone, nearly one in four engagement rings in 2021 featured a man-made center stone, not necessarily always a diamond, up 11% in the past two years, according to a report from wedding planning website The Knot."The popularity of lab-made diamonds is growing because of the eco-conscious mindset of Millennial consumers and a subset of GenZ-ers, said the report, which was based on a survey conducted in November of 5,000 US couples who became engaged between January and November 2021.Another factor fueling the preference for a synthetic diamonds: They're less expensive than mined diamonds. They can cost as much as 30% less, said Shelley Brown, The Knot's senior fashion and beauty editor. Lab-made diamonds and other gemstones have pushed into the mainstream in the last four to five years, she noted.Lab-made goes mainstreamLeading jewelry retailers are also driving that effort.This May the world's largest jewelry company, Pandora (PANDY), made a major shift by announcing it would stop using mined diamonds in its jewelry.Instead, the Copenhagen-based company is shifting to lab-created diamonds, which it said have the same "optical, chemical, thermal and physical characteristics" of a mined diamond and are graded by the same standards known as the 4Cs: cut, color, clarity and carat.Pandora said it's instituting the change as part of its own effort to sell sustainable jewelry, and also because consumers are asking for it.Signet (SIG), the largest jewelry company in the United States, is stocked up on engagement rings. "This is the high season for bridal jewelry. There are a tremendous number of couples who get engaged from Thanksgiving through to the New Year, and we're ready to go," said Jamie Singleton, president at Signet Jewelers, which owns Zales, Kay Jewelers and Jared.Singleton said three big trends dominating engagement ring preferences include larger stones of 1 to 3 carats, yellow gold and fancy center stone shapes like oval, pear and emerald.She also sees the growth in demand for lab-created diamonds. "This is very Millennial-based, and frankly they are the demographic that represents most of the shoppers in the bridal category anyway," said Singleton. "The lesser cost of a lab-created diamond allows couples to buy a larger stone."Currently, 4.7% of the specialty diamond jewelry market in the United States is represented by lab-grown diamonds. That figure is up a whopping 34% from 2020, said Edahn Golan, an industry analyst and founder of Edahn Golan Diamond Research & Data. "Regarding the cost difference, a 1-carat engagement ring with a lab-grown diamond can cost 60% less than a 1-carat natural diamond ring," said Golan.Although a majority of shoppers at its stores are still buying natural diamonds, Singleton said Signet has expanded its man-made bridal jewelry selection this year. This includes a new "True lab-created Diamonds by Vera Wang LOVE" collection for Zales, which includes 16 engagement ring styles that feature 101 facet lab-grown diamond centers, as well as the new "LEO Legacy lab-created diamond" collection featuring 21 engagement rings and bands at Kay Jewelers.But there is one important consideration for anyone buying lab-created diamonds: their resale value. "A lab-created diamond is really not as big of an investment as a natural diamond," said Brown. "Consumers may not be educated about this."Martin Rapaport, founder of the Rapaport Diamond Report and chair of the Rapaport Group, agreed."Synthetic diamonds are not subject to natural scarcity like a mined diamond. They can be produced in unlimited quantities by machines," said Rapaport. "So they don't really retain a resale value like natural diamonds.""I think it is misleading to sell man-made diamonds without this important disclosure even if some consumers may not care about the resale value," he said.
How eBay's new CEO turned it into a pandemic winner . New York (CNN Business)When PayPal split off from eBay a few years ago, eBay was considered to be the less exciting company. But that's certainly not the case on Wall Street this year. Shares of eBay (EBAY) have surged more than 30% this year, while PayPal (PYPL) has stumbled more than 20%. The companies have had a wildly different 2021. PayPal, which now lets people buy and sell bitcoin, has been subject to the volatility in the cryptocurrency market and concerns about its rumored plan to offer to buy Pinterest (PINS), though PayPal later said no deal was happening. Ebay, by contrast, has made a big comeback during the pandemic thanks to bets on several rapidly growing parts of the digital commerce market — namely sneakers, sports memorabilia and car parts.CNN Business spoke to eBay CEO Jamie Iannone, who rejoined eBay in April 2020, about the firm's transformation into an enthusiast-focused retailer. "This is part of a multi-year reimagining of eBay. These categories we're focusing on are huge," said Iannone, who was an executive at Barnes & Noble and Walmart (WMT) before returning to eBay, where he worked for most of the 2000s.Focusing more on the repeat power buyersIannone has helped push eBay into markets where buyers are willing to spend lots of money numerous times a year.  Wall Street likes that.Shares of eBay are up more than 70% since Iannone came back to the company. That's better than the gains for PayPal and the broader market during the same time frame. The pivot to collectibles that have passionate, younger buyers has been a big win for the company.Iannone said eBay realizes there is a big difference between its casual shoppers and its so-called power buyers who make purchases of nearly $1,000 multiple times a year. That audience is where eBay is now putting much of its attention, Iannone said, because it makes more sense to cater to the loyalists instead of spending a lot more money on marketing and advertising just to increase the general user base."Some of the [power buyers] wake up, get a cup of coffee and turn to eBay," Iannone said. "We were too focused on acquiring buyers and getting them at any costs. We're leaning in now on the enthusiasts."As a result of this new focus, Iannone said eBay made more money selling trading cards in the second quarter of this year than it did in that category in all of 2020, for example. The 'accidental entrepreneurs' give eBay a boostIannone said he loves meeting with people who have set up stores on eBay and now make their living from it. That includes someone who was laid off by the Orlando Magic basketball team during the 2020 shutdown of the NBA season and now sells sneakers full-time on eBay. It's been a common story during the pandemic, he said, as many people left the traditional workforce."These are the accidental entrepreneurs," Iannone said, adding that while most people on the platform say they start selling on eBay to boost their income, nearly 15% are doing so because they have lost a job.  The company is also leveraging the power of social media and the influencer community -— including a sneaker marketing campaign on TikTok. The company has increased efforts to authenticate the value of items like shoes, baseball cards and musical instruments.  For example, eBay just acquired sneaker authentication service Sneaker Con. It's also tracking the value of trading cards in real time like stocks. (And Iannone himself recently bought a "barely used" oboe for his daughter on eBay.)"Ebay has been a pioneer of collectibles exchanges and re-commerce," Iannone said. "We're leaning into that. It's all about regaining trust on the platform."Motor vehicle accessories are the next big area of focus for eBay, he said, adding that when he needed a part for a windshield, he found a perfect fit on eBay for $9 that probably would have cost $40 at the auto dealership.Buy now and pay later — but not with bitcoinThe company is also embracing more modern forms of payment to continue attracting younger millennial and Gen Z customers.EBay now accepts Apple Pay and Google Pay, and it's experimenting with the "buy now, pay later" (BNPL) trend in the form of a partnership in Australia with Afterpay (which Square (SQ) is in the process of buying for nearly $30 billion)."This does help attract newer customers to the platform. People like to use it for high-priced items," Iannone said. "BNPL is bringing in a younger demographic."But one trend eBay isn't embracing just yet is bitcoin. Given the volatility in cryptocurrencies,  Iannone said the company will not be accepting any of them as payment "for the foreseeable future."
