Vanessa Bryant must provide therapy records in lawsuit over fatal crash photos, judge rules.  (CNN)Vanessa Bryant must turn over mental health records in her lawsuit regarding leaked photos of the helicopter crash that killed her husband, basketball legend Kobe Bryant, and others, a judge has ruled.Bryant's lawsuit against Los Angeles County claims photos of the January 2020 crash site were shared by county fire and sheriff's department employees in settings not relevant to the investigation, including in a bar. Bryant "has suffered (and continues to suffer) severe emotional distress" because of the leaks, the lawsuit alleges. Magistrate Judge Charles F. Eick ruled Bryant and her therapist must produce documents as far back as 2017 to the lawyers for the county by November 29."We are gratified that the Court has granted our motion for access to her medical records, as it is a standard request in lawsuits where a plaintiff demands millions of dollars for claims of emotional distress," Skip Miller, partner of the Miller Barondess law firm and outside counsel for L.A. County, said in a statement to CNN.The request for therapy records is an invasion of privacy, Bryant's lawyers said in papers filed last week. CNN is seeking comment from Bryant's attorneys.The judge earlier this month ruled that Bryant did not have to undergo a psychiatric evaluation. The county had argued that the examinations were necessary to determine whether Bryant suffered emotional distress because of the photo leak and not just because of the crash itself. A previous ruling does not prevent the defendant from "obtaining relevant, nonprivileged, proportional discovery concerning the causation, and the severity, of (Plaintiff's) alleged emotional distress, including appropriate discovery into any asserted overlap or relationship between Plaintiff's emotional distress resulting from the helicopter crash and Plaintiff's emotional distress allegedly resulting from the subsequent photographs," according to the court document filed this week."The County continues to have nothing but the deepest sympathy for the enormous grief Ms. Bryant suffered as a result of the tragic helicopter accident," Miller said.Bryant alleges the photos shared by county employees violated her constitutional right to control death images of her husband and daughter Gianna. She is seeking an undisclosed amount for emotional distress and anxiety over the photos possibly having gone public. Her husband, daughter, and seven others died January 26, 2020, when their helicopter crashed into a Calabasas, California, hillside.The trial is scheduled for February. 
Jurors begin deliberations in Kyle Rittenhouse's homicide trial.  (CNN)Jurors began deliberations Tuesday in Kyle Rittenhouse's homicide trial, a day after the prosecution and defense offered dueling assessments of his actions last year during unrest in Kenosha, Wisconsin.A group of 18 jurors was in court for the entirety of the trial but six were dismissed by a random drawing on Tuesday morning. The final 12-person jury panel is made up of five men and seven women, according to a pool reporter in court.Shortly after deliberations began, just after 9 a.m. CT, the jurors asked the judge for extra copies of the 36-page jury instructions. They initially asked for extra copies of pages 1 through 6 of the instructions and later requested extra copies of pages 7 to 36, according to the pool reporter.Jurors concluded deliberating for the day just before 7 p.m. CT. They are expected to resume deliberating Wednesday at 9 a.m.In closing arguments Monday, the prosecution argued Rittenhouse, 17 at the time, provoked the fatal shootings by pointing his AR-15-style weapon at Joseph Rosenbaum, setting off a series of events that left two people dead and one wounded."That is what provokes this entire incident," prosecutor Thomas Binger said. "When the defendant provokes this incident, he loses the right to self-defense. You cannot claim self-defense against a danger you create."In response, defense attorney Mark Richards said Rittenhouse feared for his life when he fatally shot Rosenbaum, who Richards argued had threatened him, chased him, thrown a plastic bag at him and lunged for his gun. Rittenhouse also shot at three other people who, his attorney argued, had attacked him."Every person who was shot was attacking Kyle. One with a skateboard, one with his hands, and one with his feet, one with a gun," Richards said. "Hands and feet can cause great bodily harm."The closing arguments took up most of Monday and came at the end of a two-week trial highlighted by emotional and compelling testimony from Rittenhouse himself, who said he acted in self-defense when he fatally shot Rosenbaum."I didn't do anything wrong. I defended myself," he testified.Rittenhouse, now 18, is charged with five felonies: first-degree intentional homicide, first-degree reckless homicide, attempted first-degree intentional homicide and two counts of first-degree recklessly endangering safety. Jurors are also able to consider lesser offenses for two of the five counts. If convicted on the most serious charge, Rittenhouse could face a mandatory sentence of life in prison.Kenosha County Circuit Judge Bruce Schroeder dismissed a misdemeanor weapons possession charge and a non-criminal curfew violation prior to deliberations. What happened in the trialThe charges stem from the chaotic unrest last year in the wake of the Kenosha police shooting of Jacob Blake, a 29-year-old Black man. After instances of rioting and fiery destruction, Rittenhouse took a medical kit and an AR-15-style rifle and joined up with a group of other armed people in Kenosha on August 25, 2020. There, Rittenhouse fatally shot Rosenbaum -- who was chasing the teenager and threw a plastic bag at him -- and then tried to flee. A crowd of people pursued the teenager, and Rittenhouse shot at an unidentified man who tried to kick him; fatally shot Anthony Huber, who had hit him with a skateboard; and wounded Gaige Grosskreutz, who was armed with a pistol. Prosecutors called 22 witnesses over the course of six days as they sought to show Rittenhouse acted recklessly and provoked Rosenbaum by pointing the rifle at him. The prosecution portrayed the three other people who confronted the teen as "heroes" trying to stop what they believed to be an active shooting. However, Rittenhouse testified that he acted in self-defense when he shot at Rosenbaum, and he referred to the three other people he shot at as part of a "mob." He broke down into tears at one point in his testimony as he began to recount the initial shooting.Yet he testified on cross-examation that he knew Rosenbaum was unarmed when he opened fire. Rittenhouse also acknowledged that he had pointed his rifle at the man -- which the prosecution argues provoked Rosenbaum in the first place."He was chasing me, I was alone, he threatened to kill me earlier that night. I didn't want to have to shoot him," Rittenhouse testified. "I pointed it at him because he kept running at me and I didn't want him to chase me."The trial featured more than a dozen videos from the night that showed what happened before, during and after the shootings. Most of the facts of what happened that night were not up for debate -- rather, at the heart of the trial was the analysis of Rittenhouse's actions and whether they can be considered "reasonable."
Ken Jennings thinks he's too old to play 'Jeopardy' now.  (CNN)Ken Jennings is obsessed with learning, so it's come as something of a bummer that he's growing older. The "Jeopardy" GOAT, who is currently sharing hosting duties on the game show with Mayim Bialik, says he's not as sharp as he once was. "I don't want to get less sharp, but there's a reason why when you see somebody on 'Jeopardy' just killing it, they're probably right around 30," he tells CNN. Jennings said the speed at which your brain needs to make so many different connections during the game starts to decline."I kind of see it going away. You know, the older I get there, it'll take me a few minutes to come up with a name or if it's somebody I haven't thought about in a month, it might just be gone," he says, adding that he thinks he took his brain "for granted" when he was younger."Now it's 'Flowers for Algernon' every day, I feel a little bit older," he laughs, "I do feel like I'm too old for 'Jeopardy' and I'm very happy [hosting]. They give me the correct responses because I'm a little too old to be playing."The 74-time champ, who won more than $2.5 million in prize money during his 2004 victory streak, was "terrified" to host, saying taking over the spot after Alex Trebek died was a humbling experience."At first I was just terrified because when I did it last year, it was right after Alex had passed and those are such huge shoes to fill, he did it perfectly for decades," he says, adding that his nerves have since calmed. "It's been really a great joy, just being able to do it again this year was kind of all that pressure lifted and now everybody and his brother has hosted 'Jeopardy' in the meantime."He says he thinks "Jeopardy" will remain a cultural touchstone in America, even after the hosting scandal that saw former executive producer Mike Richards named as host and quickly depart the show."I think 'Jeopardy' is going to be fine. There was a lot of hubbub, there was a lot of ink over the last year and right now 'Jeopardy's' in a really good place because they have this secret sauce that no other show can duplicate," Jennings says. "They have the audience and the audience's 38 years of good memory. Like, when you watch 'Jeopardy' tonight, you're remembering watching with your grandma when you were a kid or with your friends in the dorm. The show really leans into that."And though he's enjoying hosting, Jennings says he's "not particularly ambitious" enough professionally to want the spot permanently. "I'm a producer on the show and I just want the show to be healthy," he says. "And it seems like that's going to happen now because they're in good shape and they've got good hosting options. I'm delighted to be a kind of permanent part of the 'Jeopardy' family after being a contestant. It feels like inheriting the chocolate factory, you know?"In the meantime, Jenning says he's in demand to teach the tricks of trivia to fans. He's turned down multiple offers (and paychecks) to play with viewers while in quarantine, but Tuesday at 6 p.m. ET you can hear Jennings virtually spill his secrets for free during "The Ken Jennings Knowledge Challenge.""I would say if there's a secret, the secret is that everybody has a really good memory. You know, the kid in class that can't learn his timetable but that kid knows every lyric of his favorite artists or every stat of her favorite sports team? The memory works just fine," he says. "It's not like, how do I remember all this boring stuff? It's like, how do I trick my brain into thinking this is interesting."After he drops knowledge, he will challenge viewers in a trivia game."So if you want to beat me as a trivia game, this is your, this is your chance," he laughs.
Rivian has $0 in revenue and is now the third most valuable carmaker on the planet. New York (CNN Business)Rivian, a 12-year-old startup with no revenue, is now the third most valuable carmaker in the world. The electric vehicle maker has been public for all of one week, but its share price has more than doubled in that time, valuing Rivian at more than $140 billion — just ahead of Volkswagen ($139 billion), and in third place behind Toyota ($306 billion) and Tesla ($1 trillion).  On Tuesday, the stock opened 6% higher, at about $159 a share. When the company debuted last week, it priced its shares at $78. Rivian only made its first truck deliveries two months ago, and the vast majority of those were to Rivian employees, according to an SEC filing. Still, it's ginned up major investor interest with prominent backing from Amazon, which bought a 20% stake in 2019, and Ford (F). Jeff Bezos is a big fan, and has been seen shuttling his fellow space explorers to and from Blue Origin's West Texas launch site in Rivian's signature truck.Electric vehicle hype is nothing new — many analysts, and even Tesla's own founder Elon Musk, have argued that its Tesla's valuation is overinflated. But its stock keeps climbing as Wall Street envisions a future in which all-electric vehicles are the norm. Under President Joe Biden's $1.2 trillion infrastructure plan, signed into law Monday, about $7.5 billion is being set aside to build a nationwide network of plug-in electric vehicle chargers.Investors who may have missed out on Tesla a decade ago aren't keen to miss out on another hot EV pioneer. Rivian also boasts a potential edge over Tesla in the US market, in part because it's angling for the non-Tesla, or even anti-Tesla, crowd. Rivian's primary product is not just any EV — it's a pickup truck. That's important in the US market, given that the top three most popular vehicles in the US are the Ford F-150, the Chevy Silverado and the Ram, in that order, according to Edmunds research. Correction: A previous version of this article incorrectly said Rivian hadn't brought its vehicles to market. It's been updated to note that the company made its first deliveries in September of 2021.
'Megaspider' is biggest of its kind we've ever seen, Australian reptile park says.  (CNN)A massive funnel-web spider with fangs capable of piercing human fingernails has been donated to an antivenom program in Australia, sparking an appeal for its anonymous donor to come forward.Nicknamed "Megaspider," the arachnid measures 8 centimeters (about 3 inches) foot to foot, with fangs 2 centimeters (about 0.8 inches) long, the Australian Reptile Park said in a statement Friday. With a body measuring 5 centimeters (1.9 inches), it's the largest funnel-web spider the park has ever seen, it added. "She is unusually large and if we can get the public to hand in more spiders like her, it will only result in more lives being saved due to the huge amount of venom they can produce," said Michael Tate, the park's education officer. "We are really keen to find out where she came from in hopes to find more MASSIVE spiders like her." According to the Australian Museum, the average length of a funnel-web spider's body is 1 to 5 centimeters, making this one on the large side. But it's by no means the largest type of spider in Australia.That honor belongs to the tarantula otherwise known as the whistling spider, due to the noise it emits when provoked. The body of the northern species Selenocosmia crassipes can grow up to 6 centimeters (2.4 inches) long, with a leg span of 16 centimeters (6.3 inches).The funnel-web spider or Atrax robustus may be smaller, but they are "the most notorious members" of the country's spider fauna, according to the Australian Museum's website.Though not all of the 40 or so varieties of the species are dangerous, "several are renowned for their highly toxic and fast acting venom," with the male of the Sydney funnel-web spider linked to all 13 recorded human deaths, the museum said."This remarkable spider has become a part of Sydney's folklore and, although no deaths have been recorded since the introduction of an antivenom in 1981, it remains an icon of fear and fascination for Sydneysiders," the museum says.The Australian Reptile Park said Megaspider's fangs will be milked for venom that can be turned into antivenom.The spider was donated somewhere in the Sydney or New South Wales coastal area, the park added."It was in a Tupperware container without any labels to signify where it came from," the statement said. "Keepers are eager to find out the area in which it came from with hopes of finding more of the large spiders as they produce larger amounts of venom for the antivenom program."
A 'potentially significant' storm could hit the East Coast with rain and snow during the busy Thanksgiving travel week.  (CNN)Thanksgiving is just over a week away, but holiday travel will start as early as Friday for some. A significant storm has the potential to disrupt travel plans from the Midwest to the Northeast during one of the busiest times of the year to travel. We are talking about disruptions at major airline hubs like Chicago and New York at the beginning of next week. "The upper trough and a possible embedded low may support potentially significant low pressure that would affect portions of the East, and requires monitoring given the busy Thanksgiving holiday travel week," the Weather Prediction Center (WPC) said Tuesday morning. The storm system could begin to develop Sunday in the Midwest, strengthening daily. By the time it gets near the East Coast on Tuesday, a secondary system could develop along the coast, exacerbating the disrupting weather conditions in places like New York."It is too early to resolve detailed effects from low pressure that may be near the East Coast by next Tuesday, but significant rain/snow and strong winds could be possible," the WPC says."Even though we are still almost a week out and forecasts can change, this looks like a planes, trains and automobiles storm," CNN meteorologist Chad Myers says.Here is a look at where some of the worst travel disruptions could happen, based on computer forecast models. These CNN weather forecast products take into account rain, wind, snow, ice and fog and the impacts they could have on travel. Bookmark our storm tracker page for an auto-updating version of these maps and track the storm yourself. The only good news: Computer forecast models aren't always right. Especially a week in advance. There is a lot of uncertainty in the forecast Sunday night and thereafter, the National Weather Service in New York said Tuesday morning, so there is low confidence in the forecast. By Tuesday afternoon, the forecast models will have been rerun. The output Tuesday evening, Wednesday or Thursday could be different than it was earlier this morning. It is in the consistency and the trends from one model run to the next that meteorologists will be watching closely. This is what will build their confidence in next week's potential storm. "Even as the storm moves away by Wednesday, airlines could still be dealing with significant prior cancellations with planes and crew members in the wrong place," Myers says. "This storm has really bad timing."
This city had its hottest day on record this summer. 140 days later, it had its wettest.  (CNN)The city of Abbotsford in British Columbia, just north of the US border near Vancouver, recorded its hottest day ever in late June when temperatures climbed to 109 degrees Fahrenheit during an unprecedented heat wave.Just 140 days later, it smashed another record: The city on Sunday observed its wettest day with nearly four inches of heavy rainfall in less than 24 hours. Human-caused climate change has increased the potential for "weather whiplash," where conditions whip dramatically between extremes. As warming temperatures change the global water cycle, scientists say seasonal rains will also become more variable: extremely wet years with frequent floods may be punctuated with very dry years including drought and extreme heat.Around 100 miles north of Abbotsford, mudslides and debris flows on Monday trapped hundreds of people, including 50 children, in cars along highways. At least nine were taken to the hospital with minor injuries following a landslide near the city of Agassiz. In British Columbia and Washington state, some residents were told to evacuate due to flooding, and many areas experienced power outages. Washington Gov. Jay Inslee declared a state of emergency Monday following days of severe wind and rain.After months of unrelenting drought across the West, a major atmospheric river — a narrow band of concentrated water vapor in the sky — has brought extreme rainfall, flash floods, damaging winds, debris flow and even landslides throughout the Pacific Northwest over the past few days.Climate prediction models show "we're going to have longer dry spells interspersed with bigger storms," Marty Ralph, the director of the Center for Western Weather and Water Extremes at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in San Diego, told CNN. "These atmospheric rivers are going to be more potent at times, and it's not hard to imagine why because the water vapor is the fuel of an [atmospheric river]. If air is warmer, it's going to carry more water vapor."A UN climate report in August found heavy rainfall that used to occur once every 10 years now occurs 30% more frequently. Meanwhile, droughts that may have occurred only once every 10 years or so now happen 70% more frequently around the globe. Extreme weather hasn't given the Pacific Northwest and British Columbia much slack in the months leading up to this year's wet winter season.A deadly heatwave, which scientists concluded was "virtually impossible" without human-caused climate change, seared the region in late June. Hundreds of people died, and experts called the pernicious heat a mass casualty event.During that heat wave, the temperature soared to 121 degrees Fahrenheit in Lytton, British Columbia — an all-time record for all of Canada. The next day, a fast-moving wildfire obliterated the village "within minutes.""I think it's somewhat jarring to a lot of people in the area, considering we had a considerable dry stretch this summer where it didn't rain for a while and we had the heat wave as well," Maddie Kristell, meteorologist for the National Weather Service (NWS) in Seattle, said. "So kind of bouncing between opposite ends of the spectrum this year, so it's been pretty dynamic for folks in the area."These rapid changes in climate extremes — from heat and drought to high precipitation — could make it harder for societies and communities to mitigate and adapt. In some cases, it could be destructive: according to a 2019 study, atmospheric rivers created an annual average of $1.1 billion annually in flood damage across the West.But one thing is clear: as the planet warms, "weather whiplash" will only get worse. Ralph said the West should anticipate stronger and larger atmospheric rivers along with longer dry periods — and adapt to these changes. "That's essentially what the climate models are showing," he said. "In some cases, they will be stronger than in the past, and that has implications for water management, such that we've got to manage more to the extremes of longer dry periods and bigger storms in between them."CNN meteorologist Jennifer Gray contributed to this report.
Washington town sees 75% of homes damaged by floodwaters.  (CNN)Three out of every four homes in the Washington town of Sumas have been damaged by floodwaters, officials said Tuesday.Sumas Mayor Kyle Christensen said his 1,600 residents have been without power for more than 24 hours. City officials said later on Facebook workers were still trying to restore power to a few parts of the city and said crews were "having issues getting to the areas" that still need the power back on.Christensen said he expected a majority of roads to be back open Tuesday night or Wednesday. There have not been any reports of deaths or injuries, he said.Monday's rescue missions were largely undertaken by boats, Christensen said. But, with the waters receding Tuesday, the city has had to rely on large equipment like tractors to reach stranded people. Stephanie Koehler told CNN affiliate KOMO a boat picked her up from her porch. She was taken to another boat, and then was taken in a tractor bucket to a bus."We were scared. I mean, it's our first flood," Koehler told KOMO. She planned to spend the night at a shelter with her 13-year-old daughter. Koehler said she and others had put down sandbags, but they "were actually being pushed from people's houses and down the river."Sumas is on the border with Canada, about 115 miles north of Seattle.About 10 miles to the south, police in Everson were searching for a man who reportedly was swept away by floodwaters while calling his family for help.Jose Garcia, 59, called his family early Monday morning and reported he was being swept into a field, according to a news release from Everson Police Chief Daniel MacPhee. His son reported his father's phone call to 911 after they were disconnected.The man's family reported he was driving to work and had gone through a road-closure barricade eastbound on East Main Street. "From the son's report, it appears that his vehicle was swept into (a) field that is north of East Main Street," the release said. "He told his family he tried to get out of the vehicle and was swept away by the current north into the field."The release said the son told police that before they were disconnected, his father said he was "clinging to bushes or trees in the field." Emergency personnel were not able to send a rescue vehicle out at the time the call came due to fast-moving currents, according to the release. About two hours later they were able to send out a crew in a boat.One resident called 911 and said he heard yelling in a field behind his home but he was unable to understand what the person was saying, according to the release. Washington is under a state of emergency following days of severe wind and rain leading to extensive flooding in parts of the state. Tuesday, Whatcom County said residents of Lummi Island should shelter in place and Lummi Peninsula residents should be prepared to evacuate. A road off the peninsula was likely to flood Tuesday, officials said.The soggy conditions triggered mudslides in the region, prompting the closure in both directions of I-5 near Bellingham, according to the Washington State Department of Transportation. The highway is a major thoroughfare stretching along the West Coast from Mexico to Canada. Tuesday night, the transportation department tweeted: "Crews continue working to clear debris NB I-5 at Nulle Rd. Today some of that work includes assessing the hillside and removing downed trees. This means we are one step closer to opening the highway. We don't have an exact time, but things are looking better."In Skagit County, residents of Mount Vernon were advised Monday to evacuate ahead of flooding on the Skagit River, but a flash flood watch for an area of town was canceled Tuesday, according to a tweet released by Seattle's National Weather Service office. A bulge in a dike was evaluated by the Army Corps of Engineers, which determined the structure was not damaged."The Dike District reports that their remaining concern is for the damage to Riverbend Road, not the diking system," the city said.The Skagit River near Mount Vernon topped major flood stage (32 feet) Monday and was at 36.52 feet around noon Tuesday, according to the National Weather Service Advanced Hydrologic Prediction Center. The river appears to have crested and could fall below minor flood stage by Wednesday afternoon. Parts of the city, about 60 miles north of Seattle, are protected by levees and residents in those neighborhoods are advised to keep an eye on emergency notifications. Mount Vernon is under a flood warning until late Thursday, according to the National Weather Service."The area will dry out with the end of the rainfall for a few days," the weather service said. "However, with so much water in the system, it will take some time to drain the floodwaters. In addition, the dams on the Skagit were able to absorb a significant part of the flood but with the reservoirs near maximum pool levels, that water must start being released."'Fourteen counties are covered by the Gov. Jay Inslee's emergency proclamation: Clallam, Grays Harbor, Island, Jefferson, Lewis, King, Kitsap, Pierce, Mason, San Juan, Skagit, Snohomish, Thurston, and Whatcom. "This severe weather emergency order directs that the plans and procedures to the Washington State Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan be implemented," the release said. In Clallam County, 10 people, including four children were rescued from their homes as flooding encroached on a residential area near Forks. The evacuations were conducted with the assistance of Coast Guard helicopter crews, the agency said in a news release. All residents of the area were accounted for, officials said.The severe weather is also impacting power infrastructure, leaving more than 30,000 customers in the state without power as of 9:30 p.m. Tuesday, according to PowerOutage.us. CNN's Robert Shackelford and Jenn Selva contributed to this report.
Category 5 atmospheric river brings record-breaking river levels to the Pacific Northwest. CNN Weather produces a weekly column, publishing Mondays, with the weather news you should be aware of as you plan out your week. Find updates each week here. If you enjoy this, sign up to get email updates on significant storms in your inbox. (CNN)While more than 90% of the West is currently in some sort of drought, the one area that doesn't need more rain is getting all of it.The region known for gray skies and rainfall is getting more than its fair share this month. The Pacific Northwest has gotten more rain in the last two weeks than they normally see for the entire month of November, which is also stacking up to be one of the top five wettest Novembers on record for Seattle."November rainfall through Sunday was 6.83 inches. The normal for the entire month is 6.31," said Maddie Kristell, meteorologist for the National Weather Service (NWS) in Seattle. "We are on the tail end of a series of two atmospheric rivers that we have had in quick succession, almost back to back," she said. The current Category 5 atmospheric river taking aim at the region is on the exact same track as the last event several days ago.Extreme rainfall, river flooding, damaging winds and even landslides are all on the table with this system.The NWS office in Seattle mentioned, "Record-breaking flooding is forecast for the Skagit River at Mount Vernon," north of Seattle. Towns around the expected high water have been ordered to evacuate ahead of the event to help minimize possible dangers.Rainfall totals with the storm have been impressive."Some parts of the Olympic peninsula have seen 6 or 7 inches, and even parts of the Cascades have seen 4-6 inches as well," said Kristell. Also contributing to the flooding is snowmelt. Areas previously covered with snow are now receiving rain, causing it to quickly melt and run off into the rivers, contributing to their rapid rise. According to the NWS in Seattle, 6.24 inches of rain fell at Sumas, WA and 5.21 inches fell at Mount Baker in just a 24-hour period.With all the added saturation to the soil, landslides will not only be a hazard during the atmospheric river event, but after, as the soil remains wet and unstable. High winds will also be a huge concern. Area wide, winds are forecast to gust 30-35 mph, but near Skagit County, where major river flooding is expected to take place, winds could gust 60 mph or more. "In terms of wind, that ties in for our threat to extended tree damage. We could be facing some power outages in the area as well," said Kristell. She is hoping her region gets a break from the rain in the coming days, but another system could impact the region by the end of the week. "It's definitely been a unique situation having two atmospheric river events pointed at the same area, that being our coast and Washington in general," Kristell added."I think it's somewhat jarring to a lot of people in the area, considering we had a considerable dry stretch this summer where it didn't rain for a while and we had the heat wave as well. So kind of bouncing between opposite ends of the spectrum this year, so it's been pretty dynamic for folks in the area."An early look at Thanksgiving travelIf you are getting out of town early for Thanksgiving, consider yourself lucky. Things could get pretty dicey as we get closer to the holiday. The weather this weekend looks rather tranquil. There will be a quick show of rain and snow for parts of the Great Lakes. Rain will develop across the Mississippi Valley for the latter part of the weekend, and more rain is expected for northwest Washington. However, as we get into the days leading to Thanksgiving, travel could become a bit of a nightmare if you believe the American computer forecast weather model this far out. The American model hints at a storm for the Northeast and New England, while the European model isn't picking up on it at all. Cities we will be watching closely for Thanksgiving travel next week will be:Seattle: for rain early in the weekWashington, DC: for rain a few days before ThanksgivingNew York City: for rain and even snow several days before ThanksgivingBoston: for rain, snow and wind before ThanksgivingAs far as temperatures go for Thanksgiving week, "Looks like a shot of cold air mainly for the lower Midwest and South for Tuesday and Wednesday morning," said CNN meteorologist Monica Garrett. "There's a slight rebound, then another more widespread cold shot for Friday and Saturday, especially for the Northeast."All of this being said, Thanksgiving is more than a week away, so put the information on your radar, and know it will most likely change or adjust in the days leading to Thanksgiving. You can track the forecast and its impact on travel hereStrong storms caused a tornado to strike Long Island over the weekendIntense storms over the weekend resulted in a tornado on Long Island, while millions of people experienced damaging winds, hail and heavy rainfall. The storms, associated with a cold front, moved over the area Saturday. The tornado was rated an EF0, with winds of 85 mph. A tree fell on a home, and a roof was ripped from a two-story house during the storm. Lava from La Palma's volcano reaches the sea once againThe latest image acquired by one of the Copernicus Sentinel-2 satellites on November 14, of the island of La Palma, Spain, shows the new lava stream from the Cumbre Vieja volcano reaching the sea, and enlarging the lava delta formed in October.The volcano first started erupting nearly two months ago. Here is drone footage of the lava reaching the ocean, last week. 
Searchers recover body from British Columbia mudslide.  (CNN)The body of a woman has been recovered from a mudslide that occurred Monday morning near Lillooet, British Columbia, according to a statement released Tuesday by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.The woman was from the Lower Mainland, but authorities gave no other details.Family members of the deceased were notified, according to the release and the BC Coroners Service has been notified and is conducting its own investigation. Search efforts continue, the release said."The total number of people and vehicles unaccounted for has not been confirmed, however, investigators have received two missing people reports and believe there may have been other occupied vehicles that were lost in the slide," Staff Sgt. Janelle Shoihet of the Mounted Police's British Columbia Division said in the statement. "We are asking anyone who was a witness to the event, or believes their loved one is missing and has not yet been able to make contact with them to contact the Pemberton or Lillooet RCMP Detachments."Lillooet is located north of Vancouver in the interior of British Columbia along the Fraser River.  Hundreds of other people who were trapped on a British Columbia highway were rescued, emergency management officials said.There were three incidents where cars were trapped between debris flows where hundreds of people were trapped, Emergency Management British Columbia communications director Jordan Turner said.  Nearly 300 travelers ended up stuck in the region, according to Jonathan Gormick with Canada Task Force 1, a search and rescue team based in Vancouver.Canadian authorities across southern British Columbia were being forced to post evacuation orders ahead of rising water as flooding continues to wreak havoc across the greater Pacific Northwest.  According to the province's emergency information website, 24 evacuation orders have been posted because of flooding. Abbotsford, British Columbia, Mayor Henry Braun said in a news conference Tuesday residents of roughly 1,100 homes in his city have been ordered to evacuate because of flooding.Photos and videos posted online by authorities show widespread flooding across Abbotsford, which hugs the US-Canada border and is located 30 miles southeast of Vancouver.Some critical infrastructure in parts of the province have also been damaged by the rain and flooding.  Princeton, British Columbia Mayor Spencer Coyne told CNN's Canadian newsgathering partner CBC their entire town is without gas after a line was broken during storms and flooding. The break could endanger residents there as temperature will dip well below freezing over the next few nights.The city of Merritt said Tuesday afternoon they were forced to shut off drinking water because flooding contaminated it.  "The water is undrinkable, even if boiled," the city said on Twitter.Penticton, British Columbia, reported on Twitter the storms and flooding knocked out town phone lines.Flood warnings have been posted for the areas surrounding the province's Similkameen and Thompson rivers, meaning the river levels have, or will imminently, exceed their banks.  Large swaths of the area surrounding the southern part of the Fraser River have also been placed under a flood watch.CNN's Joe Sutton and Steve Almasy contributed to this report. 
Storm in Egypt kills 3, sends swarms of scorpions into people's homes .  (CNN)A rare storm in Egypt has sparked flash floods that killed at least three people and washed swarms of scorpions into people's homes. More than 500 people were stung by scorpions who sought refuge from thunderstorms and torrential rainfall in the southern Egyptian city of Aswan over the weekend. Wounded Aswan residents were transferred to hospitals to receive anti-venom injections, Egypt's state-run Al Ahram newspaper said. The Aswan area normally receives around 1 millimeter of rainfall per year, making the heavy thunder and hail storms on Friday a rare event. Egypt's fat-tailed scorpions, which normally dwell in the desert, are among the deadliest in the world. Without treatment, people can die within an hour of being stung. Three members of Egypt's security forces were killed in the flash floods -- the worst of their kind in 11 years, according to Aswan's governor Ashraf Attia. The torrential rainfall in Aswan's desert destroyed homes and damaged roads and trees. Attia and the Egyptian health ministry denied initial state media reports that three people had died from scorpion stings.
Texas doctor suspended for spreading 'misinformation' about Covid-19 submits resignation letter.  (CNN)The doctor who had her medical staff privileges suspended over Covid-19 "misinformation" on her social media has sent a letter to Houston Methodist stating she is resigning, a spokesperson for the hospital told CNN Tuesday. Dr. Mary Bowden, an ear, nose and throat doctor, also tweeted about her resignation saying, "I have broken free from Methodist and very much appreciate the flood of support I have received!"Stefanie Asin, public relations director with Houston Methodist told CNN that "(Bowden) is not an employee."  On Friday, Houston Methodist announced they had suspended Bowden's privileges after she posted "harmful" and "dangerous misinformation" about Covid-19 and its treatments on social media, according to the hospital.The doctor was a recent addition to Houston Methodist's medical staff and used her social media to "express her personal and political opinions about the COVID-19 vaccine and treatments," Houston Methodist said in a statement on Twitter."Her privileges have been suspended," a spokesperson for the hospital told CNN. Bowden's attorney Steven Mitby said the doctor has treated "more than 2,000 patients with Covid-19" at her private practice and that none of them have ended up in the hospital. "Her early treatment methods work and are saving lives," he added."Dr. Bowden has the utmost respect for Houston Methodist and is proud of the work she has done along with her colleagues at Houston Methodist."Bowden's Twitter account shows a series of tweets praising the anti-parasitic drug ivermectin. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the US Food and Drug Administration have cautioned people against using the drug to treat Covid-19, CNN has reported.Ivermectin is used to treat parasites such as worms and lice in humans and it is also used by veterinarians to de-worm large animals. The CDC warned about a sharp increase in reports of severe illness caused by the drug to poison centers.Doctor outspoken against vaccine mandatesAlong with advocating for the use of ivermectin, Bowden also frequently criticizes vaccine mandates on her social media accounts, with Mitby adding that "Dr. Bowden is not anti-vaccine," but believes "people should have a choice."The doctor herself is vaccinated, as mandated by the hospital for all physicians who work at Houston Methodist, the hospital said. In June, over 150 employees left the hospital after they put a vaccine mandate in place."Dr. Bowden, who has never admitted a patient at Houston Methodist Hospital, is spreading dangerous misinformation which is not based in science," Houston Methodist added."These opinions, which are harmful to the community, do not reflect reliable medical evidence or the values of Houston Methodist."As the Covid-19 pandemic continues, with deaths in the United States surpassing 762,692 and the casualties increasingly come from the ranks of the unvaccinated, there still remains a small group of doctors who have emerged as a huge source of misinformation, a CNN investigation found.These doctors share a miasma of conspiracy theories and misinformation about Covid-19 vaccines, which have thus far proven the most effective weapon against the deadliest pandemic in 100 years."These doctors are taking advantage of the trust in them," said David Lazer, a political science and computer sciences professor at Northeastern University. "They are using the prestige of that term 'doctor' to convey misinformation."Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly described the hospital personnel who left due to the vaccine mandate. It was 150 employees.
The consultant who helped select jury in the O.J. Simpson trial is working with Kyle Rittenhouse's attorneys.  (CNN)Jury and trial consultant Jo-Ellan Dimitrius, known for having developed the juror profile in O.J. Simpson's trial, has worked "hand in hand" with attorneys representing Kyle Rittenhouse in his trial to help develop a jury profile that would best fit their case, her firm Dimitrius & Associates told CNN.In the 1995 trial, the jury eventually acquitted Simpson.Dimitrius was hired by Rittenhouse's defense team to help build a profile for the "right" juror in this case, and, according to firm Vice President Randy Peukert, she's the best "probably on the planet" at what she does. Her advice may have helped create the 12-person jury panel, made up of five men and seven women, which began deliberations on Tuesday morning after hearing from more than 30 witnesses. A group of 20 people -- 11 women and nine men -- were initially selected to serve on the jury from a group of 179 prospective jurors. The jury selection consisted of one day of voir dire in court without the use of background questionnaires. Two people were dismissed during the course of the trial. One juror, a middle-aged man, was dismissed for telling a joke to a deputy about the police shooting of Jacob Blake, an incident that earned a rebuke from the judge. Another juror, a pregnant woman, was dismissed after experiencing discomfort and requesting to be dismissed, the judge said.How long the jurors now debate is almost entirely up to them, but the verdict must be unanimous. The process can take hours, days or weeks.What we know about jury deliberations"There's always research done," Peukert told CNN. "It really gives them [the defense] the added benefit and confidence...what they are presenting will resonate with a jury."Rittenhouse,18, is charged with five felonies: first-degree intentional homicide, first-degree reckless homicide, attempted first-degree intentional homicide and two counts of first-degree recklessly endangering safety. Jurors are also able to consider lesser offenses for two of the five counts. If convicted on the most serious charge, Rittenhouse could face a mandatory sentence of life in prison.Dimitrius has performed the typical duties of a jury or trial consultant and was hired four to six months ago, Peukert said. She was present during jury selection, jury monitoring, and trial assistance and was often seen sitting next to Wendy Rittenhouse, Rittenhouse's mother."Her ability to read a situation, to think out of the box" is important, Peukert said, "to assist the attorneys on how to approach" the case."Nobody likes to go in blind," Peukert added.CNN's Eric Levenson and Brad Parks contributed to this report.
GOP Rep. Scott Perry tests positive for Covid-19. Washington (CNN)Republican Rep. Scott Perry of Pennsylvania has tested positive for Covid-19, his office announced Tuesday, a day after he was elected chair of the conservative House Freedom Caucus.Perry's office said in a statement announcing his diagnosis that the congressman, who has not publicly indicated whether he has been vaccinated against the virus, is experiencing "quite mild" symptoms and he "will continue working while quarantining at home."Perry wrote in a Facebook post in September: "Folks, if you want the vaccine, by all means, get the vaccine. But if you don't want the vaccine, you shouldn't have to worry about being forced or fired." Perry is among dozens of House members who have tested positive for the virus since the pandemic took hold in the US, with at least 10 members testing positive since early August.On Monday, the hard-line House Freedom Caucus elected Perry as its next chair. A noted ally of former President Donald Trump, Perry has come under scrutiny for his role in seeking to overturn the 2020 presidential election, and his interactions related to those efforts could be of keen interest to the House select committee investigating the January 6 Capitol insurrection.
Mayor of Maryland city charged with 50 counts of distributing revenge porn.  (CNN)The mayor of Cambridge, Maryland, was arrested and charged with 50 counts of distributing revenge porn, according to a news release from the Maryland Office of the State Prosecutor. Court records state Andrew Bradshaw, who took office this past January, was arrested on Monday and had his first court appearance on the charges. The complaint, provided by the state prosecutor's office, alleges that a victim contacted law enforcement in May and said she saw nude photographs of herself on Reddit, which she said were posted without her consent. University of Central Florida fraternity members accused of posting revenge porn on FacebookShe said, according to the complaint, that she sent the photos to Bradshaw when they were in an "intimate relationship" and that they were no longer in the relationship. "Using someone's private images without their consent is a serious breach of trust and invasion of privacy, and the power and breadth of the internet makes such a violation even more egregious," State Prosecutor Charlton T. Howard III said in a news release announcing the charges. "Our office is committed to protecting victims from those who abuse their positions of power and trust."Bradshaw's attorney has not responded to CNN's request for comment.If convicted, Bradshaw faces up to two years in jail and up to $5,000 in fines for each charge. The city of Cambridge, which has a population of 12,480, said in a statement posted on its website that it is aware of the charges and is "currently gathering information." The city operates a council-manager form of municipal government and the city manager is the chief executive officer and head of the administrative branch."The business of the City is unaffected," the statement said. 
The drip, drip, drip of Democratic retirements .  (CNN)On Monday, Vermont Democratic Sen. Patrick Leahy announced that he would leave Congress when his eighth term expires at the end of 2022.On Tuesday, California Democratic Rep. Jackie Speier said she would retire next year after almost 15 years in Congress.Neither seat should be a problem for Democrats to hold. Vermont went for President Joe Biden by 35 points in 2020 -- his largest margin anywhere in the country. And Speier's Bay Area 14th District gave Biden a whopping 89% of the vote last November.The bigger issue for Democrats then is not keeping those seats on their side. It's that a steady drumbeat of retirements from within their ranks -- especially in the holiday period leading up to Thanksgiving and then Christmas -- is not at all what they want as they try to hold onto their slim majorities in the House and Senate. Congress is like high school. Everyone is looking around to see what everyone else is doing -- and then adjusting their behavior accordingly.That doesn't mean that a Democratic member who has never considered retirement will see the likes of Leahy leaving and think now is the time to go.But, for members who are undecided about whether or not to go for another term, retirements from within the Democratic ranks can impact their thinking. If it feels like a lot of people are deciding to walk away, there is often a momentum effect that sweeps up on-the-fence members.And lots of those undecided members will be making go/no-go decisions in the next few weeks. As The Washington Post's Paul Kane noted last month:"The holiday season, from Thanksgiving through Christmas and into the new year, serves traditionally as a gut-check moment for lawmakers."From 2011 through 2020, the final two months of the off year and January of the election year have prompted the most retirement announcements for members of the House, according to data compiled by Ballotpedia."Which is why Democrats have to hope that tomorrow -- or the rest of this week -- doesn't bring any more retirement announcements.The Point: Politics is a copycat business -- right down to the decision of when to retire. Democratic leaders need to make staying in Congress look as good as possible these next few weeks.CORRECTION: An earlier version of this story wrongly described Rep. Jackie Speier's congressional seat in one instance. Speier is a member of the House of Representatives.
Girl, 16, says she was raped by hundreds of men in western India.  (CNN)At least seven men have been arrested in western India after a 16-year-old girl claimed she was raped hundreds of times by hundreds of men in the latest horrifying case to highlight the country's rampant sexual violence problem.In a statement to India's Child Welfare Committee (CWC) on November 11, the girl, who was homeless, said she was raped by 400 people in Beed district of Maharashtra state, according to CWC chairman Abhay Vitthalrao Vanave. She named two policemen in her complaint, Vanave said. The girl was begging for money at a bus stop when she was allegedly forced into sex work by three men, Vanave said.While the number of alleged rapists would be difficult to corroborate, the girl could identify at least 25 alleged perpetrators, he added.The girl had attempted to file a police complaint against a man she accused of beating her up, but officers did not register it, Vanave said.When contacted by CNN Monday, Beed police did not comment on the girl's allegations against them.In a statement Monday, the force said it had registered cases against eight males -- including one minor -- pertaining to rape and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences law, which has more severe sentences of longer jail time. They have also registered a case under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. The girl told police she was married off at age 13 to a 33-year-old man who sexually abused her, according to the police statement. She also told police she was sexually assaulted by her father, ultimately prompting her to leave both homes and sleep at the bus stop. Women's rights activist Yogita Bhayana said this was "the most tragic (rape) case in history.""This girl was tortured every single day," she said, adding that police had failed to protect her. "We want strict action against all culprits." India's rape crisisAccording to India's National Crime Records Bureau, more than 28,000 cases of alleged rape against women were reported in 2020 -- one roughly every 18 minutes. Experts believe the real number is much higher as many go unreported out of fear. The number of reported rapes rose in the years following the brutal 2012 gang rape and murder of a student in India's capital, New Delhi, potentially because of greater awareness surrounding the issue since. Experts say the outrage has helped to lift the shame around discussing rape.Legal reforms and more severe penalties for rape were introduced in the aftermath, which include fast-tracking courts to hear rape cases more swiftly, and an amended definition of rape to include anal and oral penetration.However, high-profile rape cases continue to make headlines. In September this year, police arrested 33 men for the alleged gang rape of a 15-year-old girl in Maharashtra. In a separate case that month, a woman died after she was allegedly raped and assaulted with an iron rod in Mumbai. And in August this year, a 9-year-old girl was gang-raped and murdered in Delhi.This story has been updated to accurately reflect the charges filed.
House plans to vote Wednesday to censure Paul Gosar and strip him of committee assignments.  (CNN)The House will vote Wednesday on a resolution that both censures Republican Rep. Paul Gosar of Arizona and strips him of his two committee assignments.A revised proposal released by the House Rules Committee on Tuesday night outlined that Democrats will seek to remove him from the Committee on Oversight and Reform, as well as the House Committee on Natural Resources.Gosar is facing censure for his posting of a photoshopped anime video to his Twitter and Instagram accounts showing him appearing to kill Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and attacking President Joe Biden.Gosar, who later took down the video after facing criticism but did not apologize, sits on the Oversight Committee alongside Ocasio-Cortez. A censure resolution is the most severe form of punishment in the House, and requires the censured member to stand in the well of the House while the resolution is read out loud. The last lawmaker to be censured was then-Rep. Charlie Rangel, a New York Democrat, for multiple ethics violations back in 2010.Ahead of the vote on Wednesday being announced, Gosar refused to answer any questions about his tweet of the violent video, walking in silence. He wouldn't say if he regretted it or explain the claim he made internally that he didn't see the violent episode in the video before he tweeted it out. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she was moving forward with the vote because Gosar "made threats, suggestions about harming a member of Congress.""That is an insult -- not only endangerment of that member of Congress, but an insult to the institution of the House of Representatives," Pelosi, a Democrat from California, said Tuesday on Capitol Hill. "We cannot have members joking about murdering each other, as well as threatening the President of the United States."The move to censure Gosar follows a lack of action from Republican leadership in the House. House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, who did not comment publicly on the Gosar episode until this week, noted that he had called the Arizona Republican after the tweet, who then deleted it, but he did not explicitly condemn Gosar's behavior. McCarthy also said Gosar had explained his actions during a closed-door conference meeting on Tuesday morning, and his explanation was well received in the conference, according to attendees."He didn't see it before it posted. It was not his intent to show any harm," McCarthy told reporters. "What I said to conference was (we) cannot accept any action or showing of a violence to another member."Some Republicans have called out GOP leadership for not taking action, including Rep. Liz Cheney of Wyoming, who said McCarthy's inaction is "indefensible" -- especially as Republicans call to punish the 13 GOP lawmakers who voted for a bipartisan infrastructure bill."Our party needs a leader who is going to stand up for what's right and stand up for the truth, and stop trying to play these games," Cheney told CNN. "The notion that Leader McCarthy won't full-on condemn what Paul Gosar did on multiple occasions but that he seems to be entertaining this move to push the 13 off of their committees, I mean, it's indefensible, morally and ethically, and it's crazy politically."This story has been updated with additional developments Tuesday.CNN's Melanie Zanona, Manu Raju and Paul LeBlanc contributed to this report. 
Biden says Taiwan's independence is up to Taiwan after discussing matter with Xi.  (CNN)President Joe Biden made clear Tuesday evening he was not encouraging Taiwan's "independence" after using the word an hour earlier to describe the progress he made during a discussion of the island with his Chinese counterpart Monday evening."I said that they have to decide -- Taiwan, not us. We are not encouraging independence," Biden said on an airport tarmac in New Hampshire, where he was promoting his recently signed infrastructure law."We're encouraging that they do exactly what the Taiwan Act requires," he went on, referring to the 1979 law dictating the American approach to the island. "That's what we're doing. Let them make up their mind. Period."Explaining his position earlier while greeting attendees following his infrastructure speech, Biden said he had made limited progress on the topic with Chinese President Xi Jinping."We made very clear we support the Taiwan Act, and that's it," he said, shaking hands near a rickety iron bridge in sore need of repair."Its independence," he went on. "It makes its own decisions."The various explanations of his approach to the issue underscored the fraught position Taiwan now holds in the deteriorating relationship between Washington and Beijing. Tensions have been running high as China increases its military posturing and warplane flights around the self-ruled island.The word "independence" is a trigger when it comes to Taiwan; officially, the US does not support Taiwan's independence. Instead, the countries enjoy unofficial relations and the US provides defensive support.The approach is sometimes termed "strategic ambiguity," and has caused previous trip-ups for both Biden and his presidential predecessors. Last month, when Biden said during a CNN town hall that the US was committed to coming to Taiwan's defense if it came under attack from China, the White House said he was not announcing any change in policy.The issue consumed the most time of any during Biden's lengthy virtual summit with Xi on Monday evening. Ahead of time, the Chinese signaled it was their most important priority to discuss with the US.In the talks, Biden raised his concerns over China's behavior in the region. While he reaffirmed the US "One China" policy, which recognizes Beijing's claim of sovereignty but allows for US defense ties with Taiwan, he voiced worry that China's actions were destabilizing the region.The charged nature of the topic was evident immediately after Biden and Xi's summit, which stretched a longer-than-expected three-and-a-half hours. Chinese State Television reported almost as soon as the summit concluded that Biden affirmed to Xi the US did not support Taiwan's independence.US officials downplayed the significance of the statement, noting it was longstanding official US policy. Instead, they said Biden made clear to Xi the US opposes any change to the status quo, or any actions that "undermine peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait."The Chinese offered a more combative interpretation of the conversation. They said Xi told Biden his country would be compelled to take "resolute measures" if separatist forces in Taiwan cross a "red line," according to a readout from China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs."Such moves are extremely dangerous, just like playing with fire. Whoever plays with fire will get burnt," the readout said. In the wake of the summit, US and Chinese officials plan to intensify their engagement on Taiwan, according to Biden's national security adviser Jake Sullivan, who said the two leaders spent a "good amount of time" on the issue."Ensuring peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait, having clear communication, avoiding miscommunication, is going to be an important and intensive aspect of work between our militaries, our national security councils and between our diplomats," Sullivan said during an appearance at the Brookings Institution. "So you will see at multiple levels an intensification of the engagement to ensure that there are guardrails around this competition so that it doesn't veer off into conflict."For his part, Biden noted to Xi that he voted for the Taiwan Act in 1979, when he was a young senator. It contributed to what Sullivan described as a "very familiar" relationship between the two men, who traveled extensively together when each was serving as his country's vice president."One of the dynamics of when they talk now is they both revert back to previous things each of them have said," Sullivan said, "not just to agree with one another, but to disagree with one another, while they're debating."Still, the White House said familiarity does not equal friendship -- despite the way Xi greeted Biden as their summit began.As Xi was beaming into the Roosevelt Room from a cavernous space inside the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, he addressed Biden in collegial and warm terms: "Although it's not as good as a face-to-face meeting, I'm very happy to see my old friend," he said, using the Chinese phrase "lao peng you" to convey his level of familiarity.It was only a few months ago, however, that Biden was adamant he did not regard Xi on those terms: "Let's get something straight. We know each other well; we're not old friends. It's just pure business," Biden said in June.On Tuesday, the White House said it couldn't speak for Xi's motives in describing Biden the way he did. "But he does not," deputy press secretary Andrew Bates told reporters aboard Air Force One, "consider President Xi an old friend."
Coach Mike Krzyzewski's grandson and Duke's star player face DWI-related charges.  (CNN)Michael Savarino, a grandson of legendary Duke basketball coach Mike Krzyzewski, was arrested Sunday morning and charged with driving while impaired, and Paolo Banchero, his passenger, was cited by the North Carolina State Highway Patrol, officials said Tuesday.Savarino, a junior guard on the Duke men's basketball team, was arrested early Sunday in Orange County, North Carolina, according to 1st Sgt. Chris Knox of the Highway Patrol. Savarino's mother, Debbie Savarino, is Krzyzewski's eldest daughter and an assistant director of athletics for Duke.Paolo Banchero, a top recruit and the likely high pick in the 2022 NBA draft, was cited with aiding and abetting DWI and was released from the scene.Savarino, 20, was pulled over Sunday around 1 a.m. ET for a suspected stop sign violation, according to Knox. During the exchange with Savarino, the responding officer noted he showed signs of intoxication by alcohol and allegedly recorded an illegal .08 BAC (Blood Alcohol Concentration), Knox said.Savarino was released from custody and has a court date set for December 9. Banchero's court date is December 8.Krzyzewski said in a statement, "We are reviewing a legal matter involving two members of the men's basketball team. Any further actions as a result of this situation will ultimately be determined by the Vice President/Director of Athletics and University officials."Savarino has played in three games during his career at Duke, scoring just one point in seven combined minutes of playing time.Banchero, a 19-year-old freshman forward, is the Blue Devils' leading scorer, averaging 19.3 points per game.Duke's men's basketball team, 3-0 and ranked No. 7, was playing Gardner-Webb (0-2) on Tuesday night. Panchero was in the starting lineup.
A 12-year-old Boy Scout used his skills to rescue a lost couple and their injured dog on a trail in Hawaii.  (CNN)A 12-year-old Boy Scout in Hawaii takes the organization's motto "be prepared" very seriously and used his knowledge to help rescue a couple and their injured dog on a trail. David King was on the way back from a 15-mile hike near his home in Kailua with his mom, Christine, trying to earn his Hiking merit badge when they came across a couple, lost on the trail and trying to aid their dog Smokey, in August. "We encountered them with about two to three miles left in the hike," David told CNN. "It wasn't obvious (that something was wrong), but then the dog was on the ground, and we asked if they needed anything and they said yes." The couple had run out of water and their phones were dead, plus Smokey's paws had been cut up from the trail and he couldn't walk, David said. The couple tried to carry him out but the blue nose pit bull weighed almost 100 pounds. Christine said the couple was in danger of being stuck on the trail in the dark, so they shared their water and brainstormed a way to get everyone out. That's when David tapped into his Boy Scout skills to save the day and created a stretcher to carry the dog, a skill he learned from his brother while getting his First Aid merit badge. "So we got a big tree branch that had fallen recently and snapped it in half, then we put on shirts," he said. "It took us a couple of tries because the dog didn't really want to go on."The group worked together as a team to get back to the parking lot safely. "To help someone using my Boy Scout skills makes me feel accomplished because it shows I've learned something and it wasn't all in one ear and out the other," David said. The pair followed up with the couple and everyone, including Smokey, fully recovered. However, Christine said in a worst-case scenario it is very likely if they would not have passed the couple, they probably would have had to call for a rescue, something very common on the trails in Hawaii. "Our hikes are a little tricky, you could be on an "easy" hike and all of a sudden you're on a ridge," she said. David said to make sure to be prepared before you go on a hike. He believes everyone should at least have what the Boy Scouts call the basic 10 essentials: a pocket knife, a first aid kit, extra clothing, rain gear, a flashlight, extra food, extra water, fire starting essentials, sunscreen, and a map of the area (preferably with a compass).   "Always listen to instructions and what you are learning in class," David added.
Water your Christmas tree or else, warns US safety group in an alarming alert.  (CNN)As the holiday season approaches and many across the US are setting up their Douglas firs, white pines or spruce trees in the house, the US Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) has sent out an alarming warning.The CPSC took to Twitter Saturday, posting a striking image of a fiery skeleton in a living room decorated for Christmas. Text on the image says, 'WATER YOUR CHRISTMAS TREE' and 'A dry Christmas tree burns faster than newspaper.'The image was posted with the word 'Soon.' in the tweet. The message, while a little morbid, is getting plenty of attention and acts as a good reminder."CPSC is always looking for new and innovative ways to reach consumers with our messaging, especially as families begin to gather and celebrate the holidays." Nychelle Fleming, the agency's communications specialist, told CNN Tuesday.This post was a part of the company's yearly holiday safety campaign.Joe Galbo, social media specialist for the commission, pointed out, "In a matter of seconds, a whole room can be consumed by a flaming Christmas tree. So, while the skeleton was a very dramatic way to convey it, it was certainly appropriate given how dangerous a dry Christmas tree can be."From 2015 to 2017 there was an annual average of 100 Christmas tree fires and 1,100 candle fires, according to the CPSC's 2020 news release, resulting in 20 deaths, 160 injuries and about $50 million in property damage each year.In a thread following the tweet, the company added humor to the warning with tweets like "Thanks for helping us get this message out there, everyone. NASA has to send things into space to get this kind of attention. You all are the best." And "This is your CPSC holiday fire flaming skeleton walking out of a Christmas tree graphic, America."This isn't the company's first time using stand-out images to send out messages. They have a history of using social media platforms to remind Americans about proper safety measures.They continued to warn people, though, with more safety tips in the Twitter thread by reminding everyone to "Water your real Christmas tree if you get one," and "Stand by your pan this Thanksgiving."How to prevent holiday hazardsWith the Thanksgiving holiday approaching next week, the latter message is timely. According to the safety group's 2020 news release, an average of 1,700 cooking fires occur on Thanksgiving Day alone, more than three times the average number on any other day of the year.The best advice for families gathering next week, Fleming urged, is to "never leave food unattended on the stove or in the oven."According to the CPSC, there has been a trend of deep-frying turkeys in recent years. Fleming suggested if you do use that cooking method, "Do it outside only and away from your home. By that we mean not in the garage, not on the porch, not on the patio, get a little farther away."The consumer safety group has safety warnings for the holly jolly time of the year too."If you're decorating with strings of holiday lights, check for broken bulbs, cracked sockets, frayed wires or loose connections." Fleming advised.Along with decorations, the gifts of the season can be a threat too, especially to children."When you think about the holidays, you think about toys and children," Fleming observed. "Using age labeling on toys as a guide is the most important safety tip."An updated CPSC report with data from 2019 will be out Thursday with the latest information.
Young man who was accidentally invited to 'grandma's' Thanksgiving as a teen keeps tradition going.  (CNN)After an accidental Thanksgiving invite in 2016 introduced Jamal Hinton and Wanda Dench, they are still going strong.The two first met in 2016 when Dench, from Mesa, Az., sent a text inviting Hinton over for dinner. It was meant for her grandson, who had changed his phone number. Instead, Hinton got the message while sitting in class at Desert Vista High School.The two figured out the mistake, then sent selfies to each other, with Hinton asking if he could still come over. Dench texted, "Of course you can. That's what grandmas do ... feed everyone."Hinton took to Twitter to tell followers that the two are still celebrating the day together. "We are all set for year 6!" he wrote, alongside a picture of a text message from Dench inviting him, his girlfriend Mikaela and his family over. He also included a photo of himself, Dench, Mikaela and Dench's late husband Lonnie, who died in April 2020 after a battle with Covid-19.Hinton has documented the holiday each year on his social media. In 2019, he shared a snap, writing, "Blessed to have such wonderful people in our lives."After Dench's husband died, they still be spent the holiday together, "This Thanksgiving, along with all the holidays coming up, aren't going to be the same as past ones but we will make the best of it," Hinton wrote in a post last year. "Rest In Peace to Lonnie and everyone else we lost this year we will miss you greatly. Thank you for being in our lives."
Activision Blizzard CEO faces pressure from employees to step down after report.  (CNN Business)Activision Blizzard confronted its second employee walkout in less than six months after a report raised new questions about CEO Bobby Kotick's knowledge of longstanding and widespread sexual harassment and discrimination allegations at the video game company.More than 100 Activision Blizzard employees staged a walkout on Tuesday calling for Kotick to step down as CEO, according to the group organizing it. The walkout came in response to a Wall Street Journal investigation published earlier in the day, which cited internal company documents and people familiar with the matter indicating that Kotick was aware of those issues for several years. In a video message to employees on Tuesday that was transcribed and posted on the company's website, Kotick claimed that the Journal story "paints an inaccurate and misleading view of our company, of me personally, and my leadership." He added that "anyone who doubts my conviction to be the most welcoming, inclusive workplace doesn't really appreciate how important this is to me."While the report prompted renewed tension with some employees, Activision Blizzard's board of directors reiterated its support of Kotick. "The Board remains confident in Bobby Kotick's leadership, commitment and ability" to address the company's longstanding and ongoing issues with harassment and discrimination, it said in a statement Tuesday. In a statement, the organizers behind the walkout said: "The board is just as complicit if they let this slide. It's past time for Bobby to step down."Activision Blizzard (ATVI) — which owns hugely popular titles such as "Call of Duty," "World of Warcraft" and "Candy Crush" — has been roiled by a sexual harassment and discrimination scandal for months and is currently under scrutiny from multiple government agencies. A lawsuit filed in July by California's Department of Fair Employment and Housing alleged a "frat boy" work culture where women were subjected to constant discrimination and harassment. (The company told CNN at the time that it had addressed past misconduct and criticized the lawsuit as "inaccurate" and "distorted.") The lawsuit and the company's initial response kicked off a storm of dissent from Activision Blizzard's workforce that ultimately led to hundreds of employees staging a walkout at the company's offices in Irvine, California. Kotick subsequently acknowledged that the company's initial response was "tone deaf."The company is also facing a complaint from the National Labor Relations Board filed in September accusing it of unfair labor practices, as well as an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission that the company has said it is cooperating with. Those actions are all still pending, and Activision Blizzard said it "continues to productively engage with regulators."The company also paid $18 million to settle a separate lawsuit by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) that accused it of subjecting female employees to sexual harassment, retaliating against them for complaining about harassment, and paying female employees less than male employees. The company also "discriminated against employees due to their pregnancy," the EEOC alleged.In a statement accompanying the EEOC settlement announcement, Kotick said he remained "unwavering in my commitment to make Activision Blizzard one of the world's most inclusive, respected, and respectful workplaces."Kotick, who has been Activision CEO since 1991, including at the time of the 2008 merger with Blizzard, has been in damage control mode for most of this year. Last month, he announced an intention to slash his controversial $155 million pay package — one of the largest in corporate America — to the "lowest amount California law will allow" until the gaming company fixes its issues with gender discrimination and harassment. If the board approves, Kotick will be paid $62,500, he said.
Peter Parker is in a universe of trouble in the 'Spider-Man: No Way Home' trailer.  (CNN)It's here! It's here! It's here!More than two years after the release of "Spider-Man: Far From Home," the trailer for the third film starring Tom Holland has arrived. The trailer, released Tuesday, features what the poster previously hinted: appearances from villains from past Spider-Man movies, like Electro, the Green Goblin and Doctor Octopus. "They're a danger to our universe," Doctor Strange tells him, explaining the mess they're in. That mess, to be more specific, is a spell gone wrong after Peter enlists Strange's help in undoing the damage done by Mysterio at the end of the last film, in which Peter was exposed to the world as Spider-Man."Spider-Man: No Way Home" will be released in theaters on December 17. 
George Clooney: 'Rust' shooting 'insane'.  (CNN)George Clooney has shared his thoughts on the tragic shooting on the set of the film "Rust."In an episode of the podcast "WTF With Marc Maron," which released on Monday, the Academy Award winner talked about the incident in which the film's star and executive producer Alec Baldwin accidentally discharged a prop gun with a suspected live round.The film's director of photography, Halyna Hutchins, 42, was killed and director Joel Souza was injured. According to Maron, the episode was recorded a week after the shooting occurred."Why, for the life of me, this low-budget film with producers who haven't produced anything wouldn't have hired for the armorer someone with experience," Clooney said. "Maybe they weren't even using that gun to do target practice, but they had live ammo with dummies in her pack and that is insane."The armorer is the person on set who in charge of the weapons and artillery.The actor said he doesn't know Baldwin well, doesn't believe there was "any intent by anybody to do anything wrong" and called it a "a terrible accident." Clooney shared the protocols he said people in the industry are supposed to follow."Every single time I'm handed a gun on set, I look at it, I open it, I show it to the person I'm pointing it to, we show it to the crew," he said. "Every single take you hand it back to the armorer when you're done, and you do it again.He said it's been that way since his friend, actor Brandon Lee, was accidentally shot and killed on the set of "The Crow" in 1993."After Brandon died, it really became a very clear thing, Clooney said. "Open the gun, look down the barrel, look in the cylinder, make sure."Clooney said "We need to be better at making the heads of department experienced and know what they're doing.""Because this is just infuriating," he said. "Every time I get handed a six gun, you point it at the ground and you fire. You squeeze it six times. Always."Authorities in Sante Fe, New Mexico where the shooting happened are continuing to investigate. 
'Harry Potter' cast reuniting for retrospective special.  (CNN)Accio, reunion. The cast of "Harry Potter" is coming together for a new special, set to premiere on HBO Max on Jan. 1. Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, Emma Watson and many more are expected to take part in "Harry Potter 20th Anniversary: Return to Hogwarts," a special that will "celebrate the unparalleled legacy of the Harry Potter film franchise and its indelible impact on the hearts, minds, and imaginations of families and fans around the world," according to a release.Helena Bonham Carter, Robbie Coltrane, Ralph Fiennes, Jason Isaacs, Gary Oldman, Imelda Staunton, Tom Felton, James Phelps, Oliver Phelps, Mark Williams, Bonnie Wright, Alfred Enoch, Matthew Lewis, Evanna Lynch, Ian Hart and filmmaker Chris Columbus are among the names also set to appear. One muggle missing from the lineup of the special as of now? Author and franchise creator JK Rowling, whose statements regarding the transgender community in recent years have alienated fans and "Potter" alums alike. Last year, star Radcliffe responded to Rowling's controversial tweets about gender identity, which some labeled as transphobic, in an essay for the Trevor Project. "Transgender women are women," he wrote. "Any statement to the contrary erases the identity and dignity of transgender people and goes against all advice given by professional health care associations who have far more expertise on this subject matter than either Jo (Rowling) or I."Rowling's absence from the lineup for the time being can be taken as a sign that there are some things that can't be fixed with a simple "reparo."
Heath Freeman, 'NCIS' and 'Bones' actor, dead at 41.  (CNN)Heath Freeman, an actor who appeared in numerous television series including "Bones," "NCIS" and "The Closer," has died, according to his manager. He was 41."We are truly devastated at the loss of our beloved Heath Freeman. A brilliant human being with an intense and soulful spirit, he leaves us with an indelible imprint in our hearts," Freeman's manager Joe S. Montifiore said in a statement to CNN on Tuesday. "His life was filled with deep loyalty, affection, and generosity towards his family and friends, and an extraordinary zest for life. Freeman played a killer on "Bones" from 2005 to 2007 and Benjamin Frank on "NCIS" in 2003. "He was extremely proud of his recent film work and was very excited for the next chapter of his career," Montifiore added. "His remarkable legacy as a son, brother, uncle, friend, extraordinarily gifted actor and producer, consummate cook, and man with the most infectious and spectacular laugh, will live on forever. May his memory be a blessing to all who knew and loved him."The cause of Freeman's death was not shared.Gabriel-Kane Day-Lewis (son of actors Daniel Day-Lewis and Isabelle Adjani), who recently worked with Freeman, was among those who paid tribute to him on social media. "There is nothing that I could say which could ever possibly do your existence justice, Heath," he wrote. "We formed such a strong bond from the start, and you became a mentor to me. Watching you work was such a privilege. Your charisma, your talent, your humor, your passion and your red hot Irish temper will be dearly missed." 
Adele and Rich Paul's love story began with a business lunch.  (CNN)Adele is happy and in love and it shows.The British singer opened up about her relationship with Klutch Sports Group founder Rich Paul during her interview with Oprah Winfrey in her "Adele One Night Only" special and here's some of what we learned about Paul:He's a smooth operatorWhile Adele says the pair met a few years ago at a birthday party, she said Rich didn't make his move until early 2021, when he asked her out for a "business meeting."She wasn't buying it and told Winfrey her initial reaction was, "A business meeting about what?""We wouldn't be having a meeting about business," Adele said. "It was just the first time we'd hung out only on our own, and not with other friends and stuff like that."Speaking of smoothAccording to the Grammy winner, that's exactly how their romance has been going.She's clearly smitten with the man she describes as "hilarious," "so funny" and "very, very smart."And Adele admires his business sense as an agent to superstar athletes, like his friend LeBron James."It's quite incredible watching him do what he does," she said.Paul came along at the right timeAdele spoke highly of her ex-husband, Simon Konecki, with whom she shares her 9-year-old son Angelo, but with Paul she said it's the first time she's "loved myself and been open to loving and being loved by someone else.""It's just timing," she said. "But it'd be interesting to see what my reaction is like in general to anything that hurts me now that I feel so secure in myself, and I'm talking outside of romance as well."
Daniel Baldwin says brother Alec Baldwin a target of blame in 'Rust' shooting because of his political beliefs.  (CNN)Alec Baldwin's brother is defending him after the "Rust" set shooting in New Mexico that killed cinematographer Halyna Hutchins last month.Daniel Baldwin, also an actor who is currently starring in "Hawaii Five-0," spoke with the Domenick Nati Show about the tragedy. "Alec has no blame in this at all. The armorer is responsible for the weapons. The actor is an idiot. The protocol exonerates Alec of any responsibility at all. The first AD should have witnessed an empty weapon being handed to him or fired the gun himself. I don't know what caused him to announce 'cold weapon' on set. That announcement alone exonerates Alec of any wrongdoing or any responsibility." "The initial buck stops with the armorer," Baldwin added. "You know Alec's got the name though. So let's blame him because of his political views. He's a target." Attorneys for the "Rust" armorer and the film's assistant director have defended their client's actions on the project. There's an ongoing investigation into the incident to determine how the weapon discharged by Alec Baldwin became loaded with a suspected live round, injuring the movie's director, Joel Souza, and killing Hutchins.Alec Baldwin has said he's cooperating with the Sante Fe County Sheriff's Department and eager to learn the results of their investigation. "She was my friend," Baldwin said of Hutchins in an October video published by TMZ. "We were a very very ... well-oiled crew shooting a film together and then this horrible event happened."
Dionne Warwick has a message for Jake Gyllenhaal about Taylor Swift's scarf.  (CNN)Dionne Warwick has entered the Swifties chat.By now you should know "All Too Well" that the legendary singer has become known for her hilarious tweets.Apparently, Warwick couldn't just "Walk On By" when she heard about the whole Taylor Swift/Jake Gyllenhaal scarf situation.Here's the back story: Swift recently released a short film version of her single "All Too Well" off her new "Red (Taylor's Version)" album.The album is a rerecording of the 2012 album "Red," as Swift has been redoing her old music and rereleasing it since the rights to her original music were sold against Swift's preference."All Too Well" has long been thought to be about Gyllenhaal, whom Swift briefly dated, and people are talking about that again.There's a lyric in the song that says "And I left my scarf there at your sister's house / And you've still got it in your drawer even now.""Anyone Who Had a Heart" should know better. "If that young man has Taylor's scarf he should return it," Warwick tweeted."It does not belong to you," she added. "Box it up and I will pay the cost of postage, Jake."Well, dang.For the record, neither Swift nor Gyllenhaal has confirmed that he's the subject of the song. His sister, actress Maggie Gyllenhaal, has said publicly that people keep talking to her about said scarf, but she has no idea.Our advice: If you do know where it is, Jake Gyllenhaal return it ASAP because Dionne Warwick is not the one to play with.We will say a little prayer for you. 
McDonald's is returning the Egg McMuffin to its original price . New York (CNN Business)McDonald's Egg McMuffin is turning 50 years old, and it's giving the breakfast sandwich a price to match.On Thursday, McDonald's will sell the Egg McMuffin for its original price of 63 cents during breakfast hours (6 am to 10:30 am). The promotion will be offered exclusively on the McDonald's app as the restaurant looks to boost its nationwide rewards program.To celebrate, the fast-food chain is sharing several popular "fan hacks" of the sandwich that make the Egg McMuffin "a little extra," McDonald's said in a statement. The company is encouraging customers to buy more food so they can customize the Egg McMuffin. For example, McDonald's customers can make a "Sweet Chicken Sammie," by ordering a McChicken Biscuit and syrup to top their Egg McMuffin. Another idea is to ditch the muffins and replace them with two hash browns. "The Egg McMuffin, the first-ever quick service restaurant breakfast sandwich, joined the McDonald's menu in 1971 in Santa Barbara, California, and customers have been getting creative with it ever since," said Molly McKenna, McDonald's senior director of brand communications, in the release. The Egg McMuffin was created by California franchisee Herb Peterson in 1971, which compared the sandwiched to being eggs benedict on the go. McDonald's brought the sandwich nationwide in 1975 and it eventually became a cornerstone of its menu.These hacks have become popular in recent years because of social media, mainly on TikTok. Other chains have started to including them on their menu, including at Dunkin' that once sold an iced coffee created by TikTok star Charli D'Amelio. Starbucks (SBUX) had a limited test last summer that let customers order two custom beverages through Facebook or Instagram.For McDonald's (MCD), the promotion aims to remind people about its long-standing breakfast menu as competitors increase continue to innovate. Taco Bell gave out free breakfast burritos last month to announce that breakfast is back and Wendy's (WEN) is spending $25 million to promote its popular breakfast menu.
Reese's reveals its largest peanut butter cup yet. New York (CNN Business)Peanut butter fans rejoice. Reese's is releasing its largest peanut butter cup ever: a nine-inch Reese's Thanksgiving Pie. The super-sized peanut butter cup is the size of an actual pie, with a 9-inch diameter and weighing in at 3.4 pounds. "When you bring together friends and family for Thanksgiving dinner, no table spread is complete without dessert," said Bo Jones, senior associate brand manager at Reese's. "At Reese's, we wanted to create a dessert that everyone wants a piece of. You can thank us later." Only 3,000 pies are available for purchase on Hershey's website for $44.99 plus tax.It isn't the first time Reese's has experimented with its peanut butter cup. Earlier this year, Hershey's released an all peanut butter cup without chocolate. It was the first time in the company's 90-year-history that its peanut butter cups had taken chocolate completely out of the equation. Versions of the Peanut Butter Lovers Cup came out in 2019 and 2020, but those still contained some chocolate.Hershey, like other confectioners, relies on impulse purchases to drive sales. In 2020, the candy company released peanut butter cups filled with pretzels and a peanut butter and chocolate Snack Cake it billed as a "mid-morning snack."
KFC wants customers to ditch the drive-thru. New York (CNN Business)Restaurant drive-thrus have become too popular for their own good. Kentucky Fried Chicken wants its customers to ditch them.The chicken chain has created a new way for people to collect their orders, called Quick Pick-Up. Customers who want to use the new option can order ahead on its app or website, drive to a KFC location, park in a dedicated spot, and walk in to grab their food off a shelf near the register.KFC's goal is too alleviate the long lines that might be slowing down the drive-thrus or the lines inside the stores because of the ongoing pandemic. In a survey cited by KFC, the speed of using the company's drive-thrus decreased by 26 seconds in 2021, to about 6 minutes and 30 seconds. "Quick Pick-Up is changing the game by making fast food even more convenient and easy for busy customers," said KFC US President Kevin Hochman in the release. "Santa may not be able to give you the gift of time this holiday season, but KFC can."As an incentive to get customers to use the new option, which is available in most of its roughly 4,000 locations, KFC is offering free large fries with a $5 purchase if they're picked up at a Quick Pick-up. Other chains have similar setups: Sweetgreen and Chipotle (CMG) both offer shelves for customers to pick up their food. In addition, the popularity of the drive-thru option has prompted companies to redesign their own, including McDonald's, Burger King and Popeye's.
What supply chain crisis? America's largest retailer is doing just fine. New York (CNN Business)The supply chain crisis isn't slowing down Walmart.America's largest retailer and a bellwether of consumer spending reported strong sales growth during its most recent quarter. The company also raised its annual sales and profit growth, a signal that it's expecting a strong holiday shopping stretch.Walmart (WMT) on Tuesday said sales at US stores open for at least one year increased 9.2% during the three months ending October 31 compared with the same period a year ago. The company raised its full-year sales guidance, expecting sales to come in above 6% for the year.Walmart's stock was down slightly during early trading Tuesday.Despite supply chain snarls and rising prices, Americans are still spending heading into the holidays. Walmart's sales were aided last quarter by government stimulus payments to consumers and higher prices on items such as groceries, chief financial officer Brett Biggs said on a call with analysts.  On Tuesday, the Commerce Department said that retail sales rose 1.7% in October, beating economists' expectations and jumping sharply from September.Walmart has used its enormous size and clout to navigate supply chain and inflationary pressures.Several large retail chains, including Walmart, have chartered their own ships to deliver goods from Asia, stocked up on extra merchandise and relied on their deep pockets and broad supplier bases to adjust to supply constraints. Those options are too expensive and inaccessible for most small shops, which typically have less financial flexibility to absorb higher costs and keep prices down for customers than large competitors."We've got so many suppliers to choose from," CEO Doug McMillon said on the call, adding that Walmart has "lots of flexibility" on setting prices for items such as clothing and groceries.Although many stores are struggling to get products, Walmart's inventory levels increased 11.5% last quarter from with the year prior as the company stocked up in anticipation of the holiday stretch."The company's inventory levels appear to be in good shape ahead of the all-important holiday," Chuck Grom, an analyst at Gordon Haskett Research Advisors, said in a note to clients.Analysts also expect higher levels of inflation to benefit discount chains such as Walmart as customers increasingly look for ways to save money on food, gas and other goods.
