Grammy nominations 2022: See the list of nominees.  (CNN)Nominations for the 2022 Grammy Awards were revealed Tuesday.John Batiste, the soulful musician who also serves as the bandleader on "The Late Show with Stephen Colbert," led among all nominees with 11. He celebrated nominations by pointing out on Twitter that is birthday is 11/11.Chart toppers Justin Bieber, H.E.R., Doja Cat, Billie Eilish and Olivia Rodrigo all followed closely with multiple nominations. Rodrigo scored nods in all four of the top categories: record of the year, album of the year, song of the year and best new artist. The Grammys will take place on Monday, Jan. 31 on CBS and will stream live and on demand on Paramount+.A list of nominees in several major categories follows below. You can see the full list of more than 80 categories here.Record of the Year"I Still Have Faith In You," ABBA"Freedom," Jon Batiste"I Get A Kick Out Of You," Tony Bennett & Lady Gaga"Peaches," Justin Bieber Featuring Daniel Caesar & Giveon"Right On Time,"  Brandi Carlile"Kiss Me More," Doja Cat Featuring SZA"Happier Than Ever," Billie Eilish"Montero" (Call Me By Your Name), Lil Nas X"drivers license," Olivia Rodrigo"Leave The Door Open," Silk SonicSong of the Year"Bad Habits," Ed Sheeran"A Beautiful Noise," Alicia Keys Featuring Brandi Carlile"drivers license," Olivia Rodrigo"Fight For You," H.E.R."Happier Than Ever," Billie Eilish"Kiss Me More," Doja Cat Featuring SZA"Leave The Door Open," Silk Sonic"Montero (Call Me By Your Name)," Lil Nas X"Peaches," Justin Bieber Featuring Daniel Caesar & Giveon"Right On Time," Brandi CarlileAlbum of the Year"We Are," Jon Batiste"Love For Sale," Tony Bennett & Lady Gaga"Justice (Triple Chucks Deluxe)," Justin Bieber"Planet Her (Deluxe)," Doja Cat"Happier Than Ever," Billie Eilish"Back Of My Mind," H.E.R."Montero," Lil Nas X"Sour," Olivia Rodrigo"Evermore," Taylor Swift"Donda," Kanye WestBest New ArtistArooj AftabJimmie AllenBaby KeemFINNEASGlass AnimalsJapanese BreakfastThe Kid LaroiArlo ParksOlivia RodrigoSaweetieBest Pop Solo Performance"Anyone," Justin Bieber"Right on Time," Brandi Carlile"Happier Than Ever," Billie Eilish"Positions," Ariana Grande"drivers license," Olivia RodrigoBest Pop Duo or Group Performance"I Get a Kick Out of You," Tony Bennett & Lady Gaga"Lonely," Justin Bieber & benny blanco"Butter," BTS"Higher Power," Coldplay"Kiss Me More," Doja Cat feat. SZABest Traditional Pop Vocal Album"Love for Sale," Tony Bennett & Lady Gaga"'Til We Meet Again (Live)," Norah Jones"A Tori Kelly Christmas," Tori Kelly"Ledisi Sings Nina," Ledisi"That's Life," Willie NelsonA Holly Dolly Christmas, Dolly PartonBest Pop Vocal Album"Justice (Triple Chucks Deluxe)," Justin Bieber"Planet Her (Deluxe)," Doja Cat"Happier Than Ever", Billie Eilish"Positions," Ariana Grande"Sour," Olivia RodrigoBest Dance Recording"Hero," Afrojack & David Guetta"Loom," Ólafur Arnalds Featuring Bonobo"Before," James Blake"Heartbreak," Bonobo & Totally Enormous Extinct Dinosaurs"You Can Do It," Caribou"Alive," Rüfüs Du Sol"The Business," TiëstoBest Rap Album"The Off-Season," J. Cole"Certified Lover Boy," Drake"King's Disease 2," Nas"Call Me If You Get Lost," Tyler, the Creator "Donda," Kanye WestBest Rap Performance"Family Ties," Baby Keem, Kendrick Lamar "Up," Cardi B"My Life," J. Cole, 21 Savage & Morray "Way Too Sexy," Drake, Future, Young Thug "Thot S***" Megan Thee Stallion Best Rap Song"Bath Salts," DMX, Jay-Z, Nas"Best Friend," Saweetie, Doja Cat "Family Ties," Baby Keem, Kendrick Lamar"Jail," Kanye West, Jay-Z"My Life," J. Cole, 21 Savage & MorrayBest Latin Pop Album"Vertigo," Pablo Alborán"Mis Amores," Paula Arenas - Mis Amores"Hecho A La Antigua," Ricardo Arjona "Mis Manos," Camilo "Mendó," Alex Cuba "Revelación," Selena GomezBest Musica Urbana Album"Afrodisíaco," Rauw Alejandro"El Último Tour Del Mundo," Bad Bunny"Jose," J Balvin"KG0516," KAROL G"Sin Miedo (Del Amor Y Otros Demonios) 8," Kali UchisBest American Roots Performance"Cry," Jon Batiste "Love and Regret," Billy Strings "I Wish I Knew How It Would Feel to be Free," The Blind Boys of Alabama and Bela Fleck "Same Devil," Brandy Clark Featuring Brandi Carlile"Nightflyer," Allison RussellBest R&B Performance"Lost You," Snoh Aalegra"Peaches," Justin Bieber Featuring Daniel Caesar & Giveon"Damage," H.E.R."Leave The Door Open," Silk Sonic"Pick Up Your Feelings," Jazmine SullivanBest R&B Song"Damage," H.E.R."Good Days," SZA"Heartbreak Anniversary," Giveon"Leave The Door Open," Silk Sonic"Pick Up Your Feelings," Jazmine SullivanBest Country Solo Performance"Forever After All," Luke Combs"Remember Her Name," Mickey Guyton"All I Do Is Drive," Jason Isbell"camera roll," Kacey Musgraves"You Should Probably Leave," Chris StapletonBest Country Duo or Group Performance"If I Didn't Love You," Jason Aldean & Carrie Underwood"Younger Me," Brothers Osborne"Glad You Exist," Dan + Shay"Chasing After You," Ryan Hurd & Maren Morris"Drunk (And I Don't Wanna Go Home)," Elle King & Miranda LambertBest Country Song"Better Than We Found It," Maren Morris"camera roll," Kacey Musgraves"Cold," Chris Stapleton"Country Again," Thomas Rhett"Fancy Like," Walker Hayes"Remember Her Name," Mickey GuytonBest Country Album"Skeletons," Brothers Osborne"Remember Her Name," Mickey Guyton"The Marfa Tapes," Miranda Lambert, Jon Randall & Jack Ingram"The Ballad Of Dood & Juanita," Sturgill Simpson"Starting Over," Chris StapletonBest Rock Performance"Shot in the Dark," AC/DC"Know You Better (Live from Capitol Studio A)," Black Pumas"Nothing Compares 2 U," Chris Cornell"OHMS," Deftones"Making a Fire," Foo FightersBest Rock Song"All My Favorite Songs," Weezer"The Bandit," Kings of Leon"Distance," Mammoth WVH"Find My Way," Paul McCartney"Waiting on a War," Foo FightersBest Rock Album"Power Up", AC/DC"Capitol Cuts- Live From Studio A," Black Pumas"No One Sings Like You Anymore, Vol. 1," Chris Cornell"Medicine at Midnight," Foo Fighters"McCartney III," Paul McCartney
Autopsy shows Brian Laundrie died by suicide, attorney says.  (CNN)Brian Laundrie died by suicide from a gunshot wound to the head, an attorney for the Laundrie family told CNN Tuesday."Chris and Roberta Laundrie have been informed that the cause of death was a gunshot wound to the head and the manner of death was suicide," said attorney Steven Bertolino. CNN has reached out to authorities for further comment, and has followed up with Bertolino regarding how Laundrie came to be in possession of a gun.Laundrie's remains were found in a Florida nature reserve last month after a weekslong manhunt. He disappeared just days after his fiancée Gabby Petito was reported missing.The couple had been traveling across the country over the summer in a converted van and documenting their travels on social media. The case gained national attention as authorities searched for both.Laundrie returned to his parents' house in Florida on September 1 without Petito. As police were trying to question the family about Petito's whereabouts, Laundrie went missing on September 13 or 14 after leaving home with a backpack, according to his parents. Petito's remains were found in Wyoming on September 19. Her death was ruled a homicide by manual strangulation.Petito's family says they are "aware of the circumstances" regarding Laundrie. But they are not making an official comment at the request of the US Attorney's Office and the Teton County Prosecutor's Office in Wyoming, according to a statement from the family.The family was asked not to make any comments while the investigation into her death is ongoing, the statement said.A Florida medical examiner's office confirmed Tuesday Laundrie had died of suicide by a gunshot wound to the head.The office won't make the autopsy report public "until the law enforcement investigation is complete," the office said in a release.A timeline of the Petito caseWhat led to Petito's death remains a mystery. The FBI had described Laundrie as a "person of interest" in her murder, but he was not charged. He had, though, been indicted for allegedly using two accounts that belonged to someone else in the days after she died. Laundrie's remains were found October 20 in an area of Carlton Reserve that had been underwater during previous searches of the 25,000-acre nature reserve in North Port. Laundrie's father, who was searching with authorities the day his son's remains were found, discovered a notebook near where Laundrie's body was found. Experts said at the time the notebook could be key in providing answers. The notebook was wet at the time, and officials haven't yet said whether they have gained any information from it. Bertolini said in October Laundrie's parents had discussed "several times" the possibility their son had died by suicide. 
Jury begins deliberations in trial of three men accused of killing Ahmaud Arbery. Brunswick, Georgia (CNN)The prosecutor in the trial of three men accused of killing Ahmaud Arbery sought Tuesday to simplify the events that led to the 25-year-old's death, taking the podium the day after defense teams spent closing arguments trying to criminalize Arbery, alleging he brought his death on himself. Prosecutor Linda Dunikoski delivered her rebuttal early Tuesday, emphasizing to the jury Arbery was accused of no crime and the defendants told police they knew of no crime he'd committed. She had almost two hours remaining after delivering the first part of her closing arguments ahead of defense counsel. Live updates: Follow the trialLawyers for the three White men charged with murder used their final statements Monday to say Travis McMichael, Gregory McMichael and William "Roddie" Bryan Jr. had reason to believe Arbery was up to no good because he'd entered an under-construction home and he ran when confronted. Laura Hogue, one of Gregory McMichael's attorneys, referred to Arbery as a "recurring nighttime intruder" and implied he had nefarious intent when he arrived "in his khaki shorts with no socks to cover his long, dirty toenails." Dunikoski seized on the defense notion that the McMichaels were scared -- and their Glynn County, Georgia' s Satilla Shores neighborhood had been living in fear -- because of crime in the area. That the armed men decided to chase Arbery for five minutes in their trucks is evidence alone they weren't frightened, she said. They had alternatives -- including never chasing Arbery or calling police -- but instead they chose to pursue Arbery even after he repeatedly eluded them, said Dunikoski. They committed aggravated assault with their trucks -- and the McMichaels, with their guns -- while trying to falsely imprison Arbery, she said. During the course of these felonies, Dunikoski said, they killed Arbery. "If you take that out would he be alive?" she asked the jury. "It's real simple. The answer is you can't take out any of these crimes. If you take out any one of these crimes that they committed and he's still alive. All of the underlying felonies played a substantial and necessary part in causing the death of Ahmaud Arbery."Claims that they were protecting their neighborhood appear spurious, Dunikoski said, when you consider  the property owner never accused Arbery of any crime -- aside from entering the property without incident -- and nothing had been stolen there in the months prior to Arbery's fatal shooting. Dunikoski has also said the defendants can't claim self-defense when Arbery, unarmed and on foot, tried for five minutes to elude three men, two of them armed, chasing him in a pair of pickup trucks. She asked the jury: Why, if this was about stopping crime, did the McMichaels never mention a specific crime or citizen's arrest to the police at the scene?Following Dunikoski's rebuttal, Judge Timothy Walmsley gave jurors instructions and said, for Bryan, he'd permit them to consider simple assault, reckless conduct or reckless driving in lieu of aggravated assault with a truck. The jury, composed of nine White women, two White men and a Black man (with two White women and a White man as alternates), began deliberating shortly thereafter. The jury spent more than six hours deliberating on day one. Walmsley checked in on jurors twice to see if a verdict was imminent, with the foreperson reporting they had not returned one. The jury told the judge they considered continuing deliberations into the evening, but ultimately decided to break. Court adjourned around 6:30 p.m. ET and day two of deliberations will begin Wednesday at 8 a.m.Judge denies motion for mistrialDefense lawyers made remarks Monday that legal experts felt were racially insensitive, and Dunikoski has insisted the defendants targeted Arbery "because he was a Black man running down the street."Travis McMichael testified he never saw Arbery armed, never heard Arbery threaten him and Arbery showed no interest in conversing with McMichael.The men acted on "assumptions and driveway decisions," Dunikoski has said, and they had no immediate knowledge Arbery committed a crime, a key factor in claiming citizen's arrest. The defense moved for a mistrial, saying Dunkioski's misstated the state's now-defunct citizen's arrest law. Walmsley denied the motion.Along with his father, Gregory McMichael, and Bryan, his neighbor, Travis McMichael faces charges of malice murder, felony murder, aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony in the February 23, 2020, killing. The trio say they pursued Arbery only after suspecting him of burglary.Travis McMichael testified he shot Arbery in self-defense after Arbery grabbed his gun. He told Dunikoski he was "scattered" and traumatized when he initially told police he didn't know if Arbery grabbed the shotgun. The men have pleaded not guilty. If convicted, they face maximum sentences of life in prison without parole. Family objects to comments from defense attorneyOn Monday, Hogue claimed Arbery repeatedly trespassed -- and perhaps more -- when entering a construction site in the neighborhood outside Brunswick. "Turning Ahmaud Arbery into a victim after the choices that he made does not reflect the reality of what brought Ahmaud Arbery to Satilla Shores in his khaki shorts with no socks to cover his long, dirty toenails," Hogue said.Arbery's mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones, almost tripped leaving the courtroom, saying, "I gotta get out of here."Arbery was never charged with any crimes in the neighborhood. The owner of the property never said Arbery committed a crime, just that he was caught on camera at the site. Race has been a key focus. Arbery is Black, and 11 of the 12 jurors are White. Ben Crump, an attorney for Arbery's father, suggested race played a factor in the killing."They had dozens of other people who visited the home. Nobody chased them. Nobody said that they burglarized the home. Why is that?" Crump asked Monday.It was a point important to Dunikoski's rebuttal. Arbery had been to the under-construction property multiple times, she said, but he never stole anything. Responding to defense implications Arbery could've been responsible for items stolen from a boat in 2019, Dunikoski noted property owner Larry English told police he had no idea who stole the items, the items may have been stolen at another location and he suspected subcontractors might be responsible. Video from December 2020, showing Arbery inside the home looking around and nothing more, also appears to provide counterpoint to the argument Arbery was never known to jog in Satilla Shores. In the video, Arbery exits the home empty-handed toward the street and breaks into a jog, disappearing from view as he runs down Satilla Drive. "What's Mr. Arbery doing? More importantly, what's Mr. Arbery not doing?" she asked the jury in reference to the video. If Arbery committed a crime, Dunikoski said, it was criminal trespass, or maybe prowling or loitering, all misdemeanors -- none meeting the prerequisite for citizen's arrest. The McMichaels told police they didn't know if Arbery had been in English's house, she reminded jurors. "If the (McMichaels and Bryan) were not conducting a lawful citizen's arrest, you do not have to consider ... self-defense because if it's not a lawful citizen's arrest -- that they were the first unjustified aggressors and they were committing felonies against Mr. Arbery, and therefore they don't get to claim self-defense."During jury instructions, Walmsley told jurors in a citizen's arrest, the person making the arrest must have witnessed the crime with her or his own senses or the perpetrator must've admitted a crime. It is not legal to make a citizen's arrest based on "unsupported statements of others alone," and the person making the arrest -- either after the crime, or in the case of a felony, during an escape -- must exact the arrest immediately, the judge said. Lawyers: Defendants just protecting neighborhood"Travis McMichael spent almost a decade of his life learning about duty and responsibility," his attorney Jason Sheffield said Monday, referring to McMichael's time in the US Coast Guard. "He received extensive training on how to make a decision that will ultimately impact his beliefs." Dunikoski countered Travis McMichael didn't follow his training and couldn't have been adhering to de-escalation techniques when he chased Arbery -- his armed father cursing at Arbery from his truck bed -- and then exited his truck with a shotgun. In closing, Sheffield reiterated the feelings of neighbors who testified they were afraid because of incidents in the neighborhood, including burglaries. Travis McMichael felt a "responsibility" to help protect the neighborhood, Sheffield said. "These are real experiences with real people who were very scared, and so they took it upon themselves to do something about it -- got cameras, called the police, notify each other, citizens' watch, neighborhood watch," he said.   Hogue told the jury they needed only to consider two questions."Did Greg McMichael have reasonable and probable grounds of suspicion to believe that Ahmaud Arbery had committed a burglary ... and did he have reasonable and probable grounds to believe that Ahmaud Arbery was escaping or attempting to escape yet again?" she said.Attorney Kevin Gough, who represents Bryan, described his client as a witness, arguing jurors should consider Bryan was the one who filmed the chase and killing, changing the course of the investigation. "He did not know and could not know that Arbery would be shot. By that time, sadly, there was nothing that Roddie Bryan could do to prevent this tragedy. He didn't shoot anyone. At the time of the shooting, he was some distance back. He was armed only with his cell phone," Gough said."Ladies and gentlemen, without Roddie Bryan, there is no case," he said.In her closing, Dunikoski emphasized everyone is responsible. Because all three men committed felonies before Travis McMichael shot Arbery, they are parties to the crime, she said. "Under the law in Georgia, it's as if they were all holding the gun together," she said. CNN's Alta Spells, Travis Caldwell, Angela Barajas, Martin Savidge, Jade Gordon, Theresa Waldrop and Christina Maxouris contributed to this report.
Manchester United qualifies for Champions League knockout stages with 2-0 victory against Villarreal.  (CNN)Manchester United started life without Ole Gunnar Solskjaer with a 2-0 victory against Villarreal on Tuesday courtesy of goals from Cristiano Ronaldo and Jadon Sancho. The win means United, which parted with manager Solskjaer at the weekend after a poor string of results, qualifies for the knockout stages of the Champions League.Michael Carrick stood in as caretaker manager ahead of the game at the Estadio de la Ceramica, and he watched on as United struggled to create chances for much of the contestBut his side burst into life towards the end of the second half, the two goals ensuring United reaches the Champions League last 16 with a game to spare. Ronaldo opened the scoring with 12 minutes of the match remaining as he capitalized on a poor pass from Villarreal goalkeeper Gerónimo Rulli to Etienne Capoue -- who was put under pressure by Fred -- to chip the ball over Rulli. Sancho then grabbed his first United goal and wrapped up the win in the game's final moments as he finished off a counter-attacking move involving Marcus Rashford and Bruno Fernandes.The victory will be a huge boost for United and Carrick following the team's 4-1 defeat against Watford on Saturday. "When you've suffered results-wise and you're not in a great vein of form individually and as a team then it's not easy to come out and just let everything click," Carrick told BT Sport after the game."In some ways, it was the best way to win for me, that we had to show some character, we had to dig in, we had to fight."Villarreal, which defeated United to win the Europa League last season, dominated possession in the first half and had chances to take an early lead through Moi Gómez and Yeremi Pino. United goalkeeper David de Gea was then twice called into action by Manu Trigueros -- once in the first half and again midway through the second half -- and twice produced good saves to deny the midfielder. Visit CNN.com/sport for more news, videos and featuresThat kept United in the game and able to find the breakthrough via Ronaldo, who scored the winning goal when these two sides met in September.More chances came for the visiting side for Ronaldo and Rashford, but it was Sancho who got the second with a thumping shot into the top of the net.Villarreal faces Atalanta next week in its bid to qualify for the Champions League knockout stages. 
Why some US cities are facing a spree of 'smash-and-grab' crimes .  (CNN)A wave of "smash-and-grab" crimes is plaguing upscale stores in major US cities, with mobs of thieves making off with expensive goods in brazen, nighttime raids. At least 18 people broke into a Nordstrom department store in Los Angeles Monday night and stole thousands of dollars in merchandise, the city's police chief said.The thefts followed a rash of similar incidents over the weekend in the San Francisco Bay Area. A group of thieves swarmed the Southland Mall in Hayward on Sunday evening, wielding hammers to smash cases at a jewelry store before grabbing items and fleeing.Three suspects were arrested Saturday night after a mob ransacked a Nordstrom department store in Walnut Creek, east of San Francisco. Some 80 suspects were involved, and they fled the outdoor mall in at least 10 different vehicles, police said. That robbery came after similar raids Friday night near San Francisco's Union Square, where thieves targeted Louis Vuitton, Burberry and Bloomingdale's stores, a Walgreens and cannibis dispensaries. And California isn't the only place grappling with "smash-and-grab" crimes. Fourteen robbers barged into a Louis Vuitton store in suburban Chicago last week and fled with more than $100,000 in handbags and other merchandise. So why so many recent incidents? Are they linked to the holiday season? Is it pandemic restlessness?  "This has nothing to do with the pandemic," said Pete Eliadis, a former law enforcement official and founder of security company Intelligence Consulting Partners. "The pandemic is overused at this point."But security experts cited a mix of several other factors.Such cases aren't always a priority for law enforcement San Francisco has seen a surge in crime since it reopened in the pandemic. In the Central district, for example, larceny and theft incidents are up almost 88% from a year earlier, and overall crime is up almost 52%, according to police statistics.Many of the store thieves wear masks or hoods, making them difficult to identify even when they're spotted on security cameras.Police in Los Angeles and San Francisco have made some arrests, but thieves often face few consequences, Eliadis said. One reason for this is law enforcement's lack of resources, which means theft cases sometimes are put on the back burner, he said. And, he added, the "defund the police" movement has sapped some officers' morale."There's no political will to prosecute the people in this climate. Why should a police officer waste time getting into an altercation when the person is not going to jail because it's overcrowded and a prosecutor is not going to prosecute that case because it's not high on the priority list?" Eliadis said. "The takeaway is we need the political will, more prosecution and backing of law enforcement."Thieves may face few consequences The decriminalization of low-level offenses in some states has created opportunities for criminals to manipulate the system, said Lynda Buel, president of Ohio-based security consulting firm SRMC. For example, Proposition 47, a California ballot initiative passed in 2014, sought to alleviate prison overcrowding by reducing the penalties for some crimes. The measure raised the threshold for felony theft from $500 to $950."For the low-level criminal, the benefit far outweighs the risk, since the threshold for a misdemeanor offense is $950 -- meaning that a person can steal up to that amount and only be charged with a misdemeanor," Buel said.Organized crime rings are often behind these types of "smash-and-grab" operations and pay low-level criminals to steal for them, she said.  Security experts said dismantling these sophisticated crime groups must be a law enforcement priority."People see the ability to commit these 'smash-and-grab incidents' knowing that there is little consequence, especially if the thefts are kept below the threshold of a felony offense," Buel said. "It's easy, it's fast, and the payback is good."   The holidays provide more opportunities for theftIt's not unusual for "smash and grabs" to increase around the Christmas holiday season, Buel said. Stores stock up before the holidays, which means there's a bounty of merchandise to pick from. That means more opportunities and more convenience for the smash-and-grabbers, she said. But retail theft by organized gangs is not limited to the holiday season. In July, California Gov. Gavin Newsom signed a law reinstating a task force to investigate organized theft at stores. "This is not new in the state ... We've been organized in a very deliberative manner to address the issue of organized retail crime for a number of years," Newsom said. "We are doubling down on those efforts today."In Illinois, Attorney General Kwame Raoul said in September that crime rings are costing retailers across the country an estimated $45 billion in annual losses. He created a task force to crack down on organized crime rings that target stores."These brazen, violent crimes are committed by sophisticated criminal organizations that are involved in drug trafficking, human trafficking and other serious crimes," Raoul said.There are numerous places to sell stolen itemsOnce items are stolen, there are several ways to sell them -- all extremely easy and with little regulation and monitoring from law enforcement, experts said. Most items grabbed in such cases have no serial numbers, making tracing them almost impossible, Eliadis said. "It is incredibly easy to sell stolen merchandise online through e-commerce platforms," Buel said. "E-commerce has really taken off as the place to sell stolen goods."Other thieves don't need to sell their stolen goods on Craigslist or eBay. They can also use flea markets, pawn shops and street vendors.  Thieves can sell expensive items at slashed prices, meaning there's no shortage of buyers, Eliadis added.The result is a ruthless cycle that affects everyone, Eliadis said. Some affected stores will shut down or relocate. And retailers plagued by thefts see their insurance rates and private security costs increase -- costs that eventually get passed on the customer. 
3 arrested after at least 18 people break into Nordstrom store in Los Angeles, police say.  (CNN)At least 18 people broke into a high-end department store in Los Angeles and stole thousands of dollars in merchandise Monday night, the city's police chief said, in one of the country's latest store burglaries involving sizable groups of thieves.The group used a sledgehammer and an electric bicycle to smash a window, allowing them to enter the closed Nordstrom department store at The Grove retail complex in Los Angeles around 10:40 p.m. PT, city police said.The group, consisting of 18 to 20 people, stole at least $5,000 in merchandise and caused $15,000 in damage, Los Angeles Police Chief Michel Moore said Tuesday at a city police commission meeting.Nearby police officers "heard the event" and saw vehicles driving away, and the officers pursued one of the vehicles, Moore said.The pursuit ended in South Los Angeles, and three people in the vehicle were arrested in connection with the burglary, Los Angeles police spokesman Officer Drake Madison told CNN.Officers recovered merchandise from the vehicle and one of the three people arrested, Moore said.Los Angeles police will increase overnight patrols at high-end retail stores starting Tuesday, Moore said.The burglary is one of the most recent in a series of similar crimes in some major US metropolitan areas, including San Francisco and Chicago.About 80 people were involved in what police are calling a "smash-and-grab" incident Saturday night at a Nordstrom location in Walnut Creek, near San Francisco. People fled the store in at least 10 different vehicles, Lt. Ryan Hibbs at the Walnut Creek Police Department told CNN. Three suspects were arrested.The manager of a nearby restaurant told CNN affiliate KPIX that the suspects were wearing masks and carried what appeared to be crowbars."There was a mob of people," Brett Barrett said. "The police were flying in. It was like a scene out of a movie. It was insane. ... It was a scary scene for a moment."Police have not yet estimated a dollar amount for the stolen items, Hibbs said.The incident followed a series of similar thefts Friday night in Union Square and surrounding areas in San Francisco, including at a Louis Vuitton store, a Burberry store, a jewelry store, a Bloomingdale's, a Walgreens, cannabis dispensaries and even an eyeglass shop, San Francisco Police Chief Bill Scott said at a news conference Saturday.Similar crimes reported in IllinoisOn Wednesday, at least 14 people forced their way into a Louis Vuitton store in Oak Brook, Illinois, and made off with at least $100,000 in merchandise, according to CNN affiliate WLS, based on interviews with the Oak Brook Police Department.Police told WLS the individuals rushed into the store at Oak Brook Center Mall, took out garbage bags and began filling them with items. Surveillance video from the store, obtained by WLS, shows the chaotic scene as the masked shoplifters pour into the store grabbing handbags and other merchandise while shoppers rush out of the way.Investigators have information on the three vehicles the thieves drove away in, according to Police Chief James Kruger. Oak Brook is about 25 miles west of Chicago.Kruger told WLS his investigators are working with investigators in the Chicago suburb of Northbrook, where police say eight people took off with $66,000 worth of merchandise from a Louis Vuitton store at Northbrook Court Mall in October.On November 1, at least 13 men wearing masks and gloves entered the same Louis Vuitton store and stole several items valued at $100,000. Northbrook is about 30 miles from Oak Brook. "We don't know if there is an actual connection yet, but certainly there are similarities," Kruger said.CNN's Jason Hanna contributed to this report.
14 people rushed into a Louis Vuitton store outside Chicago and ran out with at least $100,000 in merchandise, police say.  (CNN)At least 14 people forced their way into a Louis Vuitton store in Oak Brook, Illinois, last week, and made off with at least $100,000 in merchandise, according to CNN affiliate WLS-TV, based on interviews with the Oak Brook Police Department.Police told WLS the individuals rushed into the store at Oak Brook Center Mall on Wednesday, took out garbage bags and began filling them with items. Surveillance video from the store, obtained by WLS, shows the chaotic scene as the masked shoplifters pour into the store grabbing handbags and other merchandise while shoppers rush out of the way.Investigators have information on the three vehicles the thieves drove away in, according to police Chief James Kruger. Oak Brook is about 25 miles west of Chicago. "We're working those leads in order to potentially identify the suspects," Kruger told WLS.Kruger told WLS his investigators are working with investigators in the Chicago suburb of Northbrook, where police say eight people took off with $66,000 worth of merchandise from a Louis Vuitton store at Northbrook Court Mall in October.On November 1, at least 13 men wearing masks and gloves entered the same Louis Vuitton store and stole several items valued at $100,000. Northbrook is about 30 miles from Oak Brook"We don't know if there is an actual connection yet, but certainly there are similarities," Kruger said.The thefts are similar to incidents in California over the weekend.San Francisco police said multiple people were arrested after a Louis Vuitton store was ransacked Friday night, and Saturday night in Walnut Creek, California, a Nordstrom was ransacked by "approximately 80 suspects," who got away in at least 10 different vehicles, CNN previously reported.CNN's Amir Vera contributed to this report. 
Best Buy CEO: Jump in theft is traumatizing staff. New York (CNN Business)Best Buy CEO Corie Barry said theft is a growing problem at the company's stores — and it is implementing added security measure to safeguard employees and shoppers."This is traumatizing for our associates and is unacceptable," Barry said on a call with analysts Tuesday. "We are doing everything we can to try to create [an] as safe as possible environment."Barry said the company is implementing a number of tactics to minimize theft and protect staff and customers. For example, Best Buy is locking up more products and hiring security when appropriate.Barry said organized retail crime is on the rise at Best Buy. The tactic involves an organized  "gang" of people who steal entire shelves of high-value products, such as electronics, to resell them for a profit. The crime surge is becoming such a problem that it is hitting Best Buy's (BBY) profits and could hurt its ability to retain and attract more employees in a tight labor market, Barry said in an interview Tuesday on CNBC's "Squawk on the Street."Some incidents involved individuals bringing a weapon, such as a gun or crowbar, she said.The retail industry is struggling to handle the escalation in organized retail theft. A 2020 survey of 61 retailers from the National Retail Federation, the industry's largest trade group, showed organized retail theft jumped nearly 60% from 2015 and cost stores an average of $719,548 per $1 billion dollars in sales.Smash and grab on the riseBarry's comments come on the heels of a string of retail thefts in San Francisco in just the last few days in which thieves targeted a Louis Vuitton store, a Burberry store, a jewelry store and Bloomingdale's and Walgreens locations.On Saturday, a Nordstrom (JWN) department store near San Francisco was ransacked in what police described as a "smash-and-grab" incident. Industry experts say store theft is now an acute problem and getting worse. "While retailers have always suffered from general shoplifting there is a growing scourge of organized gangs which are stealing to order," said Neil Saunders, retail analyst and managing director at GlobalData Retail. "The gangs are much more dangerous for retailers and for customers shopping in stores," he said. "The problem is that while store security and associates can take individual shoplifters to task, they are not able to do much against gangs as they are outnumbered."Saunders said its local communities that will ultimately suffer if this trend isn't reversed. "If theft grows too bad, then retailers will simply pull out of certain locations, as we have already seen with some of the drugstores," he said.
Jewel thieves jailed for $35 million celebrity burglaries . London (CNN)A gang of jewelery thieves have been jailed for a string of burglaries on the homes of celebrities, where they made away with £26 million ($34.9 million) worth of luxury stolen goods.Jugoslav Jovanovic, Alessandro Donati and Alessandro Maltese targeted high profile figures, including soccer manager and former England player Frank Lampard, television presenter Christine Lampard, Formula 1 heiress Tamara Ecclestone and the late chairman of the Leicester City soccer club, Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha.Police described the thefts as the "highest value series of residential burglaries in UK history." The men were sentenced to lengthy jail terms on Monday after being convicted at an earlier hearing.The trio, from Milan, Italy, flew into the UK just days before committing their first burglary, where they stole items worth about £60,000 ($80,600) at an address in the upmarket London borough of Kensington and Chelsea on 1 December 2019, according to London's Metropolitan Police.Days later on December 10 they stole £1 million ($1.34 million) of watches and cash from an address in Knightsbridge.They then targeted a house on Palace Green, where they grabbed items worth more than £26 million, including diamonds, precious stones, watches and cash.Most of the stolen jewelry and watches have not been recovered, authorities said. Police said that the gang were so meticulous in keeping their identities hidden -- paying only in cash, wearing disguises and caps and never walking in a group -- that the "three of them individually praised us for working out who they were and locating them."From a 13-second clip of grainy CCTV footage showing the burglars creeping through the back garden of the Palace Green property and back out again, police were able to establish a crime scene.The security camera footage showed the group getting into an unknown black taxi during their getaway, which led officers to identify at least 1,007 cabs that were in the area at the time.Police attempted to trace every single taxi, and it was only in speaking to cab driver 1,004 that they traced the driver who picked the thieves up, and were able to determine a regular route for the gang."This story is comparable to what you will see in a Hollywood movie but unfortunately this was real life and involved real victims," Detective Constable Andrew Payne, from Central Specialist Crime, said in a statement.Jovanovic, 24, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy to burgle and conspiracy to money laundering, was sentenced to a total of 11 years in jail.Donati, 44, and Maltese, 45, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to burgle and were both given sentences of eight years and nine months.'I feel unsafe in my home'In victim impact statements, the targets of the burglaries spoke of how the raids had affected them."I would say that this incident has had a major impact on our general feeling of security, particularly with having a 16 month old baby," Frank Lampard said. "The fact that my job means that I travel frequently again raises my concerns. Neither my wife nor I are sleeping too well as a consequence of this incident."His wife, Christine Lampard, said she struggled to sleep since the burglary, adding: "I am much more fearful of being alone in my own home, I am less trusting of visitors to the house and feel unsafe in my home. I have a young daughter and feel vulnerable in a home which I had previously always felt safe and happy in."Meanwhile, the family of the late Srivaddhanaprabha said that their father's residence had previously been "a place of reflection and to pray.""We felt it was the strongest connection to him as he spent his last night there before his death. Since the burglary, our sacred and special connection has been damaged and violated beyond repair," they added.Ecclestone, daughter of former Formula 1 chief executive Bernie Ecclestone, said: "I'm so scared I will not leave my daughter alone in the house at night because I just feel like the people I am meant to trust, I don't, I'm not sure that I can trust anyone.""(My daughter) talks about burglars now as well, which is really really hard and that's the worst part trying to pretend to her nothing actually did happen, and to try to make her feel the house is a safe space," she added.
Biden spins a message of hope as an anxious nation readies for Thanksgiving.  (CNN)When a president has to assure Americans there'll be enough turkey for Thanksgiving, it's a sure sign of national malaise.That was the case Tuesday as the holiday season begins with citizens, already wearied by the worst public health crisis in 100 years, now punished by rising prices, the painfully high cost of gasoline and fears that winter's arrival could mean another spike in Covid-19 cases. President Joe Biden's transformational agenda is designed to reorient the economy toward working people. But American wallets and morale are hurting now, so its complex programs, which may take months or years to deliver relief, won't lighten the dark mood music on a holiday he is spending on Nantucket.While there are some strong signs in the economy pointing to job and wage growth, Republicans are seizing upon the country's difficulties to lambast Biden's leadership, increasingly confident of big wins in the House and Senate next year. Every day brings new evidence for their case, with headlines about Dollar Tree raising its eponymous baseline price to $1.25 and with staples like breakfast cereal set to cost more in 2022. As the reverberations of his coup attempt still threaten democracy, former President Donald Trump, meanwhile, appears to be accelerating a nascent reelection bid, using a series of interviews with genuflecting conservative media figures to portray his corrupt and lawless presidency as a prosperous golden age and claiming the nation is barreling into an economic abyss.Many of the problems assailing Biden are beyond his control, including supply chain crunches and high global inflation brought on by the pandemic and elevated gas prices. But the political environment is getting so toxic that the White House felt obliged to underscore this week that the President fully plans on running for a second term in 2024. This treacherous backdrop explains Biden's last major appearance before Thanksgiving, when he tried on Tuesday to convince Americans he intuits their pain, is listening and has plans that are already beginning to work. He painted a picture of a strengthening nation, overcoming Covid-19 and its economic reverberations and getting back to work as travelers throng airports for the first full-scale holiday gathering in nearly two years."We've made historic progress over the last 10 months," Biden said, noting a much reduced 4.6% unemployment rate. "There's a lot we can be proud of and a lot we can build on for the future."Ironically, Biden addressed current economic challenges after one of the most successful periods of his presidency. He just signed into law a bipartisan infrastructure package that passes for a legislative miracle in today's polarized and gridlocked Washington. His companion $1.9 trillion social spending bill finally cleared the House last week, though its fate in the Senate is uncertain given the Democrats' minuscule majority. Even some Biden voters think Democrats don't get itOne of the lessons some Democrats took from their shocking defeat in the Virginia gubernatorial election earlier this month -- which saw a 12-point swing in just a year to the Republicans -- was that they had stopped listening to voters. After the GOP triumph, the center-left think tank Third Way conducted focus groups among Biden voters to find out why they had backed Republican Glenn Youngkin this year. The findings were chilling for Democrats, revealing that these voters could not name anything Democrats had done, were unhappy with the direction of the country -- including labor shortages and high prices -- and didn't think the party gets it. The groups also believed the economy is bad, despite some encouraging statistics, and think Democrats care more about social issues than the factors currently making it hard for families to make ends meet.In recent days, Biden has appeared to have initiated a rhetorical reset, perhaps to address such liabilities, after earlier this year insisting that inflation was transitory, that his influence was limited in bringing down high gas prices and that the pandemic was virtually over in a premature July Fourth speech."Moms and dads are worried, asking, 'Will there be enough food we can afford to buy for the holidays? Will we be able to get Christmas presents to the kids on time? And if so, will they cost me an arm and a leg?'" Biden said Tuesday.Seeking to project control and instill confidence, he announced the largest-ever release of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in a bid to ultimately increase supply and drive down pump prices. The President went out of his way to counter another GOP attack line -- that his effort to tackle climate change was to blame for higher gasoline costs. And he explained how his White House had reduced the back-up of containers in ports and leaned on top executives of major retailers like Walmart and Target to move supplies faster. Such moves could not only ensure store shelves remain stocked but could also temper the raging demand that is driving inflation. "Families can rest easy. Grocery stores are well-stocked with turkey and everything else you need for Thanksgiving. And the major retailers I mentioned have confirmed that their shelves will be well-stocked in stores this holiday season," Biden said. "That's good news for the those moms and dads worried about whether the Christmas gifts will be available. It goes for everything from bicycles to ice skates," he added, pushing back against a GOP narrative that Americans face the most deprived and expensive holiday season in history.While Biden's moves might be politically effective at the margins, there are real questions about their potency in the long-term and therefore about their capacity to reverse the slump in his approval ratings into the low 40s, and below, in some polls.Much is out of Biden's controlThe biggest challenge for the White House is that while Biden can show he cares about current national problems, he may not be able to quickly alleviate them. While Republicans charge that inflation is being driven by high Democratic spending, the fact that this is a worldwide scourge means it's hard for him to fix it. The supply chain crisis that is hiking prices is caused by Covid-19's ravaging of the manufacturing base in Asia -- something beyond Biden's control. While his release of 50 million barrels of oil is historic and will be accompanied by similar spigot openings by US allies, it may only have a limited effect. Americans generally use around 20 million barrels a day. And Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries still have a stranglehold on global supply and prices. The big and perhaps only hope for the White House and Democrats running in 2022 is that the political situation will ease. An end to the pandemic, more job growth and repaired supply chains could improve the nation's mood considerably and boost the President's approval ratings, which are critical to the party's midterm hopes. By then, the administration hopes that the first effects of the infrastructure law and social spending bill, if it passes, will begin to be felt, giving them a strong platform of renewal and reform.Still, the party must also hope that the damage to Biden's image as a straight-shooter and reputation of competency, suffered during a brutal political period that included the chaotic withdrawal from Afghanistan, will not linger. As years of turbulence have shown, no one -- least of all Republicans already taking a premature victory lap -- should make any assumptions about future elections. But this Thanksgiving, the country is yet to emerge from the crisis that Biden was elected to end -- the pandemic -- and is confronting new and knock-on political and economic challenges. So while announcing that Biden plans to run for reelection is an easy play for the White House now, the President's long-term political future rests on the same proposition it always has -- his ability to restore some kind of economic and political normality. That destination remains elusive and, for multiple reasons, may be getting even harder for him to drag the nation toward.
'Toxic is spot-on': House members describe roiling animosity among lawmakers.  (CNN)Many members within the House of Representatives have told CNN in recent days that they find themselves in a toxic work environment, wrought with bitter exchanges, threats and fears about what the erosion of decorum in the chamber will mean for a body that has still not recovered 10 months after the Capitol Hill riot.In interviews with more than a dozen members, CNN heard from Democrats and some Republicans who say things are as bad as they can remember, with no sign things will get better soon, and the fears and concerns aren't just coming from members, but their families as well.Last week alone, Democrats and two Republicans voted to censure Rep. Paul Gosar, a Republican from Arizona, for posting an animé video depicting the killing of fellow member Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a Democrat from New York. Initially, Gosar took the video down, but he retweeted another tweet containing the video just an hour after he endured the highest form of rebuke a member can get in the House. As he took his punishment in the well of the House, he was surrounded by a group of colleagues rushing to his defense. His leadership never came to the floor to admonish him, only attacking the process Democrats were using. Rep. Lauren Boebert, a Republican from Colorado, defended Gosar on the floor by calling some of her progressive Democratic colleagues the "Jihad squad," a term she defended to CNN on Friday. "It is shocking to me that Leader McCarthy would stand for eight and a half hours spewing disinformation about a bill that is for the American people and yet not speak a word about the atrocity of his own member putting out a video that glorifies the murder of a colleague and threatens violence against the President of the United States," said Rep. Madeleine Dean of Pennsylvania. "I don't know where the next basement is."It's all part of the challenge members are facing now in the House, and some have opted to retire rather than endure more caustic behavior. On the outskirts of the House chamber, metal detectors are still stationed at every door, a reminder of the fears that remain. And an effort to investigate the root cause of the attack on January 6 has been politicized and met with resistance by most Republicans. Some have even downplayed whether the events of that day were all that bad. It's a constant reminder for some members about the state of their workplace. "January 6th made things so much worse. I was on the floor that day. That was a forever life-changing moment on a personal level, but it was also a moment that changed Congress," Rep. Cheri Bustos, a Democrat from Illinois, told CNN. "It started with the incessant lies that weren't challenged and were amplified to January 6th to a member of Congress threatening lives of friends and colleagues." In an interview with Rep. John Garamendi, a Democrat from California, Garamendi's wife Patricia could be heard in the background during the interview responding along with her husband that yes, the threats were as bad as they had ever been. Patricia Garamendi, who works closely with other congressional spouses on events and provides guidance on how to navigate Congress, agreed to speak with CNN for the story. She said that it's the scariest time she can remember for the spouses of members who worry not just about their member of Congress, but their entire families."It took away a lot of the fun. Service is hard. Travel is hard and the issues are hard, but when you are worried about your family, it has been difficult," she said. "I mean some kids are being escorted to school." 'I'm not running again'And those are just the security threats. A massive battle over Covid-19 has only exasperated the divisions. A handful of conservative members regularly defy the House speaker's mask mandate, racking up thousands of dollars in fines while some members publicly admit they aren't getting vaccinated. Standing on the steps of the US House Friday, Bustos told CNN that all of the bitterness and lies impacted her decision not to run for reelection. "My interns are down there," she pointed. "I always write them five pieces of advice and one of those is 'don't take things personally.' I've tried to live that in politics. This, you can't help but take personally. All of this has contributed to the fact that I'm not running again. I want to love what I do. I want to love who I work with. I want to respect the people I work with and that has been compromised in ways that I hope can be repaired at some point, but right now I do not feel like I can repair."Some of the anxiety members feel stems from bitter disagreements with the opposite party, while others say the spiral of toxicity has metastasized even to how members within the same party engage with one another. For months, progressives and moderates in the Democratic party grappled with how to pass both a bipartisan infrastructure bill and a Democrat-only bill to expand the social safety net. But the divisions within their ranks threatened both bills and resulted in sometimes public and pointed personal jabs."Toxic is spot-on," Rep. Stephanie Murphy, a Democrat from Florida, said. "I think there is plenty of Dem-on-Dem violence as well as Republican and Democratic divisions. I think it is not conducive to a healthy legislative environment for colleagues to make these debates both so personal and caustic."'People here need to get thicker skin'In a series of interviews with Republicans, many downplayed the divisions outright or blamed House Speaker Nancy Pelosi for setting the wrong tone when she announced all members would need to walk through metal detectors to get to the House floor after the insurrection. "I believe it is a consolidation of power in the Speaker's office in the House and an abuse of power by the Speaker because she has one-party control and she is completely shutting down the voices of the minority and hiding behind Covid to accomplish it," Rep. Cathy McMorris Rogers, a Republican from Washington state, told CNN. Rep. Chip Roy, a Republican from Texas who advocated ahead of January 6 to certify the electoral college results, told CNN that part of the problem is that members have not moved on from January 6th."People here need to get thicker skin," Roy said. "At some point here, you gotta let some things roll."Asked if he was including the insurrection in the things that people needed to let "roll," Roy said "people here have got to get thicker skin about representing the people and doing their job and not making everything personal on the floor of the House."'I feel safe, but it is incredibly concerning'But for some members, the threats are very personal. "Congressman Boebert referred to us as the 'Jihad squad' on the House floor. What that does is it empowers and inspires people who want to do us harm, to actually go and do that harm. She is on the House floor spewing 'Jihad squad,' " Rep. Jamaal Bowman said. "I feel safe, but it is incredibly concerning that she is speaking this way and we have to respond to that in some way."Ocasio-Cortez, who was the subject of Gosar's animé video, told CNN last week that sometimes it is impossible to separate the political from the personal, even as she has tried to build relationships with some Republicans. "It is not just because they dislike me as a person. In fact, I have had many a Republican come to me on the House floor and say 'I tell folks back home that while I don't agree with you, I think you are a quite kind person.' I have had Republicans come up to me after the 6th, one of them even weeping and with guilt over what happened," Ocasio-Cortez said. "So for some ... publicly, this is a performance. But it is also personal because I cannot separate myself from my gender, I cannot separate myself of how I was born, so their hatred of non-White people, their hatred of women is a hatred of me."
Trump says Rittenhouse visited him at Mar-a-Lago.  (CNN)Former President Donald Trump said he was recently visited at his Palm Beach, Florida, resort by Kyle Rittenhouse, the teenager who was acquitted last week on all charges after fatally shooting two people and wounding a third during protests in Kenosha, Wisconsin, last summer."He called. He wanted to know if he could come over, say hello, because he was a fan," Trump said during an interview with Fox News' Sean Hannity that aired Tuesday night.Trump said Rittenhouse, 18, had left Mar-a-Lago "a little while ago," and Hannity had earlier said that his interview with Trump took place on Monday. During the interview, Fox showed a picture of Rittenhouse posing with Trump."He came over with his mother. Really a nice young man. ... That was prosecutorial misconduct. He should have not have had to suffer through a trial for that. He was going to be dead," the former President said.The comments were in line with ones Trump had made while in office.A 12-juror panel deliberated more than 25 hours in the closely watched case, ultimately acquitting Rittenhouse on Friday of first-degree intentional homicide and four other felony charges in a verdict that cannot be appealed.The two-week trial -- which captured America's attention and was in many ways emblematic of the divided nation -- featured testimony from more than 30 witnesses, including Rittenhouse himself, and video clips from the night of the shootings during unrest sparked by the police shooting of Jacob Blake, a Black man. The verdict opened a fresh debate over state laws on self-defense and the concept of vigilantism.The politicization of the case comes amid an already tense political environment ahead of the 2022 elections and even the 2024 presidential race.Trump, who appears to be preparing another run for the White House, has been praising Rittenhouse as the "poster boy" for the right to self-defense.President Joe Biden, meanwhile, told reporters on Friday that he stood by the not-guilty verdict, saying the jury system of trial in the United States works and must be respected."Look, I stand by what the jury has concluded," he said. "The jury system works, and we have to abide by it."  In a statement later that day Biden acknowledged that the verdict "will leave many Americans feeling angry and concerned, myself included," but reiterated that "the jury has spoken."
Jeffrey Epstein denied having any suicidal thoughts and prison staffers made litany of errors prior to his death, prison documents reveal .  (CNN)Jeffrey Epstein denied having any suicidal thoughts before he died by suicide, despite some prison staffers noting signs of troubling behavior, according to newly released documents from the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP).In addition, BOP staff made a litany of procedural errors prior to the convicted pedophile and wealthy financier's death on August 10, 2019, the documents show.A "Psychological Reconstruction of Inmate Death" report prepared by the Bureau of Prisons National Suicide Prevention Coordinator, Psychology Services Branch, Central Office, constructs a timeline of events and circumstances prior to Epstein's death and notes that risk factors for suicide "specific to sex offenders," as well as "more general risk factors for suicide, were likely present" in Epstein prior to his death.  "Despite his many associates, he had limited significant or deep interpersonal ties. Although Mr. Epstein appeared to cultivate a large social and professional network, he was estranged from his only brother. Indeed, his identity appeared to be based on his wealth, power, and association with other high-profile individuals," the report states.CNN obtained the documents from the BOP via a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request. The documents were first obtained by the New York Times. The release of the documents comes less than a week before Epstein-associate Ghislaine Maxwell is set to face trial for criminal sex trafficking charges. Maxwell has pleaded not guilty to all charges against her.  BOP declined to comment on any specific inmate, but said in a statement to CNN that "the safe, secure, and humane housing of inmates is BOP's highest priority." "As a general matter, BOP has launched a task force that will address mental health implications of housing individuals alone in a cell, and is committed to improving its suicide prevention program. In addition, BOP is increasing the number of beds available as secure mental health units, which will support moving inmates with serious mental illness out of restrictive housing and into secure treatment programs. BOP is also taking a number of other steps to address mental health issues, including enhancing peer support programs, and continuing to train BOP staff on suicide prevention, risk assessment, and emergency responses," the agency said in its statement.  The text of the BOP report notes that it's an "interim report" due to "an inability to gather all necessary data," particularly the lack of formal interviews because there was an effort to avoid interference with pending Department of Justice investigations, and the lack of video since it was confiscated by the FBI prior to the report. Documents reveal Epstein denied having any suicidal thoughts, despite signsWhen Epstein arrived at the Metropolitan Correctional Center on July 6, 2019, a facilities assistant is noted in the report as describing Epstein as "distraught, sad, and a little confused." Despite Epstein saying he was OK, she was not convinced of this, writing that "he seems dazed and withdrawn." She advised in an email that someone from Psychology come and talk with him to "just be on the safe side and prevent any suicidal thoughts," but there is no evidence the email recipient, a lieutenant, contacted the on-call psychologist at the time, according to the report.According to the report, after a court proceeding on July 8, Epstein denied being suicidal but was placed on Psychological Observation -- less restrictive than Suicide Watch -- due to his risk factors. The next day, a BOP psychologist formally assessed Epstein's risk for suicide and determined he should remain under observation "out of an abundance of caution." On July 10, the report says Epstein was taken off Psychological Observation. The report also states that Epstein "denied any history of mental health problems, substance abuse and treatment" during a routine intake screening at the MCC facility in Manhattan on July 8, and denied any suicidal thoughts. Later that month, Epstein was placed on suicide watch after an in-person suicide risk assessment on July 23, but was taken off watch and put back on psychological observation a day later. It's unclear when he was taken off "psychological observation" due to a discrepancy in paperwork but he attended a court hearing on July 31 when the US Marshals Service noted "suicidal tendencies," according to the report. The report goes on to say however that "Epstein was experiencing challenges adjusting to his environment and changes in his lifestyle," including trouble sleeping, complaints about noise in the facility and concerns for his safety. On two occasions, the report says Epstein described himself as a "coward" and someone "who doesn't like pain."The report also states that the unsealing of documents that alleged new details of sexual abuse claims against Epstein the day before his death "further erod[ed] his previously-enjoyed elevated status and potentially implicating some of his associates. The lack of significant interpersonal connections, a complete loss of his status in both the community and among associates, and the idea of potentially spending his life in prison were likely factors contributing to Mr. Epstein's suicide."Procedural mistakes by BOP staffers prior to Epstein's deathCNN previously reported prison guards failed to check on Epstein for several hours the night of his death by suicide, but the BOP report further notes several additional errors made by BOP staff in the time prior to his death. On one occasion, the report states that someone who was filling out a "Psychology Services Intake Screening" form for Epstein checked a box that said "No Sexual Offense Convictions" when in fact, Epstein had prior convictions relating to soliciting underage persons for prostitution. The report also says Epstein, who was White, was erroneously identified as a Black male. Furthermore, a review of prison records "revealed a number of incomplete entries" with regards to provisions and receipt of basic services such as recreation, medical records, showers, and meal consumption. The report states that there were several instances where it wasn't clear if Epstein ate, took a shower, or was offered recreation. Additionally, according to the report, a review of logbooks showed "significant discrepancies" from the approved procedural memorandum for the facility. The BOP report also states that the day before his death, Epstein terminated his legal visit early to place a phone call. He told BOP staffers he was calling his mother, but records show she has been dead since at least 2004.  CNN's Brian Vitagliano and Lauren del Valle contributed to this report. 
Jury finds Unite the Right defendants liable for more than $26 million in damages. Charlottesville, Virginia (CNN)A jury has awarded more than $26 million in damages after finding the White nationalists who organized and participated in a violent 2017 rally here liable on a state conspiracy claim and other claims.But the jury in the federal civil trial said Tuesday it could not reach a verdict on two federal conspiracy claims.The violence during the Unite the Right rally turned the Virginia city into another battleground in America's culture wars and highlighted growing polarization. It was also an event that empowered White supremacists and nationalists to demonstrate their beliefs in public rather than just online.Though the jury deadlocked on the two federal conspiracy claims, it slammed the defendants on the other claims with major awards to the plaintiffs, who included town residents and counterprotesters injured in the violence four years ago.Some of the most prominent figures of the alt-right -- Jason Kessler, Matthew Heimbach, Richard Spencer and Christopher Cantwell -- were among the defendants."We are thrilled that the jury has delivered a verdict in favor of our plaintiffs, finally giving them the justice they deserve after the horrific weekend of violence and intimidation in August 2017," plaintiffs' attorneys Roberta Kaplan and Karen Dunn said. "Today's verdict sends a loud and clear message that facts matter, the law matters, and that the laws of this this country will not tolerate the use of violence to deprive racial and religious minorities of the basic right we all share to live as free and equal citizens."One defense attorney called the verdict a win."It's a politically charged situation. It's going to be hard to get 11 people to agree," said attorney Joshua Smith, who represented three defendants. "I consider a hung jury to be a win, considering a disparity of resources."The events surrounding August 11-12, 2017, saw White nationalists and supremacists marching through Charlottesville and the University of Virginia campus chanting, "Jews will not replace us," "You will not replace us" and "Blood and soil," a phrase evoking Nazi philosophy on ethnic identity. The violence -- which enveloped the rally to protest the planned removal of a statue of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee -- reached a crescendo when James Alex Fields Jr., who was protesting the statue's removal, sped his car through a crowd of counterprotesters, injuring dozens and killing 32-year-old Heather Heyer. Half of the $24 million in punitive damages awarded were against Fields. In addition, the jury awarded punitive damages against Kessler, Spencer and Cantwell at $700,000 each, and Heimbach for $500,000.Despite the large jury award, there's the question of whether the plaintiffs will see much of that money. Fields is serving multiple life sentences. Some of the other defendants -- individuals and White supremacist organizations -- have indicated they are financially stressed."The defendants in the case are destitute, none of them have any money," Smith said. "I don't know how any of the plaintiffs are going to get anything for any of this." Attorneys for the plaintiffs said they intend to relitigate the two federal conspiracy charges.The first federal conspiracy claim was the most prominent against the defendants because it alleged the defendants conspired to commit racially motivated violence while the second alleged the defendants had knowledge of a conspiracy and failed to prevent it."We intend to get a verdict on those counts in the future," Kaplan said.Amy Spitalnick, executive director for Integrity First for America, the group that funded the suit, called the multimillion dollar decision a message."This verdict sends a very clear message that violent hate will not go unanswered," Spitalnick said. "There will be very serious consequences for the sort of extremist violence we saw here four years ago. And that's incredibly powerful, particularly at a moment when we know that extremism is on the rise, when democracy is under threat, and when there has been so little accountability."Millions in damages awardedA jury awarded the plaintiffs $11 million in punitive damages on a Virginia conspiracy claim. On that claim, each defendant is liable for $500,000 each. Five organizations are liable for $1 million each.The jury only awarded $7 to the plaintiffs in compensatory damages on the civil conspiracy claim.In general, compensatory damages compensate (or make whole) the injured party for their loss or injury. Punitive damages are considered punishment when the defendant's behavior is found to be particularly harmful, such as if the defendant intentionally engaged in willful misconduct.  For the claim that some defendants subjected plaintiffs to racial, religious or ethnic harassment, violence or vandalism, Kessler, Spencer, Cantwell, Elliott Kline and Robert "Azzmador" Ray were each found liable for punitive damages.Plaintiffs Natalie Romero and Devin Willis were awarded $250,000 each in compensatory damages.In the same claim, the jury also found Fields liable, but did not award any damages.It also found Fields liable for $12 million in punitive damages total for claims of assault or battery and intentional infliction of emotional distress.Jurors awarded $803,277 in compensatory damages to five plaintiffs for the assault or battery claim. On the other claim, the jury awarded $701,459 in compensatory damages.Fields didn't testify in the trial but was represented by an attorney.Lawsuit sought long-awaited consequencesA few criminal cases resulted from the events surrounding the rally -- including state and federal convictions of Fields, who is serving multiple life sentences for killing Heyer -- but there were no large-scale trials of organizers from the Justice Department under the Trump or Biden administrations.The civil lawsuit in federal court sought to impose consequences on those who planned the rally and Fields for the people he injured or traumatized when he ran his Dodge Challenger into the crowd. But even before the trial, the plaintiffs had won in some ways due to the national outrage over the violence. Richard Spencer stopped his public speaking tour and has called the case "financially crippling." Jeff Schoep and Heimbach renounced White supremacy and stopped organizing White power activity in public. Schoep gave the group he led for more than two decades, the National Socialist Movement, to a Black civil rights activist who died shortly thereafter. Identity Evropa, one of the groups named in the suit, rebranded under a new name twice before disbanding. CNN legal analyst Jeffrey Toobin said that even though the full verdict amounts likely won't be paid, the lawsuit will brings significant consequences. He compared the verdict with a decision in the 1980s in which a lawsuit by the Southern Poverty Law Center crippled the Ku Klux Klan."It is a significant verdict," Toobin said of Tuesday's decision. "It is important to realize as one of the defense attorneys said that these defendants don't have millions of dollars and they won't pay millions of dollars. But they will face consequences and they will face the prospect of having wages garnished, property taken."Fourteen people and 10 White supremacist and nationalist organizations were originally named in the lawsuit that prompted the trial, but a few were not involved in the verdicts because they didn't show up for court and were the subjects of default judgments. In closing arguments last week, attorneys representing the plaintiffs told the jury that the defendants prepared for the "Battle of Charlottesville" and messages sent between them and their actions after the violence were proof of a conspiracy. Defense attorneys and Spence and Cantwell, represented themselves countered that none of the plaintiffs had proven the defendants had organized racial violence. The case was Sines v. Kessler.CNN's Mark Morales reported from Charlottesville and Steve Almasy reported and wrote in Atlanta. CNN's Artemis Moshtaghian, Aaron Cooper, Aya Elamroussi and Amir Vera contributed to this report. 
Ohio jury finds pharmaceutical chains responsible in precedent-setting opioid suit.  (CNN Business)A jury in Ohio ruled Tuesday that three major pharmaceutical chains bore responsibility for the opioid epidemic in two Ohio counties.The civil case, brought in federal court against CVS (CVS), Walmart (WMT) and Walgreens, marks the first time pharmacies have been found responsible in the nationwide epidemic."It is a precedent setting case," Mark Lanier, the lead trial attorney for Lake and Trumbull Counties, told CNN Tuesday.Damages are set to be adjudicated in the spring. Lanier said that each county would be seeking over $1 billion in damages. Together, the counties represent some 440,000 Ohioans, according to court documents.The suit, which was initially filed in 2018, was part of the federal multi-district litigation created that year to address the manifold claims against opioid manufacturers and distributors.The counties alleged that the pharmacies "abused their position of special trust and responsibility" as registered dispensers of controlled drugs, and in so doing "fostered a black market for prescription opioids.""Prescription opioid pill mills and rogue prescribers cannot channel opioids for illicit use without at least the tacit support and willful blindness of the Defendants, if not their knowing support," the complaint read.In statements to CNN on Tuesday, all three pharmaceutical chains indicated that they would appeal the verdict."We are disappointed with the outcome of this trial. The facts and the law do not support the verdict. We believe the trial court committed significant legal errors in allowing the case to go before a jury on a flawed legal theory that is inconsistent with Ohio law," Fraser Engerman, a Walgreens spokesperson, told CNN."As we have said throughout this process, we never manufactured or marketed opioids nor did we distribute them to the 'pill mills' and internet pharmacies that fueled this crisis," Engerman added.In a statement, Walmart criticized the trial as "riddled with remarkable legal and factual mistakes.""Plaintiffs' attorneys sued Walmart in search of deep pockets while ignoring the real causes of the opioid crisis—such as pill mill doctors, illegal drugs, and regulators asleep at the switch—and they wrongly claimed pharmacists must second-guess doctors in a way the law never intended and many federal and state health regulators say interferes with the doctor-patient relationship," Walmart's statement read, in part. "As a pharmacy industry leader in the fight against the opioid crisis, Walmart is proud of our pharmacists, who are dedicated to helping patients in the face of a tangled web of conflicting federal and state opioid guidelines."CVS similarly defended its pharmacists in a statement."We strongly disagree with the decision," CVS spokesperson Mike DeAngelis said. "Pharmacists fill legal prescriptions written by DEA-licensed doctors who prescribe legal, FDA-approved substances to treat actual patients in need." "We're proud of the substantial work we've done to support our pharmacists in detecting illegitimate prescribing," he continued. "But the simple facts are that opioid prescriptions are written by doctors, not pharmacists; opioid medications are made and marketed by manufacturers, not pharmacists; and our health care system depends on pharmacists to fill legitimate prescriptions that doctors deem necessary for their patients."Counties reactThe verdict was happy news to officials in Lake and Trumbull counties, where damages are expected to fund opioid abatement measures."Today's verdict means a lot to Lake County, because it is a substantive step forward to real healing in this epidemic," Lake County Commissioner John Plecnik told CNN.  "On behalf of all Lake County families, we thank the jury for sending a powerful message to rebuke those responsible for overselling opioids." "This verdict will also mean greater resources to combat opioid addiction, which are desperately needed," Plecnik said. "I can't say this strongly enough, no one is immune to the impact of addiction and opioid abuse, and this is not just a victory for Lake and Trumbull, it is a victory for all Americans.""Truly, in Lake County, we have not had a corner of the county that has not been impacted by this epidemic," Kim Frasier, head of Lake County's department of Alcohol, Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services, said in a Tuesday afternoon press conference. "This verdict gives voice to those individuals and those families who have been so traumatized."April Caraway, head of Trumbull County's Mental Health and Recovery Board, echoed the sentiment."We appreciate some vindication," she said. "This was difficult, but we wanted to do it for the people who've lost people."Next stepsLanier told CNN that attorneys for both sides are still scheduling the damages phase, where Judge Dan Polster will put a dollar figure to the damages suffered by Lake and Trumbull counties. In the meantime, an appeal is expected in the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals.
NASA will launch mission to crash into a near-Earth asteroid to try to change its motion in space. Sign up for CNN's Wonder Theory science newsletter. Explore the universe with news on fascinating discoveries, scientific advancements and more. (CNN)A NASA spacecraft that will deliberately crash into an asteroid is preparing to launch this week. The DART mission, or the Double Asteroid Redirection Test, will lift off at 10:20 p.m. PT (1:20 a.m. ET) on November 23 aboard a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket from Vandenberg Space Force Base in California. Live coverage of the event will air on NASA TV and the agency's site.But the true test for this asteroid deflection technology will come in September 2022, when the spacecraft reaches its destination, to see how it impacts the motion of a near-Earth asteroid in space.The mission target is Dimorphos, a small moon orbiting the near-Earth asteroid Didymos. This will be the agency's first full-scale demonstration of this type of technology on behalf of planetary defense. It also will be the first time humans have altered the dynamics of a solar system body in a measurable way, according to the European Space Agency. Near-Earth objects are asteroids and comets with orbits that place them within 30 million miles (48 million kilometers) of Earth. Detecting the threat of near-Earth objects, or NEOs, that could potentially cause grave harm is a primary focus of NASA and other space organizations around the world.Asteroid Didymos and its moon DimorphosIn Greek, Didymos means "twin," which is a nod to how the asteroid -- nearly half a mile (0.8 kilometer) across -- forms a binary system with the smaller asteroid, or moon -- 525 feet (160 meters) in diameter -- that was discovered two decades ago. Kleomenis Tsiganis, a planetary scientist at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and a member of the DART team, suggested that the moon be named Dimorphos, which means "two forms."It's the perfect time for the DART mission to occur. Didymos and Dimorphos will be relatively close to Earth -- within 6,835,083 miles (11 million kilometers) -- in September 2022. The spacecraft will come speeding in at about 15,000 miles (24,140 kilometers) per hour, targeting Dimorphos, said Nancy Chabot, DART coordination lead at the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory in Laurel, Maryland.A camera on the spacecraft, called DRACO, and autonomous navigation software will help the spacecraft detect and collide with Dimorphos. DRACO is short for Didymos Reconnaissance & Asteroid Camera for OpNav.The mission's aim is to deliberately crash into Dimorphos to change the asteroid's motion in space, according to NASA. This collision will be recorded by LICIACube, or Light Italian Cubesat for Imaging of Asteroids, a companion cube satellite provided by the Italian Space Agency. It's the Italian Space Agency's first deep space mission. The briefcase-size CubeSat will travel on DART and then be deployed from it prior to impact so it can record what happens. Three minutes after the impact, the CubeSat will fly by Dimorphos to capture images and video.The video of the impact will be streamed back to Earth, which should be "pretty exciting," said Elena Adams, DART mission systems engineer at the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory."Astronomers will be able to compare observations from Earth-based telescopes before and after DART's kinetic impact to determine how much the orbital period of Dimorphos changed," said Tom Statler, DART program scientist at NASA Headquarters, in a statement. "That's the key measurement that will tell us how the asteroid responded to our deflection effort."A few years after the impact, the European Space Agency's Hera mission will conduct a follow-up investigation of Didymos and Dimorphos. While the DART mission was developed for NASA Planetary Defense Coordination Office and managed by the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, the mission team will work with the Hera mission team under an international collaboration known as the Asteroid Impact & Deflection Assessment, or AIDA. "DART is a first step in testing methods for hazardous asteroid deflection," said Andrea Riley, DART program executive at NASA Headquarters, in a statement. "Potentially hazardous asteroids are a global concern, and we are excited to be working with our Italian and European colleagues to collect the most accurate data possible from this kinetic impact deflection demonstration."A mission of firstsDimorphos was chosen for this mission because its size is relative to asteroids that could pose a threat to Earth, but the double asteroid system itself is not a threat to Earth. The spacecraft is about 100 times smaller than Dimorphos, so it won't obliterate the asteroid."This isn't going to destroy the asteroid, it's just going to give it a small nudge and deflect its path around the larger asteroid," Chabot said. This means there isn't a chance of changing the trajectory of the asteroid to make it more of a threat.The fast impact will only change Dimorphos' speed as it orbits Didymos by 1%, which doesn't sound like a lot -- but it will change the moon's orbital period by more than a minute. That change can be observed and measured from ground-based telescopes on Earth. Dimorphos completes an orbit around Didymos every 11 hours and 55 minutes. If the impact is successful, it will change that period by at least 73 seconds, said Andy Cheng, DART investigation team lead at the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Lab.Measuring the momentum transfer between the spacecraft and Dimorphos will show how much is needed to change the course of an asteroid."If one day an asteroid is discovered on a collision course with Earth, then we will have an idea how much momentum we need to make that asteroid miss the Earth," Cheng said. Planetary defense strategiesWhile there are currently no asteroids on a direct impact course with Earth, there is a large population of near-Earth asteroids -- more than 27,000 in all shapes and sizes."The key to planetary defense is finding them well before they are an impact threat," said Lindley Johnson, planetary defense officer at NASA Headquarters. "The principle with all of them is just to change the orbital speed of the asteroid just a small amount. Changing that speed of the asteroid in its orbit changes its orbit so in the future, it won't be in the same place it was going to be to impact the Earth."Three years after the impact, Hera will arrive to study Dimorphos in detail, measuring physical properties of the moon, studying the DART impact and the moon's orbit. This may sound like a long time to wait between the impact and follow-up, but it's based on lessons learned in the past. In July 2005, NASA's Deep Impact spacecraft launched a 815-pound (370-kilogram) copper impact into a comet, Tempel 1. But the spacecraft was not able to see the crater that resulted because the impact released tons of dust and ice. However, NASA's Stardust mission in 2011 was able to characterize the impact -- a 492-foot (150-meter) gash.Together, the valuable data collected by DART and Hera will contribute to planetary defense strategies, especially understanding what kind of force is needed to shift the orbit of a near-Earth asteroid that may collide with our planet. After analyzing the results of the mission, "this technique would be a part of a toolbox that we're starting to build of capabilities to deflect an asteroid," Johnson said.
15-year-old charged with attempted murder in connection with a shooting near a Colorado school that left six teens injured, police say.  (CNN)A 15-year-old boy has been arrested in connection with a shooting at a park in Aurora, Colorado, that left six teenagers recovering from gunshot wounds, police said Tuesday. The teen was charged with attempted first-degree murder, according to a news release from the Aurora Police Department. His identity isn't being released due to his age, police said.The shooting happened November 15 at Nome Park, near Aurora Central High School. The victims were a 14-year-old boy, a 15-year-old girl, a 16-year-old boy, a 16-year-old girl, a 17-year-old boy and an 18-year-old male, police said.Police Chief Vanessa Wilson said last week that investigators found shell casings from different caliber guns and witnesses said there were multiple suspicious vehicles."My understanding is it was a drive-by shooting, as well as there may have been people on foot," Wilson said.Two vehicles, a Chevrolet Tahoe and Chrysler 300, connected with the shooting have been located, police said Tuesday."The 15-year-old male was identified as the driver of the Chrysler 300," the police statement said.Police said at least two other people inside of Nome Park were shooting back at the vehicles."Detectives are actively working to identify those people, as well as all the others involved," the release said.School resource officers responded to shootingAfter the gunfire erupted, school resource officers from the nearby high school applied a tourniquet to two victims, one of whom went into surgery, police said last week.Aurora Central High School had more than 2,000 students as of 2019, according to the National Center for Education Statistics.The city of Aurora's website says Nome Park is 0.8 acres and features a playground and community garden.One witness who lives near the park told CNN affiliate KCNC he heard dozens of shots."It's sad to see young people just throwing their lives away for nothing," Henry Martinez said. "I'm sad about that. ... Heard like 30-50 shots. It was hard to count with them coming so fast like that, but at least 30."CNN's Jeremy Harlan, Sarah Moon and Steve Almasy contributed to this report.
Harris and Buttigieg could be allies instead of rivals. Lincoln Mitchell (@LincolnMitchell) teaches in the School of International and Public Affairs at Columbia University. His most recent book is "The Giants and Their City: Major League Baseball in San Francisco, 1976-1992." (Kent State University Press, 2020) The opinions expressed here are his own. View more opinion at CNN. (CNN)The next presidential election is three years away. Recent reports about early concern over whether President Joe Biden will run for reelection in 2024 and about tension between potential 2024 rivals, Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg and Vice President Kamala Harris are, to some extent, standard Washington gossip that can be safely ignored. Still, there may be something more than that.  Buttigieg is clearly very ambitious, ran an impressive presidential campaign in 2020 and has only strengthened his political skills since then. Harris, as the vice president, is a leading contender to be the face of the post-Joe Biden Democratic Party. Each may see the other as standing in their way as 2024 approaches. This is particularly important because the 79-year-old Biden, despite wisely sending signals that he will seek reelection in 2024, may decide that he doesn't want to run three years from now.If Biden does run, as an incumbent, he has an advantage. But if he chooses not to, that doesn't mean Democrats are doomed.A primary campaign between Harris and Buttigieg could pit two key Democratic constituencies against each other: African Americans, particularly African American women, and LGBTQ voters. The impact of that fight would be even worse if it began in 2023 and took over the second half of Biden's current term. Fortunately, this is a problem that can be easily solved without either politician having to give up anything lasting. Harris and Buttigieg instead could agree that, if Biden does not run again, they would run together in 2024, with Harris the nominee for president and Buttigieg for vice-president. This could put an end to whatever feuding exists between them now, while giving the Democratic Party a very strong ticket in 2024 that would seem like a natural continuation of Biden's first term. A Harris-Buttigieg ticket would showcase two dynamic politicians and represent the breadth and diversity of the Democratic Party, and indeed the whole country, while not veering too far left and alienating key swing voters who Biden won in 2020.This ticket would be balanced with regards to geography: Harris is unmistakably Californian while Buttigieg is from Indiana, and brings with him a deep understanding of the Midwest.  Harris would be 60 years old on Election Day 2024, while Buttigieg would be 42, so there would be generational balance there as well. Both nominees represent important Democratic Party constituencies -- Harris is an African American and Asian American woman, while Buttigieg is a gay man. This would help mobilize important parts of the Democratic base. However, both politicians are essentially moderates, so it would be hard for the Republican Party to effectively tar them as radicals, socialists or anything like that -- something they would undoubtedly try to do. During, and since, the 2020 election, the right wing has tried to paint Harris as being on the far left, but that attack never got much traction.A Harris-Buttigieg ticket would also have a fair amount of star power. Although Harris did very poorly when she ran for president in 2020, we have seen glimpses of what she can be,  including the first presidential debate of the primary season when she landed some very effective attacks on Biden. Later, during the vice-presidential debate, she more than held her own against a very polished Mike Pence. It's also visible in the easy and strong rapport she has with many voters. Buttigieg has shined in recent months, as well during the 2020 general election, due to his media skills, fast wit and sharp intellect.Not every faction of the Democratic coalition would be happy with this ticket. The left wing of the party has long viewed Buttigieg as too moderate and have been wary of Harris due to her work as San Francisco's district attorney and California's attorney general. These concerns are legitimate, but by the time they have served four years in the Biden's administration, what Harris did as DA almost 20 years earlier or as attorney general a decade ago will seem less relevant. Rather, the two will be seen as national leaders whose popularity will be tied to the Biden administration rather than anything they did before that. By taking the second spot on the ticket, Buttigieg would be putting his own presidential aspirations on hold, but he is so young that he would still have plenty of opportunities to run for president. One way to see this is that if Harris and Buttigieg ticket got elected in 2024 and reelected in 2028, Buttigieg would still be only 50 if he chose to run in 2032. Harris-Buttigieg could turn out to be a dream ticket for the Democrats while simultaneously avoiding a potentially damaging dynamic both within the administration and in a possible Democratic primary. However, a lot must happen between now and then to make it a reality. In addition to getting buy-in from both people directly involved, it is also important to avoid the appearance that a backroom deal is being made. This is something to which the progressive wing of the Democratic Party is particularly sensitive. The way to do this is to tamp down any speculation about a deal while at the same time bolstering Harris and making it clear to Buttigieg that the administration is not going to abandon the vice president in the face of media criticism. When Biden picked Kamala Harris as his running mate, he indicated that she was the future of the Democratic Party. It is natural that other politicians who see themselves as that future might chafe at that. Nonetheless, regardless of how she is viewed by many now, Harris will be a strong frontrunner to succeed Biden. The best way to ensure victory for the party may not be a drawn-out effort to nominate another flawed candidate, but to put together a balanced ticket with two rising Democratic Party stars. 
Monday Night Football: Tom Brady and the Bucs back to winning ways with victory over NY Giants.  (CNN)Tom Brady and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers returned to winning ways on Monday Night Football, beating the New York Giants 30-10 at Raymond James Stadium. Brady threw 307 passing yards and two touchdowns as the Bucs ended their two-game losing streak on Monday night, continuing the Giants' season of struggles. The 44-year-old also avoided losing three in a row for the first time since 2002. It was the 104th time in Brady's career that he's finished with over 300 passing yards. Only Drew Brees with 123 has more such games in NFL history.After the Tampa Bay's disappointing Week 10 loss to the Washington Football Team, Brady cut a frustrated character in his postgame press conference. However, on Monday night, the veteran quarterback looked much more content. "We played better," a smiling Brady said. "Better for all of us when we play better."He added: "We're at a decent point, but we can play a lot better than we've played. Hoping our best football is ahead of us."A 300-pound record-breaking eveningAfter two underwhelming performances, Monday night started much better for the Bucs. Brady connected with Chris Godwin for a 13-yard touchdown in the first quarter to give the home team the lead early on. However, the former New England Patriots quarterback's second quarter intercepted pass allowed New York to draw level. Giants quarterback Daniel Jones threw a touchdown to offensive lineman Andrew Thomas to tie the score at 10-10, but the Bucs turned the screw from there. Brady was almost flawless for the rest of the game, and the Tampa Bay defense stymied the Giants' offense.Jones was sacked twice and threw two interceptions to Steve McLendon and Mike Edwards while Ronald Jones ran in the third of Tampa Bay's touchdowns.For the first time in NFL history, a 300-pound player had a touchdown (Thomas) and a 300-pound player had an interception (McLendon) in the same game.It was a particularly momentous game for Bucs wide receiver Mike Evans, who -- when he caught a five-yard TD pass from Brady -- entered himself into the team's history books. It was Evans' 72nd touchdown for the franchise, breaking the previous record for the most Bucs touchdowns of 71 set by Mike Alstott. Evans can add the record to his ever-growing resume of Tampa Bay all-time records. He already holds Bucs franchise records for receptions, receiving yards, touchdown catches and 100-yard receiving games. Visit CNN.com/sport for more news, features, and videosHe also has the single-season records for receiving yards and touchdown catches and is tied for the most overall touchdowns in a single season.He's now got 10 touchdowns on the year, the fourth time in eight NFL seasons he's reached double digits in that category. "He's amazing in every way, as a player, teammate, friend, leader," said Brady of Evans. "I love being out there with him, I love playing with him. He really sets the tone for that group. He had a great night."
Pentagon announces plans to streamline UFO reports and analysis.  (CNN)The Department of Defense announced its plans to streamline the collection and analysis of UFO reports across the government Tuesday, following the government's acknowledgment earlier this year that these reports are worth studying and may pose a national security threat.The department will create a unified group to handle the reports of UFOs, formally known as Unidentified Aerial Phenomena (UAPs), across the military branches and other government agencies. In June, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence released its long-awaited report, which examined 144 cases of UAP sightings, only one of which investigators were able to explain, though they did say they found no evidence that the sightings were either extraterrestrial life or major technological advancements from Russia or China. The issue of UAPs has fueled years of Washington infighting, including bureaucratic battles within the Pentagon and pressure from Congress, about how seriously to treat the reports.But the release of the report was an indication that the US government was finally taking seriously what for so long was considered a fringe issue. The Navy led the UAP Task Force, but no other service had a similar effort to catalogue and analyze sightings of UFOs. Most of the 144 sightings covered in the ODNI report were recorded by Navy pilots.Following the release of the report, Hicks instructed the under secretary of defense for intelligence and security to develop a plan to deal more seriously and thoroughly with UAP sightings. The new unified group, called the Airborne Object Identification and Management Synchronization Group (AOIMSG), will standardize the process for reporting UAP incidents, as well as "identifying and reducing gaps in operational and intelligence detection capabilities; collecting and analyzing operation, intelligence, and counterintelligence data; recommending policy, regulatory or statutory changes as appropriate; identifying approaches to prevent or mitigate any risks posed by airborne objects of interest; and other activities as deemed necessary by the Director," Deputy Defense Secretary Kathleen Hicks wrote in a memo.The newly created AOIMSG, led by a director, will now take over the work of the Navy's UAP Task Force as the Defense Department works to get a better grasp on what's behind the UFO sightings and how much of a threat they could pose to national security. The work of the AOIMSG will be overseen by an executive council.
Tori Spelling explains why husband Dean McDermott not in family Christmas photo .  (CNN)Dean McDermott didn't make his family's holiday card photo shoot.His wife, actress Tori Spelling, shared the card on her Instagram Monday and explained why.The photo showed her and the couple's five children."It's that time again," the caption on the photo began. "And it's a winter wonderland at my house!"It was noted in the comments that her husband was absent, further fueling reported speculation that the pair have hit a rough patch in their marriage, which was amplified in June when she shared during a SiriusXM interview that they were sleeping in separate beds. But Spelling had a simple explanation for her husband not joining her and their kids Liam, 14, Stella, 13, Hattie, 9, Finn, 8, and 4-year-old Beau."Fact: @imdeanmcdermott was filming his new feature film in Canada," she wrote in the comments in response to one of her followers.The couple, who met on set of the Lifetime film "Mind Over Murder" in 2005, have been married since 2006. 
Mammoth tusk recovered from an unlikely place: the bottom of the ocean.  (CNN)Mammoths are long to be known as ancient land dwellers, so scientists were shocked to find remains from the animal at the bottom of the ocean. Pilot Randy Prickett and scientist Steven Haddock, researchers with Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute (MBARI), discovered a Columbian mammoth tusk 185 miles offshore and 10,000 feet deep in the ocean in 2019, the institution said in a news release.At the time they were only able to collect a small piece of the tusk, so they returned in July 2021 to get the complete sample. "You start to 'expect the unexpected' when exploring the deep sea, but I'm still stunned that we came upon the ancient tusk of a mammoth," said Haddock. "Our work examining this exciting discovery is just beginning and we look forward to sharing more information in the future."University of Michigan paleontologist Daniel Fisher, who specializes in the study of mammoths and mastodons, said it is unlike anything he has ever seen. "Other mammoths have been retrieved from the ocean, but generally not from depths of more than a few tens of meters," Fisher said. A variety of research facilities are examining the tusk to determine a variety of information about it including the age of the animal at its death, the release said. The researchers said the cold, high pressure environment helped to preserve the tusk, so it can be studied in greater detail. The scientists believe it could be the oldest well-preserved mammoth tusk recovered from this region of North America, and the UCSC Geochronology Lab estimates it is more than 100,000 years old after analyzing the radioisotopes. Researchers hope the data collected can not only tell them more about the mammoth they found, but the species in general. "Specimens like this present a rare opportunity to paint a picture both of an animal that used to be alive and of the environment in which it lived," said Beth Shapiro, lead researcher at the UCSC Paleogenomics Lab."Mammoth remains from continental North America are particularly rare, and so we expect that DNA from this tusk will go far to refine what we know about mammoths in this part of the world."
Priyanka Chopra Jonas isn't acting like she and Nick Jonas are having problems .  (CNN)Someone apparently forgot to tell Priyanka Chopra Jonas that there's speculation she and Nick Jonas are having marital issues.It all started when the actress/producer dropped "Jonas" from her name on her Instagram and Twitter accounts.That began chatter that the star couple may have split.But then on Monday Nick Jonas posted a video on his Instagram account showing him working out with some weights as he did bicep curls.His wife had quite the reaction."Damn! I just died in your arms..." she wrote in the comments, along with three emoticons including a face with heart eyes.The couple married in 2018. 
'Hellbound' is the new 'Squid Game'.  (CNN)South Korean dramas are killing it this year.And we aren't even talking about the deaths that are happening on screen."Hellbound" is the latest Netflix Korean drama to captivate audiences.The dark fantasy is "a story about otherworldly beings who appear out of nowhere to issue a decree and condemn individuals to hell," according to Netflix."These supernatural events cause great mayhem and enable the religious group The New Truth to grow in influence," the description goes on to read. "A few people, however, become suspicious about its activities and begin investigating its involvement in mysterious events."Netflix had a huge global hit earlier this year with "Squid Game."That series centers around contestants who are deeply in debt that play children's games in order to win a ton of cash. Losers forfeit their lives. In October, Netflix told CNN the drama was its "biggest-ever series at launch" and  viewed by 111 million accounts since debuting on September 17."Squid Game" creator Hwang Dong-hyuk has confirmed that a second season is coming. 
The surprising reason why Ocean Spray cranberry sauce labels are upside-down. New York (CNN Business)Perhaps one of the greatest mysteries of Thanksgiving is the cranberry sauce — and we're not talking about why people eat it: Why are the labels on Ocean Spray cans upside down?Observant consumers have noticed that the labels on jellied cranberry sauce cans are flipped, meaning the rounded edge that's typically on the bottom of most canned goods is on top of Ocean Spray cranberry sauce cans. According to Ocean Spray, that's intentional: It creates a seamless serving experience. The cans are "filled and labeled upside down with the rounded edge on top and the sharp can-like edge on the bottom to keep the jelly whole," an Ocean Spray spokesperson told CNN Business. That creates an air bubble on the rounded side (a.k.a. the top) so customers can "can swipe the edge of the can with a knife to break the vacuum and the log will easily slide out."This process has been in use since the early 2000s. Adweek, which recently reported this important can caveat, noted that about 67 million cans are sold between Thanksgiving and Christmas. But like other Thanksgiving meal staples, canned cranberry sauce might be hard to come by. The sauce has 79% availability across national retailers,  which is down from 89% in that same period, according to IRI, a market research firm that tracks US retail sales.Ocean Spray, a farmer co-operative that makes cranberry sauce and sells bagged cranberries, said that "consumers may experience some availability issues at times on a variety of cranberry products," because of supply chain issues. The co-op noted that it doesn't expect "significant impacts" on the availability of its products.-- CNN Business' Danielle Wiener-Bronner contributed to this report.
Target's bold holiday move is a win for us all. Kara Alaimo, an associate professor of public relations at Hofstra University, is the author of "Pitch, Tweet, or Engage on the Street: How to Practice Global Public Relations and Strategic Communication." She was spokeswoman for international affairs in the Treasury Department during the Obama administration. Follow her on Twitter @karaalaimo. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. View more opinion at CNN. (CNN)Every retailer in the nation should take note of Target's bold announcement this week that it will never again open its stores on Thanksgiving.The company's chief executive, Brian Cornell, said he made the decision after employees told him they wanted to spend the holiday with their families -- which is, of course, exactly where they should be.The move to prioritize the well-being of Target's staffers sends a powerful message about the company's values at a time when Americans are rethinking our approaches to work. And, whether customers realize it or not, this benefits them, too. Other companies would be smart to follow suit.In September, 4.4 million Americans quit their jobs -- a jaw-dropping record that starkly indicates how the pandemic has prompted Americans to think more deeply about what they value most. The mass exodus, which many are calling the Great Resignation, reflects the country's newfound recognition that there is more to life than work (or overwork).Though being closed to customers doesn't necessarily mean some employees won't be working, Target's announcement still sends a strong public signal that the company is getting the message. The new policy is also shrewd. At a time when many employers are struggling to find and retain workers, it will likely give Target an edge in the hiring wars. Retail workers are traditionally overworked during the crush of consumer demand during the holiday season, and perhaps are even enticed to pick up extra shifts to pay for the holiday festivities of their own families. Of course, to do so means these workers have to sacrifice what they should be able to put above all else: Time with their loved ones, and rest and care for themselves. As a person whose spouse frequently has to work on major holidays, I can attest to the fact that it takes a real toll on a family not to be able to spend time together on important occasions. This year, my husband is off for Thanksgiving, but it's a tradeoff for other major holidays. He won't be around to put out cookies for Santa with our toddler on Christmas Eve, or to watch our baby open presents on her first Christmas morning. These are moments you don't ever get back.In my family, these sacrifices are worth it because my husband's work protects public health. As an emergency room doctor, when he's not with us he's often saving people's lives. The same goes for police officers, firefighters, EMS and other essential workers who we all rely on to keep us safe, even on special days -- and to whom we owe a debt of gratitude.But there's absolutely no excuse for nonessential employees to be forced to work on major holidays so that people can buy consumer goods.Americans who are desperate to shop on Thanksgiving can still do so online -- or they can buy their products in person before or after the national holiday. But Target's decision, in addition to sending a message to the business community, also carries a social meaning: it subtly encourages people to focus on the things that really matter, like the people in our lives, instead of consumer culture.That's also a very good thing for our country. Research shows that what makes us truly happy is close relationships with other people -- not the latest fashions or doorbuster bargains -- and that's exactly what we all should have the ability to seek on Thanksgiving.Ultimately, this policy stands to be good for Target's employees, its consumers and its bottom line. This decision burnishes the company's reputation as an organization that puts people before profits, and research consistently shows that consumers prefer to patronize companies that have a positive social impact. This is why other retailers and companies which don't absolutely have to be open on major holidays should quickly announce similar policies.      Thanksgiving is a time when we're all prompted to think about what really matters. It's refreshing to see a company do this, too. And if other companies follow Target's lead, prioritizing rest and personal time when it can mean the most, Americans will have something more to be grateful for this year.
Stores are closing on Thanksgiving, but thousands of retail staff are still working. New York (CNN Business)Store workers at major US chains are getting to spend Thanksgiving at home as more retailers decide to close their doors for the holiday. But not all retail staff will get the day off.Target (TGT) said Monday that it will close all of its stores on Thanksgiving every year from now on, a move that may prompt rivals to follow suit — and make shopping in stores on Thanksgiving obsolete.In 2020, many other chains closed stores on Thanksgiving for the first time, including Walmart (WMT), Best Buy (BBY) and Dick's Sporting Goods (DKS). These companies will again close stores on the holiday this year, although none have made permanent changes to their Thanksgiving policies going forward. Some companies, such as Costco (COST) and Home Depot (HD), have closed stores on Thanksgiving for years.Home for ThanksgivingThat doesn't mean stores and warehouses will be completely empty Thursday. Black Friday is quickly approaching, and retailers need workers to prepare for the biggest shopping day of the year.A small percentage of Target's workforce, such as supply chain and service center workers, will still work on Thanksgiving, said a spokesperson for the company.Target said it worked with employees to understand their scheduling preference early in the season, and employees who work on Thanksgiving will receive extra pay. Most Target stores will reopen at 7 a.m. local time on Black Friday.Staying open on Thanksgiving had been a source of tension between retailers and labor advocates in the past, especially as many retailers opened their doors on the holiday to try to get a jump on Black Friday.Labor advocates have argued that workers should be at home with their families on Thanksgiving instead.Over the last several years, public pressure on retailers to close on Thanksgiving has faded. Workers' rights groups have instead focused on broader issues such as the minimum wage, benefits and schedules.Some states, including Massachusetts, Maine and Rhode Island, have prohibited big-box stores from opening on Thanksgiving. A California legislator proposed a law in 2016 that would have required some companies to pay employees double for working on Thanksgiving, but it did not pass.Why closing on Thanksgiving won't hurt retailersThe holiday period used to be marked by a few key days — Black Friday being the biggest. Stores would use the occasions to rack up most of their holiday sales. But with the growth of online shopping, retailers aren't as reliant on holidays to drive sales anymore.Retailers also don't want everyone buying at the same time. So, in recent years, they have started their deals and events earlier and spread them out across the season — helping avoid a crush of demand, which can strain their stores and delivery networks.This year, stores moved up their deals earlier than ever to get in front of supply chain snafus and limit empty shelves. The extended shopping season means that stores can close on Thanksgiving without much of an impact on sales.Staying open on Thanksgiving may not make much business sense either. Some retailers have found that keeping stores open on the holiday takes away from sales on Black Friday and over the long weekend.
The most infamous balloon mishaps from the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade.  (CNN)You know what they say, the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade is all fun and games until one of the balloons goes down. Since the parade started marching balloons around Manhattan in 1927, the massive floating figures have occasionally come untethered, blown clear away, or been punctured, stabbed, deflated and subjected to all sorts of ignominy. While most of the balloon incidents are at least a little humorous (the hubris of man, to create such beasts!), a small handful of accidents have ended with people being seriously injured. Some of those cases have led the parade's organizers to change the rules regarding their most beloved -- and problematic -- parade participants. After all, a deflated Kermit here and there is just the way the parade floats, but there's nothing festive about people getting hurt. 1927: Felix is released to the giant cat motel in the skyImagine you're a parade-goer in 1927. There was no TV, no Disney World, and the Empire State Building wouldn't be constructed for another few years. Seeing the parade's first balloon, a giant and not at all spooky Felix the Cat, was probably big stuff. It all went swimmingly until it came time to deflate the dang thing. Apparently everyone had gotten so caught up in getting the cat in the air, they hadn't given much thought to, you know, getting it down and flat again. So, the balloon's handlers just kinda...let it go. Like a pie-eyed feline Icarus, dear Felix flew too close to the sun, and popped. 1956: Oh, how the Mighty Mouse has fallen Even the more routine balloon deflation always carry a bit of dramatic zeal. Take the fall of the Mighty Mouse balloon in 1956. It was a tale as old as time: Balloon meets street sign, street sign wins, balloon crumples helplessly to the ground. This one's just funny well, because, it's Mighty Mouse! He's supposed to fly! And be mighty! And yet, that day, he accomplished neither. 1957: Popeye hates you Popeye the Sailor Man has always been known for his coarse manner. True to form, in 1957 the Popeye balloon had  had all that he could stand, and couldn't stands no more. As a chilly rain blanketed the city, it collected in the top of Popeye's iconic sailor's cap. One tight turn was all it took for it to tip and dump gallons of water on unsuspecting spectators. Ah-gahgahgahgahgah!1991: Kermit the Frog is scarred for life Life was hard for the first Kermit balloon. In 1985, the frog was eviscerated after crashing into some trees, but managed to survive the rest of the parade. The more crippling blow came in 1991, when it lost in another encounter with a tree, which left is head deflated in a decidedly un-festive way. The balloon was never the same, and was retired shortly afterward. A new, improved and tree-resistant version was debuted in 2002. It did some journeyman work for the parade, retiring after two years and then returning for a few years starting in 2007, but things were never the same. The poor frog's balloon spirit had simply seen too much. 1997: The bad one If it is possible for every worst-case scenario to happen at once, the 1997 Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade came really close. During the parade, high winds caused the the Cat in the Hat balloon to strike a lamppost, and part of the post came crashing down on the head of a bystander. The woman suffered serious injuries and was in a coma for a month. On high alert, police at the parade reined in, stabbed and stomped down the Barney and Pink Panther balloons to make sure they couldn't do any more damage. The incident caused parade officials to change requirements for the balloons, banning the super large and unwieldy ones. It also gave everyone a wake-up call about wind. That's why, if you ever hear chatter about the balloons being grounded due to high winds, you shouldn't groan in disappointment. It could be much, much worse if they're allowed to fly. 
Holiday travel is always a nightmare, but this year will be worse. New York (CNN Business)The holiday travel season is off to a relatively smooth start, with good weather and few canceled flights. But many in the industry are worried that luck won't hold all the way until the holiday season ends just after New Year's. Major US airlines are operating with fewer pilots and flight attendants than they were before the pandemic. With domestic airline bookings nearly back to normal, airlines are trying to do more with less this holiday season.Service meltdowns in October at Southwest Airlines and American demonstrate what happens when schedules get disrupted without the staffing levels needed to rapidly recover from canceled flights. Problems quickly cascade, resulting in hundreds of additional cancellations."I do think all of the airlines are stretched thin," said Casey Murray, president of the Southwest Airlines Pilots Association. "A major blizzard or event could cause prolonged delays and cancellations."And anyone who has their flight canceled is going to run into problems finding an alternative way to get where they're going."If there are issues, reaccommodating people whose flights are canceled will be tough. The planes are very full," said Savi Syth, airline analyst at Raymond James.Staffing shortagesThe airlines that have experienced recent service disruptions admitted they didn't have enough staff to deal with the problems.Bob Jordan, who is set to become CEO of Southwest early next year, told investors last month that weather and air traffic control issues caused "a significant number of crews and aircraft to be out of position and then that took several days to recover.""We inconvenienced thousands of customers and we further challenged our stellar employees," he said. "And I just want to apologize to both our customers and our employees."Jordan said Southwest is making additional trims to its schedule to make sure that doesn't happen again.When air traffic ground to a near halt during the early months of the pandemic, all the airlines used early retirement packages and buyouts to reduce staff voluntarily. All are scrambling to staff up now, but it takes time to hire, train and certify pilots and flight attendants, so much of the current hiring is being done with an eye toward next summer's travel season — not this fall and winter — said Syth.All the airlines say they're prepared to deal with disruptions caused by weather or other issues like air traffic control snafus."To ensure we're providing certainty for both our customers and team members, we're doubling down on our efforts related to our schedule and staffing," said David Seymour, American's chief operating officer, in a note to the airline's staff. "On the scheduling front, we've ensured that our November and December are built to meet customers demand and that they are fully supportable by our staffing."But Dennis Tajer, spokesman for the Allied Pilots Association, the pilots union at American and an active pilot himself, said he's concerned that American is stretching its staffing too thin."We want to fly these flights. But the evidence from earlier this year shows what happens when things don't go as planned," he said. "They're building the schedule right to the maximum number of flights possible and it provides no flexibility for when things go wrong. Airplanes don't fly on hope." Southwest is trying to operate its current schedule with about 15% fewer pilots than it had before the pandemic, according to Murray, even though the number of flights hasn't been trimmed by nearly that much. That leaves much less ability to recover when issues do crop up.Fewer flightsOverall the number of domestic flights planned from last weekend to just after New Year's Day is down 12% compared to the same period in 2019, according to data from Cirium, an  airline data tracking service. Among the big four US airlines that handle about 80% of air traffic, Southwest and American have the most aggressive schedules compared to their pre-pandemic levels. The number of flights is down just 10% at Southwest and 9% at American, while Delta and United are both down more than 13% compared to 2019.Executives at United and Delta say their more limited schedule should allow them to avoid the service issues experienced at Southwest and American earlier this fall."If we wanted to be bigger than we are, quite honestly we couldn't be. We could be a little bit, maybe, but not much bigger without risking the operational performance issues like you've seen at some of [the] other carriers," Delta president Glen Hauenstein told investors last month. "So we want to stay where we're confident that we can actually fly the schedules that we put out there.""Our North Star in this recovery is making sure we do the right thing for customers and if that means sacrificing some possible short-term profits to ensure a reliable operation, then so be it," said United CEO Scott Kirby in a letter to customers explaining his airline's reduced schedule.Murray, the head of the Southwest pilots union, says his airline has made changes in its operations since the service meltdown in October that resulted in 2,000 flights being canceled over a weekend, and tens of thousands of stranded passengers. "I'm not as gravely concerned as I was throughout the summer," he said.
Breakfast is going to be more expensive next year. New York (CNN Business)Expect to pay more for some of your favorite cereals, snacks, soups and cooking brands next year.General Mills (GIS) notified retail customers that it's raising prices in mid-January on hundreds of items across dozens of brands. They include Annie's, Progresso, Yoplait, Fruit Roll-Ups, Betty Crocker, Pillsbury, Cheerios, Cinnamon Toast Crunch, Lucky Charm's, Wheaties, Reese's Puffs, Trix and more, according to letters General Mills sent to at least one major regional wholesale supplier last week. For some items, prices will go up by around 20% beginning next year.The wholesaler shared General Mills' letters with CNN Business on the condition of anonymity to protect the company's relationship with its suppliers. A leader at the company said it plans to push along all of the increases to its grocery and convenience store customers. He expects they will then pass them down to shoppers.A spokesperson for General Mills did not provide a comment for this story.If more General Mills' customers — including the leading big box stores, supermarkets, drug stores and other chains in the United States — decide to do the same, these familiar brands will get more expensive for shoppers.General Mills' plans are the latest evidence that rising prices won't be going away anytime soon for some of the most recognizable food and household brands. The company is the latest consumer manufacturer to announce price hikes beginning next year, joining Tyson (TSN), Kraft Heinz (KHC), Mondelez (MDLZ), Procter & Gamble (PG), Kimberly Clark (KMB) and others.Rising pricesGrocery prices have increased sharply during the pandemic, after stagnating from 2015 through 2019. Prices climbed 1% in October from September and were 5.4% higher than at the same time last year, according to the latest data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.Inflation on food, beverages and household basics will climb to 8% during the first half of 2022 before settling at 4% during the latter half of the year, projects IRI, a market research firm. IRI tracks prices, point-of-sale and volume data, promotions and trends at big-box stores, wholesale clubs, supermarkets, pharmacies and other consumer channels. Food manufacturers and grocery chains have faced higher costs for commodities, labor, transportation and other expenses during the pandemic. Those costs have escalated in recent months, prompting them to raise prices to minimize the impact.The producer-price index, which measures the price manufacturers receive for their goods and services, jumped 0.6% last month from September and rose 8.6% annually.General Mills said in the letters that it was responding to higher materials and labor costs. "The current operating environment is as dynamic as we've experienced in at least a decade, resulting in significant input cost inflation, labor shortages, and challenges servicing the business," General Mills said. General Mills said in September that it expects its input cost inflation to be 7% to 8% for its 2022 fiscal year.Uneven impactRising inflation does not impact all shoppers equally. "Inflation has been more painful for lower-income households," Bank of America economists said in a research report last week. That's because they are more exposed to the goods that are seeing prices rise the fastest, such as gas and rent, and they save less than higher-income groups. Some grocery chains are raising prices more quickly than competitors, depending on how much flexibility they have to handle higher costs. Walmart (WMT), the largest grocer in the United States, said its price gaps with competitors are wider than they were before the pandemic because the company is absorbing some costs instead of passing them on. Walmart accounted for 29% of General Mills' sales last year.
Tiffany is selling its most expensive piece of jewelry ever. New York (CNN Business)Tiffany & Co. just unveiled its newest most-expensive bling ever."The World's Fair Necklace," unveiled in Dubai on Sunday, features a stunning 180 carats of diamonds set in platinum. Its centerpiece is an 80-carat oval, flawless, D-color (highest grade and virtually colorless) "Empire Diamond," named for the iconic jeweler's hometown. The Empire Diamond was ethically sourced in Botswana, cut and polished in Israel and set in Tiffany's workshop in New York City.Tiffany (TIF) said the necklace is its most expensive piece ever created.The good news for jewelry lovers with deep pockets is that this necklace is available for sale — unlike Tiffany's famous 128.54 carat "Tiffany Diamond," which Tiffany said is priceless and not for purchase.The luxury retailer has not yet put a price on The World's Fair Necklace, but industry experts estimate its value to be between $20 million and $30 million.Tiffany's diamond jewelry is famous for adorning celebrities over the decades, from Audrey Hepburn to Beyoncé Knowles. Beyoncé made fashion history as the first Black woman to wear the iconic 128.54 carat Tiffany Diamond for Tiffany's new "About Love" campaign.The retailer said the design for The World's Fair Necklace is inspired by a Tiffany necklace made for the 1939 World's Fair held in Queens' Flushing Meadow-Corona Park. That design featured a 200-carat aquamarine stone and more than 400 diamonds. The reimagined World's Fair necklace can be worn in an unexpected way: The wearer can carefully pop out the Empire Diamond and mount it onto a platinum ring, with the aid of a Tiffany jeweler who will be on call whenever that service is required. Naturally.
