'The only word I know to call it is hell': Turpin sisters share the details of their family's house of horror .  (CNN)Jordan Turpin was 17 years old when she found herself crawling out of a window of her family's home, hoping to save the lives of her 12 siblings.For two years, she had been planning her escape after decades of unspeakable emotional and physical violence inflicted by her parents in their Perris, California home. Equipped with nothing but an old cellphone she found in the house, Jordan ran out and called 911."I was always terrified that if I called the cops or tried to escape, I would get caught, and then I knew I would die if I got caught," Jordan, now 21, told ABC News' Diane Sawyer in an exclusive interview Friday. "But at the end, when I saw all my younger siblings, I knew that's what I had to do."During the chilling 911 call, she told police the house the family lived in smelled so badly that she could barely breathe, and she thought she and her siblings might need to go to the doctor. When the first police officer arrived, she immediately showed him the phone, full of photos and videos she took of herself and her siblings to prove the abuse.Her bold getaway in January 2018 led to the discovery of her siblings and uncovered what Riverside County District Attorney Mike Hestrin described as one of the "worst, most aggravated child abuse cases" he has ever seen. Some of the siblings, who ranged in age from 2 to 29, had been found shackled to beds with chains and padlocks. A few of the adults were so malnourished, they looked like young teenagers.That morning, Jordan sat in the back of a police car and watched as her parents, David and Louise Turpin, were arrested. The pair were each sentenced to 25 years to life in prison after pleading guilty to 14 charges of torture, adult abuse, child endangerment, false imprisonment and more. Their first glimpses of freedomWhen police arrived at the Turpin home and declared they were conducting a welfare check, it didn't take long for them to recognize the magnitude of the children's horrifying reality.They discovered a home reeking of human excrement, decaying garbage, and molding food, with every surface covered in trash, ABC News reported in the 20/20 program titled, "Escape From A House Of Horror." The children were found quietly sitting in filthy beds, limp, frail, caked in dirt, their arms covered in bruises.One child was found with his wrist and ankle chained to the bedpost; he had been in that state for weeks. Bodycam footage from that day show the heavy chains used on the children."'The only word I know to call it is hell," said Jennifer Turpin, the eldest of the children.The 13 Turpin kids were taken to a hospital, where their nurses and doctors began treating them for a long list of issues. Some were so emaciated they could barely walk, others suffered from heart damage due to a lack of nutrients. One preteen's arm was the size of a 4.5 month old baby, according to ABC.The children had limited language skills and knew little about the outside world.Besides suffering severe caloric malnutrition associated with muscle wasting, several had cognitive impairment and "neuropathy, which is nerve damage, as a result of this extreme and prolonged physical abuse," Hestrin said.The first thing Jennifer Turpin did to celebrate was dance in the middle of her hospital room."Music was playing, I got up," Jennifer, now 33, told Sawyer. "I made sure there was a little bit of a floor cleared out and I danced."There was also an exhilarating visit to a playground."I was so excited because I could smell the air, I could smell the grass. I was like, 'How could heaven be better than this'?" Jordan said. "Oh my gosh, this is so free, like, this is life.""If something happened to me, at least I died trying"The parents had starved their 13 children, shackling them with padlocks and taunting them with pies left on the counter of their home, authorities said. None of them had seen a doctor in more than four years, and none of them had ever visited a dentist.Usually, their only diet consisted of just peanut butter sandwiches, the sisters told Sawyer. On rare occasions, they were given frozen foods. And if they were still hungry and got caught trying to eat anything else, they were viciously punished.Sometimes the children were left so hungry, they ate packets of ketchup and ice cubes."When you have parents abusing their kids to this level, and they're their own flesh and blood, it begs this question 'How can any sane person do this?'" Hestrin said on the ABC News special. "And the truth of the matter is sane people commit evil acts all the time."The day before Jordan's escape, she said she overheard her parents saying they were moving the family to Oklahoma. If they moved, Jordan said, there was "a big chance" some of them would have died."That was my only chance," she continued. "I think it was us coming so close to death so many times. If something happened to me, at least I died trying."Jordan recalled when she first began considering what her life could be like if only she weren't trapped. It was because of singer Justin Bieber, she says, whose music and interviews spoke out to her.While her favorite Bieber songs are "As Long As You Love Me," "Boyfriend," and "Baby," it wasn't only his music that inspired her to take action."I started realizing that there's a different world out there," Jordan said. She enjoyed watching his interviews, learning new words from him while realizing the things they had in common. But one day, her mom caught her secretly watching a Bieber video and choked her."I thought I was going to die that day," Jordan said. "After that whole day happened, I kept having nightmares that she was killing me."Free, but still neglected Despite overcoming a life many could not even begin to imagine, the Turpin children aren't completely safe yet.ABC reported that a few of the Turpin children were placed with a foster family that was arrested and charged with abusing multiple children in their care, including at least one Turpin child.Another Turpin child who is now an adult was placed in a home where her foster parent told her she understood why her parents would chain her up."They felt betrayed," Melissa Donaldson, the Director of Victim Services in Riverside County, told the show. "Did we see kids having to not have a safe place to live or stay at times? Yes. Did they have enough food at times? They did not.""We have to fix it. You would think that this is the time to really get it together and do everything we can, and we didn't do it that way," she continued.At times, some of the Turpin children didn't have access to housing, and relied on couch surfing for shelter, Donaldson said, adding that they also went to churches to get food."I don't really have a way to get food right now," Jordan said. It began when she was released from the extended foster care system in July, without any help with food, healthcare, or housing, ABC reported.Unfortunately, her sister isn't in a much better position."Well, where I live is not the best area," Jennifer said.Despite receiving $600,000 from generous strangers across the country, the Turpin children have had difficulty accessing the money, and questions as to why have gone unanswered by county officials who cited court-ordered secrecy, ABC reported."They're living in squalor. They're living in crime-ridden neighborhoods. There's money for their education, they can't access it," Hestrin said."They have been victimized again by the system, and that's unimaginable to me that we could have the very worst case of child abuse that I've ever seen, maybe one of the worst in California history, and that we would then not be able to get it together to give them basic needs, basic necessities," he added.
Recall announced for certain onions due to Salmonella outbreak.  (CNN)The US Food and Drug Administration along with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention are advising consumers to avoid purchasing certain onions due to a Salmonella outbreak reported in 38 states and Puerto Rico, according to a CDC news release. Multiple companies have recalled whole yellow, red, and white onions due to potential risk of Salmonella, all of which were "supplied by ProSource Produce LLC and Keeler Family Farms and imported from the State of Chihuahua, Mexico, between July 1, 2021, and August 31, 2021," the CDC says. The FDA listed some of Green Giant Fresh's whole yellow and white onions, as well as onions in certain meal kits from EveryPlate and HelloFresh as those being recalled due to potential contamination.Three- and five-pound bags of onions from Alsum Farms & Produce Inc, Potandon Produce LLC, and Pier-C Produce imported from Chihuahua, Mexico, which were distributed between July and August are also part of the recall, according to the FDA. The CDC reported at least 892 illnesses and 183 hospitalizations connected to the Salmonella outbreak.
CVS had every advantage, but it lost the pandemic. Here's what happened. New York (CNN Business)CVS' announcement Thursday that it will close 900 stores over the next three years — around 10% of its pharmacies — may have caught some shoppers off guard.Isn't CVS doing really well right now? Haven't lots of people gone to drug stores during the pandemic to stock up on hand sanitizer, cleaning wipes and toilet paper? What about all those Covid-19 vaccine shots CVS gives out?Actually, CVS' closures shouldn't come as a surprise. They are the latest moves in the long-running contraction of the US retail pharmacy sector. CVS (CVS), Walgreens (WBA) and Rite Aid (RAD) have been shuttering stores for years, while independent pharmacies have come under pressure from chains. Drug store closures can hurt local communities, creating access gaps for medications and essentials.CVS, the largest drug store chain in the United States, pointed to "changes in population, consumer buying patterns and future health needs" as factors in its decision to close stores. Here's why CVS will close 900 stores.Pivot to health careThe future of CVS is not selling snacks, candy, shampoo and greeting cards. It's in health care.To that end, in 2018 CVS completed a $69 billion acquisition of Aetna, the largest health care deal in history, to create a gigantic customer base of about 40 million Americans. CVS bet that the deal will increase its profits from those patients' health plans while helping to lower its costs. CVS also has been revamping its retail strategy and said Thursday that its stores will have three distinct models: locations that offer primary care services; "HealthHub" stores that have on-site dieticians, nurse practitioners and lab services, and on-site treatment for chronic conditions such as diabetes and asthma; and traditional stores.CVS is "really pivoting and leaning into the health care aspects of the business," said George Hill, an analyst who covers the company and the health care industry at Deutsche Bank. "You'd much rather be selling health care services that are high-dollar value, high-margin versus greeting cards."Too many storesWhen you walk down the street or drive around the suburbs you'll typically pass a CVS. And then hit a Walgreens right next door. Rite Aid is probably pretty close, too. "There's too many pharmacies in the country and there's too much pharmacy capacity. That gives CVS a reason to go," said Hill.CVS closed 244 stores between 2018 and 2020, yet it still has more than 9,900 stores. That's more than Walmart (WMT), Target (TGT) Kroger (KR) and Costco (COST) — combined.Its latest closings will "reduce store density in certain locations," CVS said Thursday, which translates into the fact that CVS has too many stores too close to each other in some places.Competition from Amazon and Dollar GeneralAlso, fewer people are heading to CVS and other drug stores to fill their prescriptions and shop for household staples these days. (And they're not going into CVS to buy tobacco, either, which the company stopped selling in 2014.)Some shoppers have replaced their trips to stores like CVS by buying their supplies online from Amazon (AMZN), or from brick-and-mortar giants like Walmart and Target. The chains have built their own strong e-commerce businesses in recent years.Dollar General (DG) has also grabbed market share from drug stores, undercutting the sector with lower prices on similar items. And now Dollar General is launching its own health care initiative as it continues to take business from pharmacies.Online pharmacies and telemedicine have gained traction, too. Amazon bought PillPack in 2018 for more than $700 million and started shipping prescriptions to Prime members last year. Capsule and other digital pharmacies that deliver directly to customers' homes are also growing. Although brick-and-mortar pharmacies are still an important stop for many elderly people,or those who don't use the web or have access to it, they are increasingly becoming a thing of the past to the growing ranks of online shoppers.Rising costsClosing stores also reduces CVS' costs while still keeping most of its sales. Its labor and store operations costs increased during the pandemic because of safety protections like plexiglass, floor decals and masks. The company said in August it planned to raise its minimum wage to $15 an hour from $11 in a bid to retain and attract workers."There are cost pressures in all directions," said Hill, the Deutsche Bank analyst.Seventy-five percent of CVS' sales comes from filling prescriptions, but its profits from that segment have declined in recent years because of lower reimbursement rates.But when CVS closes a store, it can hold onto most of those sales by shifting the prescriptions to its nearest pharmacies, Hill said.Covid-19 vaccines weren't a huge boostCVS got a lift from people coming into its stores for their Covid-19 vaccines and tests. The company has administered 43 million vaccines and around 38 million tests, CEO Karen Lynch said on an earnings call earlier this month.But the vaccines were only a short-term gain for the company, which said they will generate only $3 billion in revenue in 2021. That will decline by up to 40% next year, along with whatever sales CVS racked up as shoppers browsed aisles while they waited to get vaccinated, Lynch said.People also visited their doctors less frequently last year and into 2021, and elective procedures were suspended early in the pandemic, which meant that CVS filled fewer regular and chronic care prescriptions than in the years before the pandemic. And fewer people have also been coming into stores to pick up cough and fever medicines — big business for CVS — because they're still wearing masks and spending more time at home than they once did.
Here's why gas is so cheap at Costco and Walmart. New York (CNN Business)Gas prices are skyrocketing, and Americans want to save at the pump. That plays right into the hands of Costco, BJ's Wholesale Club and Sam's Club.The national gas price average jumped to $3.41 a gallon Friday, according to AAA, 61% higher than the average at the same time last year. The Biden administration has called for an investigation into whether oil and gas companies acted illegally to push up prices. The spike has pushed more shoppers to rely on these chains to fill up their tanks, say the companies, retail analysts, and fuel experts. Gas prices at warehouse clubs can be as much as 30 cents lower than traditional gas stations, and the chains offer members coupons to use in their stores when they fill up. Gasoline sales at the warehouse clubs are an important part of their business and draw customers inside."People are seeking out the clubs because of the gas," said Michael Baker, a retail analyst at D.A. Davidson. "It's US consumers' nature to go out of their way for lower gas prices."Costco, for example, is typically 20 cents a gallon below the market average, according to Tom Kloza, the global head of energy analysis at IHS Markit's Oil Price Information Service. BJ's says it's 10 cents below average.These companies are "winners when gasoline prices go skyward," said Kloza.Costco (COST), Sam's Club and BJ's (BJ) want you to fill up your tank in their parking lots and then go stock up on giant jugs of ketchup, boxes of snacks and clothing. (And why not buy a flat-screen TV or a new couch while you're at it?) Their gas stations give these warehouse stores an advantage that many retail competitors can't match.  Gas makes up around 10%, $20 billion annually, of Costco's overall sales and 9% of BJ's. Walmart (WMT), which owns Sam's Club, does not disclose what portion of its sales come from gas.Gas is a notoriously low-margin business, but retailers can make money from selling huge volumes of gas -- even while charging much less than independent gas stations, said Kloza, adding that it's not unusual for sales at a Costco location to reach up to 1 million gallons a month compared to an average of 80,000 gallons a month at typical gas stations.Despite their big-brand names, the vast majority of Exxon, Chevron, BP and Shell gas statons are independently owned, so they aren't able to make a volume play like wholesalers do. Although wholesalers are able to make a profit on gas, they're not making much: Costco, for example, reported that gasoline has a lower profit margin than the rest of its business. Rising gas prices typically help Costco's sales, but hurt its profits. "When there are inflationary pressures and prices are going up, people look to save on gas," said Richard Galanti, Costco's chief financial officer. For every 100 people who come to Costco to fill up on gas, more than half go shop inside afterwards, he said.Gas sales at BJ's Wholesale Club jumped 20% during its most recent quarter ending October 30 compared with the same time a year ago. BJ's is growing market share in gasoline "in leaps and bounds," CEO Robert Eddy said on a call with analysts Thursday. When gas prices hit over $3 a gallon, "members love us" and shift their gas spending to the club.Gas discounts are a tool Walmart uses to encourage customers to sign up for Walmart+ memberships, which also offer free shipping and discounts on prescriptions.Walmart said on Tuesday that it's actively trying to keep gas prices down to attract customers worried about how much they're paying at the pump, especially as federal stimulus benefits wane."Gas prices are a concern....They're up dramatically versus a year ago," Walmart CEO Doug McMillon said on an earnings call. "The customers had money [then]. And at some point, that's going to come to an end." 
The inflation-fighting step Biden has yet to take .  (CNN)President Joe Biden has offered multiple responses to spiking inflation: investigating gas prices, smoothing supply chains, touting benefit programs. None offers Americans much immediate relief.At the same time, Biden has resisted one step that would: Lifting tariffs on Chinese imports would save the average household hundreds of dollars a year. Just as tempting, it would reverse the failed trade war policy of his discredited predecessor, Donald Trump.But strategic and political considerations outweigh the allure. Whatever the benefit to rattled consumers, the implications at home and abroad for America's diciest international relationship raise the stakes higher than that."The reason to do this or not to do this should not be inflation," said Richard Haass, a top State Department aide under President George W. Bush who now heads the Council on Foreign Relations. "The impact on US-China relations, and the domestic politics of US-China relations, would be larger than any impact on inflation."Those powerful crosscurrents swirled last week when Biden met virtually with Chinese leader Xi Jinping. Before the meeting, an array of business groups issued a public letter seeking relief from China tariffs that they said cost American importers $110 billion and the average American household $1,300 in 2020."These costs, compounded by other inflationary pressure, impose a significant burden on American businesses, farmers, families trying to recover from the effects of the pandemic," wrote the business groups, which ranged from the American Soybean Association to the Information Technology Industry Council.But White House officials said tariffs were not on the US agenda. After Biden and Xi talked for more than three hours, and with the White House battered politically by the highest inflation in decades, no policy shift was announced.Taking office after the violent, Trump-incited January 6 insurrection at the US Capitol, Biden has framed his presidency as an opportunity for the US to prove that democracies can out-compete authoritarian regimes such as China in the 21st century. On issues from human rights to Taiwan to the coronavirus, interactions between the world's two most powerful nations have grown so pointed that Biden cast the summit as an attempt to ensure that competition "does not veer into conflict."Yet he still faces Republican accusations of weakness on China policy, a staple of Trump's 2020 campaign. Though Haass called those attacks "absurd," lifting tariffs unilaterally would only encourage Republicans to amplify them.Trump placed tariffs at the center of his "America First" political message, which tapped the grievances of blue-collar workers who blame global trade expansion for destroying American manufacturing jobs and diminishing their standard of living. The American Action Forum, which advocates the views of market-oriented Republicans, has estimated that Trump tariffs and corresponding retaliation by trading partners currently hit more than $400 billion in imports and exports.And the tariffs did not achieve Trump's objective of reviving American manufacturing. In 2019, before the pandemic turned the economy upside down, the Federal Reserve said the manufacturing sector had actually slipped into recession.But Biden has eased tariffs only on European steel and aluminum so far. The more consequential China levies, on imported consumer goods and intermediate goods that businesses use to make finished products, remain in place.Trade experts credit Trump with taking a tougher line after years in which China had thwarted global rules by stealing intellectual property, subsidizing domestic industries and restricting imports to the detriment of American business and workers alike. He succeeded in prodding Beijing to loosen curbs on American agricultural imports and the activities of American financial firms in China.Yet the modest effect of Trump's policy on Chinese exporters failed to leverage the fundamental economic reforms he had sought.  "It really hasn't done much to the Chinese," noted Scott Lincicome, an analyst at the libertarian Cato Institute."By and large, these tariffs are falling almost 100% on American consumers," added Jennifer Hillman, a former trade official under President Bill Clinton who now teaches law at Georgetown University. "The only question for Biden is: Can you get something for removing these tariffs?"In a speech last month, US Trade Representative Katherine Tai said only that "we will start a targeted tariff exclusion process" that could lift selected levies in a process that "optimally serves our economic interests." But she noted that China has failed to fulfill past promises to purchase US goods and maintains "unfair policies" that subsidize domestic production of steel, semiconductors and solar power products at America's expense."I am committed to working through the many challenges ahead in this bilateral process in order to deliver meaningful results," Tai pledged at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. "But above all else, we must defend -- to the hilt - our economic interests."That doesn't mean Biden can't find a politically acceptable path to the price-cutting benefits of lifting more Trump tariffs in the coming months. But doing so will require deft negotiations for concessions from America's most formidable competitor.   "Like sanctions or war, (tariffs) are easier to initiate than they are to remove," Haass concluded. "That's why God invented diplomats."
Drive-thrus are all screwed up. Here's what it'll take to fix them . New York (CNN Business)Late this summer, drive-thru times slowed by about 26 seconds compared to last year, according to a study. That may not seem like much — but in the world of fast food, every moment counts."Mere seconds can be a make-it or break-it in terms of where a consumer decides to order from," Amanda Topper, a research director at the research firm Mintel, said of the slowdowns. The data is from SeeLevelHX, which tracked drive-thru times at about 1,500 US restaurants across 10 major chains from July 5 to August 6.A speedier drive-thru can "be a competitive advantage," Topper said, while long lines may discourage customers from stopping in. Most Americans who eat at fast food restaurants use the drive-thru, she noted — and the option has become even more popular during the pandemic, when many customers felt safer in their cars than restaurants. So far, the habit has stuck. A Technomic consumer survey found about 52% of quick-service restaurant orders were placed in drive-thrus in August 2021, compared to about 42% in January 2020.In the highly competitive fast food space, increased demand through any channel is a win. Restaurants don't want to lose ground by giving up any potential drive-thru sales, yet they also can't overwhelm their systems and risk losing customers. To solve that problem, fast food chains are chasing multiple solutions, many of which are about more: more lanes, more pickup options and more technology.How drive-thrus got bogged downRestaurant staffing is the main cause for drive-thru delays. "Labor is at the heart of a lot of the big challenges that ... restaurants are facing right now," said David Henkes, senior principal at Technomic. Restaurants and bars were short about 800,000 jobs as of October compared to February 2020, before the pandemic, according to the National Restaurant Association. Workers have been leaving in droves, with the quit rate for accommodation and food services hitting 6.6% in September, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics -— more than double the overall 3% average. And the pandemic-fueled push to drive-thru, delivery and pickup has created a cycle: With workers scrambling to fill those off-premise orders, customers inside the restaurants may become frustrated — and turn to the drive-thru instead."You're sitting there waiting in line, and meanwhile all the drive-thru orders are getting filled, the takeout orders are getting filled," Henkes said. Until the labor situation eases, restaurants are "diverting their resources where they're going to be most effectively used. For a lot of quick-service-restaurants, that's the drive-thru." Some staff-strapped restaurants are opting to keep dining rooms closed entirely. But even if they add more employees to the drive-thru staff, there's tremendous pressure on that channel. At Wendy's (WEN), for example, staffing challenges meant "we had more dining rooms closed during the third quarter on average than we did during the second quarter," CEO Todd Penegor said in a recent analyst call. "One of the big keys for us is to get our dining rooms open to really support taking pressure off the drive-thru and support our digital business moving forward." Meanwhile, there's even a challenge with the staff restaurants have managed to maintain. Turmoil in the industry means more turnover, which means less experienced workers. "If you have an employee who has been with you for a year, they're much more efficient ... than the person who you hired three weeks ago," said Peter Saleh, restaurant analyst with BTIG.Larger orders, another pandemic trend, only exacerbate the situation, Saleh noted. Some restaurant chains said although traffic may have slowed during the crisis, the average check size went up. That's partially due to price hikes, but also because people placed larger orders for families or groups eating together at home.Order ahead, double lanes and artificial intelligence It's not clear when, or even if, the labor pool for restaurants will grow. So restaurants are turning to other solutions. Earlier this week, KFC announced a drive-thru alternative called Quick Pick-Up. Customers order ahead through the KFC app or website, drive to a KFC location and park in a dedicated spot, and then walk into the restaurant to pick up their food from a shelf near the register. In its announcement KFC encouraged customers to choose pickup over drive-thru.This isn't a new, pandemic-era idea: Fast casual chains such as Sweetgreen and Chipotle (CMG) have long featured pickup shelves. Last year, McDonald's said that it was testing express lines and dedicated pickup spots for customers who placed digital orders. Burger King also unveiled new restaurant designs last year with similar spots and walk-up order windows.Order-ahead not only takes some pressure off the drive-thru window but also encourages people to order through an app — an important way for fast food chains to build loyalty with rewards and exclusive offers, and learn more about their customers. Still, fast food has always been about convenience, so adding another step might not appeal to every diner. So several chains are leaning into the drive-thru. Burger King is building prototypes with more drive-thru lanes. McDonald's (MCD) and others are experimenting with automated voice technology that can take customer orders. McDonald's has been testing automated order taking at several US drive-thrus, CEO Chris Kempczinski told analysts during an October call. He said the efforts "have shown substantial benefits to customers and the crew experience." McDonald's drive-thru times in major markets have shortened an average of about 30 seconds over the past two years, according to the company. In other drive-thru initiatives, last year Restaurant Brands International (QSR) — which owns Burger King, Popeyes and Tim Hortons — announced it will roll out digital menu screens with contactless payments by mid-2022. And Wendy's (WEN) recently announced a partnership with Google (GOOG) to give it access to AI and other tech that can help improve ordering at the drive-thru. 
Americans say they hate the economy but act like they love it. New York (CNN Business)The Biden economy is a walking contradiction. Consumer sentiment is at a 10-year low, tumbling in November to levels unseen even during the height of Covid-19. A staggering 70% of Americans rate the economy negatively in an ABC News-Washington Post poll. And yet Americans are shopping up a storm, with retail sales soaring in October at the fastest pace since stimulus checks were sent out in March. Walmart, Target (TGT) and Home Depot are booming.  Hiring is strong (much stronger than the government initially thought). And workers are quitting their jobs at a record pace, in large part because they are very confident they can easily find a better job. Something doesn't add up. And that something has a lot to do with the nation's first inflation scare in decades.Gas prices are at seven-year highs. Food prices are soaring. New car prices surged in October the most since 1975.  Simply put, the cost of living is going up, and Americans aren't happy about it. Inflation is overshadowing real bright spots in the US economy. "The economic news is generally good. But inflation is in your face, every day. Some of the most visible prices are up and that makes it seem like the inflation problem is worse than it is," said Gus Faucher, chief economist at PNC. The good news is that despite elevated inflation and the supply chain crisis, Americans are still shopping. That's crucial because consumer spending makes up two-thirds of the economy.  The October retail sales report, which easily beat expectations, signals the US economy is heading into the holiday shopping season with serious momentum — despite the doom-and-gloom signaled by polls. "People say they are not feeling great about the economy — yet they are spending," said Aneta Markowska, chief economist at Jefferies. "I just don't fully believe what the confidence reports are telling us." Ultimately, if Americans keep spending, then this confidence problem is much more of a political problem for President Joe Biden — as opposed to an economic one.  Show of confidence: Workers are quitting like never beforeOf course, it's important to note that different people are experiencing different things in today's economy -- especially given all the shockwaves set off by Covid. Some parts of the economy hit the hardest by the pandemic, including the travel industry, are still struggling to recover. And inflation is most painful to low-income families and those living on fixed income. Social Security cost of living adjustments are coming, but not until next year.  Still, there is more evidence that the overall jobs market continues to recover swiftly from Covid. A surge of hiring in October dropped the unemployment rate to 4.6%, down from nearly 15% in April 2020. Goldman Sachs expects the jobless rate to slip to 3.5% by the end of next year, matching the 50-year low set before the pandemic.  Although there were concerns about a summer slowdown in hiring, revisions show the government dramatically underestimated job growth between June and September. The Labor Department marked up its original forecast by a total of 626,000 jobs over that span. At the same time, a record 4.4 million Americans quit their jobs in September, clear evidence of how much leverage workers have in today's economy.  Biggest price spike since 1990None of this is to say that inflation isn't a real challenge. It is.  Consumer prices surged in October by the fastest pace since 1990. Inflation has been stronger and lasted longer than the White House, the Federal Reserve and the smart money on Wall Street anticipated.  The most glaring example is the price at the pump. National gas prices stand at $3.41 a gallon today, up from $2.12 a year ago. Americans do not like high gas prices, and they have a long history of blaming whoever is in the White House, fair or not.Big picture, there is a growing realization that inflation will stay elevated for months to come, and some argue prices will go even higher before they come back to earth. Wages are going up sharply amid a war for talent among companies. Yet wages are often not going up by enough to offset higher consumer prices.  Republicans vs. DemocratsThe deeply polarized state of America may be amplifying these inflationary concerns.  The University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index shows wide gaps among partisans during both the Trump and Biden administrations along key issues, including jobs and inflation-adjusted income.  "Partisans aligned with the President's party have adopted very positive moods, and those in the opposing camp very negative moods," the University of Michigan report said. "Partisan supporters of one or the other president either mentioned or ignored rising home and stock values, inflation and income growth rates or mentioned or ignored employment or unemployment rates, and so far." But politics likely does not tell the whole story here.  Consumer sentiment is down across the board, with Democrats, Republicans and independents all giving the economy poorer marks in the University of Michigan survey today than in the spring of 2021. Sentiment dropped most dramatically among Republicans.  And consider that consumer sentiment among Democrats stands at 87 today. That's only slightly better than the low-80s readings in early 2017 after former President Donald Trump took office. 'Big shock to the system'Another part of the problem is that many Americans have never lived through a period of sticker shock before. Inflation was unusually subdued for the past dozen years, so tame that many economists feared a Japanese-style deflationary spiral that would be hard to get out of. "Inflation is something that a lot of people have not experienced in their lifetimes. It's a big shock to the system," said Markowska, the Jefferies analyst. For older Americans, all of this inflation talk brings back bad memories of the runaway inflation of the 1970s and early 1980s. That's despite the fact that today's situation is nowhere near the consumer price spikes back then, which peaked at 14.6% in 1980.  The ironic thing about these inflation fears: A big part of the reason inflation is here today is because demand is booming as the economy recovers from Covid faster than many imagined possible back in March 2020.  Inflation wouldn't be a problem if the US economy was experiencing something like the painfully slow recovery from the Great Recession.  
Inflation is coming for your cup of coffee next. New York (CNN Business)Not even coffee is immune to the powerful forces of extreme weather and inflation. Coffee futures climbed on Thursday to the highest level since January 2012. It's just the latest spike for a commodity that has seen its value surge more than 80% so far this year.  Unfortunately, this means coffee drinkers will be paying higher prices at grocery stores and coffee shops in the coming months. And that will only add to the inflationary pressures currently causing anxiety for millions of Americans.  The blame for the coffee spike falls in large part on severe drought and unusual frost conditions in Brazil, the world's largest supplier of coffee beans.  This extreme weather has threatened coffee supply and set off alarm bells in financial markets.  "It created a panic in the market," said Carlos Mera, head of agricultural commodities research at Rabobank.  'Atrocious' weatherCoffee inflation is the latest example of how extreme weather — at least some of which is driven by the climate crisis — is creating nightmares for farmers across the globe. And that in turn is making food more expensive for everyday Americans and people around the world. As of August, world food prices soared 31% over the past year, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Like many parts of the planet, Brazil's coffee growing regions have been hammered by a prolonged drought that could be the country's worst dry spell in nearly a century.  And then in July, Brazil was hit by the worst frost since 1994, dealing a further blow to coffee and other crops."The weather has been atrocious for coffee, especially in Brazil," said Mera.  At the same time, analysts pointed to the ongoing supply chain turmoil that is causing issues around the world, including the lack of shipping containers. Covid hasn't dented demandDemand, on the other hand, has remained robust despite the changes set off by the pandemic. People are still drinking plenty coffee, though consumption shifted during Covid-19 from offices and coffee shops to at-home.  "We were all very afraid. But demand is very steady, surprisingly enough," said Jorge Cuevas, chief coffee officer at Sustainable Harvest Coffee Importers. The National Coffee Association, the industry's trade group, also said demand didn't get dented by Covid.  In a statement to CNN, the trade group blamed rising coffee prices on shifts in supply. "For many years, the world grew more coffee than we drank, but the US Department of Agriculture forecasts that this year we'll consume more coffee than farmers grow," the National Coffee Association said. "We don't expect current conditions to change coffee's status as America's favorite beverage."'Imminent' price hikes for coffee drinkers Retail coffee prices are on the rise, but they have not increased as dramatically as many other items. Coffee prices are up 4.7% over the past 12 months, according to the October consumer inflation report. That's below the overall level of inflation, which hit a 30-year high in October.That's because Starbucks (SBUX) and other coffee companies buy coffee far in advance and have hedging strategies in place to lock in prices. That allows them to defend their profit margins and keep prices in check, cushioning the blow from swings in the futures market.  The bad news is that if prices stay high, they will eventually translate to higher prices for coffee drinkers. "It is imminent," said Cuevas.  Indeed, citing "rapid inflation" linked to logistics, commodities and labor costs, Starbucks said last month it plans to exercise its "pricing power" in a "very thoughtful" way.  "But we are taking price and we will continue to take price in an inflationary environment," Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson told analysts during a conference call.  JM Smucker (SJM), which owns the Folgers and Dunkin' coffee brands, said in August that rising costs will impact its business.  The industry is also facing the same inflationary pressures hitting other businesses, including higher wages and elevated transportation and energy costs.  "It is absolutely inevitable that the costs will have to be passed on to consumers," Ceuvas said.  
Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai said she is safe in video call, says International Olympic Committee.  (CNN)International Olympic Committee president Thomas Bach held a video phone call with three-time Olympian Peng Shuai, the Olympics governing body announced on Sunday, amid a wave of global concern about Peng's wellbeing and whereabouts.The two were accompanied on the video call by a Chinese sports official, Li Lingwei, as well as the Chair of the Athletes' Commission, Emma Terho. The IOC did not provide CNN access to the video. The video comes after Peng, one of China's most recognizable sports stars, publicly accused former Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli of coercing her into sex at his home, according to screenshots of a since-deleted social media post dated November 2. She has not been directly seen in public since the accusation, prompting several fellow tennis players express worry on social media, using the hashtag #WhereIsPengShuai. The Women's Tennis Association and the United Nations have called for an investigation into her allegations of sexual assault.Steve Simon, the head of the WTA, has also called for more robust proof of Peng's liberty, requesting on Friday that she either be allowed to leave the country or speak live via teleconference with him and no one else present.His demand came after several people connected to Chinese state media and sport system tweeted photos and videos they say show Peng out to dinner on Saturday. The clips, which appear to deliberately emphasize specific dates, could not be independently verified by CNN.Though Simon expressed relief at seeing Peng in these clips, he said his concerns remained."It remains unclear if she is free and able to make decisions and take actions on her own, without coercion or external interference," Simon said.According to the IOC statement about the 30-minute call, Peng thanked the committee for its concern about her well-being and insisted that she is "safe and well, living at her home in Beijing, but would like to have her privacy respected at this time. That is why she prefers to spend her time with friends and family right now.""I was relieved to see that Peng Shuai was doing fine, which was our main concern," said Terho. "She appeared to be relaxed. I offered her our support and to stay in touch at any time of her convenience, which she obviously appreciated."Also according to the IOC, Peng accepted an invitation to have dinner with Bach and Terho as well as Li -- a former director and party secretary of Tennis Administration Center of General Administration of Sport of China -- in January, ahead of the 2022 Winter Olympics.  Previous reporting contributed by CNN's Nectar Gan and Mohammed Tawfeeq.
She died from a snakebite. But the real killer was her husband.  (CNN)Uthra's mother found her daughter lying motionless in bed at the family home, her left arm dotted with blood.Her family rushed her to the local Kollam hospital in the southern Indian state of Kerala, but the 25-year-old was already dead. A post-mortem on May 7, 2020, confirmed she'd been bitten hours earlier by a highly venomous Indian spectacled cobra, according to court documents.In India, where snake bites are not uncommon, that could have been the end of it. But her family grew suspicious and filed a complaint with police.After a trial that made national headlines, Uthra's killer was found guilty and sentenced to life in prison for crimes the sentencing judge called "diabolic and ghastly."The judge found Uthra's death was caused by the cobra -- but the real killer was her husband.And it wasn't the first time he'd used a snake as a weapon.A broken love storySuraj Kumar and Uthra, who went only by her first name, met through a matchmaking service and married in March 2018.  "We wanted to find someone who would make her happy," said Uthra's brother, Vishu, who also only uses one name. "She was a girl who was a little different. She had a learning disability. We wanted a man who could take care of her."Kumar, a 27-year-old bank clerk, did not come from a financially stable background. His father was an auto-rickshaw driver, and his mother, a housewife.According to the judgment, Kumar married Uthra "with the object of financial gain."When the couple married, Kumar accepted a dowry of 720 grams of gold, a Suzuki sedan and 500,000 rupees (about $6,700) in cash.The first few months of married life seemed "uneventful" and within a year they had a son, the judgment said. But it wasn't long before Kumar's parents wanted more.According to the judgment, Kumar's parents demanded Uthra's parents pay for household appliances, a car, furniture, renovation work, and admission fees for an MBA course for Kumar's sister."Uthra was someone who never saw bad in anyone," Vishu said. "Her learning disability meant she didn't have the means to see that she was being used."  Uthra's father told the court he met all of Kumar's demands and also paid him 8,000 rupees ($107) per month to take care of his daughter.But Kumar grew "dissatisfied" with Uthra's learning disability, according to the judgment. He began to plot her death.Failed murder attemptIn late 2019, Kumar appeared to develop an obsession with snakes. He spent hours on the internet, watching YouTube videos, including episodes of "Snake Master," featuring renowned snake expert Vava Suresh. Suresh's YouTube channel, which has more than 270,000 subscribers, shows him calmly interacting with snakes, including the highly potent Russell's viper, one of the most aggressive snakes in Asia.  On February 26, Kumar bought a deadly Russell's viper from snake handler Chavarukavu Suresh -- no relation to Vava Suresh -- for 10,000 rupees ($135), prosecutors said. The next day, he left the snake on the staircase of his house and asked Uthra to fetch his phone from the first floor bedroom, hoping that it would bite and kill her. "But he failed in the attempt since Uthra saw the snake and raised alarm calls," according to the judgment. Kumar captured the snake and kept it in a plastic bag, and on the night of March 2, he tried again.Kumar mixed sedatives into a sweet bowl of Indian rice pudding before Uthra fell "fast asleep."As she slept, Kumar forced the viper to bite her before throwing the serpent out of the house to destroy the evidence.Uthra woke up screaming in "excruciating pain," and with some delay she was taken to the hospital by Kumar, who claimed she had been bitten outside at night while washing clothes.Uthra contradicted his version of events by saying she never did the washing after dusk.  The very next day, as his wife lay in hospital, Kumar was back on his phone researching snakes -- but this time he searched for "cobra." The murderUthra spent 52 days in Pushpagiri Hospital in the Kerala town of Thiruvalla recovering from the viper bite, and when she was finally released to her parent's care on April 22 last year, she was unable to walk. As she lay in bed, her leg bandaged after skin grafts, Kumar decided to strike.On May 6, just 15 days after she had left hospital, he smuggled another snake he'd bought from snake handler Chavarukavu Suresh into her parent's house. This time it was a cobra.Before going to bed, Kumar gave Uthra a glass of juice laced with sedatives, according to the judgment. As she slept, Kumar threw the serpent at her, but the reptile didn't bite, so he grabbed its head and forced its fangs deep into her left arm -- twice. Despite his efforts to make it appear as an accident, a number of clues suggested the bites weren't natural -- from the width of the fang marks, to the position of the bites, and the impossibility that the cobra had entered the room on its own.The two pairs of bite marks on Uthra's arm had a width of 2.3 and 2.8 centimeters (0.9 and 1.1 inches) respectively, much larger than the typical width of cobra fangs of between 0.4 to 1.6 centimeters (0.16 to 0.63 inches), experts told the court. That indicated the cobra's upper jaw had been pushed as if it was being milked. The time of day also raised suspicion."Cobras generally do not bite unless they are highly provoked. And after 8 p.m. they're generally dormant," said Hari Shankar, an assistant inspector general at Kerala Police, who worked as lead investigator on the case. In court, investigators demonstrated their argument by setting up an experiment to demonstrate whether a cobra would strike a sleeping person. In the video, the same type of cobra was thrown on a bed with a mannequin at night. The video shows the snake slithering away several times and only biting into a chicken breast tied to a limb when repeatedly provoked.Experts also raised doubts over how the cobra came to be in Uthra's room. Cobras can only raise themselves vertically to one-third of their length, the court was told, meaning the 152-centimeter (60-inch) cobra that bit Uthra could only have raised itself to a height of around 50 centimeters -- not high enough to enter through the windows. Three air holes in the room were also sealed.And lastly, Uthra had slept through what was arguably one of the most painful experiences of her life.Vava Suresh, the star snake catcher Kumar had watched online, was called to give evidence. He told the court that during his 30-year career he had been bitten 16 times by a Russell's viper and 340 times by cobra, resulting in "excruciating" and "severe" pain -- though only three viper bites and 10 cobra bites were "critical," he said.The snake catcher said he had to amputate his left middle finger after a cobra bite, and after another bite can no longer fully rotate his right wrist. He said a snake that bites for self-protection would not strike twice, as the animals spare their venom. And he was sure Uthra would have woken on being bitten -- if she hadn't been sedated.Kumar stayed awake all night after the attack, the judgment said, during which he destroyed the evidence by washing the glass tumbler and the stick used to handle the snake.He also deleted his call history, which proved he had been in contact with the snake handler, according to the judgment.After Uthra was pronounced dead, her brother Vishu found the cobra inside the family home and killed it. He followed police advice to bury the serpent at the house and marked the location with a stick. During the investigation, the snake's carcass was dug up, and a post-mortem examination showed its abdomen was empty -- a "very significant" development, according to the investigator, Shankar."Generally, a snake takes seven days to digest food," he said. "Which means it had been at least seven days since it had eaten something. A cobra which lives in a natural habitat eats at least twice in a day. "So that means the snake that bit Uthra had been kept in confinement."Death by snakebiteUthra's death is not the first in India involving an accusation of murder by snake.India's Supreme Court denied bail to Krishna Kumar on October 6, one of three people accused of murder in the death of a woman from the northern state of Rajasthan by leaving a venomous snake in a bag near her bed, according to local news outlet NDTV.People buying venomous snakes from snake charmers to kill others by snakebite is "a new trend" that is "becoming common in Rajasthan," said Justice Surya Kant during the bail hearing, NDTV reported.Snakebite deaths are not rare in India, with 1.2 million such fatalities from 2000 to 2019, according to the World Health Organization.But Shankar, the investigator, said 99.9% of snakebites in India are characterized as "accidental." "We do not know (how many) of those cases could have been murders, but passed off as an accident," he said. "(In such cases), it's very important to prove that the bite is homicidal. We proved that the person was drugged and recovered the container from the accused, proved that he bought the snake, his mobile search patterns, all those things." 'This is shocking to us'On May 8 -- the day after Uthra's death -- Chavarukavu Suresh, the snake handler who sold Kumar the cobra read about her death in the local newspaper. He tried to phone Kumar, the court heard, but Kumar didn't answer. The next day, Kumar returned Suresh's call and told him he mustn't tell anyone that he'd sold him the snake.Suresh said he asked Kumar why he'd committed a "grave sin," and Kumar responded that he couldn't live with his wife anymore. If Suresh remained silent, he said, they could pass her death off as a "serpent curse" and both avoid being implicated in murder. In Kerala, a "serpent curse" is a superstitious belief that cobras have the power to curse families who don't worship them. But when police arrested Kumar, they also arrested Chavarukavu Suresh, who confessed to selling him both snakes, though Suresh insisted he had nothing to do with plotting the murder. He was pardoned by Kollam's Chief Judicial Magistrate, leaving Kumar as the prime suspect. Chavarukavu Suresh later testified against Kumar in court.The prosecution called multiple experts who testified the Russell's viper bite was also unnatural. The experts said it was all but impossible for the ground-dwelling snake to navigate the smooth tiles to the first floor of Kumar's home, where Uthra was bitten. Furthermore, the bite marks were vertical, suggesting she had been bitten while lying down. Snake expert Vava Suresh told the court Russell's vipers like dry, arid landscapes, whereas Kumar's home was built on marshy land. He also said locals had told him they hadn't seen a Russell's viper in the area for 15 years.Kumar pleaded not guilty to the charges, but the judge convicted him of four offenses, including attempted murder and murder, and he was given two life sentences.Five weeks after Kumar's conviction, her family is still in disbelief that the man they trusted to love their daughter had plotted to kill her."Police and the prosecution have done their work well," her brother Vishu said. "Despite being the rarest of rare cases, they were able to prove his guilt. "But (Kumar) was stoic and showed no remorse. That is shocking to us." Their focus now is to ensure that Uthra's 2-year-old son grows up happy and remembers his mother for the loving and caring woman she was. Whenever Uthra's family shows her son a photograph of his mother, he smiles, Vishu said. "He will throw his hand up to the photo and say 'Uthra amma, Uthra amma,'" using the Malayalam word for mother, he said. "We will make sure he knows who his mother was." 
Two missionaries released in Haiti after group kidnapping.  (CNN)Two missionaries kidnapped in Haiti over a month ago have been released, according to a statement by the US-based Christian Aid Ministries. "We have learned that two of the hostages in Haiti were released. We praise God for this! Only limited information can be provided, but we are able to report that the two hostages who were released are safe, in good spirits, and being cared for," the organization said Sunday."While we rejoice at this release, our hearts are with the fifteen people who are still being held," the statement also said. The group of 16 Americans and one Canadian were kidnapped by the Haitian gang 400 Mawozo while traveling by car northeast of capital city Port-au-Prince on October 16. They include an infant, a 3-year-old and a 6-year-old, as well as two young teenagers. All hail from Amish, Mennonite and other conservative Anabaptist communities across six US states and Ontario. Authorities in the US and Haiti have not publicly commented on whether any of the hostages were released. Haitian police, the US Embassy in Haiti, the Justice Minister, the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister's Office, and the US State Department did not respond immediately to requests for comment.US and Haitian authorities, as well as the aid organization, have largely kept quiet about negotiations to release the hostages. Their captors had demanded $1 million per hostage, Haitian Justice and Interior Minister Liszt Quitel previously told CNN. Kidnappings for ransom in Haiti are widespread and often indiscriminate, targeting rich and poor, young and old. Rising crime has accompanied the country's political instability, with kidnappings spiking in the months after the July assassination of President Jovenel Moise, according to local human rights organization CARDH. The 400 Mawozo group is particularly notorious for group kidnappings. "Has a month ever been this long? We think back to the first few days when our hopes were pinned on a quick response and a timely release, and our hearts cry, 'Lord, how much longer must this continue?'" wrote the unnamed mother of one of the hostages in an earlier statement by Christian Aid Ministries, released November 19.CNN's Samantha Beech, Joe Sutton, Etant Dupain and Matt Rivers contributed to this report.
3 arrested after dozens ransack a Nordstrom store near San Francisco, police say  .  (CNN)Three suspects were arrested Saturday night after dozens ransacked a Nordstrom department store near San Francisco in what police are calling a "smash-and-grab" incident.About 80 suspects were involved in the crime at the department store in Broadway Plaza, an outdoor mall in Walnut Creek east of San Francisco, and they fled in at least 10 different vehicles, Lt. Ryan Hibbs at the Walnut Creek Police Department told CNN. "A number of vehicles were leaving. We managed to stop one of them," said Hibbs, adding that no injuries were reported. Authorities are questioning those who were arrested to determine the identities of the other suspects, Hibbs said. The manager of a nearby restaurant told CNN affiliate KPIX that the looters were wearing masks and carried what appeared to be crowbars. "There was a mob of people," Brett Barrett said. "The police were flying in. It was like a scene out of a movie. It was insane. ... It was a scary scene for a moment."Police have not yet estimated a dollar amount for the stolen items, Hibbs said.The incident followed a series of similar lootings Friday night in Union Square and surrounding areas in San Francisco, including at a Louis Vuitton store, a Burberry store, a jewelry store, a Bloomingdale's, a Walgreens, cannibis dispensaries and even an eyeglass shop, Police Chief Bill Scott said at a news conference Saturday. San Francisco has been struggling with a surge in crime this year as it reopened during the pandemic. In the Central district, for example, larceny and theft incidents are up almost 88% from a year earlier, and overall crime is up almost 52%, according to police statistics. Eight people were arrested after Friday night's break-ins, Scott said. As police go through video footage from the scenes, the chief said he expects more arrests. It was a concerted effort, he said, and the perpetrators aimed to overwhelm police."Their plan was hoping that we wouldn't be here, but we were. And some of them think they got away with it, but I am confident, I am confident, that there will be more arrests to follow," Scott said.All of the eight arrested were "young adults," he said. Police also seized two vehicles and two guns, Scott said.The city will "flood" the area with police going forward, the chief said. "We will do what we need to do to put an end to this madness," Scott said. What happened, he said, was "absolutely unacceptable in all forms."San Francisco isn't the only city grappling with group "grab and go" crimes. On Wednesday afternoon, several people swarmed into a Louis Vuitton store in a mall in Oak Brook, Illinois, taking about $120,000 in merchandise, CNN affiliate WLS reported.In surveillance video provided by the Oak Brook Police Department, 14 suspects can be seen grabbing items from shelves."Once they entered the store, they pulled out the garbage bags from their coats and started filling them with merchandise," Oak Brook Police Chief James Kruger said, according to WLS. The suspects used three vehicles to drive away. Police recovered one of them, a Dodge Charger reported stolen last month in Chicago, WLS reported. 
No prison time for man who pleaded guilty to rape and sexual assault of four teenage girls.  (CNN)A man who pleaded guilty to the rape and sexual assault of four teenage girls will avoid prison time after a New York state judge said time behind bars would be inappropriate.Christopher Belter, now 20, entered a plea deal in 2019 in which he agreed to plead guilty to attempted first-degree sexual abuse, third-degree rape and two counts of second-degree sexual abuse, according to court documents.The charges stem from four separate incidents in 2017 and 2018 in Lewiston, New York, the documents state. He and the victims were all under 18 at the time.Belter was placed on interim probation for two years with limits on his internet use and access to pornography, the documents state. But he violated the terms of his probation, according to court documents. Judge Matthew J. Murphy denied him Youthful Offender status and ruled he'd be sentenced as an adult, the documents state.Last Tuesday, Judge Murphy issued a sentence of eight years of probation and ruled Belter must register as a sex offender -- but said prison time would be inappropriate."I agonized. I'm not ashamed that to say that I actually prayed over what is the appropriate sentence in this case because there was great pain. There was great harm. There were multiple crimes committed in the case," Judge Murphy said, according to CNN affiliate WKBW. "It seems to me that a sentence that involves incarceration or partial incarceration isn't appropriate, so I am going to sentence you to probation."An order of protection was also issued on the first charge.The lighter-than-expected punishment for Belter bears similarities to criticism lobbied against the sexual assault case of Brock Turner, the Stanford University student who was sentenced to six months in prison by Judge Aaron Persky for raping an adult woman. Voters in Santa Clara County, California, later recalled Persky due to outrage over the sentence.Judge Murphy is set to retire next month at the state's mandatory retirement age of 70, according to WKBW.Belter's attorney Barry Covert declined to comment. Prior to the sentencing, Belter read a statement to the victims in the case."Through treatment and reflection, I've come to feel deep shame and regret for my actions. None of you deserved to be in this situation," he said. "I hope each of you could close that wound I gashed.""I know though, that a scar will remain that will serve as a reminder of the evil of that night," he added.Victim "M.M." spoke in court in AugustOne of Belter's victims spoke about the incident in a court hearing. The girl, identified as M.M., was 16 in August 2018 when Belter raped her and "told her to stop being such a baby," court documents state. She told the court she focused on a plant in his room "as she cried during the attack.""I wish I would have had a louder voice at the beginning of all of this. Maybe I could have done more. That 16-year-old girl trusted a bit too much that justice would have been served. She worried that if she spoke up louder, she would get hurt even worse and hurt other people along the way. She had just assumed that all rapists go to jail. She missed out on opportunities to speak up that she wasn't even aware of. Let the People do their jobs, right," she told the court."But today I am older. Today I know that I am able to speak up for myself without interference, without people telling me what to say and what not to say. So I stand before you now asking you to not let this be the end, to not let this rapist walk away from two years' probation with a clean slate. I am asking you because you have the ability to save future girls. You have the ability to either put this fire out or to let it continue burning."Steve Cohen, an attorney for one of Belter's victims, said his client was deeply disappointed in the sentence and vomited in the bathroom afterward.M.M. told WKBW she was "disgusted" by the sentencing."The judge had the opportunity to put out the fire but he chose to let it keep burning," she said. "I didn't expect to be as emotional as I was, but I just broke down."Niagara County District Attorney Brian Seaman also criticized the lack of prison time in the sentence."Based on the seriousness of these crimes, the very powerful and emotional statements of the victims and the fact that Christopher Belter was already given a shot at interim probation and failed, my office has been very clear that we believed a prison sentence was entirely appropriate in this case," he said.
Where Xi's China is heading. On Sunday at 9 p.m. ET, CNN will air Fareed Zakaria's latest special report, "China's Iron Fist: Xi Jinping and the Stakes for America," which examines China's leader, how he is shaping his country at home and on the global stage, and what China's current trajectory means for the rest of the world. View more opinion at CNN. (CNN)Imagine, for a moment, what the world looks like to people living in China today — say, to an average couple. Their country, home to one of the greatest and most ancient civilizations in the world, long a leader in science and technology, was largely isolated from the great wave of military and technological advancement that began in the West in the 16th century. It was late coming to the powerful economic gains that began with the industrial revolution in the 18th century. It was dominated by outside powers during the 19th century. And for the last century — when this Chinese couple's parents and grandparents were alive — China suffered through a collapsing Qing dynasty, civil wars, a brutal occupation by Japan, a prolonged battle between the forces of Chiang Kai Shek and Mao Zedong. Mao won that struggle but then plunged the country into 30 years of highly charged, revolutionary experiments, from the Great Leap Forward to the Cultural Revolution, all of which failed. By the late 1970s, China was an exhausted, impoverished, isolated country, with a revolutionary regime whose Red China cause had lost any global relevance. This Chinese couple's parents were among the poorest people in the world, with the fewest options. Then came Deng Xiaoping, the Communist Party leader who guided China from the late 1970s into the 1990s, and his policies that opened China to the markets and to the world. They have resulted not just in peace and stability but what the economist Jeffrey Sachs has called "the most successful development story in world history." For four decades, China's economy grew at almost 10% a year. And GDP per capita has jumped more than 25-fold. With this economic progress has come the creation of a new Chinese society, more open, more ambitious and confident of its place in the world. It is only natural that people in China have a great measure of pride and satisfaction that can sometimes morph into overconfidence and arrogance. And when they hear criticisms of their country in the West, they may well wonder whether foreigners are just resentful of a China that has moved so fast up the ranks of nations, whether America in particular, wants to keep China in its place, so to speak. It is a fair question. It has always been difficult for the existing superpower to find a space for an up and coming one. But it is surely made far more difficult by China's Third Revolution: the changes that have been wrought by its now supreme leader, President Xi Jinping. Xi has moved China towards greater repression at home, with a smaller role for free markets and stronger insistence on communist ideology in every sphere. He has also pursued a more aggressive policy abroad. The architect of China's opening, Deng Xiaoping, spoke of the need for China to hide its strength and bide its time. But that was not simply a counsel to wait a few decades. Deng understood that China was so large, bordering so many countries with so many border disputes, that it needed to reassure the world. Winston Churchill once said that Russia was a "riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma." China, on the other hand, is a cornucopia—a vast, teeming land full of contradictions. Say anything about China, and you can find it in there — along with its opposite. Will Xi be able to control this sprawling country and force it along the lines he wishes? So far, he has succeeded at home. But in doing so, he is making life for that average Chinese couple less open, and their country is less admired. Xi has changed China but in a way that makes its rise on the world stage far more dangerous.
Police seize $500 million in illegal marijuana in a raid in Oregon.  (CNN)At a time when legalized marijuana sales are rising nationally, state police in Oregon last week seized 500,000 pounds of illegal marijuana in a bust outside Medford, Oregon, that they estimated had a street value of $500 million, police said.The Oregon State Police Southwest Region (OSP) Drug Enforcement Section team served a search warrant Thursday at five industrial-sized warehouses in White City, Oregon, police said.Under Oregon state law, adults 21 and over may use cannabis within specified limits, but it is illegal to manufacture marijuana without a license. Oregon legalized recreational marijuana in 2015.In last week's bust, police said that OSP, Drug Enforcement Administration and officers from local law enforcement agencies seized the large cache of marijuana and a gun over two days. "This is a very involved investigation and will be ongoing for several weeks," OSP said in a news release. OSP said investigators found that several of the individuals at the warehouses -- who were initially detained, identified, interviewed and released -- were migrant workers living on site. Police called the living conditions "subpar" and noted they lacked running water.The seizure comes at a time when legalized marijuana is flourishing.Sales hit $20 billion in 2020, are on pace to top $26 billion this year, and are projected to leapfrog to $45.9 billion in 2025, according to data from Marijuana Business Daily that were shared at the MJBizCon, the industry's annual trade show. The nearly $46 billion in sales would make the cannabis industry larger than the craft beer industry, said Chris Walsh, chief executive officer and president of MJBizDaily.CNN's Alicia Wallace contributed to this report.
Justin Bieber called on to cancel Saudi Arabia concert by slain journalist's fiancée. New York, NY (CNN)The fiancée of murdered journalist Jamal Khashoggi wrote an open letter published by the Washington Post calling for Justin Bieber to cancel his upcoming concert in Saudi Arabia."That's why I am writing to you with a plea: Cancel your Dec. 5 performance in Saudi Arabia," Hatice Cengiz wrote Saturday. "This is a unique opportunity to send a powerful message to the world that your name and talent will not be used to restore the reputation of a regime that kills its critics."Bieber is set to headline at Saudi Arabia's Formula One Race in December, joined by artists such as ASAP Rocky, David Guetta and Jason Derulo in Jeddah's inaugural Grand Prix. Cengiz urged Bieber to remember he is performing on an invitation from Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman himself."Nothing of significance happens in Saudi Arabia without his consent, and certainly not an event as important and flashy as this," Cengiz wrote. "Your face is even featured on the event's website with his — the executioner of my fiance, Jamal." In 2018, a team of the kingdom's government agents murdered the journalist at the Saudi consulate in Istanbul, where he was going to pick up documents for his upcoming wedding to Cengiz. A US intelligence report found that the crown prince approved the operation, but the Saudi Foreign Ministry released a statement saying it "completely rejects the negative, false and unacceptable assessment in the report pertaining to the Kingdom's leadership." Cengiz is not the only one to criticize the F1 race. "Sporting bodies like Formula One and the FIA cannot ignore the fact they and fans are being used for sportswashing," Minky Worden, the Human Rights Watch director overseeing sport, said to The Guardian. In 2019, Nicki Minaj pulled out of a concert in Saudi Arabia, saying she wants to make clear her support for the "rights of women, the LGBTQ community and freedom of expression." Justin Bieber has not yet commented. "If you refuse to be a pawn of MBS, your message will be loud and clear: I do not perform for dictators," Cengiz wrote. "I choose justice and freedom over money."  
Fully vaccinated family members can celebrate the holidays without masks, Fauci says.  (CNN)If you and your family members are fully vaccinated against Covid-19, it's OK for you to ditch the masks this holiday season when you're around each other, Dr. Anthony Fauci told CNN Sunday. "That's what I'm going to do with my family," Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, told CNN's Dana Bash on "State of the Union."However, the nation's top infectious disease expert also noted that if you're traveling or are unaware of the vaccination status of the people around you, then you should wear a mask in those situations. "Get vaccinated and you can enjoy the holidays very easily. And if you're not, please be careful," Fauci said. "Get tested if you need to get tested when you're getting together, but that's not a substitute for getting vaccinated. Get yourself vaccinated and you can continue to enjoy interactions with your family and others."Fauci's comments come as the US faces the second holiday season of the pandemic, but the first with safe and effective vaccines now available to people ages 5 and older. Still, a significant part of the eligible population remains unvaccinated. According to data published Friday by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, nearly 196 million people, or 59% of the total US population is fully vaccinated. But about 26.6% of the eligible population, or 83 million people, have yet to receive a first dose. The seven-day average of vaccinations has increased -- about 36% compared to last week -- due in large part to vaccinations among newly eligible children.Definition of 'fully vaccinated' remains the sameAnother factor here is vaccine booster doses: As of Friday, the CDC and the US Food and Drug Administration have approved boosters for every adult who received Moderna or Pfizer/BioNTech's Covid-19 vaccine six months ago or longer. The agencies had already said everyone who got Johnson & Johnson's Janssen vaccine two months ago or more should get a booster.For now, Fauci said the US definition of "fully vaccinated" remains the same -- two doses given within a certain timeframe -- but those guidelines could potentially change with more data. "Two shots for a time frame means you are fully vaccinated, but the thing you want to get the people and the viewers to understand, it isn't the effectiveness of the vaccine -- it's quite effective -- it's how long it lasts," he said. "We're going to take a look right now at what the durability is of the booster. We're going to follow people who get boosted," Fauci told Bash. "It will be guided by the science -- and people should not be put off by the fact that as time goes by and we learn more and more about the protection that we might modify the guidelines."Fauci underscored the importance of vaccines and boosters going into the next few months, as he noted an uptick in cases is "not unexpected" in the winter.Those who are eligible for vaccines but remain unvaccinated pose a risk not just to themselves and other people who are unvaccinated, he said, "but it also spills over into the vaccinated people, because no vaccine is 100% effective." "We have a lot of virus circulating around. We know that there are breakthrough infections and that's how you get the uptick in cases," Fauci said. "The bottom line, common denominator of all of this data, is we should get vaccinated if you're not vaccinated, and boosted if you have been vaccinated." CNN's Maggie Fox contributed to this report.
Police searching for man who fled from Atlanta airport security checkpoint after a weapon was discharged during screening.  (CNN)Authorities are searching for the man who escaped an Atlanta airport security checkpoint after a weapon was discharged Saturday, frightening travelers and temporarily grounding flights at one of world's busiest airports the weekend before Thanksgiving.Officials believe the weapon that was discharged at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport was in a bag belonging to Kenny Wells, a passenger who, police say, ran away with the weapon in hand.Wells, 42, is wanted on warrants accusing him of carrying a concealed a weapon at a commercial airport, possession of a firearm by a convicted felon, discharging a firearm and reckless conduct, Atlanta Police Department Airport Precinct Commander Reginald L. Moorman said. "We are actively pursuing this individual," Moorman added. It is illegal for people to take firearms through security checkpoints at airports in the US, according to Page Pate, a Georgia criminal defense attorney and constitutional lawyer.In the first 10 months of this year, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) intercepted 4,650 firearms -- a majority of which were loaded -- at security checkpoints, surpassing the full-year record of 4,432 set in 2019.At the Atlanta airport, 450 firearms have been detected at checkpoints so far this year, the TSA said Saturday.Saturday's incident unfolded around 1:30 p.m., when the passenger's property was flagged for a "secondary search" after the X-ray screening at the security checkpoint detected a "prohibited item," Robert Spinden, the TSA's federal security director for Georgia, said during a news conference."During that secondary search, the passenger lunged into his property, grabbing a firearm that was located inside, which ultimately discharged," Spinden said. "The passenger then fled the security checkpoint through an adjacent exit lane with his firearm.""We're fortunate that when the firearm went off, nobody was seriously injured," Spinden said.The incident left three people with non-life-threatening injuries, TSA officials said. A source familiar with the matter told CNN those injured were not shot; they were hurt while the airport was evacuated. The firearm was discharged into the property of the person who brought the weapon, the source said.All the injured were adults, two of whom were taken to the hospital, according to the source. Airport spokesperson Andrew Gobeil characterized the discharge as accidental, adding the loud noise created a "sense of chaos." The investigation into what happened is ongoing, he said. The scare came a day after TSA screened more than 2.2 million airport travelers across the country on Friday -- the highest checkpoint volume for a single day since the Covid-19 pandemic began, an agency spokesperson said.Videos show chaos at airportThe weapon discharge spurred panic at Atlanta's international airport, where federal aviation officials issued a brief ground stop for departing flights. Video from inside the airport and eyewitness accounts illustrate the confusion and fear that was unleashed. In one video posted by Stephoń Stafford, line dividers are knocked down as people are lying on the ground in an apparent attempt to seek cover as someone is heard shouting, "Get down." Stafford said he was about to go through security with his child.Another video shared on Twitter by Haşmet Asilkan from outside the airport shows many people running in a frenzy as someone is heard yelling for people to run. Dianne Callahan was traveling with her son and had boarded her flight to New York. She said she heard screams outside of the plane when the crew closed the door. She also heard sirens, Callahan said, and didn't know what was going on."It was an extremely tense situation," she said. "People were pushing to get on the plane that were not even on our flight. That's how scared they were."Callahan and her son were then sent to go back through security, she said.CNN's Melissa Alonso, Raja Razek, Taliah Miller, Justin Lear, Pete Muntean, Dakin Andone, Keith Allen, David Williams, Nadia Romero and Ray Sanchez contributed to this report. 
70-year-old hunter in France suffers 'serious' injury after bear encounter.  (CNN)A 70-year-old man sustained a "serious leg injury" in southwestern France on Saturday after an encounter with a bear, according to a statement from the southwestern prefecture of Ariège. The hunter, who had been pursuing wild boars, was assisted by the high mountain gendarmerie team and promptly taken to a local hospital "in a worrying condition," the statement said. A spokesperson from the French Gendarmerie was unable to confirm to CNN whether the hunter shot the bear, though the statement from the prefecture of Ariège read that gendarmes had "located a bear carcass below the place where the victim was found, which could accredit the thesis of an accident linked to the encounter between the man and the animal."A judicial investigation has since unfolded to examine the circumstances of the accident. The largest carnivore in Europe, brown bears had nearly disappeared from France until the French government began a program to reintroduce them in the Pyrenees mountains in 1996. That year, French authorities started to import bears from Slovenia belonging to the same species as Pyrenean bears and release them in the southwestern mountain chain.According to a report from the Brown Bear Network, part of the French Office for Biodiversity, there were 64 brown bears in the Pyrenees last year, all descendants of Slovenian bears reintroduced over the years.Their presence leads to increasing tensions with local farmers, because of the threat they pose to their livestock. The report shows Ariège is the French department that has the highest number of bears, and where the most bear-related damage has been measured last year -- with 329 bear-related attacks in 2020. 
Nikole Hannah-Jones: Anti-CRT coverage is a 'propaganda campaign'. New York, NY (CNN)What began as a Pulitzer Prize-winning New York Times Magazine cover story, the 1619 Project has now produced two books: one for adults, "A New Origin Story" and a children's book, "Born on the Water." But even though the 1619 Project books were just released earlier this week, states such as Texas and Florida have already banned the teaching of the subject matter. Republican lawmakers in at least five states introduced bills that would prohibit the 1619 Project from being taught in schools or cut funding to those that use the project to inform curricula.The ban is linked to the backlash over critical race theory. "This always was a propaganda campaign," 1619 Project creator Nikole Hannah-Jones said about media coverage of CRT on "Reliable Sources" Sunday. "It was designed to drive white suburban people to the polls for Republicans and in some degrees, it's been successful."In the week before the Virginia governor's election, which Republican Glenn Youngkin won by roughly two percentage points, critical race theory was mentioned on Fox News 160 times. This week saw just 30 mentions. "Clearly, there was an attempt right before the off-year elections to stoke concern about race and how it's being taught," CNN's chief media correspondent Brian Stelter said. Hannah-Jones said race is the oldest wedge issue in America, and it still works in politics. "A project that is seeking, journalistically, to force us to grapple with our history cannot be responsible for bad faith actors deciding they are going to whip up white resentment," Hannah-Jones said. The 1619 Project launched in 2019 as an ongoing initiative by the New York Times Magazine that aims to put the consequences of slavery and the experiences of Black Americans "at the very center of our national narrative." Hannah Jones said that no matter one's opinion of the project, there should be concern over bans on the subject matter. "(We should be) opposed to efforts by the state to restrict the teaching of ideas because politicians don't like them," Hannah-Jones said. The author added that the book versions allowed the project to expand and not be constrained by magazine length limits and publishing deadlines. The books also have space for more historians, poets and short fiction contributors, as well as the ability to address the project's critics. The children's book also serves as an origin story for Black children who are descendants of American slaves. "Black Americans, because of slavery, don't know what country in Africa they came from," Hannah-Jones said. "And that's a very demeaning experience for a child."
Princess Charlene of Monaco: A timeline of her health issues and absence.  (CNN)Princess Charlene of Monaco spent half a year away from the European principality to recover from a severe ear, nose and throat infection in her native South Africa. Just 11 days after returning home, Prince Albert II announced in an exclusive interview with People on Friday that the princess has entered a treatment facility "outside of Monaco" for exhaustion. Her return home "went pretty well in the first few hours, and then it became pretty evident that she was unwell," Albert told the publication.Though speculation swirled that her move resulted from a rift in her relationship with her husband , the son of Grace Kelly and Prince Rainier III, the palace, Albert and Charlene have affirmed that her health struggles grounded her on another continent. Mid-May: During a trip to her native South Africa to advocate against poaching and killing rhinos for their horns, Charlene experienced an ear, nose and throat infection severe enough that it "does not allow her to travel," the palace told South African outlet News24. June 24: Charlene's foundation confirmed to News24 was "undergoing multiple, complicated procedures" after contracting the infection. Her medical team advised her to stay in South Africa as she continued to recover and waited to receive further procedures, the foundation said. July 6: Charlene, unable to return to Monaco to celebrate her 10th wedding anniversary, told News24 in a statement that her illness and grounding in South Africa has "been a trying time." "I miss my husband and children dearly," she said. "What has been extremely difficult for me was when I was instructed by my medical team that I could not return home for my 10th wedding anniversary. Albert is my rock and strength and without his love and support I would not have been able to get through this painful time."September 2: Albert, speaking exclusively to People, said that his wife was "ready to come home" after undergoing months of medical procedures. September 4: Charlene left a South African hospital after she was treated for an ear, nose and throat condition, Monaco's palace told Reuters at the time. She was admitted to the hospital after fainting earlier in the week, though the palace said her collapse wasn't a major concern. September 8: In another interview with People, Albert denounced rumors that Charlene remained in South Africa due to issues in their relationship. "She didn't leave Monaco in a huff!" he told the outlet. "She didn't leave because she was mad at me or at anybody else ... It was only supposed to be a weeklong, 10-day maximum stay, and [she is still there now] because she had this infection all these medical complications arose."October 26: Albert told People that Charlene will return to Monaco within weeks after she completed her recovery from an early October surgery. November 9: Charlene returned to Monaco after half a year away, eagerly greeted by her children and husband. On Instagram, she shared a photo of herself in a black face mask with her children and husband, captioned, "Happy day today Thank you all for keeping me strong !!" with a heart emoji. November 16: The palace announced that Charlene, within a week of returning to Monaco, would avoid public duties as she continued her recovery. "A period of calm and rest is necessary to ensure the very best recovery for Princess Charlene's health," the palace said in a statement, according to Reuters. November 19: Charlene was absent from celebrations for the National Day of Monaco.Prince Albert told People his wife is suffering from profound "exhaustion, both emotional and physical."  Appearing on a balcony with their father at the public event, Charlene's 6-year-old twins, Prince Jacque and Princess Gabriella, held handmade signs honoring their mother. Gabriella's sign read "We miss you Mommy" with hearts, and Jacque wrote "We love you Mommy." 
A court battle is brewing over Prince Philip's will. A version of this story appeared in the November 19 edition of CNN's Royal News, a weekly dispatch bringing you the inside track on Britain's royal family. Sign up here. London (CNN)Here in the UK, a deep-seated debate on privacy is taking place after the Guardian newspaper announced it was taking legal action over the media's exclusion from a hearing on Prince Philip's will earlier this year.In September, Andrew McFarlane, president of the High Court's Family Division, ruled that Philip's will would be sealed for 90 years. Among the few present was a lawyer representing the duke's estate from law firm Farrer & Co, the Queen's private solicitors, and the attorney general, the government's chief legal adviser. The media weren't told of the hearing or permitted to attend, with the public interest represented by the attorney general.A Guardian News & Media spokesperson told CNN in an emailed statement that the High Court's decision to ban the media from the court hearing without informing outlets or allowing them to make representations "is a clear threat to the principles of open justice.""It is also concerning that the court appears to believe that only the attorney general can speak to the public interest," the spokesperson continued. "We are seeking permission to argue that the behaviour of the high court in this instance constitutes a failure of open justice and that the case should be reheard."According to British law, if a person prepares a will prior to their death, it becomes a public document after being admitted to probate, and anyone can obtain a copy from the Probate Registry for a fee.  However, anyone can ask the court to "seal" a will and keep it private, according to Geoff Kertesz and Judith Swinhoe-Standen from UK law firm Stewarts. "The court must be persuaded that it would be 'undesirable or otherwise inappropriate' to make the will public," they told CNN. "Historically, the courts have approved such applications only for senior members of the royal family. It is unclear under what, if any, other circumstances the court might agree to keep a will private."One recent senior royal whose will was made public was Diana, Princess of Wales, who gave up her HRH title when she divorced Prince Charles.Judge McFarlane said in his ruling that "it has become the convention that, following the death of a senior member of the Royal Family, an application to seal their will is made" and that "it appears that such applications have always been heard in private and have invariably been granted."He said it was understood that the first member of the royal family whose will was sealed was Prince Francis of Teck, the younger brother of King George V's wife Queen Mary, who died in 1910.Legal and royal expert Michael L. Nash told CNN: "It was Queen Mary who used these unusual royal powers and prerogatives never used before."Francis died suddenly at the age of 40, following a botched medical examination of his nose, according to Nash, who also authored "Royal Wills in Britain from 1509 to 2008." He said the prince was a "reckless gambler" but also an "extremely lovable character," who bequeathed treasured family jewels to his mistress in a draft version of his will.Nash, who has seen a copy of the draft will that surfaced in archives in Northern Ireland, said the prince was constantly in financial trouble, and upon his death "Queen Mary knew that the creditors, once they saw the will, would descend and everything that Frank died possessed of would have to be sold in order to satisfy these massive debts."He continued, "And she was absolutely mortified that the public would be able to know about the state that her brother had got himself into."Nash also pointed out that the family has faced legal challenges to the secrecy of royal wills before, the most recent of which was considered by the court in 2007. He highlighted an application by Robert Andrew Brown, who claimed to be the illegitimate child of the Queen's sister, Princess Margaret. Brown sought to open Margaret's will, as well as that of the Queen Mother, but the claim was dismissed as a fantasy, Nash said. Privacy has become the debate of the modern era for the British monarchy, with the question of how much privacy a family member deserves routinely emerging. Critics often say royals use their positions and privilege to secure exemptions and evade scandal, while also noting that the Windsors are funded by taxpayers.In his judgment, McFarlane said he was the custodian of a safe holding more than 30 envelopes, each of which supposedly contains the secret will of a dead royal. The most recent additions were made in 2002 with those of the Queen Mother and Princess Margaret.  McFarlane also touched upon why privacy was afforded for royal wills, saying: "The answer to the question 'why should there be an exception for senior members of the Royal Family?' is, in my view, clear: it is necessary to enhance the protection afforded to the private lives of this unique group of individuals, in order to protect the dignity and standing of the public role of the Sovereign and other close members of Her family."Lawyers Kertesz and Swinhoe-Standen said there was a notable difference in the handling of the Duke of Edinburgh's wills and those of royals before him."All previously sealed royal wills are to be kept private indefinitely, but Prince Philip's will is different in that its privacy is time-restricted to 90 years," the pair said. "After 90 years, certain officials may inspect it, and they may then invite the court to rule on whether the will should be made public at that point, or kept private for a further period."Nash described the time limit as an "important advance," as the previous position meant wills were concealed in perpetuity. "That gave serious misgivings to historians, lawyers, researchers -- everybody that had a valid reason for reading the will," he added."I can see in future cases that 90 years tumbling down to, say, 50 years or even less. So that there is at least some possibility of people living now being able to read (a will) at some time in the future during their lifetime."HAVE YOUR SAYSo, what do you think: Should or shouldn't the public be allowed to read a royal will, and why?It's certainly an interesting one to ponder. Let us know your thoughts on email (royalnews@cnn.com). Don't forget to include your name and where you are writing from, and your views could feature in a future edition of Royal News.WHAT ELSE IS HAPPENING?Meghan dishes on life on the West Coast. Unlike when she sat down with Oprah, the Duchess of Sussex's chat on The Ellen DeGeneres Show yielded few bombshells. This time, she revealed Archie and Lili's Halloween costumes and pranked street vendors on the studio lot where the show is filmed. Get the whole story. Queen is all smiles at first engagement since health scare.Elizabeth II warmly greeted the head of the Armed Forces when they met at Windsor on Wednesday -- her first face-to-face engagement since she missed the Remembrance Sunday service in London last weekend. "Her Majesty received General Sir Nicholas Carter at Windsor Castle today upon relinquishing his appointment as Chief of the Defence Staff," Buckingham Palace said. Dressed in an orange, green and white floral dress, the 95-year-old monarch stood to greet the outgoing general before the pair chatted in the Oak Room at Windsor Castle. Read more here. William heads to Microsoft HQ.The Duke of Cambridge visited Microsoft's offices just outside London on Thursday to find out how new AI-scanning tech is helping to tackle the illegal wildlife trade. William spoke with developers following a recent successful trial at London's Heathrow airport, where the software proved capable of detecting illegal ivory products hidden among baggage and cargo. The prince, who set up the Royal Foundation's United for Wildlife, explored poaching cases from end-to-end, learning how partner organizations are assisting in disrupting criminal networks.IN THE ROYAL DIARYCharles and Camilla visit Jesus' baptism site.The Prince of Wales and wife Camilla took a special trip while on their tour in Jordan Tuesday. The pair, who conducted their first major overseas visit since the start of the pandemic this week, traveled to a site on the river Jordan where Jesus is believed to have been baptized. The couple were permitted to dip their fingers in the water and are taking "five or six dozen bottles" of holy water home for future royal baptisms, according to the Daily Mail. The royal couple kicked off their four-day autumn tour on Tuesday. Clarence House said the trip was at the request of the British government and engagements would focus particularly on addressing the climate crisis. In Jordan, they were welcomed to Al Husseiniya Palace by King Abdullah II and Queen Rania, complete with two honor guards. After a packed schedule across two days, the royals traveled to Egypt, where they met President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi and first lady Entissar Amer at Al-Ittahadiya Palace. Charles then attended an interfaith reception at Al Azhar Mosque, where he met with the Grand Imam. They concluded their first day with a visit to the Great Pyramid of Giza and the Great Sphinx before attending a reception. They separated for engagements on their final day in Egypt, with the duchess visiting a Cairo veterinary hospital while Charles went to a business meeting downtown.PHOTO OF THE WEEKThe Duke and Duchess of Cambridge dressed in their finest for a night out at the Royal Albert Hall in London on Thursday. The couple left the children at home to watch the Royal Variety Performance. The annual show -- which this year marked a century of royal patronage -- is held to fundraise and support members of the entertainment industry. After the show, the couple were photographed chatting with comedian Bill Bailey and musician Ed Sheeran, among others. Thanks for reading today's send -- we hope you enjoyed it. Just a heads-up that we're taking a brief break over Thanksgiving next week but will be back to bring you all the comings and goings of the Windsors on December 3. --Max & Lauren
Queen marks first wedding anniversary without Prince Philip. London (CNN)Britain's Queen Elizabeth II has reached her first wedding anniversary since the death of her husband, Prince Philip.The couple were married on 20 November 1947, and spent more than seven decades together until Philip's death in April, aged 99. Saturday would have been their 74th anniversary.The Queen, who is 95, has only recently resumed her engagements after spraining her back.She was forced to miss a Remembrance Sunday service in London last weekend due to the ailment, but was pictured meeting an outgoing general at Windsor Castle on Wednesday.The death of Philip earlier this year brought an end to the pair's lengthy and storied romance. Their wedding at Westminster Abbey, when they were still Princess Elizabeth and Lieutenant Philip Mountbatten, attracted worldwide attention and came just five years before Elizabeth would ascend the throne following the sudden death of her father, King George VI.The couple enjoyed the longest partnership of any British sovereign. Following Philip's death, the Queen said her family was "in a period of great sadness." "It has been a comfort to us all to see and to hear the tributes paid to my husband, from those within the United Kingdom, the Commonwealth and around the world," she added.
How hoarding saved Black Friday. A version of this story first appeared in CNN Business' Before the Bell newsletter. Not a subscriber? You can sign up right here. You can listen to an audio version of the newsletter by clicking the same link.London (CNN Business)For months, there have been warnings to shoppers: Get through your holiday to-do list early. Wait until Black Friday or later, and you may not be able to find what you want. But as stores prepare for the peak of the most important season for retailers, bigger companies are starting to send a different message: You may not have to worry about empty shelves after all.What's happening: Anxious about huge shipping delays, large chains have been stocking up on products for months. Some, like Walmart (WMT) and Costco (COST), have been chartering their own ships to travel from production hubs in Asia, while others have been leveraging long-term relationships with suppliers to get what they need."The availability of inventory is going to be better at the large, well-positioned retailers who either have more scale or flexibility to navigate through these challenges, or they'll be viewed as preferential partners for their vendors," UBS analyst Michael Lasser told me.Walmart's inventory levels rose 11.5% during its most recent quarter compared with a year ago, the company said last week, while Target's inventory levels increased 18%. TJX (TJX) said its inventory has climbed a more modest 4%."Most of the inventory we need for the holiday season has already been delivered to us or is scheduled to arrive in stores and online in time for the holidays," TJX CEO Ernie Herrman told analysts last week.These companies have faced higher costs to secure hot items. But unlike some competitors, they can afford to pay more when needed.Not everyone has gotten it right. Ross Stores (ROST) said that despite chartering an ocean vessel, it had some concerns about getting merchandise in time for the holidays due to clogged ports.Victoria's Secret also said that nearly 50% of its holiday merchandise is stuck in transit as Black Friday approaches. The company is trying to rely on planes to deliver merchandise, but it may be too late. Compared to this time last year, the retailer has 30% less pajama sets, a popular gift item.  Lasser said the US companies struggling the most are those that import a larger share of their products from overseas. Walmart, he noted, sources two-thirds of its goods domestically, which helps insulate them from issues at ports.Then there's smaller retailers, which can't just throw money at the problem. They could fall even further behind the biggest players in the coming weeks.The gap "has been widening for years," Lasser said. "I would expect that to continue to be the case this holiday season."Casting doubt on Covid's 'Great Migration'The "Great Migration" may not be as pronounced as once thought.The US Census Bureau recently released data showing that migration activity has fallen to its lowest rate in more than 70 years, my CNN Business colleague Alicia Wallace reports. The findings toss some cold water on anecdotes that Americans were relocating more than ever during the pandemic. From 2020 to 2021, nearly 27.1 million Americans, or 8.4% of the US population, reported living in a different residence than the year prior. That's down from 9.3% the previous year. The migration rate has been falling steadily since 2014.Rethinking the narrative: There might not have been a massive overall trend of people moving across the country. But net migration out of urban neighborhoods did climb during the early stages of the pandemic, said Stephan D. Whitaker, a policy economist with the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland who has been closely studying migration patterns."Flows of migrants out of high-cost, large metro areas did increase during the pandemic," Whitaker said. "However, many other types of moves, both long distance and local, declined. Summing all these moves reveals that, overall, fewer people relocated during the first year of the pandemic."Whitaker has found that some outflows from high-cost metro areas continued through spring 2021, as people relocated to smaller cities nearby and fast-growing destinations like Las Vegas and Nashville.At the same time, people started returning to large cities — though not enough to replace those who had left.Up nextMonday: US existing home sales; Urban Outfitters and Zoom earningsTuesday: IHS Markit PMI data; Abercrombie & Fitch (ANF), Best Buy (BBY), Dick's Sporting Goods (DKS), Dollar Tree (DLTR), J.M. Smucker (SJM), Dell (DELL), Gap (GPS) and Nordstrom (JWN) earningsWednesday: US personal spending data, new home sales and PCE inflation; Federal Reserve minutes; Deere (DE) earningsThursday: US markets closedFriday: Half day for US markets; Pinduoduo (PDD) earnings
Here's why Gen Z is unionizing. New York, NY (CNN Business)Even among the generally youthful demographic of Starbucks workers unionizing in Buffalo, New York, 17-year-old Maya Panos is younger than most.In her short stint as a member of the labor market, the high school senior says she lost economic stability  — Panos was laid off from her first job as a hostess due to the pandemic. "It was just a really terrible time," Panos said. "The structure of my life was falling apart in front of my eyes and I couldn't do anything about it." She joined Starbucks in mid-July, a month before her franchise announced its union campaign, and soon realized that even as a part time employee working conditions could improve. "You just have customers straight-up verbally abusing you," Panos said, "You get like a $1 or $2 pay (per hour) increase while you're taking on way more work... and I felt like they were using us."According to Pew Research, in 1983, 20% of Americans were union members — but by 2020, that percentage had fallen by almost half to 10.8%. It's even lower for workers aged 16-24 who have historically low union participation rates, at just 4.4% in 2020 according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, since many start out in temporary service or retail jobs where unions have little sway.Yet some 77% of young adults support unions, according to a September Gallup poll. But that doesn't mean they will choose to organize.Across multiple industries, however — particularly the media and service sectors — interest in the labor movement is gaining traction among the economy's newest and youngest workers. Gen Z, born between 1996 and the mid-2000s, came of age through Black Lives Matter, the coronavirus pandemic and the Trump presidency. The oldest among them remember the 2008 global financial crisis and the Great Recession, and see echoes of that era's economic instability today. "They've seen opportunities for their generation disappear and are afraid they are going to be worse off than their parents," said Kate Bronfenbrenner, director of Labor Education Research and a senior lecturer at Cornell University's School of Industrial and Labor Relations. "They look around and see who is doing something, and they see the labor movement."Many of those interviewed by CNN Business say they want to join a movement where social causes are part of their workplace values. "[Unions] hadn't crossed my mind, because we learned all these big union movements happened way back," Panos said. "So you think everything should be set up by now. And everything should be fine."Kaitlin Bell, 23, communications chair of Nonprofit Professional Employees Union and a member of CLINIC Workers United, which represents the Catholic Legal Immigration Network, decided that she wanted to organize after seeing TikToks of millennials working in the non-profit sector, making jokes about overbearing bosses and their fears of getting fired."I want to be in a work environment where people feel safe and secure," Bell said. "Those TikToks are funny, but if that's our reality for the next several decades, it can be a little disheartening."Richard Minter, the organizing director of Workers United, a Service Employees International Union affiliate, said he has organized about 300 new members in the past 18 months. Most of them were young people who work in restaurants and service industries."In my history of doing this for 27 years, I don't think I've seen that kind of bravery," Minter said. Kati Kokal, now a reporter at the Palm Beach Post, was the youngest journalist on the staff of the Hilton Head, South Carolina-based Island Packet when she joined the newspaper at age 22 in 2018.The Packet's staff began discussing organizing in March 2020, just before the newspaper's owner, McClatchy, was purchased by hedge fund Chatham Asset Management in a bankruptcy sale. Kokal, who grew up in the US Rust Belt where her father was a member of a factory foundry union, joined the paper's bargaining committee. She drove to workers' homes after hours to have them sign union cards. "When I was in college, we were not talking about unionizing in newsrooms, and now among student journalists there's more of this idea," Kokal said. Starbucks organizesWhen William Westlake, 24, was first approached to organize at Gimme! Coffee in Ithaca, New York, in 2016, he had a list of 140 questions for the organizers before joining the organizing committee, such as what would be the organizing structure and how much the union president would earn. He had learned about labor rights in high school — the 1911 Triangle shirtwaist factory fire, for example — but he wasn't sure if large labor movements were still happening. Now, he leads the organizing effort at his Starbucks location in Buffalo, where workers at three stores are holding union elections and another three have filed petitions requesting an election to join Workers United, affiliated with the Service Employees International Union. "It would be rare to not have a friend that I hadn't already talked to about unionizing at some point," Westlake said. "Whether you're in a coffee job or starting out as a medical professional or engineer."Westlake's store in Buffalo, where employees are mostly young, female and progressive, he said, began mail-in voting earlier in November. Ballots are due early December. Starbucks (SBUX) is flooding the Buffalo market with top executives who are holding meetings with employees. Former CEO Howard Schultz even spoke in person to employees there before union voting started. Starbucks says the company is not "anti-union" -- they frequently hold listening sessions across the country and send corporate members to locations when there are operational concerns. Starbucks says its workers have received three wage increases in the last two years.  It was Panos' first time signing a union card, and she said she felt like she was signing an illegal document, and that she felt as if she was being "spied on" by out-of-state company officials. Starbucks said any claims of intimidation are not accurate. "I'd ask my coworkers, oh, am I going to get fired tomorrow?" Panos said.
The supply chain is messing with the squishy golden dumpling everyone wants. New York (CNN Business)An animated dumpling called "Dart," with a shiny gold chrome body that pops out of its head when you squeeze its squishy cheeks, is creating quite a stir as parents scramble to score one of this year's must-have toys.Dart belongs to a family of interactive dumplings from toymaker WowWee that hit stores in mid July. They're basically what the name suggests -- squeezable but inedible dumplings big enough to fit into the palm of your hand.And they're increasingly difficult to find. Like with everything, blame the supply chain."It's a s**tshow," said Michael Yanofsky, the company's managing director of sales. "It's not just the holdup at the ports, it's labor shortages and backups all along the transportation network that's been a struggle to get the toys to retailers.""Our bet is made for Black Friday," said Yanofsky. "Whatever inventory of dumplings is in is it and we hope it all makes it onto store shelve. There's no chance of getting more unless we put them on planes."WowWee is trying to navigate the serious supply chain issues to ensure it has enough inventory overall of its dumplings to satisfy strong demand through to Christmas. The dumplings, like most toys sold in the United States, are made in China. Sold outThe first four in the lineup are named "Doe," "Dip," "Dee" and "Dot." They each speak a weird "Squish-Pop" language and giggle and laugh. The cheeks change color and the top of their head lights up to a color code that matches their current "mood" -- energetic, happy, silly. Then along came "Mel the Marshamallow, " "Peace the Peach" and "Coco the Cotton Candy Cloud."But it's Dart, the golden dumpling who flaunts 24K gold glasses, that everyone desperately wants. He's sold out on Amazon (AMZN) where WowWee launched him at the end September. Dart has been popping up on eBay  (EBAY)at twice the retail price.Its popularity even caught the attention of MyBookie.com, an offshore gaming site, which was accepting bets this month on whether the squishy little golden dumpling would sell out on Amazon before Black Friday. Hitting all the trendsThe $15 dumpling toy is popular because it's hitting a few dominant trends in toys right now, said Marissa Silva, editor-in-chief of The Toy Insider, a toy review and news website.She said kids are obsessed with collecting tiny cute toys that come in tiny packages, as proven by the Shopkins mania. "Dumplings are a little bit bigger but collectible," said Silva. "They're also affordable and not overly complicated for kids to figure out."Plus, the soft squishy texture of the dumpling and the popping out of their body also cleverly plays into the current bubble fidget poppers toy craze.There's one other appeal: the food inspiration."Food-themed toys continue to be very hot trend. We've seen this with Shopkins and with Mini Brands," said Jim Silver, a toy industry expert and CEO of Toys, Tots, Pets & More, an industry review website. Mini Brands are tiny shrunken versions of popular consumer products like a can of Spam, or a bottle of Dove Body Wash that come hidden in tiny bags.""These food-inspired toys are also so easy for kids to have fun with on social media," said Silver.The squishy dumplings are the brainchild of Sydney Wiseman, vice president of brand development and creative strategy for WowWee. She came up with the idea for them 18 moths ago. "I wanted to do a toy based on a dumpling for a long time," she said. And she wanted the dumpling characters to be in a band. That aspect is infused in their look and the accessories they wear.More are comingWowWee in August announced a partnership with Nickelodeon to produce animated digital music videos that feature the squishy characters in a band.Wiseman is thrilled with the dumplings popularity overall, and especially of Dart's, which WowWee only produced 100,000 pieces of as a very limited character. She said Dart holds a special meaning for the WowWee team. "He's named after a dear friend of ours at WowWee, Art Janis, who recently passed away," she said.There's still a possibility to score Dart after Black Friday. WowWee is launching a two-pack set with the golden dumpling and a rose gold dumpling on November 30 on Amazon.
