Austria to impose Covid lockdown for the unvaccinated age 12 and older.  (CNN)Austria will implement lockdown measures for all those age 12 and older who are not fully vaccinated against Covid-19 from Monday, Chancellor Alexander Schallenberg announced.  Around 65% of Austria's population is fully vaccinated against Covid-19, one of the lower rates in the European Union where cases are surging. Under the measures announced on Sunday, the unvaccinated are ordered to stay home except for a few limited reasons; the rules will be policed by officers carrying out spot checks on those who are out.The lockdown plan which was agreed in September called for unvaccinated Austrians to face a stay-at-home order once 30% of intensive-care beds are occupied by Covid-19 patients. Unvaccinated people are already excluded from entertainment venues, restaurants, hairdressers and other parts of public life in Austria.Schallenberg told reporters on Friday that the government should give the "green light" for the move this weekend. "The aim is clear: we want on Sunday to give the green light for a nationwide lockdown for the unvaccinated," Schallenberg said at a news conference in Innsbruck. He had earlier called the country's vaccination rate "shamefully low."His warning came as a wave of Covid-19 infections sweeps central Europe. A three-week partial lockdown was announced in the Netherlands on Friday evening, Reuters reported, with health officials recording a rapid rise in cases there."Tonight we are bringing a very unpleasant message with very unpleasant and far-reaching measures," Dutch caretaker Prime Minister Mark Rutte said in a televised address, ordering restaurants, supermarkets and non-essential retailers to close early and reimposing social distancing measures. "The virus is everywhere and needs to be combated everywhere."Norway also announced new measures on Friday, while people in the German capital Berlin are preparing for fresh restrictions that come into place on Monday.Schallenberg's tone encapsulated the frustration that several European governments have expressed towards unvaccinated pockets of society, as a wave of Covid-19 infections sweeps the region.In neighboring Germany, ministers have ramped up their rhetoric towards those who are not inoculated. Its capital Berlin announced on Wednesday it will ban people who are not vaccinated from indoor dining, bars, gyms, hairdressers and cinemas from next week.Vaccine rates vary across Europe but get steadily lower towards the east of the continent. Russia has hit a new daily record for Covid-19 deaths, with 1,241 registered in the previous 24 hours, the country's coronavirus task force said on Saturday. With the latest figures, the country has reached a total of 254,167 deaths since the start of the pandemic.German officials meanwhile warned on Thursday the country remains in the grips of a ''very worrying'' rise in Covid-19 cases and advised residents to "urgently to cancel or avoid larger events if possible, but also to reduce all other unnecessary contacts."According to the latest figures from the Robert Koch Institute, the country's seven-day incidence rate has risen to 263.7 cases per 100,000 people -- up from 169.9 cases reported a week ago.  The Norwegian government said on Friday it would reintroduce "a few more national measures" to "reduce the [Covid-19] infection" in the country. Health Minister Ingvild Kjerkol said "unvaccinated people over the age of 18, who live with someone who is infected with the virus, will have a duty to get tested," adding the obligation would apply from November 17.The government will also advise municipalities to start testing unvaccinated healthcare workers twice a week, with a clear message that they must wear a mask, according to the statement.For the second consecutive week, Europe was the only region in the world where cases and deaths were found to be climbing in the World Health Organization's weekly global report.Between November 1 and 7, there was a 1% increase in new weekly cases, the update said, and just over 3.1 million new cases were reported. The region also reported a 10% increase in new deaths over the last week.CNN's Rob Picheta, Nadine Schmidt and Anna Chernova and Duarte Mendonca contributed to this report.
COP26 ended with the Glasgow Climate Pact. Here's where it succeeded and failed. Glasgow, Scotland (CNN)Nearly 200 countries adopted the Glasgow Climate Pact in Scotland on Saturday at talks known as COP26, after nearly two weeks of wrangling on everything from how much to limit global warming, what to say about fossil fuels and whether the worst-hit countries by the climate crisis should be compensated.Some are calling it a success, others a failure, and many say it's something in between. Here's what's in it so you can decide for yourself.First ever mention of fossil fuels ... with a lot of caveatsThe agreement makes unprecedented mention of the role of fossil fuels in the climate crisis. That's something that even the landmark Paris Agreement was unable to achieve. The Glasgow Climate Pact calls for the phasing down of unabated coal and inefficient fossil fuel subsidies.The language was originally stronger but was watered down several times. It looked like it might even have been scrapped near the end when India, with Iran's support, made clear they wouldn't give their blessings on it. The pact requires all 197 parties to agree on the final text.But at the 11th hour, India said it would accept the language with one tweak -- that coal should be phased "down," not phased "out," in what some observers see as a get out clause that would allow continued use of coal. COP26 President Alok Sharma was seen canvassing opinion on the floor of the plenary room to see if others would support the change to essentially save the article. When asked for her opinion on the whole agreement, even Greenpeace International Executive Director Jennifer Morgan saw the inclusion of coal as a win for the climate."It's meek, it's weak and the 1.5C goal is only just alive, but a signal has been sent that the era of coal is ending. And that matters," she said. Sharma faced questions over the way he handled the last-minute change, for which he later apologized. "This will not bring us closer to 1.5 but make it more difficult to reach it," said Swiss Environment Minister Simonetta Sommarug, receiving a long round of applause.But Indian Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav, who had opposed the language, said that it would be difficult for his country to end coal use and fossil fuel subsidies while it tries to address poverty. "How can anyone expect developing countries to make promises about phasing out coal and fossil fuel subsidies?" he asked."Subsidies provide much needed social security and support," he said, giving the example of how India uses subsidies to provide liquified natural gas to low-income households.2022 -- a year for the world to get its act together Perhaps the most consequential change was language that requests parties to come to COP27 next year in Egypt with updated plans on how to slash greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. Under the Paris Agreement, countries were only obliged to update their goals by 2025. The idea is that countries will increase their ambition more regularly, which should mean an acceleration to net zero -- a state where the amount of greenhouse gases emitted is not greater than the amount removed from the atmosphere.The latest landmark climate science report, published by the UN in August, called for emissions to roughly halve by 2030 and for the world to reach net zero by mid-century to have any hope in keeping global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. The question now is, will countries actually do it?"By agreeing this emergency package they have responded to rising climate damage with an action plan to keep 1.5C within reach," said Nick Mabey, co-founder and executive director of the E3G climate think tank. "But the real task begins now as every country must go home and deliver on their Glasgow promises."Rich countries agreed more than 10 years ago to transfer $100 billion a year to developing nations to help their transformation to low-carbon economies, and adapt to the climate crisis. Adaptation can involve anything from building sea walls to prevent flooding, to moving communities back from the coast and retrofitting homes to better withstand extreme weather events.Not only had the rich world failed to deliver the $100 billion by the 2020 deadline, developing nations say it's nowhere near enough in the first place. They had been calling for a 50-50 split between mitigation -- measures to reduce emissions -- and adaptation which helps them deal with the consequences of climate change. Far more money has flowed to measures focused on cutting emissions.The Glasgow Climate Pact includes a doubling of money for adaptation by 2025, from 2019 levels, which is progress in this area. But the $100 billion target is still off track, likely to only be met by 2023, as a COP26 Presidency report found. There are also questions over whether developed nations will maintain that level of funding annually. "It is inexcusable that developed countries failed to meet their commitment to deliver $100 billion annually starting in 2020, even as they provide hundreds of billions of dollars in subsidies for fossil fuels," said Ani Dasgupta, president and CEO of the World Resources Institute."It is significant that the final outcome at COP26 puts developed countries on the hook to report on their progress towards the $100 billion goal. Countries also made headway toward developing a new financial goal that goes beyond 2025. Nations also agreed to at least double funding for adaptation by 2025, implying at least $40 billion, which is very important progress." No 'liability' fund to pay for climate crisis destruction This is a point with which many developing and climate vulnerable countries will be going home disappointed. There were high hopes that a dedicate fund would be set up to pay for the damage and destruction the climate crisis brings to the hardest-hit countries.The idea was that the rich nations would pay into it, and if a country experiences an event like floods that destroy homes, this money could help them rebuild. This is called "loss and damage" in climate speak.The agreement does recognize the importance of loss and damage and agrees to boost technical assistance to affected countries. But instead of agreeing to a dedicated fund, it calls for more dialogue, meaning an actual fund may years away, if it happens at all.US climate envoy John Kerry confirmed after the decision that his country was against such a fund for now, while the European Union had previously said it would not support it.Rachel Cleetus, policy Director and Lead Economist in the Climate and Energy Program at the Union of Concerned Scientists said Australia was also blocking progress. CNN has reached out to the delegation."A proposed Glasgow Loss and Damage Facility to channel new and additional funds for loss and damage failed to materialize after being blocked by richer nations including the United States, Australia and the European Union," Cleetus said."The final COP26 decision is overwhelmingly compromised by countries that have contributed most greatly to the climate crisis and once again denies justice for climate vulnerable developing countries."It took six years but a Paris rulebook is finally finished. AlmostIf there's any sign of how slow progress by consensus can be, it was only on Saturday that the world agreed to the outstanding rules of the 2015 Paris Agreement.There had been concern over the creation of carbon emission markets, known as "Article 6," which is so technical that the world couldn't agree on its wording and substance over the last five years. There were concerns about a loophole that could have allowed some countries to double count their carbon credits. And that would be disastrous as the world would soon lose track of how much greenhouse gas is actually being removed or offset, and sold on markets. One way to offset greenhouse gases is by paying countries with significant forest cover to not log their trees, or to plant more of them. Trees can absorb and lock away large amounts of carbon. Cutting them down or burning them releases carbon dioxide into the air. A country could also pay another to build a wind farm, for example, instead of a coal or oil plant. Brazil was pushing to this deal as it could become a major exporter of carbon credits through the Amazon forest but also through renewable energy projects, like wind and solar. It's good news the rules were final agreed and some loopholes closed, but some experts warn against allowing too much offsetting, saying that is only an incentive for nations and businesses to keep emitting as usual, particularly rich nations and big business that can afford a lot of offsets. There are also worries about the implication of the system for Indigenous people, who are worried about the commodification of their lands. According to the UN, Indigenous people make up less than 5% of the world's population, but they protect 80% of remaining forest biodiversity globally.And while it was adopted there are still technically a few details that weren't agreed."We are extremely pleased that the countries participating in COP26 have agreed on how global carbon trading will work to speed climate action. The progress made in Glasgow is a crucial step toward keeping global average temperature rise below 1.5C," said James Roth, senior vice president for global policy and government affairs  at Conservation International."After six years of negotiations, the rules allowing countries to trade carbon credits with each other, known as Article 6.2, have been agreed with the exception of some operational elements," Roth said. "This level of certainty will drive new investments to scale the climate actions we desperately need across all sectors, including halting deforestation and promoting other natural climate solutions."And there you have it. Some good news, some bad news. As the UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said, the work starts now for COP27 in Egypt. Only then will the real impact of Glasgow become clear.
Here's what the jury in Kyle Rittenhouse's trial will have to weigh.  (CNN)When jurors in the homicide trial of Kyle Rittenhouse begin deliberations, expected early this week, the young man's actions during a night of unrest on the streets of Kenosha, Wisconsin, last year will not be in dispute. Rittenhouse, then 17, shot at four people with a semiautomatic rifle, killing two of them and wounding another. Nearly all of it was captured on video that was analyzed frame-by-frame over the last two weeks.The prosecution has sought to portray Rittenhouse as a teenage vigilante who illegally possessed the gun and acted criminally and recklessly. Defense lawyers -- backed up by the defendant's riveting and emotional testimony -- argued that he acted in self-defense.After closing arguments, set for Monday, the jury will get the case. The panel will consider five felony counts and a misdemeanor weapons charge against Rittenhouse. Using an AR-15-type rifle, he killed Joseph Rosenbaum, 36, and Anthony Huber, 26, and wounded Gaige Grosskreutz, 27, during street demonstrations over the police shooting of Jacob Blake.Here are the counts the jury will weigh after Kenosha County Circuit Judge Bruce Schroeder instructs them on the law: First-degree reckless homicide, use of a dangerous weapon Count 1 states that Rittenhouse recklessly caused the death of Rosenbaum under circumstances that showed utter disregard for human life.The judge denied a prosecution request for the jury to also be instructed on second-degree reckless homicide.Rittenhouse testified he acted in self-defense when he fatally shot Rosenbaum after the man threw a plastic bag at him and chased him. "I didn't do anything wrong. I defended myself," he testified.Under cross, Rittenhouse said that he knew Rosenbaum was unarmed. He said he pointed his rifle at Rosenbaum in an attempt to deter him and acknowledged that was dangerous."If I would have let Mr. Rosenbaum take my firearm from me, he would have used it and killed me with it and probably killed more people," he testified.Rittenhouse broke down in tears at one point, leading to a short break."I think it was a game changer to put him on the stand," CNN legal analyst Joey Jackson said. "Number one, you humanize him... More important, number two, he explained his uses of force."Rittenhouse's testimony couldn't have been scripted any better, criminal defense attorney Mark Eiglarsh said.The "biggest issue" is whether the jury finds Rittenhouse credible, he told CNN. "Secondly, do they believe then that it equals he reasonably feared death or great bodily harm?"Wisconsin law allows the use of deadly force only if "necessary to prevent imminent death or great bodily harm.""Whether he engaged in self defense and did so reasonably and thought his life was in immediate danger ... that's what the jury has to assess ultimately," Jackson said of Rittenhouse. Prosecutors also requested the jury be given instruction on provocation. They argued Rittenhouse provoked Rosenbaum by raising his gun and pointing it at somebody, which led to the victim running after him.The judge agreed to allow that the panel consider whether Rittenhouse provoked Rosenbaum into attacking him -- thus negating self-defense.Ellie Honig, a CNN senior legal anaylst and a former prosecutor, said the provocation instruction was an important win for the prosecution. Honig said the instruction allows prosecutors to argue "the defendant went too far, used deadly force when it wasn't reasonably necessary" and that he "provoked the attack, and hence cannot argue self-defense." First-degree recklessly endangering safety, use of a dangerous weaponCount 2 states that Kyle Rittenhouse recklessly endangered the safety of Richard McGinniss -- a journalist with the conservative Daily Caller -- under circumstances that show utter disregard for human life. The state asked that the jury also be instructed on second-degree recklessly endangering safety. Schroeder said he was inclined to give the additional instruction on the lesser charge.The judge told Rittenhouse that presenting lesser offenses lowered the possibility of a second trial but increased the risk of a conviction.Allowing jurors to weigh less serious charges could help the prosecution."A lot of times ... the jury gets into a heated discussion about whether he's guilty or not guilty of intentional conduct," said CNN legal analyst and former prosecutor Paul Callan."And they compromise on a lesser charge when they have one available. If they don't have one available, it's either guilty of one of the higher charges or not guilty."First-degree intentional homicide, use of a dangerous weaponCount 3 states that Rittenhouse did cause the death of Huber, with intent to kill him. It's the most serious charge he faces, with a mandatory life sentence. Huber swung his skateboard at Rittenhouse after Rosenbaum was fatally shot. Prosecutors asked that the jury also be instructed on second-degree intentional homicide, first-degree reckless homicide and second-degree reckless homicide.Defense attorneys objected to second-degree reckless homicide. The judge said he "embraced" the defense's argument. But he will likely allow lesser charges of second-degree intentional homicide and first-degree reckless homicide."I think the jury is going to want to hold him responsible for something in this case," former prosecutor Mark O'Meara said. "Then giving the lesser is an opportunity for the jury to hold him responsible but at a much lower charge than the intentional homicide or even the reckless homicide."First-degree recklessly endangering safety, use of a dangerous weaponCount 4 states that Rittenhouse did recklessly endanger the safety of an unknown male, referred to as "jump kick man" in court, under circumstances that show utter disregard for human life.The man jumped at Rittenhouse at one point, trying to kick him and the teen opened fire. "I thought if I were to be knocked out, he would have stomped my face in if I didn't fire," he said. Rittenhouse fired at the man twice and missed. Attempted first-degree intentional homicide, use of a weaponCount 5 states that Rittenhouse attempted to cause the death of Grosskreutz, with intent to kill him. After shooting Huber, Rittenhouse testified, he saw Grosskreutz lunge at him and point a pistol at his head. Rittenhouse shot him, he testified. Grosskreutz was wounded.Grosskreutz testified that he pulled out his own firearm because he believed Rittenhouse was an active shooter.Grosskreutz said he and a crowd followed Rittenhouse, who had just fatally shot another man. Rittenhouse fell to the ground, fired twice at an unknown person and then fatally shot Huber.Grosskreutz, just feet away, put his hands in the air, videos show. He testified he then saw Rittenhouse rerack his weapon -- a motion that loads it for gunfire.Prosecutors asked for lesser charges of attempted second-degree intentional homicide, first-degree reckless endangerment and second-degree reckless endangerment. Schroeder said he was inclined to agree with the prosecution.  Possession of a dangerous weapon by a person under 18Count 6, a misdemeanor, states that Rittenhouse was under 18 years old with a dangerous weapon. Aside from the evidence presented at trial and the instructions on the law, the personal views of jurors and the polarizing nature of the case could also come into play.  "It's a very difficult case," said Laura Coates, a CNN senior legal analyst and a former federal prosecutor. "You cannot extract and divorce from the political, the sociological, the cultural, the actual everyday conversations ... It's very difficult to just look at this from the idea of -- was this person entitled to self-defense? There are so many different aspects of it. The jury is going to have to whittle that down."
Diabetes is a 'pandemic of unprecedented magnitude,' and experts fear Covid-19 may make it worse.  (CNN)The year 2021 marks 100 years since the discovery of insulin, a game-changing drug in the fight against diabetes. Despite a century of advancements in treatment, education and prevention, World Diabetes Day 2021 occurs in the wake of grim statistics. One in 10 adults around the world -- some 537 million people -- are currently living with diabetes, according to figures recently released by the International Diabetes Federation (IDF). By 2024, the IDF predicted that the number of people with diabetes is expected to rise to 1 in 8 adults."As the world marks the centenary of the discovery of insulin, I wish we could say we've stopped the rising tide of diabetes," IDF President Dr. Andrew Boulton told CNN. "Instead, diabetes is currently a pandemic of unprecedented magnitude." Nearly 7 million adults have died worldwide in 2021 so far due to diabetes or its complications, the IDF estimated -- that's more than 1 in 10 global deaths from any cause.  That doesn't count the lives lost to the novel coronavirus, which has been particularly deadly for people living with diabetes. A study published in February found having either Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes tripled the risk of severe illness and death from Covid-19. "And if you want another startling statistic, as many as 40% of the people that have died in the US from Covid-19 had diabetes," said Dr. Robert Gabbay, chief scientific and medical officer for the American Diabetes Association.The pandemic also took a toll on how well people have managed their diabetes over the past year and a half, said Boulton, who is also a professor of medicine at the University of Manchester in the UK."My fear is we're going to see a tsunami in the next two years of diabetes and its complications because people have missed their screening appointments due to fear of catching Covid-19," he said.Is Covid a trigger for diabetes?As bad as these numbers are, experts are concerned that Covid-19 might contribute to an even greater problem. "There may be more people developing diabetes because of Covid," Gabbay told CNN. Boulton echoed that concern: "There may be a specific Covid-induced diabetes, although there is some debate on that at the moment."A global analysis published in 2020 found as many as 14% of people hospitalized with severe Covid-19 later developed diabetes. Another review published this October found examples of new-onset Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes in babies, children and adults infected with Covid-19."Whether new-onset diabetes is likely to remain permanent is not known, as the long-term follow-up of these patients is limited," the study reported.It's very possible that Covid-19 is not the culprit. Blood sugar abnormalities could be triggered by the stress of an infection and the steroids used to fight Covid-19 inflammation, Gabbay said.Another explanation is that the person may have had pre-diabetes -- some 88 million Americans currently do, according to the American Medical Association and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The organizations have partnered with the Ad Council to create a new public service campaign: "Do I Have Prediabetes?"People also may have had diabetes that was not previously diagnosed. The IDF estimates that of the 537 million adults living with diabetes around the world, almost half (44.7%) are as yet undiagnosed.But there is also evidence that SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, can bind to the ACE2 receptors in the islet cells of the pancreas -- the organ that produces the body's insulin, Boulton and Gabbay told CNN."The virus attacks those cells in the pancreas and interferes with their production of insulin, so that may be another mechanism," Gabbay said. "And those individuals that are diagnosed in the hospital with diabetes for the first time, through whichever mechanism, sadly do worse."Early identification is keyReversing the rising tide of diabetes cases requires early identification. Nipping Type 2 diabetes in the pre-diabetic stages is preferred, since it's before the body begins to suffer damage from irregular blood sugars and lifestyle changes are easier to implement.Studies in Finland a few decades ago found that people with "very slight elevated blood sugar" who followed a sensible diet and regular exercise "had a 54% reduction in proceeding to Type 2 diabetes," Boulton said. "And it didn't have to be flogging yourself in the gym," he added. "It's sensible exercising, walking instead of riding the bus and walking up the stairs instead of taking the elevator, that can do the trick."Two recent studies found that adding about a third of a cup of fruit or vegetables to your daily diet could cut your risk of developing Type 2 diabetes by 25%, while higher consumptions of whole grains, such as brown bread and oatmeal, could cut the risk by 29%.Even full-flown diabetes can be put into remission, Gabbay said, with a regime of diet, exercise and stress reduction and proper use of medications. "People in remission may still be at risk for some of the long-term complications, and therefore, they still need to be monitored, with quarterly blood tests, a yearly eye and foot test, and yearly screening for kidney disease and cholesterol levels," he said.To determine if you are at risk for Type 2 diabetes, the American Diabetes Association has a 60-second online test. After answering a few questions about family history, age, gender and physical activity, the test spits out an answer. Being over age 60, overweight, having had gestational diabetes while pregnant, having a family history of diabetes, currently living with high blood pressure and a lack of physical exercise all raise your risk.
Taylor Swift and Pete Davidson tease 'SNL' newbies, plus more top moments from the night.  (CNN)Following the release of "Red (Taylor's Version)" and a short music film that has people talking, Taylor Swift appeared on "Saturday Night Live" for a fifth time.The episode was hosted by actor Jonathan Majors, and instead of the usual two performances by "SNL" musical guests, Swift delivered the full 10-minute version of her song "All Too Well" off her re-recorded album. If Taylor asks for a ten-minute chunk of "SNL," Taylor gets a ten-minute chunk of "SNL." She also joined in on some laughs, teaming up with Pete Davidson in a dream-turned-humiliating nightmare for three young "SNL" show writers: Ben Marshall, John Higgins, and Martin Herlihy."Ben is like a sad Ron Weasley/ He looks like if Big Bird/ lost all his feathers," Swift sings to the trio. "Martin has the charm and the sex appeal of a scarecrow."Following a series of jokes at their expense from Davidson, Swift sings that none of the "three sad virgins" have the "guts to take their shirts off in front of a girl," to which the writers shrug and say: "True."Beyond a very clever "Sesame Street" spin on the cold open, other highlights from the night include a monologue from Majors that left us excited for his Marvel future and really wanting some cheddar biscuits. A selection of some of the episode's standout skits follows below.Man ParkA commercial parody for an outdoor "Man Park," where socially awkward guys can make friends and feel understood speaking only in monosyllabic sentences.The Advertising AwardsIn this sketch, Majors plays Jake the State Farm guy, and Heidi Gardner plays and Flo from Progressive ads, hosting a fake awards show. They lampoon commercials with dissonant themes, chiding advertisers: "You're using what to sell ... what?"They even include a tribute to "Quibi, Tubi, Vubu, Boppy, Duku, Titi."Kid StoriesKenan Thompson and Majors host a paranormal show for kids in this sketch. They do not like the creepy kids who appear on their show with creepy stories to tell one bit and it's very funny.Broadway revueAidy Bryant and Kyle Mooney attend a Broadway musical revue in this sketch, with Majors joining Boen Yang and Cecily Strong to deliver some salty banter and singing.Pet Store adYou might need to be a Bone Thugs-N-Harmony fan to truly appreciate this one, but who isn't? In this sketch commercial, Majors, Thompson, Ego Nwodim and Chris Redd rap about all the bones available in their new pet store. 
How to watch Adele's 2-hour CBS special.  (CNN)CBS has offered up a first look at their "Adele One Night Only" special.On Sunday night at 8:30 p.m. ET, you can watch Adele sing a selection of her hits and chat with Oprah Winfrey about her life and the stories behind her new music."I invite you to join me for one night only," Adele says to the camera.With her highly anticipated new album dropping soon, Adele recorded the concert at the scenic Griffith Observatory in Los Angeles. Big names like Tyler Perry, James Corden and Lizzo attended the performance."Get you, Lizzo, You think you're going to outshine me babe?" Adele jokingly asked the singer who was in the audience at the concert.Adele told Winfrey what folks could expect from the night."It will look really elegant and then I'll tell a load of filthy jokes," Adele said. "A sort of whiplash for them."We're ready to feel all our feelings.The two-hour event will be broadcast Sunday on CBS or you can stream it online through Paramount+. 
White House goes into damage control mode after reports of dysfunction in Kamala Harris' office.  (CNN)The White House dove into damage control this week after reports of dysfunction and infighting in Vice President Kamala Harris' office, with the administration trying to stop a drama-filled narrative from taking hold, according to five people who spoke to CNN about the dynamics within Harris' office. Two people close to Harris' team said some individuals inside the vice president's office are frustrated with what they see as a dysfunctional operation that has been at times waylaid by internal conflict. Some of that ire is directed squarely at Harris' chief of staff, Tina Flournoy, those people said. Another source close to the staff said there were "challenges and struggles" and heard complaints about Flournoy from staff, but denied it amounted to dysfunction or that the tensions were directly Flournoy's fault. Sabrina Singh, deputy press secretary to the vice president, told CNN in a statement that Harris' focus remains on her work."The Vice President and her office are focused on the Biden-Harris Administration's agenda to build an economy from the middle out and the bottom up, not the top down, to making sure racial equity is at the core of everything the Administration does, to combatting the existential threat of climate change, and to continue protecting the American people from the Covid-19 pandemic," Singh said.And White House press secretary Jen Psaki on Friday said, "I will say that the vice president is an incredibly important partner to the President of the United States. She has a challenging job, a hard job, and she has a great supportive team of people around her. But other than that, I'm not going to have any more comments on those reports."Still, conversations are now underway in the West Wing about how to better support Harris' team, one source close to the White House said.That help from the West Wing is a sign that the spiraling narrative could start to affect Harris, who is considered the next in line to lead the Democratic Party -- with a potential for a presidential run coming as soon as 2024 if President Joe Biden decides not to seek reelection. Biden has said he does intend to run.Top White House officials and aides to the vice president went on the record to defend Harris and Flournoy, calling reports of infighting and dysfunction overblown or simply untrue. And Harris' outside allies and advisers -- like influential adviser Minyon Moore and Democratic strategist Bakari Sellers -- quickly took to Twitter, looking to drown out the criticism.On Friday, Biden's chief of staff, Ron Klain, a longtime friend of Flournoy, said in a statement to CNN: "Vice President Harris and her team are off to the fastest and strongest start of any Vice President I have seen. She's Delivering for the American people on immigration, small business, voting rights, and economic growth. The President's trust and confidence in her is obvious when you see them in the Oval Office together.""The results speak for themselves: a decline of border arrivals from the Northern Triangle, improved vaccine equity, and increased economic opportunities for women. Anyone who has the honor of working closely with the Vice President knows how her talents and determination have made a huge difference in this Administration already," Klain's statement added.As the frustrations bubbled to the surface this week and damage control commenced, the full-court defense also served to amplify the clear concern inside and around the Biden administration about the drama unfolding in Harris' office. The latest reports are seen as part of a pattern of stories about staff infighting and low morale, which have followed Harris from her Senate office to her presidential campaign and now to the vice presidency.One administration official described the current efforts by the West Wing as an attempt to help with any issues any staff might be facing."Ron, Anita (Dunn), Cedric (Richmond), others, have certainly expressed their solidarity with our team, internally and externally," the administration official said. But some of those efforts actually helped solidify reports of staff discontent. Rather than denying the existence of complaints about morale inside Harris' office, Dunn -- a White House senior adviser -- told Politico the complaints were "not anywhere near what you are describing" and acknowledged that there "may be people whose feelings were a little hurt on her staff" after many staffers weren't told of her trip to the southern border ahead of it being announced publicly.The departure of Harris' top two advance officials has also served to compound a chaotic narrative, even though some officials insisted the pair had always planned for early exits from the administration.It does not help that Harris has come under fire for multiple missteps in her first few months in office, starting after just a few weeks when she gave an interview to a West Virginia TV station that angered crucial moderate Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin, who hails from the state. That tension reached its apex last month during her first international trip as vice president, a two-day visit to Guatemala and Mexico, during which she likened not going to the border to also not having visited Europe."I, and I haven't been to Europe. And I mean, I don't -- I don't understand the point that you're making," Harris said with a laugh to NBC's Lester Holt when pressed about the fact that she hadn't visited the US-Mexico border.The trip to El Paso, Texas, last week was without incident and some people close to Harris called reports alleging dysfunction overblown. But others told CNN that the office is rife with frustration and occasional infighting."I think everybody is just feeling overwhelmed," a source close to the White House said of the dynamics in the vice president's office. "It's a tough place, obviously," the administration official said, not just of the vice president's office but of all administration jobs, which operate at a high level of stress and pressure. "But for the most part, people are focused on the mission."That official contended that Flournoy has been asset to Harris as her chief of staff, and a source close to Flournoy credited her with keeping Harris' circle tight, saying her role "is to be the gatekeeper, it is to keep the principal on task and it is to be the person that is the last voice before the principal's make the decision, so in that regard, she is doing the job that she's supposed to be doing." Some of the complaints voiced in media reports alleged that Flournoy has limited access to Harris too much."There's not infighting between the teams," the administration official said. "The office is united together as part of the larger goal of the OVP. People are working together to make sure that she is executing on like the tasks she's been assigned."
Kamala Harris came in to solve issues in Central America. But the problem is now much bigger.. Washington (CNN)When President Joe Biden tapped Vice President Kamala Harris to address the reasons people migrate to the US southern border, her focus was on addressing problems in Central America. But seven months later, it's migrants arriving from even farther away in South America who are overwhelming the administration, leaving the White House with a larger problem that officials are still looking for ways to solve.The recent surge of Haitians into Del Rio, Texas, underscored the immense challenge of tackling migratory flows that are constantly changing. As efforts were launched in the Northern Triangle countries of Guatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras to set up internet access and invest in farmers, thousands of migrants, primarily Haitians, made their way up from South America, fleeing deteriorating conditions that were exacerbated by the coronavirus pandemic."They have a great strategy mapped out for Central America, but the flows have changed. They go much beyond the Northern Triangle. Now, that's complicated the narrative and the response," said Andrew Selee, president of the Migration Policy Institute.The Biden administration is looking at how it can apply its plan to tackle root causes of migration to the hemisphere, like matching people to jobs where there are labor shortages in the region, a senior administration official told CNN. The State Department also funded Creole and Spanish-language digital ads targeting Haitian migrants to inform them of US border and immigration policies, a spokesperson told CNN. The recent crises on the border have put the administration in a politically perilous position. President Joe Biden faces a 49% disapproval rating and Americans are split over his administration's attention to stemming the flow of migrants. Harris, meanwhile, has faced ongoing criticism for not being assertive enough on the US-Mexico border.The administration is also trying to balance maintaining regional partners and doubling down on enforcement on the US-Mexico border to discourage irregular migration. It's a tricky balance that, at times, has created tension. That came into focus over the summer when the Department of Homeland Security, in collaboration with Mexico, sent Guatemalans encountered at the US-Mexico border to the interior of Mexico, dropping them in a desolate area with no recourse. That decision -- intended to stop repeat crossers -- didn't sit well with Guatemala, a key US partner in trying to address the root causes of migration in Central America."It doesn't correlate with this rhetorical, more humane approach to migration when they're sending the deportees to a very remote area in the middle of the jungle where there's no infrastructure to receive them," a senior Guatemalan official told CNN. Guatemalan officials took it up with Harris's office and others within the administration in August, the official said. While it's unclear whether the vice president intervened, the Department of Homeland Security is now sending flights directly to Guatemala City.Instilling hope at home In March, during an influx of unaccompanied migrant children, Biden tasked Harris with overseeing diplomatic efforts with the Northern Triangle. Most minors apprehended on the US southern border are from El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras -- a region where major hurricanes and the coronavirus pandemic took a devastating toll.In May, the White House announced an agreement, dubbed a "Call To Action," that included commitments from major companies like Microsoft, Mastercard, Chobani, Duolingo, and Nespresso to invest in the region in hopes of spurring economic opportunity. That was later followed by a 20-page root causes strategy that outlined the administration's approach to improving conditions and creating opportunity in the region. The administration has gradually made inroads on those fronts. In the last 90 days, internet access was set up in an indigenous community of more than 4,000 people in Honduras, according to Jonathan Fantini Porter, co-founder and executive director of the Partnership for Central America. Fantini Porter also recently sampled the first cup off Honduras-sourced Nespresso coffee as the company makes inroads there. The idea, Fantini Porter explained, is to develop a system where the various needs of a single individual or family are met, so that they'll be more inclined to stay at home instead of migrate. If it's a farmer, for example, that might include providing resources and tools to ensure they prosper by having buyers and access to banking.Other private investments include Microsoft's plan to expand internet access to as many as 3 million people in the region by July 2022 as well as develop community centers to help teach internet and digital skills to women and young people. And Mastercard hopes to help 5 million people in the region obtain access to banking services and help bring 1 million micro and small businesses into a digital banking system. The Partnership for Central America also intends to increase and stabilize incomes of 250,000 famers and support 1.5 million families, Fantini Porter said.  Experts say those actions are important to improving conditions on the ground over time and argue tackling migration across the hemisphere would require additional partnerships across the region, a point also acknowledged by Secretary of State Antony Blinken."We face a challenge that in many ways is unique with tremendous pressure from illegal migratory flows coming in different ways, different parts of the hemisphere," Blinken said during a news conference in Mexico this month. "We have to have a stronger regional approach to this challenge." Authorities in South America have been monitoring the increased movement of migrants in the region for months. Many migrants who are fleeing worked informal jobs before the pandemic, and were especially vulnerable to falling into extreme poverty as economies tightened last year.Despite the administration expelling more than 7,000 Haitians to Haiti, the migratory flow through Panama -- one of the transit countries as people move north -- has not slowed down, according to Panama's foreign minister office. Harris and her team have been coordinating with the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security which are engaged with other regional partners, like Panama, senior administration officials told CNN. "The conversations with Panama are broader and fall into what we see as the migration management category," one of the senior administration officials said. "While we're very much coordinated, we aren't having those conversations but others in the White House are."Harris' focus, though, remains on the Northern Triangle.To achieve sustainability, some level of government buy-in will be necessary, argued Matt Rooney, managing director of the Bush Institute-SMU Economic Growth Initiative and member of the Partnership for Central America working group. And that can be complicated by the systemic issues plaguing Central American governments.In El Salvador, there's concern about limiting checks and balances in government, while in Honduras, where the president has been implicated in a drug trafficking case, there's greater concern about corruption within government. And in Guatemala, there are also concerns about government corruption. "You have to ask yourself in that case: Why isn't there more? And why are there companies in the United States who operate in industries that, where you could business in Central America, why aren't they doing business in Central America?" Rooney said. "The answer to that question is that there are dysfunctions in the investment environment."Listed in the administration's root causes strategy is fostering a "business enabling environment" by implementing reforms. Senior administration officials conceded that tackling corruption and effecting change within governments is a challenge but reiterated that for countries to thrive, infrastructure needs to be put in place to facilitate economic growth."There are going to be ups and downs along the way," a senior administration official told CNN. "Really the only long-term solution to regional migration patterns that we see from those three countries in particular is to create the conditions for people to have hope at home."
Harris' trip to Paris signals a relationship back on track. Paris (CNN)As French President Emmanuel Macron arrived at the Arc de Triomphe for a national televised Armistice Day Ceremony, Vice President Kamala Harris -- donning the traditional bleuet de France honoring veterans -- waited to greet him.As they clasped arms, the chummy chemistry that had begun to emerge between the pair was on display for all to see -- an outward sign of the latest US attempt to mend its relationship with France following a submarine affair that provoked a diplomatic rift between the two old allies. "It's important for us to be here," Harris told Macron as they embraced. "We have a long and shared history -- and future." The moment was just one of several images that defined Harris' tightly choreographed five-day trip to the French capital and told the story that Harris -- and President Joe Biden, who dispatched her there -- intended to tell: that of a French-American relationship back on track. The trip also served as an opportunity for Harris to emerge onto the European diplomatic stage for the first time as vice president, successfully playing an important foreign policy role for the Biden administration after stumbling during her first foreign trip to Mexico and Guatemala in June. "I will tell you that it was a very productive and a good trip," Harris said to reporters on Saturday, "and we have a lot of follow-up stuff. ... Our work will continue, and we do it with a sense of optimism but a sense of strong conviction that the partnership between the United States and France remains and will continue to be very strong."Unlike in June -- which saw Harris' stumbles in an interview overshadow an otherwise successful trip -- Harris managed to avoid controversy and steer clear of diplomatic and political minefields. She left France on Saturday and is set to arrive in Washington later in the day.Asked by CNN about Macron's push for a European strategic autonomy and a European army -- a nuanced and sensitive issue in the relationship -- Harris dodged, simply saying that US-French "support and alignment" would continue. And even as the breach of trust with France over the US-Australia submarine deal propelled Harris to the French capital, Harris and her aides said the issue did not come up with Macron. "I will tell you that was not the purpose of this trip, and we didn't discuss it," Harris said Friday, when speaking to reporters in Paris. The vice president has been asked if she believed she had done the job to repair the relationship, after the scuttled deal."What we did discuss is the issues that are challenging us and the issues that are the basis for this relationship and the strength and the endurance of this relationship," she added.Harris' trip produced just two tangible agreements, expanded US-French space cooperation and a US decision to sign onto the Paris Call for Trust and Security in Cyberspace, a French initiative setting rules of the road in cyberspace. But while French officials are still eager to see the US take concrete actions to bolster European defenses, the lack of tangible results on that front during this trip did not cause any distress in Paris. After largely burying the hatchet with Biden ahead of the G20 in Rome last month, Macron seemed largely content to revel in the gesture of the vice president's presence in Paris and the gesture of a lengthy trip as the next step in the process. "I want to thank you for your presence. You're more than welcome not just in this palace with myself and my ministers, but I can tell you that French people are extremely proud to have you here today," Macron said as he opened a meeting with Harris at the Elyse, adding in French that he was "extremely grateful" for her visit.Harris' visit to the Elyse gave her and Macron an opportunity to spend time one-on-one, without aides present, before sitting down for a bilateral meeting that went over time, prompting French protocol officials to enter the room three times in an effort to wrap up the meeting. Harris and Macron laughed about those attempts the next morning as they met for the Armistice Day Ceremony. Beyond their time together, Harris' solo visits were also powerful diplomatic messaging moments. Harris' multi-hour attendance and remarks at the Paris Peace Forum helped lend credibility to a Macron initiative. Her visit to the French biomedical research Pasteur Institute highlighted longstanding French-American cooperation on scientific research -- as well as Harris' own personal connection to that cooperation in the form of her mother's research at the institute in the 80s. And a final visit to one of the sites of the 2015 terrorist attacks in Paris on the sixth anniversary underscored shared values and a commitment to fighting terrorism. But it was Harris' visit to the Suresnes American Cemetery, where Americans who fought and died in France during World Wars I and II are buried, that served as perhaps the most powerful reminder of the shared sacrifice between the two countries and a deeply rooted bond."If there is any question about the why or the what, in terms of our relationship as the United States with France, that is one visual and one concrete example of the endurance and the mutual commitment and interdependence between the United States and France," Harris said on Friday, reflecting on her visit to the cemetery. 
Vice President Harris' team tries to distance her from fraught situation at the border .  (CNN)In the weeks since the President asked her to take charge of immigration from Central America, Vice President Kamala Harris and her staff have sought to make one thing clear: She does not manage the southern border. Two White House officials familiar with the dynamic said Harris and her aides have emphasized internally that they want to focus on conditions in Central America that push migrants to the US southern border, as President Joe Biden tasked her to do. A record number of unaccompanied children crossed into the US this spring, and the throngs of desperate minors present a heart-rending problem as well as a political one. Biden announced Harris' new assignment on March 24 ahead of an immigration meeting in the White House State Dining Room, telling reporters that he had asked the vice president "because she's the most qualified person to do it, to lead our efforts with Mexico and the Northern Triangle, and the countries that can help, need help in stemming the movement of so many folks, stemming the migration to our southern border."After the announcement, Harris' aides appeared to "panic," according to one of the officials, out of concern that her assignment was being mischaracterized and could be politically damaging if she were linked to the border, which at the time was facing a growing number of arrivals. But another White House official pushed back on the sentiment, saying the vice president's team wasn't panicked. One of the officials said Harris appears eager for a portfolio that will allow her to achieve political victories, especially in foreign policy, an area where she is far less experienced than Biden. Instead, Republican critics and the media have portrayed her new immigration role as a border assignment, potentially opening her up to criticism for the handling of the seemingly intractable problem.  Harris' performance is critical to her future political career, which could well include a run for president. It's also of special concern right now as she prepares to depart for a trip to Guatemala and Mexico next week as part of this project. It will be her first official foray into in-person, in-country talks about the troubles that push Central American migrants toward the US.   Harris and her staff have made it clear that they want to focus narrowly on diplomatic efforts in Mexico and the Northern Triangle countries of Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador, where they believe they are more likely to achieve tangible results in addressing the root causes of migration, like economic despair, said the officials. The recent commitments Harris secured from 12 private companies and organizations to invest in the Northern Triangle are one example. Harris has conceded that the task assigned to her is a challenging one that won't be quickly resolved. "We have to give people some sense of hope that if they stay, that help is on the way," she told CNN's Dana Bash. "It's not going to be solved overnight; it's a complex issue. If this were easy, it would've been handled years ago."Former and current officials, along with immigration experts, stress that the causes of migration and the surge on the border are inextricably linked and argue that while addressing the reasons people decide to migrate to the US is critical, it can't be divorced from what's happening at the US-Mexico border.  "You can't divorce the border from Mexico or Central America or the interior of the US," said John Sandweg, a former senior Homeland Security official who served in the Obama administration. "It is all one system."   "Everything you're doing in Central America is always towards an eye on the border and what's happening in the United States," said Cris Ramon, an immigration consultant. "With the current dynamics in migration, what's happening at the US-Mexico border has implications in the Northern Triangle and vice versa."A White House official told CNN that administration officials regularly brief Harris on the border. Tens of thousands migrants from Central America arrive at the US-Mexico border monthly. In April, of the 178,622 migrants encountered by US Customs and Border Protection, 79,190, or roughly 44%, were from El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras, according to the agency's data, the very countries where Harris is supposed to be addressing migration to the US. The pandemic has taken a dramatic toll on Latin America, where Covid-19 cases and deaths soared and economies once projected to grow have been decimated. The region was also hit with two devastating hurricanes last year.  The decline in economic growth in 2020, according to the Congressional Research Service, is expected to worsen income inequality and poverty in the region. That, combined with pent-up demands and the perception of the Biden administration being more lenient, has fueled people trying to cross the US-Mexico border. The Biden administration assigned roles early on to tackle migration, including Roberta S. Jacobson, who was appointed as a special assistant to the President and was a key official dealing with migrants at the US-Mexico border until stepping down in April. The administration also assigned a Northern Triangle special envoy, a position held by Ricardo Ziga, who frequently travels to the region.Harris' role -- which mimics that of Biden under President Barack Obama -- is intended to target what's driving people to the US. Harris, thought to be a leading Democratic candidate for the 2024 presidential race should Biden not run for reelection, has not shied away from the tough assignment and is engaged and dedicated to her new role, sources told CNN. But she and her staff appeared wary of becoming a scapegoat for Republicans for any and all problems at the southern border -- a not-unfounded concern, especially after GOP lawmakers photoshopped her face onto a milk carton and accused her of being "missing" at the border.  The fraught politics is why, immediately after the President announced Harris' new role, Harris' aides seemed dismayed when they saw some Republicans and media outlets try to characterize her as the new border czar, said one of the White House officials familiar with the matter. Another White House official said Harris has been focused on the assignment and rejected the notion that her team was concerned about how her role was being perceived.  But following Biden's announcement, both the President and vice president's staff clarified repeatedly that Harris would be focused solely on diplomatic efforts to stem the current flow of migrants and develop a larger strategic partnership with Central America. Harris has stressed that her role is to address the "root causes" of migration beginning in the Northern Triangle countries and Mexico, rather than the "symptoms" of it manifesting at the border, which are being addressed by the Homeland Security secretary. Without a diplomatic push in those countries, "we are just in a perpetual system of only dealing with the symptoms," she said in April.Harris' meetings also indicate where her focus has been. Immigration advocates and regional experts who have participated in roundtables with the vice president describe Harris asking detailed questions on a variety of issues, like agricultural science and water irrigation strategies to tackle food insecurity and infrastructure needs.Another source familiar with the ongoing discussions on regional strategy said the vice president's office has been soliciting research on issues, ranging from governance to economic development to climate change, from foundations that study and work in the region."She's asking for a lot of information. ... She's reaching out to a lot of groups to get the best information and to really go in with a sense of who is who and the sense of how can they -- the administration -- move the agenda," the source said, adding that prior to a recent meeting with Guatemalan justice sector leaders, the vice president's team asked for input on what issues to raise with them.   Internally, Harris has been intimately involved in the crafting of a regional strategy, communicating regularly with National Security Council officials. Cabinet members, along with other administration officials, are also putting together proposals on the administration's root-causes strategy, which Harris is expected to discuss while in Mexico and Guatemala in June, a senior administration official previously told CNN. "She'll have to approve this. We'll brief it to her, she'll make changes and then once she's ready to roll it out, that's what we're going to do," the official said.
Investment group purchases Trump hotel in DC and is expected to remove Trump name.  (CNN)The Trump Organization has reached a deal with the investment fund CGI Merchant Group to purchase the lease for the Trump International Hotel in Washington, DC, for $375 million, according to a person familiar with the matter.The Miami group is expected to remove the Trump name from the ornate building located a short walk from the White House and is partnering with Hilton Worldwide Holdings to brand it a Waldorf Astoria, according to the person familiar. The deal is subject to approval by the General Services Administration (GSA), which will conduct a 60-day review, because the federal government owns the property.The Wall Street Journal first reported news of the deal. The CGI Merchant Group declined to comment to CNN. CNN has reached out to the Trump Organization for comment. Former President Donald Trump's company had been in advanced talks with CGI Merchant Group this fall to sell the lease of the hotel, CNN previously reported.Last month, the House Oversight Committee released documents showing the DC property, which attracted conservative lobbyists throughout the Trump presidency, lost $70 million while he was in office. (The former President had publicly claimed the hotel was making more than tens of millions of dollars.) The company has been trying to sell the property since 2019 but paused last year when the pandemic all but shuttered the hospitality industry.The GSA, which manages federal buildings and land, awarded the lease for the Old Post Office building in 2012. Trump opened the hotel in 2016, when he was the Republican nominee for president.Since then, the House Oversight Committee had been investigating conflicts of interest regarding GSA's management of the Trump hotel lease.When he took office, Trump resigned from his companies but transferred his assets to a trust run by his sons, allowing him to still benefit financially from the DC hotel and his other businesses.In 2019, the inspector general of the GSA said the agency "ignored the Constitution" when deciding to maintain the lease of the building to the hotel after Trump was elected to the White House.The documents released by the Oversight Committee showed the hotel received millions from foreign governments in payments and loan deferral, which Trump did not disclose, raising questions about potential conflicts of interest during his presidency.The disclosure marked the first time that congressional investigators had reviewed and released details of the former President's financial information, though the Trump Organization had challenged the committee's understanding of accounting and denied any wrongdoing.
Southwest employee hospitalized after being assaulted by female passenger.  (CNN)A Southwest Airlines employee was taken to a Dallas hospital Saturday after being assaulted by a passenger at Love Field Airport, according to the airline and the Dallas Police Department.The female passenger "verbally and physically" assaulted the female operations agent shortly after being asked to get off the flight she had just boarded from Dallas to La Guardia Airport in New York City, Southwest told CNN in an email. Dallas Police said in a statement that shortly after boarding, 32-year-old Arielle Jean Jackson had a verbal altercation with an operations agent in the back of the plane, then was asked to exit the aircraft.As she was exiting, Jackson got into another verbal altercation with a second agent and struck her with a "closed fist on the head," the statement said. Jackson was charged with aggravated assault, Dallas Police say. Jail records show she is being held on a $10,000 bond. CNN has not been able to identify an attorney for Jackson at this time. The employee was transported to a local hospital and released on Saturday evening, according to Southwest's email. She is at home resting, the airline said."Southwest Airlines maintains a zero-tolerance policy regarding any type of harassment or assault and fully support our employee as we cooperate with local authorities regarding this unacceptable incident," the email said. The incident is one among many verbal and physical attacks on flight staff reported during the Covid-19 pandemic. Flight crews have reported 5,114 unruly passenger incidents since the start of 2021, according to the Federal Aviation Administration. FAA data shows more than 70% of incidents were over masks.The incidents have ranged from shouting to spitting and physical altercations with airline staff. In May this year a Southwest Airlines passenger who allegedly punched a flight attendant was fined more than $26,000, the FAA said.The agency announced earlier this month it had fined 10 violent airline passengers a total of nearly $250,000.CNN's Pete Muntean and Gregory Wallace contributed to this report.
Xi's China is closing to the world. And it isn't just about borders. Hong Kong (CNN)It's been nearly two years since China shut its international borders as part of its efforts to keep Covid-19 out.China tamed the initial outbreak in Wuhan by locking down the city of more than 10 million people, confining residents to their homes for weeks and suspending public transportation.Since then, Beijing has adopted a zero-tolerance playbook to quell resurgences of the virus. Harnessing the reach and force of the authoritarian state and its surveillance power, it has imposed snap lockdowns, tracked close contacts, placed thousands into quarantine and tested millions.Before anywhere else in the world, China's economy roared back to growth and life returned to something approaching normal  all within a bubble created to shield its 1.4 billion people from a raging pandemic that has wreaked havoc and claimed millions of lives across the globe. The ruling Communist Party has seized on that success, touting it as evidence of the supposed superiority of its one-party system over Western democracies, especially the United States.But as the pandemic drags on, local outbreaks have continued to flare up, frustrating the government's mission to eliminate the virus within China's borders.And now, as much of the world starts to reopen and learn to live with Covid, China is looking increasingly isolated by comparison  and determinedly inward-facing.This apparent inward turn is evident in the itinerary of the country's supreme leader Xi Jinping, who hasn't left China for almost 22 months and counting.It is manifest in the drastic reduction in people-to-people exchanges between China and the rest of the world, as the flow of tourist, academic and business trips slows to a trickle.But it is also reflected in parts of the country's national psyche  a broader shift that has been years in the making since Xi took the helm of the Communist Party nearly a decade ago, yet accentuated and exacerbated by the pandemic and the politics around it.While taking increasing pride in China's traditional culture and growing national strength, many Chinese people are turning progressively suspicious, critical or even outright hostile toward the West  along with any ideas, values or other forms of influence associated with it.In a sense, the closed borders have almost become a physical extension of that insular-leaning mentality taking hold in parts of China, from top leaders to swathes of the general public. For now, Beijing's zero-Covid policy still enjoys overwhelming public support, even as China shows no sign of reopening in the foreseeable future. But analysts question how sustainable it is for the country to remain shut off from the world  and whether there could be considerations other than public health at play.Sealed behind China's bordersFor nearly two years, most people in China have been unable to travel overseas, due to the country's stringent border restrictions: international flights are limited, quarantine upon reentry is harsh and lengthy, and Chinese authorities have ceased issuing or renewing passports for all but essential travel.Foreign visitors, from tourists to students, are largely banned from China. Those few who are allowed to enter, as well as returning Chinese citizens, must undergo at least 14 days of strict centralized quarantine. And that can be extended to up to 28 days by local authorities, often followed by another lengthy period of home observation.The Chinese government has ordered local authorities to build permanent quarantine facilities for overseas arrivals, following the example of the southern metropolis of Guangzhou, which erected a 5,000-room quarantine center spanning an area the size of 46 football fields.  With the borders virtually sealed, even China's top leaders are bunkering down in the country. Neither Xi nor Premier Li Keqiang, or the other five members on the party's top decision-making Politburo Standing Committee, are known to have made foreign visits during the pandemic.Xi's last trip abroad was in January 2020, when he made a two-day visit to Myanmar to promote his signature Belt and Road Initiative  an ambitious program to boost infrastructure and trade across Asia, Europe and Africa, which has lost much of its steam since Covid-19 emerged.The border closure has also come as China is turning inward on itself ideologically under Xi, said Carl Minzner, a senior fellow for China studies at the Council on Foreign Relations. "Ideologically, China is slowly becoming more insular compared to the reform and opening up era of the '80s and '90s  this is a hallmark of Xi's new era," he said.Over the past years, a revival of traditional culture has taken hold across Chinese society, particularly among the younger generation who are proud of their cultural roots. The trend is encouraged and heavily promoted by the party, in what Minzner calls "a strategic effort to deploy Chinese tradition as an ideological shield against foreign values, particularly Western ones."Since taking office in late 2012, Xi has repeatedly warned against the "infiltration" of Western values such as democracy, press freedom and judicial independence. He has clamped down on foreign NGOs, churches, as well as Western textbooks  all seen as vehicles for undue foreign influence.That has fueled a growing strand of narrow-minded nationalism, which casts suspicion on any foreign ties and views feminism, the LGBTQ movement, and even environmentalism as stooges of Western influence designed to undermine China.Since the pandemic, that intolerance has only grown.In June, nearly 200 Chinese intellectuals who participated in a Japanese government-sponsored exchange program were attacked on Chinese social media and branded "traitors"  for trips they took years ago.In July, journalists from several foreign media outlets covering deadly floods in northern China were harassed online and at the scene by local residents, with staff from the BBC and Los Angeles Times receiving death threats, according to the Foreign Correspondents' Club of China.And in August, a Chinese infectious disease expert was called a "traitor" who "blindly worshiped Western ideas" for suggesting China should eventually learn to coexist with Covid. Some even accused him of colluding with foreign forces to sabotage China's pandemic response.While it is unclear to what extent these nationalist sentiments represent mainstream opinion, they've been given overriding prominence in China's government-managed public discourse, where most liberal-leaning voices have been silenced.Victor Shih, a China expert at the University of California, San Diego, said while Xi's predecessors had "grudgingly tolerated" Western reporters, NGO workers and sometimes even welcomed academics to China, the current administration now views their presence as sources of undesirable influences.And Covid measures have become a convenient way to keep them out. Since the pandemic, most academics and non-profit workers have stopped going to China due to the border restrictions and quarantine requirements, Shih said. "This heavy filter that is applied today  and had been applied prior to the pandemic  will help filter out what (Chinese leaders) see as undesirable elements from coming into China and polluting the values of the Chinese people," Shih said.But even after the border reopens, it remains to be seen how the Chinese government will allow foreign visitors to return  and whether some sort of additional screening might stay in place."The question is how quickly it'll want to relax restrictions on the flows of people into and out of China. Currently, that's primarily a health-related issue. But I do think the longer it takes, it also begins to get fused into political issues," said Minzer, from the Council on Foreign Relations."It totally seems possible to me that the relaxations happen for different groups at different times," he said, adding that foreign researchers who focus on topics the Chinese government deems politically sensitive could be among the last to be allowed in.But Shih noted that attempts to eliminate "foreign influence" were unlikely to work, when China eventually resumes contact with the world. Despite Beijing's deteriorating relations with the United States, Britain, Australia and other Western countries, large numbers of Chinese students are still likely to pursue their studies there. When the US Embassy and consulates in China resumed issuing student visas to Chinese nationals in May, they were flooded with applications. In August, before the start of the new academic year, the Shanghai Pudong International Airport saw long lines of students and parents with big suitcases stretching hundreds of meters at check-in."China cannot do without its best and brightest. They will go back to China  having lived in the West, some of them will love China even more, others will gain this skepticism about the Chinese political system," he said.Public support for zero CovidFor now, Chinese authorities are doubling down on their resolve to eliminate the virus, resorting to increasingly extreme measures to curb local flare-ups.Public health experts have attributed China's reluctance to relax its zero-Covid policy partly to uncertainty about the efficacy of Chinese vaccines, especially in face of the highly infectious Delta variant.But political considerations have also played a role. Since containing the initial outbreak in Wuhan, the Chinese government has held up its effective containment efforts as proof of the supposed superiority of the country's authoritarian political system. The success of zero-Covid is thus hailed as an ideological and moral victory over the faltering response of the US and other Western democracies.And there is plenty of public support for the hardline approach, too. In China, public tolerance toward infections is extremely low, and fear of the virus still runs high -- partly caused by scarring memories of the devastation in Wuhan, but also fed by unrelenting state media coverage on the horror of rampaging infections abroad.Beijing has repeatedly blamed local flare-ups on the import of coronavirus from overseas, either through air passengers, frozen food or other goods. On social media, calls have been growing for authorities to extend the already lengthy quarantine for overseas arrivals, as many blamed Chinese travelers returning from abroad for bringing the virus to China."In mainstream opinion, Covid-19 is still regarded as an extremely deadly disease -- even if you don't die from it you'll suffer from some kinds of serious health problems for the rest of your life -- people are genuinely afraid," said Lucas Li, a software engineer from southern Guangdong province.Li, who works in California, has had a tough time traveling between China and the US over the past two years. After returning home for Lunar New Year in 2020, he was trapped for eight months in China due to the US travel ban. Then in May, he had to rush home again for family reasons, but flights to China were hard to come by. He ended up paying $4,800 for a one-way ticket -- about seven times the price of a round trip in usual times -- and underwent two weeks of hotel quarantine.Li said while he doesn't necessarily agree with zero-Covid, he understands why the government is sticking to it. The border closure has had limited impact on the Chinese economy, and the lack of international travel or exchanges is hardly a concern for most people, he said. While overseas vacations had become a common part of life for China's growing middle class, the country's vast size and rich diversity provides plenty of options for domestic tourism as an alternative. And for people like Li, essential travel outside of China is still possible, albeit troublesome."I'm very sure the mainstream public opinion will choose to continue with the border closure -- this is without a doubt," Li said.But experts say that could come at a political cost for China, which has seen its international image plummet since the start of the pandemic. Unfavorable views of China have reached record highs among much of the developed world, according to surveys conducted by the Pew Research Service. "Other political parties, or even maybe Xi's predecessors, might have seen this dramatic reduction in contact between China and the rest of the world as a big problem. But for now, the Xi administration does not seem to recognize this as a problem," University of California's Shih said."(If) China wants to persuade the world that it is a benign power ... it needs to engage the world."But right now, that seems a long way off.
Can policy prevent another Astroworld tragedy?. A version of this story appeared in CNN's What Matters newsletter. To get it in your inbox, sign up for free here.Washington (CNN)Nine deaths. A flurry of lawsuits. Many, many unanswered questions. Last week's Astroworld Music Festival tragedy in Houston has touched off a new debate at the intersection of venue safety, artist responsibility and crowd etiquette.  Travis Scott has maintained he did not know what was happening in the crowd during his set, disputing city officials' account of his role in the deadly surge. But until authorities are done investigating the tragedy, definitive answers are in short order. For help understanding the role that policy plays in shaping events like Astroworld -- and the role that it could play moving forward -- CNN turned to Gil Fried, a crowd management expert and professor at the University of West Florida. Our conversation, conducted over the phone and lightly edited for length and clarity, is below. CNN: As a jumping off point, can you tell me what goes into planning an event at the scale of an Astroworld festival?GF: I mean, there's a lot of moving parts. If we're taking a look at like a World Series or Super Bowl, you're looking at a couple of years' worth of planning. For an event like this, you don't need a couple of years, but you need a number of months. And it could take about a year out, I mean just for finalizing the date, making sure there's no major conflicts, things like that.But the earnest thing will take a number of months. One is pulling all the rights permits. You need to have the staff. You need to get all the sponsors. You need to get all the marketing, ticketing stock. I mean there's just so many different variables and the most important, at least in this context, is you have to get all the right players together to meet and to address all the different issues.And part of that is, in our industry, we have something called an "Event file." Normally you keep a file from past events and then you can look at them and say, "What went right? What went wrong? What can we do going forward to make sure the event is the best possible event?" Whether it's for marketing, whether it's fan support or if it's violence -- you want to be able to have that, so you can look at it and then judge it: "Okay, what do we have to do going forward?"We know that in this context, the artist has had past problems, whether it was at Astroworld or other concerts, where he encouraged fans not to listen to security. If you knew of that going in, then you have to take more significant steps to try to minimize the potential for issues. CNN: Can you speak to the laws that event organizers or artists have to stay within? Are there laws? GF: So I'd love to say, "This is America, we're so advanced." We're nowhere close to what it's like in -- primarily in England -- but they also have it in Canada and Australia: There's a thing called the Green Guide, which really sets forward from the federal government in those countries what facilities have to do, how they have to manage their events, what constitutes a safe event, because they've had some major tragedies in England and they utilize this guide to help them prepare for, and address, any possible issues that might arise in the future.And so we see it all too often that our industry has seen a number of very important steps, but it also is way behind the times. So we don't have a national policy; most states don't have a policy such as "This is how we're going to respond in case of X, Y, or Z." We don't have that. So what do we have? We have a hodgepodge of industry best practices that are advocated by different organizations and groups.One that is very well-regarded is the National Fire Protection Association that says you have to have one trained crowd manager for every 250 people in attendance. So if you're going to have 25,000 people attending, you need to have at least 100 trained crowd managers. CNN: It's pretty surprising that there's really nothing at the state or the national level for something like this.GF: Yeah so, often times when they do develop something is after a tragedy. And I think that's frustrating for a lot of people when there aren't set national laws or something like that. But I think also we have to remember that the reason why there aren't national laws is that every venue is different. Some venues you can't bring in a handgun, others say you can.And so everything -- you always have to balance it out. And our industry normally does a pretty good job of it. This case, I think it might be a different story. ... The evidence was clear that it got out of hand a lot earlier with the crashing of the gates. Second, during the performance, you had visible signs of ambulance presence and other presence with flashing lights in the middle of the crowd. And the artist did not stop. They did not turn on all the houselights, and from what I understand, there were efforts to try to stop it. And the police chief was concerned about stopping the concert because of the possibility of a mob, but that could be diffused very, very quickly by the artist.And that's, I think, my big concern here. I handled a case a number of years ago with Eminem where there was a crowd rush at an Eminem concert down South. And a number of people got injured, and he ended up making a game out of it.He said, "Okay, everyone, I'm going to start a new dance with you. Okay. Two steps back, one step forward, two steps back, one step forward." And he was trying to alleviate the pressure of everyone that was pushed up against the barricade by doing that. And an artist can do that. An artist can say, "Hey folks, I'm going to stop the concert for a couple minutes because we have an issue here. You know what, I'll make it up for you guys. I'll sing an extra song at the end, but I need you to listen to me. Everyone, let's turn on the houselights. Let's do X, let's do Y." Artists can do that and that's not going to trigger a mob. People are going to be respectful and listen to that.CNN: Do you think some sort of new policy at some level could emerge from this tragedy?GF: I hope so. And our industry has been very good about self-policing ourselves.And I think that is a concern, is that when the government does it, will they do a good job? If the government were to do it with the industry, and get their involvement from a broad swath of the industry, maybe that could be a strong benefit. But we just don't know enough about the facts to jump to conclusion, to blame the industry, to blame concerts, to point fingers. That's what everyone tries to do in these kinds of cases. And everyone tries to play Monday morning quarterback and say, "If you would have done X, it would not have happened." I've been in enough of these cases where it's normally not just one thing.And so, I would like to work with the governments, whether it's state or federal government, but let's do it in a smart and strategic way, rather than just having someone up on high saying, "I think this is a great mandate. You should do X," without our input.CNN: I have to imagine part of the challenge with an artist like Travis Scott is that part of the apparent appeal of his shows is an element of things being out of control. I mean, that's kind of a hard thing to discourage when it's a feature and not a bug.GF: People like, sometimes, confrontation. And our society is getting more and more violent and you could see it in this situation. I understand the issue of -- this was part of his game plan, so to speak, is that I'm going to get people hopped up and juiced up and they're going to be energized and feel great and damn the rules.Well, if people are more prone and interested in violence, this could be a way to help foster that. And that's going to be very sad because if it's going to happen here, why not at a movie theater? Why not at a restaurant? 
California just set a new gas price record. New York (CNN Business)California gas prices hit an average of $4.676 Sunday, beating its previous record average price of $4.671 for regular gasoline set in October 2012, according to AAA.It was about a penny away from beating the record on Friday and was tied for it on Saturday. America's largest state by population has the highest gas prices in the country. The national average dropped slightly to $3.413 Sunday. AAA said heavy rainstorms in Northern California have pinched production capacity, which then trickled down to Southern California  just what happened in Louisiana with Hurricane Ida."It's a bit of a supply crunch we have right now, there's nothing major, until the refineries in Northern California can get back up to full production capacity," Jeffrey Spring, Corporate Communications Manager of the Automobile Club of Southern California said. Prices are pushing $5 in some areas, including Northern California's Humboldt County, where the average price was $4.968 Sunday. The Bay Area has surged to more than $4.80. Doug Shupe, a spokesperson for AAA, said that although Californians are used to paying more for gas, the price has been much higher lately. "Drivers are paying $1.50 more per gallon than a year ago," Shupe told CNN. "It means the person who has the typical midsize sedan with a 14 gallon size fuel tank, they're paying $21 more to fill up that tank today than last year."Shupe says the primary reasons for the price spike are higher crude oil prices and pent up demand from the pandemic. "Typically we see prices at the pump fall off after Labor Day because people have completed their summer vacations. Kids are back in school," Shupe said. "But this year people are still traveling. There's still that demand for fuel to get to where people want to go."Gas prices have been increasing steadily throughout the year as fuel demand grows around the globe and suppliers have been unable  or unwilling  to produce more oil. Although US oil prices have surged by more than 65% this year, US oil production is about 14% below the levels of the end of 2019, before Covid erupted. Gasoline prices have surged to seven-year highs, and Wall Street banks are warning that $100 or even $120 oil is on its way. Prices haven't plateaued quite yet, Spring said. "What's happening up in the Bay Area indicates that maybe we're at the tippy top of this price increases, barring any other issues," Spring said. "So we're hoping by the end of the year that things will start heading downward."California reached its record price in 2012 following refinery glitches that caused prices to spike for a few weeks before coming back down.- CNN Business' Matt Egan contributed to this report. 
Michael Flynn's comments on Christianity are outrageous but not surprising. Dean Obeidallah, a former attorney, is the host of SiriusXM radio's daily program "The Dean Obeidallah Show" and a columnist for The Daily Beast. Follow him @DeanObeidallah. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion articles on CNN. (CNN)Michael Flynn, Donald Trump's former National Security adviser who pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI and was later pardoned by Trump, wants to make it clear that in the United States, "If we are going to have one nation under God -- which we must -- we have to have one religion."Of course, to Flynn, that one religion is Christianity. (After all, 75% of White evangelicals voted for Trump in the 2020 election, according to exit polls.) Flynn made these remarks in Texas on Saturday as part of the "ReAwaken America Tour," a conservative conference that features other Trump supporters, like Roger Stone and the My Pillow CEO/election conspiracy peddler Mike Lindell. While speaking at the event, Flynn referenced a passage from the New Testament book of Matthew, saying, "You have to believe this, that God Almighty is, like, involved in this country, because this is it ... This is the shining city on the hill." That's when Flynn triggered a wave of backlash with his suggestion America should have one singular religion. "One nation under God, and one religion under God," he said. "I don't care what your ecumenical service is or what you are." Now imagine if a Muslim or Jewish American leader made the same comment that the United States should have one faith, and that it should be Islam or Judaism. The outrage from the right would be deafening. But with Flynn's comments, there hasn't been noticeable pushback from conservatives. In fact, it's been the opposite. GOP Ohio Senate candidate Josh Mandel, who is Jewish, appears to see Flynn's comments as being in step with his own "Judeo-Christian values": "We Stand with General Flynn," Mandel tweeted in response to the backlash. "America was not founded as a secular nation." Politics does truly make strange bedfellows.  In contrast, Minnesota Rep. Ilhan Omar, who is Muslim American, tweeted in response to Flynn's comments, "These people hate the US Constitution." I don't know if Flynn and those who support his mindset "hate" the Constitution, but I am certain that they either don't believe in or don't understand our Constitution and the freedom of religion guaranteed by the First Amendment. This is the same Flynn who in 2016 repeatedly pushed debunked conspiracy theories that there was an effort to impose Islamic Sharia law on the rest of the country. "This Sharia law business, what's happening right here in the state of Texas is unbelievable," Flynn said at a San Antonio event that year hosted by ACT! for America, an anti-Muslim hate group per the Anti-Defamation League. At another 2016 speech in Texas, as CNN detailed, Flynn again falsely claimed there are Muslims who want to dominate America by imposing Islamic law: "I want people to understand that there are different laws that are not our laws that others try to impose," he said. As a Muslim, let me be clear that there aren't any Muslims -- then or now -- trying to impose any of our religious beliefs onto the law of the United States. This was simply part of the right-wing demonization of Muslims because it played well with the GOP base. It's the same reason why, during the 2016 presidential campaign, Trump lied on NBC saying Muslims "don't want the laws that we have. They want Sharia law." Beyond despicably demonizing other faiths, these examples show an idea of "freedom of religion" that ironically revolves around imposing one's beliefs upon the rest of us. Several on the right have been showing us that for years. For example, when Mike Huckabee ran for president in 2008, he bluntly said the US Constitution should be amended "so it's in God's standard" -- phrasing he later clarified after critics caught wind of the quote. And during his 2012 presidential run, Rick Santorum declared "our civil laws have to comport with a higher law: God's law." These Republicans were telling all who would listen that their goal was turning their religious beliefs into American law.And we now have Republicans doing just that with their religion-based oppression of women's reproductive rights. The most visible example is the Texas GOP's anti-abortion law, which has garnered headlines for empowering private citizens to behave as vigilantes with the ability to sue anyone involved in securing an abortion beyond about six weeks of pregnancy. When Texas' Republican Gov. Greg Abbott signed the legislation, he explained the rationale behind it as being faith-based: "Our creator endowed us with the right to life, and yet millions of children lose their right to life every year because of abortion," he said. "In Texas, we work to save those lives and that's exactly what the Texas Legislature did this session." That's the same reasoning behind the Arkansas ban on nearly all abortions except to save the life of the mother. When the state's GOP Gov. Asa Hutchinson signed it, he declared the law was predicated upon his "sincere and long-held pro-life convictions." (As with the Texas law, Arkansas' ban has faced legal challenges for its obvious violation of Roe v. Wade.)These laws are based on the religious belief held by some that life begins at conception. Having the freedom to personally follow one's faith is what our nation is predicated upon. Turning those religious beliefs into laws every American then must follow, however, is not. In fact, it's un-American, given that our First Amendment states "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion."No one should be surprised by Flynn's comments. He's simply repeating what some in the GOP have long championed: The idea that "freedom of religion" is imposing their religious beliefs upon the rest of us. It's no wonder, then, why many on Twitter reacted to Flynn's comments with the phrase "American Taliban." 
NPR books editor Petra Mayer dies at 46. New York, NY (CNN)NPR books editor Petra Mayer died Saturday at age 46, NPR reported. Mayer was a popular editor on NPR's Culture desk, drawing in readers and listeners with her outpouring of knowledge of cats, comics and science fiction, as well as her on-site reporting at Comic-Con. Mayer died at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Springs, Maryland, of what's believed to be a pulmonary embolism, Nancy Barnes, NPR's senior vice president for news, said in an email to staff."This is a heartbreaking loss for all of us at NPR, our Member Stations, and the millions of listeners in the public radio family. Petra's passion for her work, her love for her colleagues, and her joy sharing books with public radio listeners have made a lasting impact. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family & friends," NPR said in a statement Sunday. Social media held a virtual wake for Mayer on Sunday, with an outpouring of grief from friends, colleagues and long-time NPR listeners and readers. "She was a great champion of deep culture, as well as books and literature coverage at NPR," NPR TV critic Eric Deggans said in an interview with CNN. "And we're all shocked and saddened and her sudden passing. A great bright light at our department that has gone out too soon and too unexpected."A proud, self-proclaimed nerd, Mayer contributed to NPR's Book Concierge and would be a guest chair on the Pop Culture Happy Hour podcast. She joined the books team in 2012, NPR reported. Glen Weldon, co-host of NPR's Pop Culture Happy Hour, said she was the "best and rarest species of nerd" on Twitter Saturday."She was ferociously intelligent, sardonically funny and made your day better by merely existing. She was a passionate voice for genre content that NPR will miss like an ache," Weldon said.  Previously, Mayer was an associate producer and director for the weekend "All Things Considered" and was a production assistant for "Morning Edition" and "Weekend Edition Saturday." She attended Amherst College and received her master's degree in journalism from Columbia University. 
America's 10 most expensive zip codes have median home prices over $4 million.  (CNN)The most expensive areas to live in the US have gotten even more pricey this year as the cost of homes has skyrocketed.The country's top ten most expensive zip codes all have median home prices of more than $4 million, according to a report from Property Shark. This is the first time that has happened. And 30 of the top 100 priciest zip codes have median prices of over $3 million, more than twice the number of areas at that price last year.Atherton, California -- which sits outside of San Francisco in Silicon Valley and is home to tech billionaires and venture capitalists -- is the most expensive zip code in the country for the fifth year in a row, with a median home price of $7.5 million. The town of about 7,000 people, which is more than 70% White, is entirely residential with 90% owner-occupied homes and no commercial zoning, according to the Census Bureau.   California is home to 70% of the priciest housing markets, with 37% in the Bay Area alone, the report found. But the county with the most zip codes on the list was Los  Angeles County, with 21 zip codes in the top 100.A zip code in the affluent Back Bay area of Boston was the second most expensive area in the US, with a median home price of $5.5 million, according to the report. Other areas in the top ten include Sagaponack, New York, in the Hamptons; the enclaves of Medina and Mercer Island in Washington; and in California, zip codes in Santa Barbara, Santa Monica as well as Beverly Hills' well-known 90210 zip code.The pandemic caused some reshuffling at the top of the list. A zip code in Miami, which includes the exclusive Fisher Island, saw a 66% jump in home prices year-over-year and rose from number 23 last year to number five on the list. It is the highest ranking for a Florida zip code since 2017. Meanwhile, a regular mainstay of the top zip codes list, New York City, did not make it into the top 20. Last year marked the first year no zip code in the city made it to the top ten, with the Big Apple falling even further down the list this year. New York's most expensive zip code -- an area in Soho and Lower Manhattan -- was the 22nd most expensive area in the country with a $3.2 million median sale price. A zip code in TriBeCa came in at number 25, with a median sale price of $3.1 million, according to the report. While home prices went up everywhere across the country last year, the top 100 zip codes are only in 10 states: Arizona, California, Connecticut, Florida, Massachusetts, Maryland, New Jersey, Nevada, New York and Washington. 
Rep. Anthony Gonzalez: 'The cold hard truth is Donald Trump led us into a ditch on January 6'.  (CNN)Rep. Anthony Gonzalez of Ohio, a House Republican who voted to impeach former President Donald Trump in his second impeachment trial earlier this year, repeatedly slammed Trump in an extensive sit-down interview with CNN's Jake Tapper."The cold hard truth is Donald Trump led us into a ditch on January 6. The former president lied to us. He lied to every one of us and in doing so he cost (Republicans) the House, the Senate and the White House," Gonzalez said on "State of the Union."He added: "I see, fundamentally, a person who shouldn't be able to hold office again because of what he did around January 6. But I also see somebody who's an enormous political loser. And I don't know why anybody who wants to win elections going forward would follow that. I simply, like, I don't get it ethically. I certainly don't get it politically. Neither of them makes sense."Gonzalez, who was one of 10 House Republicans who voted to impeach Trump, announced in September he would not run for reelection in 2022.Trump campaigned against Gonzalez in June, rallying for primary opponent Max Miller, a former Trump aide.Gonzalez told Tapper he would not support Trump if he runs again for president in 2024 and would instead support a primary opponent or third-party candidate instead of Trump or a Democrat."If he's the nominee again in '24, I will do everything I personally can to make sure he doesn't win. Now I'm not voting for Democrats, but whether that's finding a viable third party or whether that's trying to defeat him in primaries, whatever it is, that's going to be where I'll spend my time," he said. "January 6 was the line that can't be crossed."This story has been updated.
'I keep forgetting you're still alive:' Elon Musk trolls Bernie Sanders on Twitter. New York, NY (CNN)Elon Musk is trolling again on Twitter, and this time his target is Sen. Bernie Sanders."I keep forgetting you're still alive," Musk tweeted Sunday morning, in response to Sanders tweeting that the extremely wealthy should pay their fair share of taxes. CNN Business has reached out to Sanders for comment. "Want me to sell more stock, Bernie? Just say the words..." Musk tweeted an hour later. Musk ended the week selling a grand total of $6.9 billion worth of Tesla shares. That only amounted to less than 4% of the shares he holds directly, and less than 3% including all the options he owns to buy additional shares.Musk certainly qualifies under Sander's description of "the extremely wealthy" --- he's the world's richest person, having a net worth of $285 billion, according to Bloomberg's Billionaires Index. Musk asked the Twitterverse last week if he should sell 10% of his Tesla holdings to pay taxes  58% of voters in his poll responded yes. However, it's doubtful that the results of the Twitter poll were the main motivation for last week's stock sale. Musk faces a looming tax bill that will be triggered by his need to exercise 22.9 million options to purchase shares before next August. That bill would be nearly $10 billion at current market prices.He could also owe state income tax to California, which has a top tax rate of 13.3%. Even though he has moved to Texas, which has no state income tax, he conceded in a recent tweet that he'll still owe California state income taxes because he still spends a lot of time working in the state.Taxing extreme wealth is a big part of Sander's platform. As the chair of the Senate's budget committee, Sanders has proposed an annual tax on the top 0.1 percent of US households, which he claims will raise about $4.35 trillion over the next decade and cut the wealth of billionaires in half over 15 years. He also wants to implement key enforcement policies on the proposed wealth taxes.Democrats had tried to impose a billionaires tax to fund President Joe Biden's sweeping social safety net plan. "Whether or not the world's wealthiest man pays any taxes at all shouldn't depend on the results of a Twitter poll," Sen. Ron Wyden of Oregon tweeted in response to Musk's Twitter poll. "It's time for the Billionaires Income Tax." CNN's Chris Isidore contributed to this report.CNN's Chris Isidore contributed to this report. 
Call of Duty: Vanguard removes Quran pages after critics call the depiction disrespectful.  (CNN)The publisher of the video game Call of Duty: Vanguard has issued an apology after receiving criticism from Muslim players who noticed pages of the Quran lying on the floor during a gameplay scene.The pages from Islam's holy book were seen scattered on the floor. In Islam, the Quran is considered sacred and cannot be placed on the floor or on any dirty surface.Players who recognized the religious text posted photos of the scene on Twitter, with one gamer demanding the game's developers and publishers "remove the pages immediately.""Call of Duty is made for everyone. There was insensitive content to the Muslim community mistakenly included last week, and has since been removed from the game," an Activision spokesperson said in a statement to CNN on Friday. "It should never have appeared as it did in game. We deeply apologize. We are taking immediate steps internally to address the situation to prevent such occurrences in the future." Activision Blizzard publishes Call of Duty, one of the best-selling game franchises in the United States for over a decade."Sometimes the whole point of a diverse team isn't just for gender balance, sometimes it's at least one person pointing out hey maybe putting an entire cultures holy scriptures onto the floor to be stepped as you kill people is super insensitive?" Anisa Sanusi, a Muslim video game developer based in London, wrote on Twitter. "Leave the Quran out of it."In Call of Duty: Vanguard, which is set in World War II, players "experience influential battles" of the war as they fight in Europe, the Pacific and North Africa, according to the game's website.The pages of the Quran appear during zombie mode during the Der Anfang campaign, a survival mode in the game in which players face a wave of zombie soldiers, according to players who posted the screenshots on social media."I understand the effort it takes to make a video game world feel real and believable, however for a piece of set dressing, they could have literally used any other blurb of writing," Sanusi told CNN. "There was absolutely no reason to bring in the Quran into this."Sanusi, 31, said she found the game's inclusion of the Quran "disrespectful.""There is a bare-level minimum of respect expected when it comes to how you treat and portray a religion with 2 billion followers on the planet," she said."When dealing with portraying a culture that is not your own, it's important to have sensitivity measures to avoid instances of cultural appropriation, or in this case, an unintentionally offensive outcome."This is not the first time Call of Duty has attracted negative criticism from Muslim players for insensitive content.In 2012, developers of Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 had to remove a multiplayer map that showed Islamic religious texts including the word "Allah," which is Arabic for God, in a bathroom, according to Fortune.Rami Ismail, a Muslim Dutch-Egyptian game developer, said he is "annoyed and exhausted" with the constant misrepresentation of Islam in the gaming industry."Games have used Muslim lands as war zones and Muslim people as targets for decades -- it is tiring to see additional disrespect towards our people," Ismail told CNN. "Things like this just really shouldn't happen."
Inside the wild world of My Pillow CEO Mike Lindell. New York, NY (CNN)Mike Lindell doesn't just sell pillows. He also sells false hope, CNN's chief media correspondent Brian Stelter said on "Reliable Sources" Sunday.The My Pillow CEO is an insider in Trump world, rewarded with White House access and endorsements by the former president. Now, Lindell has moved on to broadcasting. On Lindell TV, the host frequently says former president Donald Trump is the real president and that the 2020 election will still be overturned. He even claims he's heading to the Supreme Court with a case to bring Trump back into office."This stuff is the real Twilight Zone," Stelter said. "And it's been endorsed by the former president. So Lindell has power even though he's often in a far-right Looney Tunes land."And not only is the show endorsed by Trump, but on Tuesday, Lindell says he's airing a 40-minute interview with the former president.  "This is the Lindell Report, bringing you news combined with hope by offering practical and achievable action points to assist you in defending and preserving faith and freedom," Lindell says in the intro to his show.His far-right corner of the internet, which includes a 24-hour feed and his own version of YouTube, dubbed FrankSpeech.com, has even alienated Fox News. "Fox is the worst media outlet in probably the history of the planet," Lindell said on his show. "Why don't you help save our country?"Advertisements and promotion codes for My Pillow are frequent on the media platform. Zachary Petrizzo, a media reporter at The Daily Beast, covers Lindell TV. He said far-right conspiracy sites such as the Gateway Pundit have a financial incentive to publish Lindell's content because they get a portion of sales from My Pillow promo codes on their sites."I think it's a grift too, but I think Lindell definitely believes in what he's pushing without question," Petrizzo said on Reliable Sources Sunday. The false content has become an issue for traditional right-wing media."The Washington Examiner is keeping an arm's length away from Lindell," Petrizzo said. 
'SNL' takes kids to Ted Cruz Street with Big Bird. New York (CNN Business)"Saturday Night Live" opened this weekend's show with Sen. Ted Cruz taking kids to "Ted Cruz Street," a play on "Sesame Street," on a channel called "Newsmax Kids."The Texas senator, who was played by Aidy Bryant, welcomed everyone to the show while standing near a stoop."Hello, I'm Texas senator and last one invited to Thanksgiving, Ted Cruz," Bryant's Cruz said opening the show. "You know for fifty years I stood by as 'Sesame Street' taught our children dangerous ideas like numbers and kindness."But Bryant's Cruz then explained that when Big Bird tweeted about receiving his Covid-19 vaccine, he had enough and created his own "Sesame Street.""It's a gated community where kids are safe from the woke government," Bryant's Cruz explained about the show.The first guest on "Ted Cruz Street" was Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, played by Cecily Strong, who was carrying an AR-15. "Today's episode is brought to you by Q," she said. "Not the letter, the man."The next guest was Big Bird, played by Kyle Mooney."Now, as you know I was mocked for attacking Big Bird on Twitter," Bryant's Cruz said. "Simply because I am a human senator and he is an eight-foot-tall fictional bird."Mooney's Big Bird came on the show, with his feathers falling out, and explained that after getting the vaccine, he didn't feel well.To get more information about how to help Big Bird's health, Bryant's Cruz brought out the resident medical expert of "Ted Cruz Street": Joe Rogan, who was played by Pete Davidson. "I used to host 'Fear Factor' and now doctors fear me," Davidson's Rogan said. He then tried giving Big Bird zinc and horse medicine in order to make him feel better.Mooney's Big Bird was confused and asked why a bird would take horse medicine."I'm a human and I took horse medicine," Davidson's Rogan said.Bryant's Cruz had other guests stop by but then said the show was taking a quick commercial break. And when it comes back from the break he would teach the audience about how former President Trump "definitely" won the election.He would do this by bringing on the Recount Count, played by Aristotle Athari, who looked just like The Count from "Sesame Street.""I'm moving to Arizona," Athari's Count said. "Ha. Ha. Ha!""Ted Cruz Street" then wrapped up to make way for the "SNL" cast to say the show's signature catch phrase: "Live from New York... It's Saturday Night!"
Federal agents rescue pilot found standing atop sinking plane off Florida coast.  (CNN)Federal agents conducting a marine operation in Florida unexpectedly found themselves involved in an air rescue, when they spotted a pilot climbing out of his sinking aircraft.The plane went in the water off Cedar Key, about a hundred miles north of Tampa along Florida's Gulf Coast Tuesday.Photos provided by US Customs and Border Protection (CPB) in a Friday news release showed a small propeller-powered plane, sinking about a half mile from the George T. Lewis Airport in Cedar Key, with water almost entirely covering its cockpit and a man standing on top."As agents and deputies approached the sinking plane, an individual was spotted climbing out and standing on the fuselage. Agents verified the pilot was the only occupant and were able to assist him on board an AMO (Air and Marine Operations) Coastal Interceptor Vessel," according to the release.Agents gave the pilot a preliminary medical assessment before emergency medical services arrived at the scene, CPB added.CPB's Tampa Marine Unit and the Citrus County Sheriff's Office Tactical Impact Unit were conducting joint operations off the coast of Cedar Key."The situational awareness and quick actions of the Marine Interdiction Agents and Sheriff's Deputies prevented a possible human tragedy," said Michael Matthies, Deputy Director of Marine Operations. "We are thankful we have the proper resources and trained personnel to perform when incidents like this present themselves."
L'Oreal to remove words like 'whitening' and 'fair' from its products. New York  (CNN Business)L'Oreal (LRLCF), the world's largest cosmetic and beauty company, announced on Friday that it will stop using words like "whitening" and "fair" in describing its products. The announcement comes amid anti-racism protests and calls against racial inequality following George Floyd's death. "The L'Oreal Group has decided to remove the words white/whitening, fair/fairness, light/lightening from all its skin evening products," the French cosmetics giant said in statement. L'Oreal faced backlash earlier in the month following a post on Twitter stating it "stands in solidarity with the Black community, and injustice of any kind." The post garnered comments accusing the company of hypocrisy for dropping British model Munroe Bergdorf from its brand in 2017, following comments she made about systemic racism. The model herself, also criticized the brand for its solidarity message for Black Lives Matter, saying L'Oreal "threw me to the wolves for speaking out about racism and white supremacy." She was the UK brand's first transgender model before she was dropped.Bergdorf said in a Twitter statement that L'Oreal Paris brand president, Delphine Viguier, "expressed regret for how the situation was handled" following a conversation between the two. The company rehired Bergdorf and she will now join the UK company's diversity and inclusion advisory board. L'Oreal isn't the first company to make changes to its brand, as pushback continues over controversial skin-lightening products and beauty companies' lack of racial diversity in products and advertisementsOn Thursday, Hindustan Unilever, the Indian and Bangladesh unit of Anglo-Dutch firm Unilever (UL), announced that it would "stop using the word 'Fair" on its "Fair and Lovely" skincare products. Unilever stated its reason was to move toward "a more inclusive vision of beauty." Johnson & Johnson (JNJ), also announced on Thursday it has discontinued two lines of skincare products from its brands that include the word "fairness" on its labels for the same reasons. 
People who are offended by 'Indian Matchmaking' prove its point.  (CNN)Binge-watching and hate-watching go hand in hand, and so it's been with Netflix's "Indian Matchmaking." The part-documentary, part-reality TV show follows the efforts of Sima Taparia of Mumbai as she sets up clients around the world, often with families in tow, into arranged marriages. There's Aparna, who needs her future husband to know Bolivia has salt flats; Vyasar, who carries a secret about his father trying to kill his third wife; and Pradhyuman, who concocts elaborate recipes such as peri-peri foxnuts with liquid nitrogen. These Indian singles, they're not just like us. But Sima Auntie, as she is known, is in the business of marrying them off anyway, guided by a "biodata" page of likes, dislikes, educational background and a photo.That's hardly the most offensive part. Despite trending on every social platform and the streaming service all week, the series has been criticized for perpetuating harmful stereotypes, colorism, sexism, elitism, heteronormativity, the caste system and the shallow, transactional nature of Indians looking for a life partner. I'm ready to wade into the debate. (Hang on, muting my mentions on Twitter...) As someone who has spent her whole life as an Indian, much of her career chronicling the country and its diaspora, and written two books on global Indians, I think the criticism is misplaced. Sima Auntie is not the problem. We are the problem. I fear that the art of nuance and subtlety has been lost on critics. They want a deeper discussion of the rampant colorism on display here (the word "fair" to refer to skin tone is used over and over, without second thought.). They want acknowledgment of entrenched and intentional endogamy that maintains Indian power structures, rooted in caste and wealth. They want mothers and mothers-in-law to stop meddling and enforcing impossible-to-meet standards.  But this is us. The critics are not wrong but their target is. That the show was filmed before George Floyd died but released after makes this reality even more poignant. Unilever announced last month that it is removing the word "fair" from its Fair & Lovely line of skin-whitening products. The company now says it chooses to emphasize "glow, even tone, skin clarity and radiance."  As Americans know all too well, corporate policy is one matter; changing the hearts and minds of family and society is much harder. Herein lies the genius of "Indian Matchmaking." Maybe Oscar-nominated director Smriti Mundhra and veteran showrunner J.C. Begley know exactly what they are doing; just look at the series' narrative pacing, music selection and cutaway moments with adorable, elderly couples.Their decisions are deliberate and calculated and intended to effect change. That's the role and power of media. They're not redeeming the cavalier manner in which families perpetuate inequality and outdated thinking. They're exposing it.The mirror is being held up and it's impossible to look away. Those who are offended by it often prove "Indian Matchmaking's" point. We mock Aparna for her snobbish, exacting ways as she says not hating someone makes for a successful date. Yet even this criticism is loaded with the unattainable expectations we put on Indian women. Her reference to Bolivian salt flats, also chastised as elitist, is among the scant examples in the eight-part docuseries of a world view beyond, say, a Texas axe-throwing club or a Mumbai nightclub. What she seeks in a partner is intellectual compatibility. Don't we have that right? The spotlight on the derivative manner and ancient customs of matchmaking in India -- that far-off country where arranged marriage rivals snake charmers in Western cliched depictions -- should force us to reconsider allegedly more modern practices. Like swiping right.  Among the revolutionary bits of advice from Sima Auntie: Focus on one match at a time. Don't move on till you've ruled him or her out. I think of what a friend in New York City once called the "-er" problem in online dating. "There's always someone hotter, better, taller, richer out there," she told me, exasperated and single into her mid-30s. She left New York City and quickly found love in a smaller pond.  It is too easy to look at Indian society as oppressive through the lens of arranged marriage and demand disruption -- versus challenging the whole institution, East or West, love or arranged, IRL or online.  Indeed, there are quieter revolutions within "Indian Matchmaking," such as the number of subjects who are divorced or the products of divorce. Once taboo among Indian families, divorce is explained away by Sima Auntie with the proclamation: "Marriages are breaking like biscuits." She matter-of-factly assures the clients she will find them matches. Why? Because Sima Auntie is the ultimate businesswoman and her ability to change is a revolution itself, representing the chameleon-like adaptation of Indians in a connected world. Confronted with nontraditional, challenging candidates to place, she does not give up, instead turning to life coaches, astrologers and fellow matchmakers who might have more modern networks. But why, critics rightfully ask, were all the matches heterosexual? India struck down sodomy laws and decriminalized homosexuality two years ago. Here, I have faith in the undercurrent of capitalism and globalization that runs through "Indian Matchmaking." After all this hype, there surely will be a second season. And surely Sima Auntie will find someone to help her arrange same-sex couples -- as long as she gets her cut. 
A woman was permanently injured from a skin-lightening cream tainted with an extremely toxic form of mercury - the first such case in the US. 
Rivian is fueled by a powerful force: Jeff Bezos' desire to spite Elon Musk. New York (CNN Business)Rivian, the electric truck maker that's rocketed overnight from relative obscurity to $100 billion Wall Street darling, owes much of its breakout success to one very powerful fanboy: Jeff Bezos. And, less directly, to that fanboy's archnemesis Elon Musk. When the Amazon founder this summer became the first American entrepreneur to hurl himself to the edge of space on his own private company's rocket, Rivian trucks shuttled Bezos and his fellow astronauts to and from the West Texas launch site. The Rivian shuttles during the widely publicized event were, of course, strategic product placement by Bezos for his handpicked contender to take on Tesla. At the time, Rivian was still a private company with no actual products on the market. But Amazon had made a big bet on Rivian in 2019, taking a 20% stake in the company. The famously (or notoriously) calculating Bezos was bringing two of his pet projects  Blue Origin and Rivian  onto the global stage at the same time.The cherry on top: It was also a big middle finger to Musk. Bezos and Musk spent much of the past year yo-yoing between the titles of Richest and Second Richest person in the world. Their feud goes back years, centered on their competing space travel ambitions. Bezos' Blue Origin has been fighting NASA over the agency's decision to contract with Musk's SpaceX to build a lunar lander intended to take humans back to the moon. So far, all of Blue Origin's efforts to fight NASA's decision have fallen flat.But Rivian's blockbuster IPO  the strongest debut by a US company since Facebook listed its shares in 2012  gives Bezos something of a win in the ongoing proxy battle he's fighting with Musk. Two years ago, Amazon led an investment of $700 million in Rivian and announced it was ordering 100,000 of its electric vans. At the time, the EV field was crowded with upstart brands such as Nikola, Lordstown and Fisker, all of which were vying to position themselves as the next big thing. Since then, Rivian has emerged as the heavyweight (helped as much by investments from Amazon and Ford as by serious regulatory investigations into would-be rivals Nikola and Lordstown).Rivian can also thank Musk for fomenting the EV hype that investors have been getting drunk on for the past few years. Many analysts say Tesla, with a market cap of around $1 trillion, is wildly overvalued, but it keeps on climbing. FOMO is a powerful force on Wall Street, and those who missed out on Tesla a decade ago may be trying to make up for it by buying Rivian, a 12-year-old startup that hasn't yet delivered any products to customers and somehow is worth more than Ford (F) and GM (GM). Whether Rivian can live up to the hype is anyone's guess. For an investor, it's a comfort to know that Rivian has the backing of someone with pockets as deep and grudges as bitter as Bezos'. Investing is always risky. But one thing we can count on is that uber-rich men will literally buy entire companies to spite their enemies rather than go to therapy. 
Mall Santas will be pretty much back to normal this year. New York (CNN Business)It's beginning to look a lot like pre-pandemic Christmas, with malls and stores bringing back tree lighting ceremonies, carol singers and a less socially distanced Santa this year.Photos with Santa, an annual holiday tradition for many families, were upended last year by the pandemic. Some retail locations that typically host in-person Santa visits decided to forgo the event completely. Others made changes  like putting Santa behind plexiglass, or Zooming with Santa on a large digital screen  which likely resulted in awkward holiday family photos with Kris Kringle.But that was 2020. Retailers and mall operators are eager to return holiday shoppers to a more familiar celebratory experience in the run-up to Christmas.They're starting with in-person Santa visits.Macy'sPerhaps no other Saint Nick is as iconic as Macy's Santa Claus, who's been making an in-person appearance since 1861 with the exception of last year.Macy's (M) is bringing back Santa at Santaland events this year in Chicago, San Francisco and its flagship store at New York City's Herald Square. However, Macy's is keeping it a contactless and socially distanced visit this year. The retailer said it will follow each city's  protocols for indoor masking.Cherry Hill Programs, the leading provider of holiday Santa and photography events at malls nationwide, is setting up more than 672 Santa events this year in the US, Canada and Puerto Rico  including at malls run by Simon Properties, the largest mall operator in the United States. Chris Landtroop, vice president of marketing for Cherry Hill Programs, said its Santas are vaccinated unless exempted for medical or religious reasons, in which case they will be tested weekly and it's staff at the events will also abide by local mask guidelines.BrookfieldBrookfield Properties, a subsidiary of Brookfield Asset Management and the second-largest mall operator in the country, said Santa will be in 117 of its 130 malls. He's arriving in 23 of those malls on Friday.The Santa visits will revert back to the more traditional experience in which families have the option of having kids sit on Santa's lap for a chat and photos, said Katie Kurtz, senior vice president of business development with Brookfield Properties. "Malls have a magical feeling this time of the year and we want to get back to that," she said.Kurtz said families who want to remain socially distanced will have that option, too. The company is adhering to local mandates for masks for each mall location.PREITMall operator PREIT, which owns 13 malls primarily on the East Coast, including the Cherry Hill mall in New Jersey and the Willow Grove mall in Pennsylvania, placed Santa behind plexiglass last year at each mall.This month, Santa makes a comeback atop a red fire truck at PREIT malls and he won't be behind a barrier for his meet-and-greet. PREIT said all of its Santas are vaccinated and kids will have the option to sit on his lap for photos.PREIT is also following local mask mandates for in-mall visits.TangerWith close to 68% of the total US population having received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, according to the Centers for Disease Control & Prevention, some malls are holding more elaborate holiday events. Tanger Factory Outlets last year held socially distanced Santa visits for its shoppers. It's bringing Santa back in person to more than 20 of its outlet centers this holiday season. In addition to photo ops, Santa will also be at tree lightings and at breakfasts with Santa events."We also have a fun The Elf on the Shelf scavenger hunt planned where we've placed the elves around our centers, some are inside of stores or at the food court," said Stephen Yalof, president and CEO of Tanger Outlets, which operates 36 upscale outlet shopping centers.This year Tanger is hosting multiple Christmas tree lighting events instead of one big event at five of its locations. Yalof said it's a way to avoid one large congregation of people and also have shoppers coming back more than once to its malls.Bringing people back to the mallBringing Santa back is a smart move, said Barbara Kahn, professor of marketing at the Wharton School."All these holiday events that retailers plan are really about boosting consumption," said Kahn. "Now post-Covid, malls and stores are trying to lure shoppers back and get them comfortable shopping in person again versus online."For retailers, in-store shopping presents certain advantages, she said. "There's the serendipity of it. Shoppers tend to do more impulse buying in stores." And with online shopping, product returns tend to be higher, which can be expensive for retailers, she added.
Americans are still buying up a storm. A version of this story first appeared in CNN Business' Before the Bell newsletter. Not a subscriber? You can sign up right here.New York  (CNN Business)Consumer spending continues to power the US economy. Whether it's to buy a new house or just a Squid Game plush toy from Amazon (AMZN), people still seem willing to shell out their hard earned cash for stuff.Retail sales in the United States soared more than expected in September and figures for August were revised higher to show a bigger jump than initially reported. October numbers will be released Tuesday. More healthy gains are expected, despite lingering worries about rising prices and supply chain disruption.Inflation isn't yet killing demand, and investors have taken notice. The SPDR S&P Retail (XRT) exchange-traded fund, which holds a variety of leading retail stocks, has surged nearly 60% this year, beating the broader market by a big margin. Americans are spending a lot on their homes in particular, especially as house prices continue to surge. That's been great news for retail giants Home Depot and Lowe's, which are both set to report earnings this week. Home Depot (HD) shares have soared nearly 40% this year, making it one of the top performers in the Dow (INDU). Rival Lowe's (LOW) has done even better, skyrocketing about 45%.Both retailers have benefited from the fact that there are plenty of DIY enthusiasts looking to fix up their homes before selling them, as well as new homeowners who need to do renovations. The two companies also sell lumber and other supplies to professional builders. Analysts are predicting Home Depot's earnings per share will rise more than 20% this fiscal year, which ends January 31. Wall Street expects an even bigger profit pop  nearly 30%  for Lowe's. Can it be sustained? Home Depot and Lowe's aren't the only major retailers on tap to post solid results. Investors are also betting that discount giants Walmart (WMT) and Target (TGT) will report strong sales and earnings.Department store chains TJX (TJX), Kohl's (KSS) and Macy's (M) will be reporting earnings too. The big questions will be what demand looks like for the holidays and whether these retailers can ship enough goods for customers to get them wrapped in time. The bumper fourth quarter  which accounts for most retailers' profits  is at the mercy of snarled supply chains overseas and port congestion in the United States."Retail sales are expected to soar this holiday shopping season due to high consumer confidence as well as rising personal income," said Louis Navellier, chairman of Navellier & Associates, in a report last week. "The shortage of some key goods should not derail holiday spending, since when consumers have money in their pockets, they will spend it."Hasbro (HAS)'s finance chief Deborah Thomas said a few weeks ago that she felt the worst of the logistics issues were over and that the toymaker should have plenty of new products on retailers' shelves in time for the December sales rush.Still, what's happening in China may send a warning signal. Online commerce giants Alibaba (BABA) and JD.com (JD), which both report earnings this week, each posted record sales from their Singles Day shopping extravaganza during the first eleven days of November. But the pace of growth was much slower than in previous years.A summit between the world's top economiesPresident Joe Biden's highly anticipated virtual summit with Chinese President Xi Jinping will take place on Monday.On the agenda: The talks come at a time of heightened tensions over Taiwan, trade and human rights. At the same time, the United States and China just unveiled a surprise pact on climate, underscoring some areas of cooperation.For investors, discussions between the world's two largest economies are always worth watching. The meeting will be Biden's first with Xi since he became president in January.There will be plenty to talk about. While the Biden administration recently reached an agreement with the European Union to ease Trump-era sanctions on aluminum and steel, criticism of China's trade practices and subsidies for domestic businesses has persisted.US Trade Representative Katherine Tai said last week that progress was being made in talks with China to hold the country accountable for promises made in the "Phase 1" trade deal President Donald Trump signed in January 2020.The global energy crisis and supply chain disruptions could also feature in discussions. And then there's the weakness in China's property sector, which rattled American investors earlier this fall.In a recent report, the Federal Reserve warned that "financial stresses in China ... could further strain global financial markets and negatively affect the United States." The Fed pointed specifically to the crisis at Evergrande, China's most indebted developer.Up nextMonday: China industrial production and retail sales; Japan GDP; Tyson Foods (TSN), Oatly, Casper Sleep (CSPR), Lucid earningsTuesday: US retail sales; US industrial production; Eurozone GDP; Walmart, Home Depot earningsWednesday: US housing starts; Eurozone CPI; Baidu (BIDU), Target, Lowe's, TJX, Cisco (CSCO), Nvidia (NVDA), Bath & Body Works, Victoria's Secret earningsThursday: US weekly jobless claims; Alibaba, JD.com, Macy's, Kohl's, Applied Materials (AMAT), Intuit (INTU) earningsFriday: Foot Locker (FL) earnings
Elon Musk ends the week selling another $1.2 billion of Tesla shares. New York (CNN Busines)Another day, another billion dollars.Or in Elon Musk's case, $1.2 billion.A filing late Friday shows that Musk sold another 1.2 million shares of Tesla stock on Friday, at an average price of $1,030 a share.It brings his sales for the week to a total of 6.4 million shares, for a grand total of $6.9 billion.Still, that only amounts to less than 4% of the shares he holds directly, or less than 3% if you include all the options he owns to buy additional shares.A week ago Musk posted a Twitter poll asking if he should sell 10% of his holdings as a way of increasing his tax liability, and 58% of those who responded said yes. His sales of stock this week have pushed down the value of Tesla shares for shareholders -- including himself, since he is by far the largest shareholder. Tesla (TSLA) shares ended the week down $189 a share, or 15.4%.It's unlikely that the Twitter poll was the main motivation for the sale. Rather, he faces a looming tax bill that will be triggered by his need to exercise 22.9 million options to purchase shares before next August. That bill would be nearly $10 billion at current market prices.If he doesn't exercise the options by then, they'll expire and he'll lose the right to buy each share for a mere $6.24. But when he does, the value of the shares at that time will be treated as normal income, and he'll have to pay a 40.8% federal tax rate. It's also possible he could owe state income tax to California, which has a top tax rate of 13.3%. Even though he has moved to Texas, which has no state income tax, he conceded in a recent tweet that he'll still owe considerable California state income taxes based on the considerable time he still spends working in the state.Musk exercised the first block of 2.2 million of those soon-to-expire options on Monday, and then sold 934 million shares in order to pay the taxes on that exercise. The shares he has sold since, however, have come from his direct holdings, most of which he has owned since the company's 2010 initial public offering. And Musk will owe only a 20% long-term capital gain tax on the $5.8 billion from the proceeds of those stock sales, or roughly $1.2 billion.Tesla is still the most valuable automaker in the world, with a market cap greater than that of the 12 largest automakers by volume. Last month it became only the sixth US company to reach a $1 trillion valuation. Musk's stake in the company has declined slightly with these sales but for now it is still equal to a 23.7% stake in the company, down from from the 24.3% he would have held without the sales.Until this week, Musk had not sold any shares of company's stock since 2016. But other board members and top executives have been selling stock all along, including his brother Kimbal Musk, a Tesla board member, who sold $108 millon worth of Tesla shares a week ago, equal to about 15% of his shares in the company, just before his brother's sales started pushing down the value of the stock.Musk is the world's wealthiest person, with a net worth estimated by Bloomberg at $294 billion. The $6.9 billion he received from this week's transactions was already included in that calculation, since the estimated value of the stocks and options is a significant part of his net worth. His net worth has fallen this week as the price of Tesla shares have declined.The recent stock sales don't appreciably change Musk's financial position. The $6.9 billion from sales would be like a typical American family selling about $2,900 worth of stocks it already owned. The Federal Reserve's most recent estimate puts the median household net worth at $121,700.
