Adele, promoting album about a divorce, brings hope to hearts everywhere with surprise proposal during special.  (CNN)Adele might be the queen of speaking truth to our heartbreaks, but it was her role in bringing two people together that stole the show during her Sunday night CBS special. The set up was this: A man reached out to what he believed was a show -- but it was actually a "fake show," Adele said -- to help him propose to his girlfriend of seven years. They spent the day having a picnic in the area near Adele's concert and the night would culminate with a proposal. The plan worked -- with adorable results. "If you make a noise, I'm going to kill you," Adele told the crowd, which included celebrities like Lizzo and Melissa McCarthy. As the woman's noise-cancelling headphones and blindfold were removed, she was stunned. "Is this real," she asked. "Who are these people?" The man popped the question, she accepted and Adele revealed herself from the shadows before launching into "Make You Feel My Love." "She's crying her eyes out," Adele quipped at one point mid-song. Who can blame her, of course. The moment was a slightly ironic one, as the singer is promoting "30," which many have dubbed the singer's "divorce album." But if one thing was clear during her interview with Oprah Winfrey during the two-hour program, the album can be seen as one about union -- just, in her case, she's coming together with her happiest self. And doing so required a lot of tough decisions. She told Winfrey of her current relationship with sports agent Rich Paul: It's the first time she's been in a relationship where she's "loved myself and been open to loving and being loved by someone else." 
Sandy Hook families win legal victory against Alex Jones in defamation case.  (CNN Business)Sandy Hook families suing InfoWars founder Alex Jones have won a case against him after a judge ruled against Jones who has failed to comply with the discovery process.Jones and entities owned by him were found liable by default Monday in a defamation case against them.Connecticut Superior Court Judge Barbara Bellis cited the defendants' "willful noncompliance" with the discovery process as her core reasoning behind the ruling. She specifically noted that they had not turned over financial and analytics data requested multiple times by the Sandy Hook family plaintiffs."All the defendants have failed to fully and fairly comply with their discovery obligations," Bellis said at the virtual hearing.Judge Bellis said that she had held off scheduling Monday's sanctions hearing "in hopes these problems would be corrected" by the Jones defendants. "While the families are grateful for the Court's ruling, they remain focused on uncovering the truth. As the Court noted, Alex Jones and his companies have deliberately concealed evidence of the relationship between what they publish and how they make money," said Chris Mattei of Koskoff, Koskoff & Bieder, which represents the plaintiffs. "Mr. Jones was given every opportunity to comply but, when he chose instead to withhold evidence for more than two years, the Court was left with no choice but to rule as it did today. While today's ruling is a legal victory, the battle to shed light on how deeply Mr. Jones has harmed these families continues."Spokespeople for Alex Jones did not immediately respond to CNN Business' request for comment. Jones was being sued by families of Sandy Hook victims in both Texas and Connecticut courts over his past claims that the 2012 mass shooting was staged. He has since acknowledged that the shooting was real. The case will now proceed to a hearing and damages as to the defendants, Bellis said. A status conference is scheduled for Wednesday.
Prosecution says Kyle Rittenhouse provoked fatal shootings, while defense says he feared for his life.  (CNN)Kyle Rittenhouse provoked the fatal shootings in Kenosha, Wisconsin, last year by pointing his AR-15-style weapon at Joseph Rosenbaum, prosecutors said Monday in closing arguments of his homicide trial."That is what provokes this entire incident," prosecutor Thomas Binger said. "When the defendant provokes this incident, he loses the right to self-defense. You cannot claim self-defense against a danger you create."In response, defense attorney Mark Richards said Rittenhouse did not act recklessly when he fatally shot Rosenbaum, who Richards argued had threatened him, chased him, thrown a plastic bag at him and lunged for his gun. "When my client shot Joseph Rosenbaum, he feared for his life. He feared because of his prior threats, prior statements and the violent acts that had been witnessed by my client," Richards said.The dueling closing arguments, which took up most of Monday, came at the end of a two-week trial highlighted by emotional and illuminating testimony from Rittenhouse himself, who said he acted in self-defense when he fatally shot Rosenbaum.A crowd of people then pursued the teenager, and Rittenhouse testified he shot in self-defense at a man who tried to kick him; fatally shot Anthony Huber, who had hit him with a skateboard; and shot Gaige Grosskreutz, who was armed with a pistol. Rosenbaum and Huber were killed, and Grosskreutz was wounded.The group of 18 jurors will be narrowed to 12 Tuesday morning and will then begin deliberating in the case.Earlier Monday, Judge Bruce Schroeder dismissed a misdemeanor weapons charge against Rittenhouse, now 18. He still faces five felony charges and, if convicted on the most serious charge, could face a mandatory sentence of life in prison.Schroeder also read a set of legal instructions to the jury members and informed them they will be allowed to consider lesser included offenses for two of the five counts.The trial featured more than a dozen videos from the night of August 25, 2020, showing what happened before, during and after the shootings. Most of the facts of what happened that night were not up for debate -- rather, the heart of the trial was the analysis of Rittenhouse's actions and whether they can be considered "reasonable."The prosecution rested its case last Tuesday and the defense rested Friday.Prosecutor says the case is about life over propertyBinger's closing argument began by noting the trial was not about politics, or looting or rioting -- but instead about how life is more important than property."I think we can also agree that we should not have 17-year-olds running around our streets with AR-15s, because this is exactly what happens," he said.The prosecutor challenged Rittenhouse's motivation for coming into Kenosha that night during the chaotic aftermath of the police shooting of Jacob Blake. He pointed out Rittenhouse traveled across state lines, violated a curfew and was not protecting his family or property. He also spent the night lying about being an EMT, Binger said.Using several videos, Binger walked through the course of events that night, from Rittenhouse's decision to go downtown, to the shooting of Rosenbaum, to the second set of shootings while he tried to flee. Jurors were paying close attention to the series of videos and images, according to a pool reporter in court.Binger argued Rittenhouse provoked Rosenbaum by pointing a weapon at him before the man chased him. The prosecutor dismissed Rittenhouse's "cockamamie theory" that Rosenbaum -- who did not have anything in his hands when he was shot -- was going to take the teenager's gun and kill other people."They have to convince you that Joseph Rosenbaum was going to take that gun and use it on the defendant because they know you can't claim self-defense against an unarmed man like this," he said. "You lose the right to self-defense when you're the one who brought the gun, when you're the one creating the danger, when you're the one provoking other people."A series of witnesses testified during the trial Rosenbaum had acted erratically and earlier threatened Rittenhouse. But the prosecutor noted there was no video of any threat and questioned whether it really happened. Instead, Binger described the 5-foot-4-inch Rosenbaum as "a little dog" who was all bark and no bite.In the second shooting incident, the crowd of people confronted Rittenhouse because they reasonably believed he was an active shooter, Binger said."That crowd was right. That crowd was full of heroes. That crowd did something that honestly, I'm not sure I would have had the courage to do," he said.Rittenhouse, meanwhile, acted recklessly by loading his weapon with full metal jacket ammo capable of piercing armor and having little understanding of the weapon or the consequences of his actions, Binger argued."On the witness stand, he broke down crying about himself, not about anybody that he hurt that night," he said. "No remorse, no concern for anyone else."Defense says 'active shooter' is loaded phraseIn the defense's closing argument, Richards went through each witness's testimony and sought to establish reasonable doubt that his client acted criminally.He said he had no doubt Rosenbaum -- whom he called "irrational and crazy" -- would have shot Rittenhouse if he had gotten the teenager's weapon."My client didn't shoot at anyone until he was chased and cornered," Richards said.The second set of shootings came as Rittenhouse fell and was attacked by a "mob," Richards said. The attorney rejected the prosecution calling him an "active shooter.""Kyle was not an active shooter. That is a buzzword the state wants to latch onto because it excuses the actions of that mob," he said.Most of all, Richards emphasized that Rittenhouse did not have to take the stand at all but did so to tell jurors his experience that night, Richards said."We wanted to bring you our side of the story. We had nothing to hide," he said.Rittenhouse, who lived in nearby Antioch, Illinois, worked near Kenosha as a lifeguard and his father lived in the city. Richards argued that the teenager had no master plan to provoke violence and simply wanted to help the people of Kenosha that night."When he came down here, are we to believe that he's working to clean up graffiti, not getting paid because he's here to look for trouble? Is it all some master plan? That's ridiculous. He came down here, trying to help to see the damage. That's what he did," he said.Finally, Kenosha County Assistant District Attorney James Kraus delivered the prosecution's rebuttal and said Rittenhouse should have "exhausted all methods" of self-defense before shooting."Punch him in the face, kick him in the testicles, knee him in the face, hit him with your gun," he said. "You don't just immediately get to shoot someone."Judge dismisses weapons chargeThe judge's dismissal of the misdemeanor charge was part of a debate over jury instructions and lesser offenses on Monday. That charge, possession of a dangerous weapon by a person under 18, was punishable by up to nine months in prison.Still, Rittenhouse is charged with first-degree reckless homicide in the death of Rosenbaum, first-degree recklessly endangering safety for endangering Richard McGinnis, and attempted first-degree recklessly endangering safety for endangering an unknown person identified in court as "jump kick man."He is also charged with first-degree intentional homicide while using a dangerous weapon for the killing of Huber. It is the most severe charge Rittenhouse faces and the only charge that carries a mandatory sentence of life in prison. Judge Schroeder gave jurors instructions on Monday for the lesser included offenses of second-degree intentional homicide and first-degree reckless homicide for Huber's death. Both lesser offenses are punishable by up to 60 years in prison.For shooting Grosskreutz, Rittenhouse is charged with attempted first-degree intentional homicide, punishable by up to 60 years in prison. Schroeder also gave jurors instructions on lesser offenses of attempted second-degree intentional homicide or first-degree recklessly endangering safety.The instructions to the jury Monday stretched for over an hour. Schroeder stopped midway through to discuss them with the attorneys further and noted how convoluted they are."They are certainly correct in what they say, I just think they are not clear," he said.In a conference Friday about jury instructions, the judge told Rittenhouse presenting lesser offenses to the jury lowers the possibility of a second trial but increases the risk of a conviction. Schroeder explained if the prosecution is not able to establish Rittenhouse's guilt on the charged offense beyond a reasonable doubt, then the jury must acquit him.The coming deliberations will be closely watched locally. Wisconsin Gov. Tony Evers announced 500 National Guard troops are on standby outside of Kenosha, ahead of a possible verdict. CNN's Steve Almasy, Aya Elamroussi, Mike Hayes and Amir Vera contributed to this report. 
Judge Bruce Schroeder's reputation as a tough jurist comes through in Rittenhouse trial.  (CNN)Several heated exchanges between the Kenosha County Circuit Court judge and a prosecutor Wednesday stunned viewers of the Kyle Rittenhouse homicide trial, but it's a kind of scene not unusual for this specific judge, experts and attorneys told CNN. Judge Bruce Schroeder twice admonished Assistant District Attorney Thomas Binger for his line of questioning as Rittenhouse testified. While on the stand, Rittenhouse broke down in tears explaining the events that took place in August 2020 where he fatally shot two people and wounded another.To those who may not have heard of Schroeder until this week — or perhaps last month, when he reiterated his long-standing rule of not allowing prosecutors to refer to people as "victims" before juries in his courtroom — Wednesday's exchange with Binger may have come as a surprise. But to those who have worked with him, it emphasized his reputation.Schroeder -- the longest-serving active judge in Wisconsin's trial courts -- is viewed as a tough jurist, the type of judge who's not afraid to make difficult decisions, no matter the response. "He has a reputation for doing what he believes is the right thing and being an independent thinker," said William Lynch, a retired attorney who served on the board of the ACLU of Wisconsin at the time of Schroeder's ruling about ordering AIDS tests for sex workers in the 1980s.FOLLOW LIVE UPDATES OF THE RITTENHOUSE TRIALSchroeder admonished the prosecutor twiceTwice during cross-examination, Schroeder asked the jury to leave the courtroom and then sharply admonished Binger for his line of questioning. The first incident related to Binger's questions about Rittenhouse's post-arrest silence, a right solidified in the Fifth Amendment of the US Constitution."The problem is this is a grave constitutional violation for you to talk about the defendant's silence," Schroeder said. "You're right on the borderline, and you may be over, but it better stop."The second admonishment related to questions about an incident two weeks before the shootings that Schroeder has said would not be permitted to come into evidence. Binger said he believed that incident was newly relevant to the case, but Schroeder criticized him for not asking permission first and affirmed the evidence would not be allowed.Binger said he may have misunderstood Schroeder's ruling. "I thought your ruling was if the evidence in this case made that more relevant, you would admit it or at least considered it's admittance," Binger said.Schroeder responded to Binger in a very sharp tone. "Don't get brazen with me," Schroeder told Binger. "You know very well that an attorney can't go into these types of areas when the judge has already ruled without asking outside the presence of the jury to do so, so don't give me that."On Thursday, Binger confronted the judge over the previous day's heated exchange and said he was "under the court's ire."Schroeder cut him off saying, "You know, I don't want to talk about" it.Binger objected to specific portions of video analysis from defense witness John Black, a use-of-force expert, saying it was outside the court's order. However, the judge allowed the testimony to be given, which Binger said was unfair."Yesterday, I was the target of your ire for disregarding your orders," he reiterated. "Today the defense is disregarding your order.""This is a notice issue to the state. We have not been provided proper notice of this and clearly if the shoe were on the other foot and we tried something like this, there would be quite a quite a kerfuffle about that," Binger continued.The judge said Thursday's issue was related to the Constitution:"I was talking about the Constitution of the United States and how the Supreme Court has interpreted it for 50 years," the judge responded. "That's not what we are talking about here today."Testy exchanges affect jurors, analysts sayCivil rights attorney Areva Martin told CNN's Ana Cabrera on Wednesday that jurors are sizing up prosecutors and defense attorneys, so the lawyers' relationship with the judge matters. "Prosecutors and defense attorneys have to be very careful. You've got to be zealous in your advocacy for your case, but you cannot disrespect a court's ruling," she said. Laura Coates, a CNN legal analyst, said every prosecutor has taken their share of tongue lashings when it comes to a judge. "Judges always believe that they are in control of the courtroom. But it's the prosecution's burden and therefore the prosecution's trial," she said. Coates did argue that Binger thought he was able to probe certain topics -- such as Rittenhouse's intention of coming to Kenosha -- that Schroeder ruled out because of the defendant's testimony. "The prosecutor thought the door was open by virtue of Kyle Rittenhouse's own testimony," Coates said. "So if the judge had ruled previously that they couldn't bring it in, unprovoked, if he opened the door they are now entitled to do so and he's making that record."This is why, Coates said, it's dangerous for defendants to take the stand. "No matter how rehearsed or smart they think they are, if they are not well-versed in the methodology of litigation of trial procedure and evidentiary rules, they may fall victim to their own hubris," she said.Schroeder has reputation for being 'old school'Schroeder will be 80 when his current term ends in 2026. He's been described by some attorneys in Wisconsin as "old school." "That doesn't mean that he's old. I mean he's 75 years old, which is older than most judges, but he's just an old-school guy. He still operates his courtroom like it's 1980," said a seasoned southeast Wisconsin attorney who has appeared before Schroeder many times, but asked not to be named because he still appears before Schroeder.Lynch, the retired attorney, told CNN Schroeder does not like to be "pushed around by either party." "It's his courtroom," Lynch said. "So he has a strong sense of his own his bearing in the courtroom."Schroeder made headlines last month when he reiterated his long-standing rule of not allowing prosecutors to refer to people as "victims" before juries in his courtroom. While this is possibly Schroeder's most high-profile case, he's made controversial rulings in the past. In the late 1980s, Schroeder drew scrutiny after ordering a convicted child molester who also engaged in prostitution to get an AIDS test, according to attorney John Anthony Ward, who represented the man. Schroeder started ordering convicted sex workers to submit to AIDS tests over concerns they were spreading the virus.In a 2008 trial where a man was accused of poisoning his wife with antifreeze, Schroeder allowed into evidence a letter the wife wrote a neighbor accusing the husband should anything happen to her. The so-called "letter from the grave" evidence proved key to conviction. Wisconsin's Supreme Court this year ordered a new trial for the man and ruled the letter should not have been admitted as evidence.Schroeder sentenced the defendant to life in prison without a chance of parole. Before announcing his sentence, Schroeder told the defendant: "Your crime is so enormous, so monstrous, so unspeakably cruel that it overcomes all other considerations."CNN's Ray Sanchez and Eric Levenson contributed to this report. 
What Kyle Rittenhouse's tears reveal about America. Peniel E. Joseph is the Barbara Jordan Chair in ethics and political values and the founding director of the Center for the Study of Race and Democracy at the LBJ School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas at Austin, where he is also a professor of history. He is the author of "Stokely: A Life" and "The Sword and the Shield: The Revolutionary Lives of Malcolm X and Martin Luther King Jr." The views expressed here are his own. View more opinion articles on CNN. (CNN)Despite last year's demonstrations supporting racial justice and substantive efforts at political reform, the system that devalues Black lives remains largely -- and powerfully -- intact.  Kyle Rittenhouse, the 18-year-old on trial in Kenosha, Wisconsin, for shooting three people and killing two of them, represents the epitome of White privilege in America run amok. Rittenhouse, who has pleaded not guilty to six charges including reckless homicide, intentional homicide and attempted intentional homicide, cried during emotional testimony on Wednesday. Anyone watching the proceedings who was unfamiliar with the events that led to this trial would be forgiven for assuming that Rittenhouse was the victim of an unspeakable crime rather than being its accused perpetrator. His protracted sobs -- and people's telling reactions to them -- spoke volumes about the moment America now finds itself in. Whether or not Rittenhouse is convicted, the perspective he represents -- galvanized by the anger, fear and prejudice of White Americans -- has already achieved its ends: normalizing a kind of racial privilege exposed, but far from extinguished, in the wake of George Floyd's murder last year.   During racial justice demonstrations in Kenosha in the summer of 2020 that were sparked by the police shooting of Jacob Blake, Rittenhouse allegedly crossed state lines, driving from his hometown of Antioch, Illinois, and later arming himself with an AR-15 style rifle. Yet Rittenhouse tried to tell a different story with his tears on the stand, portraying himself as a non-aggressor, saying that he felt in fear of his life as he fatally shot Joseph Rosenbaum, 36, and Anthony Huber, 26, and shot and wounded Gaige Grosskreutz, 27.  The baby-faced vigilante has become a hero to many among the far right-wing political establishment, who have hailed him as a paragon of virtue brave enough to stand up to the sinister forces of the Black Lives Matter movement. The circumstances of his trial reflect the way in which race shapes America's unequal criminal justice system.  Rittenhouse, even after police were alerted to an active shooter being on the scene, was never arrested and turned himself in, accompanied by his mother. Amazingly, Rittenhouse was released on a $2 million bail, money raised by right wing supporters. He was seen photographed with actor Rick Schroeder shortly after being released -- who told the New York Post that he was "infuriated" and "Kyle's life [was] being destroyed." The insistence among many on seeing Rittenhouse -- a teenager with a fearsome weapon -- as a sympathetic figure and not a menacing one stands in stark contrast to the stories of a number of young Black men and boys, especially those perceived (fatally) by others to be threats. For example, 17-year-old Trayvon Martin was gunned down by George Zimmerman in 2012. Zimmerman's acquittal helped inspire the creation of the #blacklivesmatter hashtag that grew into a global movement. In 2014, Cleveland police officers shot and killed 12-year-old Tamir Rice, who was Black and in possession of a toy gun; police described him on the radio as "maybe 20" and said they were afraid for their lives. Early on in the trial, Judge Bruce E. Schroeder ruled that prosecutors could not refer to Rosenbaum, Huber and Grosskreutz as "victims," but Rittenhouse could refer to the men he shot as "looters" and "rioters" (each words with a loaded racial history) if he could show evidence they were those things (even though two of them are dead and one has never been charged with a crime for any behavior associated with the protest). Over the course of Rittenhouse's trial, Schroeder, who some legal experts consider to be sympathetic to the defendant, and the prosecutor have sparred further over legal procedures, and clashed during the prosecution's cross-examination of Rittenhouse. The Rittenhouse case is also unfolding at the same time as Gregory and Travis McMichael and William Bryan are on trial in Brunswick, Georgia, for the killing of Ahmaud Arbery last year. These three White men have pleaded not guilty (the defense contends Travis McMichael shot Arbery in self-defense) and claim to have tried to make a citizen's arrest of Arbery as he was out jogging. On Tuesday, a detective testified that Gregory McMichael told him he never saw Arbery commit a crime -- even though a reasonable suspicion of one is a necessary component for a citizen's arrest to be lawful.  Another police officer who interviewed McMichael after the shooting testified that he never mentioned a citizen's arrest. While these trials are ongoing, what's clear is that Arbery and many other Black Americans never received the grace or benefit of the doubt afforded to Rittenhouse who -- despite being armed with a military-style weapon -- was pepper-sprayed and let go by Kenosha Police. These systemic failures were further crystallized during the jury selection in Georgia: Gregory and Travis McMichael and Bryan are being judged by a jury whose composition has scholars and law experts making comparisons to the Jim Crow era.  Prosecutors objected to the defense's move to strike Black potential jurors; although Judge Timothy Walmsley acknowledged the appearance of "intentional discrimination in the panel," he ruled to seat the jury with 11 White members and 1 Black member because the defense made race-neutral arguments for striking the Black potential jurors.We live in a society where a Black man can be allegedly killed for jogging in the "wrong" part of Georgia and the White men charged in his murder face a nearly all-White jury, while a White teen armed for war can be hailed by many as a hero.  This staggering treatment sends a toxic message to the criminal justice system, social movements trying to change that system and the entire nation. That message fuels the delusions behind the January 6 assault on the US Capitol. It is an inherent threat to our democracy. The actions of White vigilantes, whether in downtown Kenosha, Wisconsin or at the nation's capital, have been reimagined in conservative far-right mediascapes as courageous, civic-minded patriotism.   "I defended myself," Rittenhouse claimed during his testimony. If the jury believes these words, Rittenhouse will likely go free. His defense team has also made a motion for a mistrial with prejudice, meaning he couldn't be retried.  If any of that happens, it will be to America's enduring shame.
Suspects at large after drive-by shooting at Colorado park sends 6 teens to hospital.  (CNN)Six teenagers were wounded in a shooting involving multiple suspects at a small park close to a high school in Aurora, Colorado, police Chief Vanessa Wilson said Monday. Six students from Aurora Central High School, ranging in age from 14 to 18, went to the hospital. One student drove themselves, Wilson said.She said investigators found shell casings from different caliber guns and witnesses said there were multiple suspicious vehicles."My understanding is it was a drive-by shooting, as well as there may have been people on foot," Wilson said."I think enough is enough. And I think we need to come together as a community," Wilson said. "This is a public health crisis."The shooting happened around 12:45 p.m., police spokesperson Matthew Longshore said.School resource officers responded and applied a tourniquet to one victim, who went into surgery, the chief said.The victims have non-life-threatening injuries, the chief said.The shooting occurred at Nome Park, just north of Central High School, where officials enacted a secure perimeter, Aurora Police tweeted. An earlier post mistakenly said the school had gone into lockdown.The city of Aurora's website says Nome Park is .8 acres and features a playground and community garden. Aurora Central High School had more than 2,000 students as of 2019, according to the National Center for Education Statistics.One witness who lives near the park told CNN affiliate KCNC he heard dozens of shots."It's sad to see young people just throwing their lives away for nothing," Henry Martinez said. "I'm sad about that. ... Heard like 30-50 shots. It was hard to count with them coming so fast like that, but at least 30."The Aurora Police Department is asking for any information, as well as home surveillance camera footage, as the incident is investigated, Wilson said. She also asked students to come forward with information."I'm hoping that there's kids out there that know why this happened. That know what this situation was and can actually share information with us," the chief said.This is a developing story and will be updated.
Woman killed walking her dog in a popular Atlanta park was stabbed dozens of times, medical examiner says.  (CNN)The 40-year-old woman who was killed alongside her dog overnight this summer at a popular park in the heart of Atlanta was stabbed dozens of times, the Fulton County Medical Examiner has said, in a crime that remains unsolved.Katherine Janness' cause of death on July 28 in Piedmont Park was "Sharp force injuries of the face, neck, and torso," with the manner of death listed as "Homicide," according to the November 9 report. Janness was found with her throat cut and the letters "F," "A" and "T" carved into her chest, the report states.She also suffered stab wounds to the head and neck, torso and back, as well as blunt force to the face, neck and extremities, the medical examiner found.Janness was found with $5 cash in her pocket and a wireless earbud near her ear, the report says.In the hours before she was killed, Janness had dinner with her wife before saying she was going to walk the dog, CNN previously reported. Her wife later found the bodies of Janness and the dog, Bowie, near a main entrance to the park.CNN's Claudia Dominguez and Joe Sutton contributed to this report.
US says it 'won't tolerate' Russia's 'reckless and dangerous' anti-satellite missile test.  (CNN)The US strongly condemned a Russian anti-satellite test on Monday that forced crew members on the International Space Station to scramble into their spacecraft for safety, calling it "a reckless and dangerous act" and saying that it "won't tolerate" behavior that puts international interests at risk.US Space Command said Russia tested a direct-ascent anti-satellite, or DA-ASAT missile, striking a Russian satellite and creating a debris field in low-Earth orbit of more than 1,500 pieces of trackable orbital debris that is also likely to generate hundreds of thousands of pieces of smaller orbital debris.US officials emphasized the long-term dangers and potential global economic fallout from the Russian test, which has created hazards for satellites that provide people around the world with phone and broadband service, weather forecasting, GPS systems which underpin aspects of the financial system, including bank machines, as well in-flight entertainment and satellite radio and television."Russia has demonstrated a deliberate disregard for the security, safety, stability, and long-term sustainability of the space domain for all nations," said US Space Command commander Gen. James Dickinson. "The debris created by Russia's DA-ASAT will continue to pose a threat to activities in outer space for years to come, putting satellites and space missions at risk, as well as forcing more collision avoidance maneuvers. Space activities underpin our way of life and this kind of behavior is simply irresponsible."NASA Administrator Bill Nelson said in a statement that he was "outraged by this irresponsible and destabilizing action. With its long and storied history in human spaceflight, it is unthinkable that Russia would endanger not only the American and international partner astronauts on the ISS, but also their own cosmonauts. Their actions are reckless and dangerous, threatening as well the Chinese space station."   Scramble in spaceThe crew on board the ISS had to quickly don their spacesuits and jump into their spacecrafts in case the station was hit by some passing debris, according to Russia's space agency ROSCOSMOS. Two US officials told CNN the precautionary measures were a direct result of the debris cloud caused by the Russian test.There are currently seven astronauts on the space station, including NASA astronaut Mark Vande Hei, Russian cosmonauts Anton Shkaplerov and Pyotr Dubrov as well as the newly arrived Crew 3 mission team, NASA astronauts Raja Chari, Thomas Marshburn, Kayla Barron and European Space Agency astronaut Matthias Maurer.NASA said the "crew was awakened and directed to close the hatches to radial modules on the station," while hatches between the US and Russian segments remained open."An additional precautionary measure of sheltering the crew was executed for two passes through or near the vicinity of the debris cloud," NASA's statement said. "The crew members made their way into their spacecraft shortly before 2 a.m. EST and remained there until about 4 a.m. The space station is passing through or near the cloud every 90 minutes, but the need to shelter for only the second and third passes of the event was based on a risk assessment made by the debris office and ballistics specialists at NASA's Johnson Space Center in Houston."On Monday morning, Shkaplerov tweeted, "Friends, everything is regular with us! We continue to work according to the program."Secretary of State Antony Blinken echoed the condemnations from Nelson and Dickinson in a statement Monday. "The long-lived debris created by this dangerous and irresponsible test will now threaten satellites and other space objects that are vital to all nations' security, economic, and scientific interests for decades to come," Blinken said. State Department spokesperson Ned Price said the test "will significantly increase the risk to astronauts and cosmonauts on the International Space Station, as well as to other human spaceflight activities," adding that "Russia's claims of opposing the weapons and weaponization of space are disingenuous and hypocritical."Only a handful of successful anti-satellite weapon tests have been carried out by the US, Russia, China and India.'Irresponsible'Price said the US would consult with allies and partners on a response."I don't want to get to get ahead of specific measures that we may pursue, that our partners and allies may pursue, but we are going to continue to make very clear that we won't tolerate this kind of activity," Price said at Monday's State Department briefing, adding that the US wanted "to make very clear why this is so dangerous, why this is so, such irresponsible conduct on the part of a nation state."Price said the US had spoken to senior Russian officials several times to warn them about the danger of such a test but would not say whether there had been a formal diplomatic communication to Moscow.When asked about reports that the ISS crew had to seek shelter, Price referred reporters to Russia and stressed that both American astronauts and Russian cosmonauts were affected.The space station continues to be at risk of impact from objects too small to be tracked as it orbits 220 nautical miles above the Earth. These tiny objects could be pieces of rock, micrometeorites, dust particles or even flecks of paint that chip off of satellites.Space Command said it is examining the new wave of debris. "We are actively working to characterize the debris field and will continue to ensure all space-faring nations have the information necessary to maneuver satellites if impacted," a Space Command spokesperson said. "We are also in the process of working with the interagency, including the State Department and NASA, concerning these reports and will provide an update in the near future."'A hazard'Pentagon spokesman John Kirby told reporters at a Monday press briefing that the "most immediate concern is the debris itself, which is now floating out there, and could become a hazard, including to the International Space Station." Kirby said the Pentagon is watching "closely the kinds of capabilities that Russia seems to want to develop."  "We watch closely the kinds of capabilities that Russia seems to want to develop which could pose a threat not just to our national security interest, but the security interests of other space-faring nations," Kirby said. "And again, we've been very clear, we would like to see norms for space, so that it can be used responsibly by all space-faring nations."  The incident comes at a time of increased tensions between the US and Russia. US officials have publicly sounded the alarm about Russia's buildup of troops near its border with Ukraine and joined European nations in expressing concern about the migrant crisis on the border with Belarus, which European officials have described as a man-made crisis that Belarus has created with Russian backing as an act of "hybrid war" against Europe.This story has been updated with additional details.CNN's Ashley Strickland, Oren Liebermann and Jennifer Hansler contributed to this report.
Kevin McCarthy says he called Paul Gosar about now-deleted tweet .  (CNN)House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy told CNN that he called Rep. Paul Gosar last week after the Arizona Republican posted an anime video on Twitter depicting him killing Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and swinging a sword at President Joe Biden.But McCarthy -- who had not publicly commented on the episode until Monday -- did not directly condemn Gosar's behavior, only noting Gosar had deleted the tweet after their conversation."He took the video down and he made a statement that he doesn't support violence to anybody. Nobody should have violence [against them]," the California Republican told CNN. "I called him when I heard about the video, and he made a statement that he doesn't support violence, and he took the video down."House Democrats have introduced a resolution to censure Gosar over the video, but it's unclear if or when it will receive a floor vote.Gosar's statement said he doesn't "espouse violence or harm towards any member of Congress or Mr. Biden" but defended the video as "truly a symbolic portrayal of a fight over immigration policy."In email over the weekend, Gosar also said he finds the "faux outrage infantile and the hyperventilating and shrill accusations that this cartoon is dangerous to be laughable or intentionally hyperbolic."Gosar also compared the situation to the terrorist attack on Charlie Hebdo magazine, suggesting he is the victim. "While the degree of punishment differs, this is the same sentiment expressed against the Charlie Hebdo magazine in France in 2015 that was punished for publishing a cartoon—resulting in a real-life massacre of 12 real live people," he wrote.And Gosar continued to defend his actions: "I am entitled to speak to the people and to do so in a manner that is engaging. Further, I have a right to speak to the younger generation in this country."In introducing the censure resolution last week, a group of House Democrats said that "violence against women in politics is a global phenomenon meant to silence women and discourage them from seeking positions of authority and participating in public life, with women of color disproportionately impacted." The House Democrats also said that "vicious and vulgar messaging can and does foment actual violence," pointing to the attack on the Capitol on January 6 as an example."The resolution was introduced because it crosses the line," said Democratic Rep. Jackie Speier of California, who is leading the effort to censure Gosar. "Congressman Gosar is inciting violence against a colleague -- Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez."House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat, also urged the House Ethics Committee and law enforcement to investigate Gosar's actions, and for McCarthy to condemn them.CNN's Alex Rogers contributed to this report.
Biden signs infrastructure bill into law at rare bipartisan gathering .  (CNN)President Joe Biden on Monday signed into law a $1.2 trillion bipartisan infrastructure package and marked the major legislative victory at a White House event with lawmakers from both parties."The bill I'm about to sign into law is proof that despite the cynics, Democrats and Republicans can come together and deliver results. We can do this. We can deliver real results for real people," Biden said, speaking from the South Lawn at the White House. The President said: "We're taking a monumental step forward to build back better as a nation.""Here in Washington, we've heard countless speeches and promises and white papers from experts. But today we're finally getting this done. So my message to the American people is this: America's moving again, and your life is going to change for the better," Biden said. The ceremony comes as Biden is facing slumping poll numbers ahead of next year's critical midterm elections following a bruising gubernatorial loss for Democrats in Virginia earlier this month. Discontent over the pandemic and resulting economic problems -- including record inflation -- are contributing to Biden's lagging popularity. A new ABC-Washington Post poll out over the weekend put the President's approval rating at 41% approve, 53% disapprove. Biden thanked and praised several senators who were key to the bill's passage, including Republican Sen. Rob Portman of Ohio and Democratic Sen. Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona, who both spoke at the event. The President called Portman a "hell of a good guy" and joked that his praise of the Republican would not hurt Portman since he isn't running for reelection in 2022. Notably, Biden also thanked Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, who did not attend the signing ceremony, "for voting for this bill and talking about how useful and important it is." The President thanked several other top Democrats in the House, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and recognized several committee chairs, ranking members and governors. He also thanked organized labor, "who understands this is about jobs. Y'all stood up. Jobs, jobs, jobs, jobs."The legislation will deliver $550 billion of new federal investments in America's infrastructure over five years, including money for roads, bridges, mass transit, rail, airports, ports and waterways. The package includes a $65 billion investment in improving the nation's broadband infrastructure and invests tens of billions of dollars in improving the electric grid and water systems. Another $7.5 billion would go to building a nationwide network of plug-in electric vehicle chargers, according to the bill text. "This law is a blue-collar blueprint to rebuild America. It leaves no one behind and marks an inflection point that we face as a nation," Biden said. "We compromised. We reached a consensus. That's necessary. Now our focus moves to implementing an infrastructure law with speed and with discipline," he added. The legislation is the first part of Biden's two-part economic agenda. The bipartisan infrastructure package focuses on "hard" infrastructure like roads and bridges, and Democrats will now turn to the larger package that focuses on what the President calls "human" infrastructure, which includes investments for family care, to address the climate crisis and expand access to health care. That second piece of legislation still faces an uncertain fate in Congress amid clashes between progressives and moderates. Congress returned to Washington Monday after a weeklong recess to a bevy of critical issues before the holidays, including passing Biden's broader economic and climate agenda, funding the government before a December 3 deadline, and raising the debt limit.The bipartisan infrastructure bill, first passed by the Senate in a 69 to 30 vote in August, was passed by the House, including 13 Republican lawmakers, on November 5. A group of former House Republican lawmakers issued a statement Monday in support of the infrastructure legislation and took aim at House GOP leaders for their silence as members from their own conference have come under attack -- and faced death threats -- for supporting it."By remaining silent and failing to publicly defend these 13 members, House GOP leaders are demonstrating their fear of extreme elements within their own conference at the expense of some of their most politically vulnerable members who are essential to winning a House majority," the former lawmakers wrote. The signing ceremony marked a rare bipartisan gathering, with state and local officials attending from both sides of the aisle.Besides Portman, Republican Sens. Lisa Murkowski, Susan Collins and Bill Cassidy were also scheduled to be in attendance. Moderate Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin, a key holdout on the ongoing negotiations on Biden's Build Back Better agenda, was there, as were GOP Reps. Don Young of Alaska and Tom Reed of New York.Bipartisan state and local officials were also scheduled to attend the event, the White House aide said, including GOP Gov. Larry Hogan of Maryland, with whom Biden highlighted provisions from the package last week in Baltimore, Democratic Govs. Kate Brown of Oregon and John Bel Edwards of Louisiana, plus the mayors of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, Columbia, South Carolina, Long Beach, California, and Chicago, Illinois. Key business representatives also took part in the celebration, including the leaders of United Airlines, Ford, the US Chamber of Commerce, and other groups. And unions, including leaders of IBEW, Teamsters, and United Auto Workers, were present.Oklahoma City Mayor David Holt, a Republican, told CNN the bill will provide funding for his city's roads and bridges."This is a celebratory day for mayors. We have fought for the better part of a decade to get this major investment in our nation's infrastructure. So I'm very pleased that Congress and the White House were able to work together to finally get this done. This means a lot for roads and bridges, water infrastructure, broadband, passenger rail, transit, all the things that are core infrastructure and that cities like mine really need help with," Holt told CNN's "New Day."Former New Orleans Mayor Mitch Landrieu, who has been named a senior adviser and will oversee coordination of the bill's implementation on behalf of the White House, was also set to be on hand. Landrieu, the White House said, "will oversee the most significant and comprehensive investments in American infrastructure in generations -- work that independent experts verify will create millions of high-paying, union jobs while boosting our economic competitiveness in the world, strengthening our supply chains, and acting against inflation for the long term."Top administration officials, as well as the President, have said it will take some time for Americans to see and feel the results of the bill's investments."They'll see the effects of the bill -- this bill -- probably starting within the next two to three months," Biden told reporters following the bill's passage, adding that it is "going to have a profound impact over time."This story has been updated with comments from President Joe Biden. Manu Raju contributed to this report. 
A pregnant woman hoped to deliver her baby at the hospital. She only made it to the front lawn.  (CNN)A pregnant California woman turned her front lawn into a delivery room, and the proof is on her Ring doorbell camera.Last Thursday, a week before her due date, Emily Johnson, 31, began having contractions every 10 minutes."They were pretty low and slow they weren't anything to be worried about," Michael Johnson, Emily's husband, told CNN on Monday. "It was early labor, we've been through it before," he added, as this is the couple's second child.The Johnsons live only five minutes from the hospital in Vacaville, southwest of Sacramento, so they figured they had plenty of time. But that quickly changed."The contractions went from three minutes to two minutes to one minute in a matter of 20 to 30 minutes," Emily told CNN affiliate KCRA. "And we are like, 'Oh we got to get into the car we have to go,'"The couple called Emily's mother, Kristy Sparks, to come watch their 3-year-old son, Blake, grabbed their hospital bag, and rushed out the door and down the driveway.But that was as far as they got."At this point I called grandma (Kristy) quickly and said, 'Change of plans -- she can't get into the car.' Luckily she was right down the street," said Michael.Emily knew she wouldn't be able make it to the hospital in time, so she lay down in the front lawn and accepted she would be delivering the baby right there."I was going to accept those wonderful pain medicines at the hospital," Emily told CNN. "Having a natural childbirth was not in my birth plan. But given how fast the labor progressed, we knew I was not getting there."Michael had called 911 and paramedics were on the way to help with the delivery."I'm running in to get towels; I've got the phone in my hand," he said. "and at this point we're thinking this is going to happen right here, right now."When Sparks pulled up to the house she got down on her hands and knees to help her daughter and shortly after paramedics arrived at the makeshift delivery room. That's when grandma yelled to them that she saw a head, the couple told CNN.Baby Thomas was then born at 10:42 p.m. local time on the front lawn, weighing 7 pounds, 11 ounces."I just laid back in the grass and took a nice deep breath," Emily told KCRA. "I never want to do that again."All caught on cameraLuckily, she can relive the entire delivery again anytime, since their doorbell camera caught the entirety of the dramatic birth."Mike realized after running back and forth that the ring camera had the little blue light on it and it was recording all of this," said Emily.From the moans of Emily in labor to the first cries of Thomas, everything was captured from behind Emily.The couple said they reviewed the footage shortly after arriving at the hospital, and that the nursing staff piled in to watch, as well."We joke that next time we're going to tailgate in the parking lot at the hospital so we're better prepared that time," said Emily.Both mom and baby are happy, healthy and recovering great, according to the couple. 
Father died saving his daughter in Michigan plane crash, family friend says.  (CNN)A victim in a Michigan plane crash died while saving his eldest daughter's life, a family friend and business partner said.Mike Perdue, one of four people who died in a light-commuter plane crash near Beaver Island Saturday, shielded his daughter during it, Ryan Wojan told CNN. "He cradled her in his arms," Wojan said. "She doesn't remember anything, except for her daddy squeezing her so hard."The 11-year-old is the sole survivor.All of her injuries were on the opposite side of where her dad was sitting in the plane, said Wojan, who has been in close contact with Perdue's wife since the accident.From 2015: Why do more kids survive plane crashesPerdue's wife "wanted to be sure that everyone knew who he was and how he gave his life for his daughter," Wojan said. The couple has four children. The girl, who remains hospitalized, suffered several fractures and has undergone two surgeries but none of her injuries are life-threatening, Wojan added.Two of the deceased, Kate Leese and Adam Kendall, were taking their dogs to the vet in the plane, a family member told CNN. Both animals died in the crash, authorities said over the weekend. Charlevoix County Sheriff Lieutenant William Church said the pilot was the fourth victim. He has not been identified. Leese and Kendall had recently moved to Beaver Island, authorities said. They were working to establish a vineyard on the small Upper Michigan island in the middle of Lake Michigan, according to posts on social media. In recent Instagram posts, the couple shared photos of their dogs and flights over the island.Amanda Danielle Leese, Kate's sister, told CNN the couple was destined for great things. "Kate and Adam were meant for each other. They lived 20 lives in the time they knew each other. Kate was larger than life," Leese said. "She wanted to experience the world. She wanted to taste it. She wanted to explore it and Adam was right there with her."  Avid fishermen and hunters, Wojan and Perdue were meeting on Beaver Island for the opening day of firearm deer season. The girl was going to meet a family friend for the weekend, Wojan told CNN. Wojan flew to Beaver Island three hours before the Perdues on the same plane. Perdue was the managing broker and co-owner of Smith Realty Group, with Wojan. "He was always a giver... and was such an important part of the community," Wojan said.The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) said the Britton-Norman BN2P plane crashed around 2:30 p.m. ET.The United States Coast Guard (USCG) was conducting a training flight in the area and responded after receiving an Emergency Locator Transmitter alert pinging them to the crash, according to a tweet from USCG Great Lakes.The FAA and the National Transportation Safety Board are investigating the cause of the crash, the FAA said.
This governor just became the most important Republican recruit in the country.  (CNN)At first glance, Vermont Sen. Patrick Leahy's decision to retire rather than seek a 9th(!) term in office does little to affect the fight for the US Senate majority in 2022.After all, President Joe Biden won the state by 35 points in 2020, his largest margin anywhere in the country. And, the last time a Republican won a Senate seat in Vermont was more than two decades ago.All true!  And all relevant!But, there's also something else interesting about Vermont: It has one of the most popular Republican governors in the country in a man named Phil Scott. Scott, first elected in 2016, was reelected in 2020 by 41 points, which -- because math -- is larger than Biden's 35-point margin in the state that same year. (Vermont elects its governors to two-year terms rather than the more traditional four years common elsewhere in the country.)Scott's popularity has only increased since the 2020 election. As The Atlantic's Russell Berman wrote in August:"Six months later, Scott is riding even higher. No other state has weathered the COVID-19 pandemic better than Vermont: Its overall per capita case rate and death rate are the lowest on the U.S. mainland, and it has given at least one vaccine dose to the highest percentage of its population. Vermont's treasury is flush with money, a testament both to the governor's fiscal prudence—the state was running a surplus before the pandemic—and to the influence of its congressional delegation in Washington."Democrats control the state legislature and every other statewide office, but the praise they lavish on Scott's leadership is unreserved and foreign to the zero-sum brutality of modern politics. 'He's done an absolutely tremendous job on COVID,' Representative Peter Welch, Vermont's lone member of the House, told me. Indeed, Democrats have struggled to beat Scott in part because they can't seem to find a bad thing to say about him. 'He is a rational, thoughtful, and caring Republican,' says former Lieutenant Governor David Zuckerman, the Democrat whom Scott clobbered last year.(Worth noting: Welch is widely seen as Democrats' strongest potential candidate; in the wake of Leahy's retirement, Welch made no mention of his intentions -- calling it a "historic and bittersweet day.")In a 50-50 Senate, every single seat matters massively. Which makes the possibility of Senate bid by Scott hugely intriguing for Republicans trying to recover from New Hampshire Gov. Chris Sununu's no-go decision last week.  Intriguing but, at least as of today, a long shot -- for two main reasons.1)  Scott hasn't been interested in coming to Washington. In that Atlantic profile, Scott said this of a Senate bid in the event Leahy retired: "I don't have any interest in running for the Senate. I'm terribly happy right here in Vermont." That isn't a Sherman-esque declaration but also not exactly encouraging for Republican recruiters. And on Monday morning, the governor's press secretary, Jason Maulucci told CNN, "Governor Scott has been clear that he is not running for the U.S. Senate next year. That has not changed." That said, there are plenty of examples from recent history in which circumstances -- and minds  -- changed. At the start of the 2020 election, for example, both John Hickenlooper and Steve Bullock -- then the governors of Colorado and Montana, respectively -- insisted they had no interest in running for Senate because they were fully focused on running for president. After those presidential bids didn't work out, both men ultimately reversed course and ran for Senate. Hickenlooper won, but Bullock didn't. 2) A federal race isn't a state race. It's far easier to keep your distance from your national party when you are running for governor than when you are running for Senate. It's why states like Vermont and Massachusetts -- both hugely Democratic at the federal level -- can have Republican governors and Kansas, solidly Republican for federal races, can elect Democratic Gov. Laura Kelly. (A Democrat hasn't won a Senate race in Kansas in almost a century!)  So, while Scott might be a hugely popular state executive, he could very well struggle if he has to answer for all of the actions of Republicans in Washington -- up to and including former President Donald Trump. (Scott said he voted for Biden over Trump in 2020.)But, as regular followers of Senate races know, a long shot isn't a no-shot.Scott would never have run against Leahy. Now that the seat is open however, Republicans will throw everything they have at trying to change his mind about a Senate bid. If by chance they succeed, then it would tip the national playing field in their direction.
Why Chris Christie isn't sorry.  (CNN)Former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie is trying to make a political comeback after a dark few years in the shadow of Donald Trump -- including writing a new book that Christie is pitching as a blueprint for a post-Trump GOP.CNN's Dana Bash sat down with Christie for a special running on CNN tonight at 10 p.m. ET called "Being....Chris Christie." I caught up with Dana to get her impressions of the former governor's plans -- and his current views on Trump.Our conversation is below.Cillizza: Christie said he voted for Trump twice and, even now, wouldn't change his 2020 vote. Did that surprise you?Bash: It surprised me only in that he spends so much time in his new book systematically ripping to shreds the conspiracies that the former president propagates and explicitly details the ways that those lies destroy American discourse.Christie argues that his ideological differences with Joe Biden are so big, that he never could have voted for Biden. What I told him that I don't understand, and still don't, is how he could argue that Trump's lies are a danger to democracy and not think that supersedes everything else? Isn't it a luxury to debate ideals? One that only people in a working democracy have the opportunity to tussle over? He argues the answer is "no." A lot of people vehemently disagree -- including fellow Republicans who, like him, are trying to find a post-Trump path for themselves and the GOP in general.Cillizza: He rejected the idea -- despite being the first major politician to endorse Trump in 2016 -- that he was an enabler of the former president. Did he express remorse at any point in the interview for his role in Trump's rise?Bash: It is interesting -- there are several times when Christie says flatly that he made a mistake, including that infamous picture of him on a closed beach at the end of his governorship when he was in a budget fight with the Democratic legislature.  But Christie expressed no remorse for helping Trump. I asked him point blank about being an enabler -- about helping Trump get to the point where he was powerful enough to not only be President but use his perch to try to overturn an election that he lost in 2020. Christie makes the point that in 2016 he was the one who wanted to be president. When his own candidacy stalled, he saw that Trump was on the way to getting the nomination and that, in Christie's opinion, Trump was still better than Hillary Clinton so he wanted to use his long relationship with Trump to help him.Still, in his book Christie details example after example where he tried, and failed, to turn the Trump ship around. "I thought the presidency might change him, it did not change him a bit," Christie told me. Cillizza: The two men haven't spoken since Christie was critical of Trump back in January. Does Christie still consider Trump a friend?Bash: Christie does consider Trump a friend still, yes. They have had a relationship for about 20 years now and he says they have had other periods where they didn't talk for a long time.But let's be clear -- there is nothing this high profile or this consequential that has come between them before. Christie is saying Trump lost, which in Trump's mind means that Christie is calling him a loser.  Anyone who knows Trump will tell you that is the worst thing you can say about him -- it is the whole reason the former president never conceded and is dragging the country through the mess of conspiracies about election 2020.Cillizza: Christie repeatedly refers to himself as "edgy" and as a truth-teller. Is that positioning to run in 2024?Bash: Christie is positioning himself to run in 2024. He argues that the reason he wrote a roadmap for Republicans to rescue themselves from Trump's lies is not only because he loves his party, but because he won't have a GOP to be a part of unless it changes. He wants to be president. We know that.  He's already run once. The question is whether 2024 is the year for him. Remember this time before the 2016 presidential cycle he had just won re-election in a landslide in a blue state. Then Bridgegate happened. He has first-hand experience of how things can change fast in politics.Cillizza: Finish this sentence: "In 2024, Chris Christie is going to __________." Now, explain.Bash: "Be a major voice for the GOP."Whether he is a candidate himself or backing someone else, he is a political animal who loves being in the thick of it and, as he says candidly, naturally gets attention and stirs passion for whatever he is doing -- the good, the bad and the ugly.The Point: Watch Dana's special tonight at 10 p.m. ET!
Michael Flynn's comments on Christianity are outrageous but not surprising. Dean Obeidallah, a former attorney, is the host of SiriusXM radio's daily program "The Dean Obeidallah Show" and a columnist for The Daily Beast. Follow him @DeanObeidallah. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion articles on CNN. (CNN)Michael Flynn, Donald Trump's former National Security adviser who pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI and was later pardoned by Trump, wants to make it clear that in the United States, "If we are going to have one nation under God -- which we must -- we have to have one religion."Of course, to Flynn, that one religion is Christianity. (After all, 75% of White evangelicals voted for Trump in the 2020 election, according to exit polls.) Flynn made these remarks in Texas on Saturday as part of the "ReAwaken America Tour," a conservative conference that features other Trump supporters, like Roger Stone and the My Pillow CEO/election conspiracy peddler Mike Lindell. While speaking at the event, Flynn referenced a passage from the New Testament book of Matthew, saying, "You have to believe this, that God Almighty is, like, involved in this country, because this is it ... This is the shining city on the hill." That's when Flynn triggered a wave of backlash with his suggestion America should have one singular religion. "One nation under God, and one religion under God," he said. "I don't care what your ecumenical service is or what you are." Now imagine if a Muslim or Jewish American leader made the same comment that the United States should have one faith, and that it should be Islam or Judaism. The outrage from the right would be deafening. But with Flynn's comments, there hasn't been noticeable pushback from conservatives. In fact, it's been the opposite. GOP Ohio Senate candidate Josh Mandel, who is Jewish, appears to see Flynn's comments as being in step with his own "Judeo-Christian values": "We Stand with General Flynn," Mandel tweeted in response to the backlash. "America was not founded as a secular nation." Politics does truly make strange bedfellows.  In contrast, Minnesota Rep. Ilhan Omar, who is Muslim American, tweeted in response to Flynn's comments, "These people hate the US Constitution." I don't know if Flynn and those who support his mindset "hate" the Constitution, but I am certain that they either don't believe in or don't understand our Constitution and the freedom of religion guaranteed by the First Amendment. This is the same Flynn who in 2016 repeatedly pushed debunked conspiracy theories that there was an effort to impose Islamic Sharia law on the rest of the country. "This Sharia law business, what's happening right here in the state of Texas is unbelievable," Flynn said at a San Antonio event that year hosted by ACT! for America, an anti-Muslim hate group per the Anti-Defamation League. At another 2016 speech in Texas, as CNN detailed, Flynn again falsely claimed there are Muslims who want to dominate America by imposing Islamic law: "I want people to understand that there are different laws that are not our laws that others try to impose," he said. As a Muslim, let me be clear that there aren't any Muslims -- then or now -- trying to impose any of our religious beliefs onto the law of the United States. This was simply part of the right-wing demonization of Muslims because it played well with the GOP base. It's the same reason why, during the 2016 presidential campaign, Trump lied on NBC saying Muslims "don't want the laws that we have. They want Sharia law." Beyond despicably demonizing other faiths, these examples show an idea of "freedom of religion" that ironically revolves around imposing one's beliefs upon the rest of us. Several on the right have been showing us that for years. For example, when Mike Huckabee ran for president in 2008, he bluntly said the US Constitution should be amended "so it's in God's standard" -- phrasing he later clarified after critics caught wind of the quote. And during his 2012 presidential run, Rick Santorum declared "our civil laws have to comport with a higher law: God's law." These Republicans were telling all who would listen that their goal was turning their religious beliefs into American law.And we now have Republicans doing just that with their religion-based oppression of women's reproductive rights. The most visible example is the Texas GOP's anti-abortion law, which has garnered headlines for empowering private citizens to behave as vigilantes with the ability to sue anyone involved in securing an abortion beyond about six weeks of pregnancy. When Texas' Republican Gov. Greg Abbott signed the legislation, he explained the rationale behind it as being faith-based: "Our creator endowed us with the right to life, and yet millions of children lose their right to life every year because of abortion," he said. "In Texas, we work to save those lives and that's exactly what the Texas Legislature did this session." That's the same reasoning behind the Arkansas ban on nearly all abortions except to save the life of the mother. When the state's GOP Gov. Asa Hutchinson signed it, he declared the law was predicated upon his "sincere and long-held pro-life convictions." (As with the Texas law, Arkansas' ban has faced legal challenges for its obvious violation of Roe v. Wade.)These laws are based on the religious belief held by some that life begins at conception. Having the freedom to personally follow one's faith is what our nation is predicated upon. Turning those religious beliefs into laws every American then must follow, however, is not. In fact, it's un-American, given that our First Amendment states "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion."No one should be surprised by Flynn's comments. He's simply repeating what some in the GOP have long championed: The idea that "freedom of religion" is imposing their religious beliefs upon the rest of us. It's no wonder, then, why many on Twitter reacted to Flynn's comments with the phrase "American Taliban." 
Jill Biden: Parents, the Covid-19 vaccine is the best way to protect your kids. First lady of the United States Jill Biden is a community college educator with more than 30 years of classroom teaching experience. The views expressed in this commentary are her own. View more opinion on CNN. (CNN)When you become a parent, you look at your baby and feel a mix of overwhelming love deep in your bones, and absolute terror, knowing that this fragile life is depending on you. From that moment on, you see the world differently. Every step, every street corner, every bite of food is a danger that you never even noticed before. So, we buy baby gates and cover our electrical outlets. We wrestle them into car seats no matter how much they complain. We make them eat their vegetables and stuff them in winter coats and scarves until they can barely walk. We hold their hands to cross the street and teach them to always look both ways. Then, after bedtime -- when we're exhausted from the day and sure that if we hear, "can I have a glass of water" one more time, we will descend into a permanent madness -- we quietly close their bedroom door and feel a pang of gratitude. We know that those dinner complaints and bedtime negotiations mean that they are healthy and growing, and that everything is OK.   Parents, we do absolutely everything to protect our kids, and in this pandemic, you did. You figured out how to support their virtual learning while working your job. Some of you even left your job to help your kids. You found ways to create online playdates and birthday parties. You chose to get yourself vaccinated.  There were times when you probably felt like no matter what you did it wasn't enough, but I want you to know: You carried your family through this. You're doing an amazing job.  The President and I understand how difficult this pandemic has been for your family. We care about you and your children. Joe and his team have been working every day to give you what you need to keep your family safe.  That's why I'm so excited that, now, you have a new way to do just that: a vaccine for children, ages 5 and up.  During my travels to over 30 states this year, so many of you have asked me when this was coming. Now, it's here -- not just another way to protect your kids against Covid-19, but the best way. It's been thoroughly reviewed and rigorously tested. It's safe. It's free and it's available for every eligible child in the country.  Find a nearby clinic by going to Vaccines.gov. Joe's administration worked closely with pediatricians and pharmacists to make sure thousands of schools and more than 100 children's hospitals can offer shots, so you'll be able to find a convenient location no matter where you live.  Parenthood and worrying go hand-in-hand. It's what we do. I can't promise you that the dangers of the world will become any less frightening. Just wait until your kids start driving!  With this vaccine, however, we can help take care of at least one of those worries. A big one.  From the day you held your sweet, fragile, little baby for the first time, you have made the choice, again and again, to keep your child safe. Getting your kids the Covid-19 vaccine is your choice, too. Make the decision to protect your children with the same vaccine that has already saved millions of lives. 
Little kids can likely read your emotions even when you wear a face mask, study finds.  (CNN)Little kids can often tell how people are feeling, even if that person is wearing a face mask, a new study published Monday found.There has been some concern that the face masks used at school during the pandemic may be hurting younger children's development, but this research letter published in JAMA Pediatrics suggests that kids recognize emotions about as well as they could without masks.For this study, researchers from University Hospital Lausanne in Switzerland showed 90 pictures at random to nearly 300 children ages 3 to 6. The photos showed actors who expressed joy, anger or sadness. In half of the images, actors wore masks. They were asked to either name the emotion, point to a card showing emoticons with these emotions, tell the researcher that they didn't know the answer or say that they wanted to quit the experiment. The children got most of the answers right and were able to match the emotions to the picture on the card at a nearly identical rate, whether the figure was wearing a mask or not. Kids described the correct emotion more than 70% of the time when the actor was maskless and got it right more than 67% of the time when the figure wore a mask. The older the kids, the more answers they got correct. About a quarter of preschoolers had a harder time distinguishing sadness from anger and about 21% occasionally confused joy for anger or sadness. "Actual face masks depicted in static pictures were significantly associated with emotion recognition in healthy preschool children, although differences were small and effect sizes were weak," the study said. Ashley Ruba, a developmental psychology expert in the Child Emotion Lab at University of Wisconsin-Madison, was not affiliated with this study, but has done similar work during the pandemic. She said she saw similar results with her work."Even with masks being worn, little kids can probably still make reasonable inferences about other people's emotions," Ruba said. "I like to point out that the face isn't the most important way we communicate our emotions, it is only one way. We also use tone of voice, we have body posture, we have other kinds of contextual clues that kids and adults can use to figure out how people are feeling."  For language processing, it is important for kids to learn to lip read, but it's clear from the research, she said, that a mask is not going to hurt a child's development. "The risks of contracting Covid from not wearing a mask are probably going to outweigh any slight issue about communication that kids might have," she said. As a developmental psychologist, she thinks there are many more aspects of the pandemic that could hurt a child's development, like from the social isolation they've had from peers when they've had to stay at home from school or if a parent were to lose a job, for example."Masks are probably at the bottom of the list of things to be concerned about," she said. 
Weight loss, motherhood and the magazine quiz that made her rethink her marriage -- what we learned from Adele's Oprah interview.  (CNN)Adele has opened up about her weight loss, coming to terms with the collapse of her marriage and juggling motherhood and her musical career, in an exclusive interview with Oprah Winfrey. The candid, wide-ranging sit-down -- which took place in the rose garden where Winfrey also interviewed Prince Harry and Meghan Markle -- was part of CBS' special, "Adele One Night Only," which aired on Sunday night.  The prime-time special featured a performance from an exclusive concert that was pre-recorded at Griffith Observatory in Los Angeles and was a prelude to the Grammy Award winner's fourth studio album, "30," which will be released on November 19.  Here's what we learned from the conversation.  Adele started exercising to manage her anxiety  The singer said the plan was never to lose weight when she started her workout sessions, but simply to try to control her anxiety. "I'm not shocked or even fazed by (people's reactions to her body transformation)," Adele told Winfrey. "Because my body has been objectified my entire career." She added: "I was body-positive then and I'm body-positive now. It's not my job to validate how people feel about their bodies." She is 'disappointed' about her split from ex-husband Simon Konecki Lifting the lid on the collapse of her marriage to Simon Konecki publicly for the first time, she admitted that the divorce left her disappointed both for herself and for their son, Angelo. The couple announced their split in September 2019, with Adele filing for divorce. "I've been obsessed with a nuclear family my whole life because I never came from one," she explained. "From a very young age I promised myself that when I had kids that we'd stay together and we would be that united family and I tried for a really, really long time. I was so disappointed for my son. I was so disappointed for myself." Recalling the moment she knew she needed to end her marriage, she said she and her friends were doing a magazine quiz that posed the question "What's something that no one would ever know about you." "I just said it in front of three of my friends, I was like, 'I'm really not happy. I'm not living, I'm just plodding along.' ... It was when I admitted to my own friends, who thought I was really happy, that actually I'm really unhappy, and they were all aghast."She believes her ex-husband saved her life  Reflecting on her relationship with Konecki, she credited him with saving her life and preventing her from going down a path of self-destruction.  "I could have easily have gone down some dodgy paths ... and sort of self-destructed from sort of being so overwhelmed by all of it, and he came in, and he was stable, the most stable person I have ever had in my life up until that point." The couple still live opposite each other in Los Angeles and continue to co-parent 9-year-old Angelo. The star went on to reveal that despite going their separate ways, she still trusts Konecki with her life. "I feel like him and Angelo were angels sent to me, that's how I feel," she added.  '30' was written in 'real time'  When Winfrey noted that "30" sounded like Adele had "literally opened up your soul" and "pain was almost like a muse for you," Adele revealed that the album was written in real time. "Everything was happening in real time. I was writing my album, you know, while I was going through everything." After Winfrey reminded her of the success of her single "Hello" -- the lead single off her third studio album, "25" -- Adele stated that her music "definitely channels from somewhere else" during the creative process. Adele added: "I don't know how I access it. It's wild cause I don't think I'm that deep in real life." She wasn't afraid to share private details of her personal life on the album because "nothing is as scary as what I've been through over the last two/three years behind closed doors."  The album is dedicated to her son  Adele said she struggled to explain to Angelo that she was no longer in love with his father. "There were so many answers I couldn't give him because there aren't any," she said.  She told Winfrey that she prepared for the reality that he will be "livid" with her as an adult for dismantling his life for her happiness and "30," which is dedicated to him, is her way of showing him "who I am.""The whole album is not about him, it's about me and I just wanted for him to hear me talking madly deeply about who I am and how I feel," she said. "I don't know if I'll ever be able to have that conversation with him in real life, so therefore he can go and listen to it." Asked she would like to grow her family, she said: "I'm definitely open to it. I would like more children. It wouldn't be the end of the world if I don't have them, cause I have Angelo."  She was with her estranged father for his final days The interview also shed some light on Adele's fraught relationship with her estranged father, Mark Evans, who suffered from alcoholism and left her as a child.  The London-born musician revealed that they reconciled over the past three years. Before his death in May this year, she played him her new album.  "We forgave each other. ... We found our peace together, and then I played the album to him on Zoom," she said.Recalling their listening session she told Winfrey: "His favorites were all of my favorites, which I thought was amazing." She described spending time with her father before his death as " very, very healing," adding that "when he died, it was literally was like the wound closed up."  Rich Paul romance is the first time she's loved herself  The 33-year-old revealed in her Vogue cover story last month that she started dating the sports agent at the beginning of 2021, after the pair met at a party two years ago. Asked what attracted her to him she said: "He's just hilarious. Oh, he's so funny, he's hilarious, yeah. And very smart. You know, he's very, very smart. It's quite incredible watching him do what he does. And just the easiness of it." She said that her romance with Paul, who is the founder of the United Talent Agency (UTA)-affiliated Klutch Sports, is first time she's "loved myself" as well as being the first time she has "been open to loving and being loved by someone else." Before "Adele One Night Only" aired, the singer revealed to fans on Twitter she had "never been so nervous in my life," because of Angelo being in the audience. She went on to thank Oprah for "allowing me to tell my truth lovingly in a safe space." "The whole thing was pretty overwhelming, I've seen it twice and cried my eyes out both times," she told her 26.7 milllion followers. "Having been on such a rollercoaster the last few years and then the pandemic, it was hard to imagine being on stage singing again ever. So the fact that I got to and also got to sing my new songs, has me feeling a million things at once!"   
Mel Gibson says he will direct new 'Lethal Weapon' sequel .  (CNN)Mel Gibson has reportedly revealed that another "Lethal Weapon" movie is in the works.According to The Sun, the actor shared during a recent Experience With... event  in London that he will direct and star in "Lethal Weapon 5," 23 years after the last sequel in the franchise."The man who directed all the 'Lethal' films, Richard Donner, he was a big guy," the publication quoted Gibson as saying. "He was developing the screenplay and he got pretty far along with it. And he said to me one day, 'Listen kid, if I kick the bucket you will do it.' And I said: 'Shut up,'" Gibson said. "But he did indeed pass away. But he did ask me to do it and at the time I didn't say anything. He said it to his wife and to the studio and the producer. So I will be directing the fifth one."Gibson originated the role as police officer Martin Riggs in the 1987 film in which he costarred with Danny Glover.CNN has reached out to reps for Gibson for additional comment. 
The 'Downton Abbey' sequel trailer is here.  (CNN)The "Downton Abbey" sequel trailer has dropped and it takes the family to the French Riviera.The movie, "Downton Abbey: A New Era," comes two years after the "Downton Abbey" feature film and features Tom Branson's second wedding and an admission from the Dowager Countess, played by Maggie Smith, which takes the family to the South of France."Years ago, before you were born, I met a man. And now I've come into the possession of a villa in the South of France," the Countess says in the trailer.Returning for the sequel are Jim Carter, Brendan Coyle, Dockery, Kevin Doyle, Joanne Froggatt, Harry Hadden-Paton, Robert James-Collier, Allen Leech, Phyllis Logan, Hugh Bonneville, Laura Carmichael, Elizabeth McGovern, Sophie McShera, Tuppence Middleton, Lesley Nicol, Imelda Staunton and Penelope Wilton. Hugh Dancy, Laura Haddock, Nathalie Baye, Dominic West and Jonathan Zaccaï have all joined the cast for the movie. "Downton Abbey: A New Era" will be released in in theaters on Mar. 18, 2022. 
Citigroup's Jane Fraser is doing the unthinkable on Wall Street. New York (CNN Business)Less than a month into her role as the chief executive of Citigroup, Jane Fraser made a decision that shook Wall Street. It was late March, and signs of burnout were everywhere after more than a year of remote work in the pandemic. Deal volume was at record highs and showed no signs of letting up. Over at investment banking rival Goldman Sachs, young analysts made headlines with workplace horror stories that went beyond the typical long hours and cutthroat competition that Wall Street's known for. They were falling apart, mentally and emotionally. Fraser saw an opportunity. And the memo she sent to Citi's 210,000 global staff would set the tone for how she would try to overhaul Citigroup — long languishing in third place and mired in bad press."The blurring of lines between home and work and the relentlessness of the pandemic workday have taken a toll on our well-being," she wrote. "It's simply not sustainable."What followed was a reset plan that included the kinds of work-life balance measures you don't often see on Wall Street. Fraser implemented "Zoom-free Fridays" and urged staff to avoid scheduling calls outside traditional work hours. Take your vacations, she pleaded. Veteran bankers must have thought they were in the Twilight Zone. Then came the real shock: When Citi ultimately returns to the office, most roles will be designated as "hybrid" — with three days in office and up to two at home. Among American banks, that kind of flexibility was unheard of. It was both a humane reaction to a mass trauma and a calculated strategic decision. By branding itself the "bank with a soul," as Fraser calls it, Citi would have an edge in scooping up and retaining talent that might otherwise eschew Wall Street for the less-frenzied, or at least less formal, world of tech. Fraser readily admits the decision wasn't purely about empathy — "I want to crush the competition," she told Bloomberg News last month. But by not cracking the whip, she's also staking out a somewhat radical position on Wall Street: that ruthlessness doesn't have to define a bank's culture. Banking analysts and investors will be closely watching Fraser in March, when she plans to unveil Citigroup's cultural and structural rehabilitation plan for the next several years. It'll also mark her first full year as CEO — a timely check-in to see how her strategy is playing out. No one expects her to wave a magic wand and undo decades' worth of mismanagement overnight. But the March investor day will be a crucial early test. Shareholders are hungry for bold action. The biggest risk, says longtime banking analyst Mike Mayo, is not that the plan will be too aggressive — it's that it won't be aggressive enough. Turnaround jobIt's hard to overstate what a difficult job Fraser, the first woman to lead a top American bank, has inherited. Citigroup's (C) stock is wildly underperforming. Its shares are up about 13% this year — dismal compared with the broader stock market, which has gained 24% in 2021. Citi's rivals are outpacing it by even more: Bank of America (BAC) is up 60%, and JPMorgan Chase (JPM) is up 35%.  It's also under intense pressure from regulators, who for years have been cajoling the bank to overhaul its hodgepodge of internal risk-management and data systems. Regulators' concerns aren't unfounded. In August 2020, Citi committed one of the biggest blunders in the history of Wall Street when it erroneously wired nearly $1 billion of its own money to creditors of Revlon. The fat-finger error ultimately cost Citi more than $500 million when several of those creditors refused to return the funds. Just two months later, regulators slapped Citigroup with a $400 million fine for failing to address "long-standing deficiencies." Fraser's shakeup of office culture is a relatively easy win — necessary, perhaps, but far from sufficient, analysts say."Every day she gets a grade from shareholders, and that's the stock price," Mayo said in an interview with CNN Business. "And every day that she's been in the role, the verdict is Citigroup is worth more dead than alive."It's not enough to change the tone at the top, Mayo said. Fraser, who declined to comment for this article, has to address the sort governance lapses that have gotten the bank in trouble. In a recent note to clients, Mayo and other analysts criticized Citi's decision to identify potential cash bonuses for top managers before their performance targets are even announced. "That's like charging us for dinner before we know if we're getting hot dogs or caviar," the note said. "Moreover, the awards are in cash vs. stock and seem like extra pay to execs for just doing their job."That's terrible governance, Mayo says. "And that's the terrible governance Citigroup has had for the last 10, 20, 50 or 100 years."Better Call JaneThankfully for Citigroup, Fraser's no stranger to cleanup jobs. During the 2008 financial crisis, the bank very nearly collapsed because of its exposure to toxic mortgage-backed securities. As Citigroup hobbled along on life support in the form of a massive government bailout, Fraser — who joined the bank in 2004 —ran its strategy division, overseeing sales of risky assets to streamline the bank's sprawling operations.She later ran Citigroup's battered mortgage business and its Latin America operations, both decidedly thorny assignments in the fallout of the financial crisis. In a 2018 interview with CNN, Fraser recalled people telling her she was "crazy" for taking over CitiMortgage just a few years after the housing market imploded. In hindsight, she said, it was the "best decision I've ever made."The lesson: You don't have to know everything."You learn from those situations... Because it was a crisis and because I didn't know anything," she said. "You have to hire people that are better than you and more knowledgeable than you."Fraser is widely credited for cleaning up Citi's Mexican subsidiary, which was emerging from a money-laundering scandal when she became CEO of Citigroup's Latin America operations in 2015. In that role, she also steered the bank through the devastation of Hurricane Maria. When the storm forced Citi's San Juan, Puerto Rico, branch to close, she oversaw efforts to bring in generators and other necessities to get the bank back up and running a week later. "We don't leave a country when it's in really bad shape," Fraser told the New York Times in an interview in February. "We can really make a difference." Fraser, 54, comes to the role of CEO armed with a resume straight out of Wall Street central casting. She worked as a Goldman Sachs analyst after receiving her degree in economics at Cambridge. Then came the Harvard MBA, followed by a decade of work at consulting giant McKinsey before joining Citigroup in 2004.A 'glass cliff' moment?Fraser regularly downplays the gender question in interviews. The fact that she's a woman running a major bank is historic, but it should hardly matter as long she does the job well. And that's true. But it's also impossible to ignore Corporate America's track record of sticking a woman in the driver's seat when the wheels are about to come off. Research shows that women are more likely to be promoted to senior leadership positions when institutions are in trouble — a trend known as the glass cliff. Mary Barra, famously, made history as the first woman to run General Motors in 2014. But the automaker was a mess, still crawling out of bankruptcy and, two weeks into Barra's tenure, issuing a massive recall linked to 13 deaths that the company had known about for years. There was a similar sense of crisis at Citi that accelerated Fraser's ascension. In the fall of 2020, her predecessor Michael Corbat wasn't supposed to retire for another year. But with regulators breathing down the bank's neck over long-overdue systems upgrades, plus a flurry of bad press over the fat-finger flub, Corbat decided to bounce early, according to the Wall Street Journal. An expensive, time-consuming overhaul needed to begin right away, and Corbat — who himself was elevated to CEO in 2012 to be Mr. Fix-It — believed that process should be handled by his successor. Analysts agree Fraser's got her work cut out for her. Her 17 years at the bank, across multiple divisions, means she knows where the bodies are buried, where Citi thrives and where it lags. But, notably, says Mayo, Fraser so far hasn't brought in a heavy-hitting outsider to shake up the upper echelons of management. Allegiances to "old" Citigroup could be a huge liability, he says. "The old managers, the board of directors... these are not her friends or her family, she doesn't owe anything to them. She owes something, if anything, to the shareholders that have been left woefully behind."
Lucid Air named MotorTrend Car of the Year. New York (CNN Business)The Lucid Air, the first model from California-based electric car start-up company Lucid Motors, has been named MotorTrend's 2022 Car of the Year.It's the first time any automaker has won the award with its first car. MotorTrend's panel of judges lauded the Lucid Air for its extraordinary range and efficiency -- some versions can go up to 520 miles on a single charge -- as well as its performance and luxurious interior.In its announcement, MotorTrend called the Air "the new [electric vehicle] benchmark." The Air's electric motors were developed by Lucid itself. With no space taken up by a gasoline engine, the Air has a large cabin area with ample storage space in the trunk as well as under the hood.While the judges generally liked the Air's interior design, they did criticize what they saw as an over-reliance on touch screens for many basic controls. The judges praised the car's Lucid-designed stereo-system.It's not the first time a start-up automaker has won the award. The Tesla Model S won it in 2012. But the Model S was Tesla's second car, after the Tesla Roadster. The Air is Lucid's first car, and it only recently went into production.Despite its high cost, MotorTrend's judges thought the Lucid Air represented a strong value. They tested the Grand Touring version with a starting price around $140,000. Less expensive versions, with prices starting around $77,000, will be available later, but they won't have the driving range and power of the pricier cars.Lucid's CEO, Peter Rawlinson, once worked at Tesla and helped engineer the Model S. In creating the Lucid Air, he has said, efficiency has been a primary focus. The Lucid is actually the most energy efficient electric car sold in America, according to EPA estimates.The MotorTrend Car of the Year award is given to cars and not trucks or SUVs, for which there are separate awards. To be eligible, cars must be completely new or substantially redesigned for the model year. Other finalists included the Mercedes-Benz EQS, also fully electric, as well as the gasoline-powered Mercedes-Benz S-class, Hyundai Sonata and Honda Civic.The cars vary enormously in price, size and performance, but all were judged based on efficiency, value, advancement in design, engineering excellence, safety, and performance of its intended function, according to MotorTrend. The cars were tested on public roads as well as at Hyundai's California proving grounds.
Xi and Biden are meeting. There's a lot at stake for their economies. London (CNN Business)Managing America's relationship with its biggest economic frenemy is one of US President Joe Biden's toughest challenges.So when he holds a virtual summit with President Xi Jinping later on Monday, issues like supply chains, subsidies and tariffs, a pullback in China's vast property sector and the global energy crunch could feature prominently in discussions.The United States and China remain codependent, as American consumers snap up products manufactured in Chinese factories and companies scramble for parts sourced from Asia. Solving the climate crisis requires China's cooperation, while Wall Street money managers are drawn by the market's potential, even though many have been burned over the past year by a ferocious regulatory crackdown.With this in mind, Biden is expected to emphasize the areas in which Beijing and Washington can cooperate. But growing tensions over issues such as Taiwan, Hong Kong and human rights have also driven a wedge between the two countries and their economies, complicating the talks."One should not hold out false hope that the Xi-Biden virtual summit will fix the fundamental differences between China and America or change the general trajectory of the rivalry," said Alex Capri, a research fellow at the Hinrich Foundation. "The overarching question is whether, under the best of circumstances, the two leaders can try and come up with the rationale for a new kind of 'competitive coexistence.'"Here are some issues on the economy they could talk about.Trade and tariffs Two dozen business groups are putting pressure on the Biden administration to consider removing tariffs on China to help ease surging inflation. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said on CBS' "Face the Nation" Sunday that such a move is "under consideration." But it may not happen. While the Biden administration recently reached an agreement with the European Union to ease Trump-era sanctions on aluminum and steel, it's continued to criticize China's trade practices and subsidies for domestic businesses.The United States has backed the "Phase 1" trade deal former President Donald Trump signed with China in January 2020. In a speech last month, US Trade Representative Katherine Tai said China must be accountable for promises made in that agreement. Beijing has not delivered yet on its all its commitments, she said.Tai also indicated the United States could push China to go even further."We continue to have serious concerns with China's state-centered and non-market trade practices that were not addressed in the Phase One deal," Tai said. "As we work to enforce the terms of Phase One, we will raise these broader policy concerns with Beijing."A senior Biden administration official told reporters on Sunday that supply chain issues and tariffs are not on Biden's agenda for the meeting, but it is possible that Xi will bring them up.China's property sectorYellen also said Sunday that the administration is watching the embattled property sector in China and warned of potential global consequences if China's economy were to "slow down more than expected." The country's GDP grew at its slowest pace in a year last quarter."It's something that's important, that we're monitoring closely," Yellen said, when asked if she was confident China could control the financial fallout of a real estate slump.Financial markets were rattled in September after the developer Evergrade warned it could default on its massive debts. That sparked fears of contagion across the real estate industry, which accounts for as much as 30% of China's economic output. Evergrande has recently managed to make some interest payments and stave off a collapse. But a mountain of debt obligations is coming due over the next year. Several other Chinese developers are in a similar position as demand for properties pulls back."China's a real estate sector with firms that are over-leveraged and it's something that China is trying to deal with," Yellen said.In a recent report, the Federal Reserve warned that "financial stresses in China ... could further strain global financial markets and negatively affect the United States." The Fed pointed specifically to the crisis at Evergrande.Energy and climateChina and the United States have recently found common ground on the climate crisis, surprising observers at the COP26 climate talks in Scotland with a joint pledge to cut emissions."I'm gloomy about the prospects for cooperation on anything, except maybe climate, where their interests coincide," said William Reinsch, a senior adviser at the the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.The world's top two economies are also its biggest polluters, and both are feeling the pain of an energy crunch exacerbated by attempts to transition to greener supplies.Last month, the Chinese government ordered the country's coal mines to "produce as much coal as possible" as winter approaches. Biden, for his part, has urged OPEC to pump more oil to ease soaring gasoline prices that reached a record high in California this weekend.Neither China, the world's biggest coal consumer, nor the United States signed on to a deal announced at COP26 in which a number of countries committed to phasing out the use of coal. They have said they will phase down its use.— Jill Disis and Natasha Bertrand contributed reporting.
What will your raise look like in 2022? There's good news and bad news. You would think the combination of high inflation, a worker shortage and a talent war would be a winning trifecta for any employee who would like to take home a bigger paycheck next year. And many companies are also reporting strong earnings, if not record ones. "Employees are saying, 'I've been working record hard.' There's an expectation that more of that needs to go to [them]," said Brian Kropp, chief of research at consulting firm Gartner's HR practice. Generally speaking, HR consulting firms are seeing employers offer compensation increases of 5% to 10% in a wide swath of jobs, but especially in areas where workers are needed most, in which case those increases can stretch up to 20%. But it hasn't been an across-the-board phenomena, nor is it likely to be next year.Increases for inflation alone will disappointInflation may be at a 30-year high, but that doesn't mean employers feel obligated to cover your rising costs. To the extent you've been getting cost-of-living adjustments in the past, that annual 1% to 2% increase isn't likely to budge for next year.That's because raising your base pay is a permanent increase in employers' fixed costs, and they're not going to hike salaries in lockstep with historically high inflation, especially since they may think it could cool down next year, Kropp said. So who will be in line for more real money?For many workers, though, their pay increases -- including salary bumps and bonuses -- will be higher than inflation. And for some, considerably so.Employers' most immediate concern is attracting and retaining talent for critical roles. The most critical ones include supply chain leadership and technical jobs related to the supply chain, as well as roles in digital marketing, data analysis, artificial intelligence, engineering and cybersecurity, said Catherine Hartmann, the North American work and reward practice leader at HR consulting firm Willis Towers Watson.It also includes hourly workers at distribution warehouses and in restaurants or other industries that have gone begging for help and can't afford to lose the staff they already have.What employers have been finding, though, is that more pay isn't always enough to cure the problem, Kropp said, noting that one restaurant chain promised to hire anyone at $3 more per hour than they are currently earning but the chain still had to close some locations. Another company, he said, gave all its IT workers a 10% raise but found that didn't stem turnover in the department."There's a massive amount of wage inflation because there aren't enough people in the labor market to hire," Kropp said. And that's especially true when it comes to those with technology skills, because all companies, not just those in technology fields, are competing to hire them.If you are in a critical role you are best positioned to ask for what you want, either at your current employer or the competitor across the street, which may offer you 20% to 25% more than you've been making, Kropp said.If your current employer wants to retain you, they may increase your base salary somewhat but they also may offer a retention bonus to incentivize you to stay. It could be all cash or some combination of cash plus stock. But it likely would pay out in tranches over a couple of years so you'll have to stay at the company to get the full amount, said Dave Hilborn, a managing partner in the human capital management practice of consulting firm West Monroe.Hilborn's firm found in a recent survey of 150 C-suite executives that 68% plan to offer wage and salary increases to attract and retain talent, and 46% expect to offer retention awards.Other ways you may see more money in 2022Typically your "total" salary increase at your current job may encompass several components rolled into one: cost of living, individual and company performance and market-related adjustments to update pay for a given role. Regardless of your job function, if you're a solid performer your best shot at getting a substantial raise from your current employer right now is to get a competing offer and see if your company will match it, Hartmann said. "Employers are having to address individuals who say 'What can you do for me? I can get more money across the street.'"Hartmann is also seeing companies accelerate promotions as a way to retain people at various levels of the organization. And while once reserved for senior leadership, both Hilborn and Hartmann are seeing companies now offering one-time retention pay incentives to those further down the chain and even to some individual contributors.Said Hartmann, "They're taking their equity and pushing it lower in the organization as special one-time retention grants below the executive level, saying 'Here's $25,000 to $50,000' [that will get] paid out in tranches." 
