India PM Narendra Modi repeals controversial farm laws. Indian PM Narendra Modi has announced the repeal of three controversial farm laws after a year of protests. Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since last November, protesting against the reforms. Farmers say the laws will allow the entry of private players in farming and that will hurt their income. Several rounds of talks with the government over the past few months failed as ministers insisted that laws were good for farmers. Farm unions will see this as a huge victory. But experts say the upcoming state elections in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh - which both have a huge base of farmers - may have forced the decision. The surprise announcement on Friday morning came on a day Sikhs - the dominant community is Punjab - are celebrating the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism. Mr Modi said the new farm laws were meant to strengthen the small farmers. "But despite several attempts to explain the benefits to the farmers, we have failed. On the occasion of Guru Purab, the government has decided to repeal the three farm laws," he added. Rakesh Tikait, one of the most prominent farmer leaders, said they would stop their protest movement only after the government repealed the laws in the parliament. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella group of some 40 farmers' unions, had refused to back down despite appeals from the government to end their protest. Farmers continued to block motorways to Delhi through harsh winter and summer months and even through deadly Covid waves. They called for strikes across the country and dozens of them even died due to cold, heat and Covid. The government initially engaged with them and offered to put the laws in abeyance for two years. But after farmers rejected their overtures, the authorities retreated, preferring to go with the wait-and-watch attitude. How PM Modi misread the mood of India's farmersThe defining image of farmers' protest in India But two things changed in the last few months. First, the son a federal minister allegedly drove his car into a group of protesting farmers in Lakhimpur in Uttar Pradesh in early October. He denied the allegation, but was arrested. The incident sparked outrage across the country and put the government on the back foot. Second, PM Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is up against strong regional parties in the upcoming elections in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand and the government knows that angry farmers would hurt the BJP's chances of winning the crucial polls.
How Narendra Modi misread the mood of India's angry farmers. After more than 45 days of protests and eight rounds of talks with the government, India's farmers have refused to budge. Nothing short of a repeal of three market-friendly farm laws - designed to loosen rules around the sale, pricing and storage of farm produce - will make the farmers retreat from protest sites ringing the capital, Delhi. On Tuesday, the Supreme Court, responding to a bunch of petitions, put the laws on hold. The uncertainty lingers. So why did Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government fail to anticipate the blowback to the laws and misread the public mood in the affected states of Punjab and Haryana? Were they lulled into complacency because a Punjab-based ally initially supported the laws? (The Akali Dal later reversed its stand and quit the government.) Did the government believe that the laws would not lead to any significant erosion of popular support? Mr Modi has built a reputation for tough talking and playing hardball with his critics and his party is widely believed to have its ears to the ground. Protests had been brewing in Punjab even before the laws were ratified in the parliament in the middle of the pandemic last September. Angry farmers had squatted on railway tracks in protest. In late September, the regional Akali Dal had walked out. So why was Mr Modi caught on the wrong foot by what has now grown into arguably the world's biggest protest? One reason, many believe, is that Mr Modi has not faced a mass movement against his regime. A protest by the influential Patel community in Gujarat in 2015 demanding quotas in government jobs lingered on for four years before a resolution. A months-long protest led mostly by Muslim women in a Delhi neighbourhood against the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) was cleared last March amid measures to curb the spread of coronavirus. But none were as large and intense as the ongoing protests, and did not challenge the government in the way the defiant farmers have. "I don't think Mr Modi misread the situation because he had no knowledge about the protests in Punjab. I think the overconfidence arose from his inexperience in dealing with mass protests," says Prof Parminder Singh, a civil rights activist. Second, the current protests are significantly different from similar agitations in India's history. In colonial India, peasant revolts against exploitative rulers often turned violent. Since Independence in 1947, farmers have staged demonstrations against falling crop prices, indebtedness and farm distress. But none have seen the staggering levels of cohesion and mobilisation - involving some 40 farmers' unions, more than half a million protesters, and large swathes of civil society - as the ongoing agitation. The protests have originated in Punjab, the relatively prosperous farming heartland of India. Along with its neighbour Haryana, the two states have benefited most from India's farm policies. These farmers are now frustrated over stagnant and falling farm incomes and fear that entry of private businesses will hurt their future. The protests have now widened to coalesce around a range of anxieties over farming in India - shrinking plots of land, diminished produce, volatility in crop prices, and centralisation of lawmaking in a country where farming matters are mainly entrusted with the states. "The protest is more than an arena of grievances," Pratap Bhanu Mehta, professor of political science at Ashoka University, told me. "It's also about a lack of trust in the government and an assertive articulation of federalism." At the protest sites, the mood is one of unbending resistance against the government. "People here are calling it a revolution for our rights," Surmeet Mavi, one of the editors of Trolley Times, a daily newsletter published from the protest site, told me. "It's a feeling of fearlessly taking on the powerful government." For decades, the dominant stereotype of the Indian farmer has been one of a semi-literate, struggling man, who tirelessly ploughs the land. The reality is that India's 150-odd million farmers are of different kinds - the big and small; the landed and the landless. So when it was reported that the protesters were having pizzas, there was some unkind social media chatter about whether these people really worked on the farms. It laid bare, again, how little urban Indians know about their rural brethren. What Mr Modi's government and many people have possibly failed to understand is that many of the protesting farmers have deep linkages with urbanity. Many of them have children in the army and police, speak English, use social media and have both travelled and have relatives abroad. The protest sites are well organised with clinics, ambulances, kitchens, facilities, libraries, and even its own newspaper. Like most urban protests, there's the risk of the media-fuelled spectacle overtaking the underlying complexities of the agitation. "This farmer movement speaks the language of middle-class India. They are saying they are patriotic, and fighting for the rights they hold dear," says historian Mahesh Rangarajan. This is also not a conventional protest against farm distress or drought, which most governments have been successful at managing. This agitation is ironically a consequence of Punjab's success in farming - the state is the biggest beneficiary of government-guaranteed prices of wheat and rice, and elaborate state-supported marketing structures. These have now become a millstone around Punjab's neck - a glut of two crops has led to overflowing stocks, stagnating incomes and depleting groundwater. "The challenge is that Punjab has been unable to transition from a largely well-to-do farming society to one where there is environmentally sustainable agriculture and industrialisation," says Prof Mehta. More than 85% of India's farmers are small and marginal, and they work on some 47% of the total farming land. Both the government and farmers agree that farming needs reform. But they cannot agree on specifics. "There are solutions. But the farmers don't trust the government," says Prof Mehta. And therein lies the real problem.
India farmers: The viral image that defines a protest. A photograph of a paramilitary policeman swinging his baton at an elderly Sikh man has become the defining image of the ongoing farmers' protest in India. The photograph, taken by Ravi Choudhary, a photojournalist with Press Trust of India (PTI), has gone viral on social media. It has also resulted in political wrangling - with opposition politicians using the image to criticise the way the protesters are being treated and Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) claiming - falsely - that the farmer was not hit. Hundreds of thousands of farmers have laid siege to Delhi for the past few days, choking almost all the entry points to the national capital. They are protesting against a recent law that they say is against their interests. The government says the reforms, which open the farming sector to private players, will not hurt farmers. Unconvinced, thousands of them have marched upon Delhi, where they were met by barricades at the border. As they arrived in a convoy of tractors and on foot, tens of thousands of police and paramilitary troops were deployed to halt their march, leading to clashes with the police. In several places, police fired tear gas shells and used water cannons to try to beat them back. The photograph of the Sikh farmer, with a flowing white beard, being threatened by a paramilitary policeman was taken last Friday at the Singhu border in north-west Delhi as farmers and protesters breached the barricades and entered the city. "There was stone pelting, barricades were broken and a bus was also damaged with violent clashes between the police and protesters," photojournalist Ravi Choudhary, who took the picture, told fact-check site Boomlive.com. He said the police started hitting the protesters and the old man in the photo was also hit. Are India's new reforms a 'death warrant' for farmers?India farmers block roads and trains to protest reforms The photograph went viral quickly, shared by tens of thousands of people on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. Many, including the photographer, tagged the image with "Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan" (or "Hail the Soldier, Hail the Farmer") - a slogan coined by former Indian PM Lal Bahadur Shastri in 1965 during the India-Pakistan war to stress the importance of soldiers and farmers in nation building. Rahul Gandhi, senior leader of the opposition Congress party, also tweeted the image. "It's a very sad photo. Our slogan was Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan, but today PM Modi's arrogance has pitted the soldier against the farmer. This is very dangerous," he wrote. Amit Malviya, head of the BJP's IT cell, questioned Mr Gandhi's claim - he shared a three-second video clip to claim that the farmer had not been hit and described it as propaganda. In the end though, it was his tweet that was called out for being propaganda - many pointed out that it was labelled "manipulated media" by Twitter. Mr Malviya's claims were also debunked by Boomlive which scoured longer versions of the video and also tracked down Sukhdev Singh, the farmer in the photograph, and interviewed him. It reported that the farmer was "targeted by not one but two security personnel… Mr Singh who is currently at the Haryana-Delhi border told us that he sustained injuries to his forearm, back and calf muscle". Images of thousands of elderly farmers from Punjab and Haryana - known as the "food bowl" of India - being tear-gassed and sprayed with water in the winter cold have won them tremendous public sympathy in India and also from the diaspora around the globe. On Monday, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau expressed concern over India's response to the demonstrations and said his country "will always be there to defend the right of peaceful protest". His comments drew a sharp response from India's foreign ministry which called it "ill-informed" and  "unwarranted. The farmers' cause, however, continues to gain support. The authorities invited them for talks - one round of talks with government ministers on Tuesday failed; a second round is scheduled for Thursday. The farmers have now set up massive camps at several locations on the city's border and say they will stay as long as it takes for the authorities to agree to repeal the "black law". They say they've come "prepared for a long battle" - with trolleys full of rice and grains, and pots and pans to cook their own food. It could be a long haul.
Brazil: Amazon sees worst deforestation levels in 15 years. Deforestation in Brazil's Amazon rainforest has hit its highest level in over 15 years, official data shows. A report by Brazil's space research agency (Inpe) found that deforestation increased by 22% in a year. Brazil was among a number of nations who promised to end and reverse deforestation by 2030 during the COP26 climate summit. The Amazon is home to about three million species of plants and animals, and one million indigenous people. It is a vital carbon store that slows down the pace of global warming. According to the latest data, some 13,235 sq km (5110 sq miles) was lost during the 2020-21 period, the highest amount since 2006. Environment Minister Joaquim Leite said the data represents a "challenge" and said "we have to be more forceful in relation to these crimes". He added that the data "does not exactly reflect the situation in the last few months". How your chicken burger is linked to deforestationIllegal miners fire on indigenous group in Amazon Deforestation of the Amazon has increased under President Jair Bolsonaro. who has encouraged agriculture and mining activities in the rainforest. He has also clashed with Inpe in the past over its deforestation, accusing the agency in 2019 of smearing Brazil's reputation. But at November's climate conference in Glasgow, Brazil was among a number of nations who signed a major deal to end and reverse the practice. The pledge included almost £14bn ($19.2bn) of public and private funds. Some of that will go to developing countries to restore damaged land, tackle wildfires and support indigenous communities. Just this week, Jair Bolsonaro, on tour in Dubai, told investors that attacks towards Brazil on deforestation were 'unfair'. 'We want people to know the real Brazil,' he said, adding that 90% of the forest is still preserved. Well, these latest figures reveal the real Brazil - a country whose government has from the very beginning talked up the opportunities in developing the Amazon and at the same time, belittled environmental concerns. Not only that, these figures were actually dated October 27 - it appears they were held until after COP26. Jair Bolsonaro didn't turn up to COP26 but his delegation wanted to go to Glasgow and convince the world that people were wrong about Brazil - it even said it would move forward its commitment to ending deforestation by 2028. But with numbers like these, who can believe Jair Bolsonaro now?
DR Congo data leak: Millions transferred to Joseph Kabila allies. Companies owned by family and friends of former Democratic Republic of Congo President Joseph Kabila had millions of dollars of public funds funnelled through their bank accounts, according to Africa's biggest data leak. The money was transferred to the companies' accounts at the Congolese arm of the BGFI bank. Millions of dollars in cash were then taken out of the accounts. Mr Kabila was president at the time of the bank transfers. He has declined to respond to our questions over the transfers. The leak included more than three million documents and information on millions of transactions from the BGFI (Banque Gabonaise et Française Internationale) bank, which works in several African countries and France. Online French investigative journal Mediapart and the NGO Platform to Protect Whistleblowers in Africa (PPLAAF) obtained the information. BBC Africa Eye had access to the evidence, as part of a consortium called Congo Hold-up, co-ordinated by the media network European Investigative Collaborations (EIC). The investigation raises questions about who benefitted from the money transfers and possible conflicts of interests. The managing director of BGFI's DR Congo subsidiary, BGFI Banque RDC, from 2012 to 2018 was Francis Selemani, Joseph Kabila's foster brother. Mr Kabila's sister, Gloria Mteyu, owned 40% of BGFI's DR Congo operation, which was set up in 2010. One privately owned company, Sud Oil, was shown to have received nearly $86m in public funds from November 2013 to August 2017. These include at least $46m from the DR Congo banking regulator, BCC, $15m from the state mining company Gécamines, and $1.3m from the country's electoral body, Ceni. The only information the BBC found from the leak concerning these payments was an invoice for just over $1m from Ceni to Sud Oil for petroleum products. The BBC found no evidence Sud Oil was trading in petroleum products at the time. Mr Selemani's wife, Aneth Lutale, owned 80% of Sud Oil and Mrs Mteyu owned the remaining 20% from 2013 to 2018. Millions of dollars were transferred out of Sud Oil's BGFI accounts to other private companies' BGFI accounts. Some of these were owned by relatives or business associates of Mr Kabila, who was president from 2001-2019. One of these companies, Kwanza Capital, was majority owned by Congolese businessman Pascal Kinduelo, with Sud Oil taking a minority stake. Mr Kinduelo was chair of BGFI Bank RDC at the time. Mr Kinduelo was also a former owner of Sud Oil, before transferring ownership. The investigation found the bank allowed many high-value cash withdrawals from Sud Oil accounts, including one for $6 million. By law a maximum of $10,000 is allowed to be withdrawn in cash per day. This limit can only be breached for specific, documented purposes, such as national emergency or defence reasons. BBC Africa Eye found no evidence in the leak that correct procedures were followed in these instances. These cash withdrawals from Sud Oil accounts totalled at least $50 million covering a four-year period. Once the money was withdrawn, it is believed to have become untraceable. Our investigation was only able to establish that Sud Oil, for the period 2013 to 2018, had one employee, managing director David Ezekiel, and a small office in the capital Kinshasa as its address. In October 2013 Sud Oil purchased a real estate complex in the capital for $12 million, basing the company there. It also had a contract with BGFI Banque RDC to provide new vehicles to several of its senior management, including Mr Selemani. It charged $70,000 to provide his four-wheel drive car. BBC Africa Eye found no evidence of any other business activities. The investigation had access to an internal BGFI audit, completed in July 2018, heavily criticising the DR Congo operation. The audit was never meant to be made public. It gave a score of "very high risk" for the DR Congo subsidiary. It also referenced a lack of integrity and transparency in the declaration of conflicts of interest and compliance in its operations with clients. The audit named Mr Selemani as having at least 16 declared conflicts of interest, including links to private companies holding accounts at the bank. It also highlighted several high-value transactions by Sud Oil. Two weeks after the report was complete, Mr Selemani was moved to a new role at BGFI's head office in Gabon. He reportedly received $1.4m on leaving BGFI Banque RDC. He is reported to have left BGFI in November 2018. Sud Oil changed ownership in 2018  and Kwanza Capital was closed down the same year. Mrs Mteyu is understood to have given up her 40% stake in BGFI Banque RDC. BBC Africa Eye contacted BGFI, Joseph Kabila, Francis Selemani, Aneth Lutale, David Ezekiel and Gloria Mteyu over the information contained in the leak. None responded to our questions. We also contacted Pascal Kinduelo, who declined to respond. Gecamines and BCC did not reply to the BBC's requests for a response. The head of Ceni at the time of its dealings with Sud Oil, Corneille Nangaa, declined to comment on the payment, citing parliamentary confidentiality rules. Mr Nangaaa added that a new management team was now in place at the electoral body. BBC Africa Eye's investigation will be available online to watch from 29 November. Inside the collapse of an African construction giantUnmasking the 'Pyramid Kings' scam
Meghan tells Ellen DeGeneres Prince Harry loves the California lifestyle. The Duchess of Sussex said Prince Harry loves the California lifestyle and weather during an interview with US chat show host Ellen DeGeneres. Reflecting on their move to the West Coast of the US as the pandemic began, Meghan said: "We've just been able to spend a lot of time at home." "We're just happy," she added. The duchess also took part in a prank on street vendors, which saw her carry out a series of instructions relayed to her by Ellen through an earpiece. Ellen instructed Meghan to hold a healing crystal to her forehead, eat food like an animal, drink from a baby's milk bottle and tell jokes without a punch line at a studio complex in Los Angeles. The "hidden camera" skit is a regular feature on Ellen's chat show, and has previously involved celebrities including Adele, Emma Watson and Jennifer Lopez. Profile: Duchess of SussexRoyal Family tree and line of succession How Meghan ‘tripped and fell’ into Harry’s life During her appearance, Meghan said her five-month-old daughter Lilibet had started teething, while son Archie, two, had taken to feeding chickens at their Montecito home. She reflected on the joy of being a parent alongside her husband, as she promoted a children's book she has written that features illustrations based on Harry and Archie. "Harry being a dad was the most beautiful thing to watch," she said. She told Ellen, who lives close to the Sussexes, Archie "loves being a big brother" to Lilibet. "Someone told [Harry] and I that when you have one kid it's a hobby, and two children is parenting," the duchess, 40, said. "Suddenly we realised, 'Oh right,' everyone talks about what it's like for the second child but no-one talks about the adjustment for the first child when the second one comes along. "I think they have that moment of, 'Oh, this is fun, oh, this is how it is now.'" On the theme of parenting, Meghan said she wanted to see changes to parental leave rights in the US, which she said was the only rich country not to have federally mandated leave rights for new parents. She said: "Everyone knows - especially if you've had a child and even if you haven't - you know how hard it is and how critical it is in those first few weeks, or even months, to be together as a family, and the fact that we don't offer that here is something that - now as a mom of two - I will do everything that I can to make sure that we implement that for people." Meghan's last television interview was with the US broadcaster Oprah Winfrey in March, when she said it was "liberating" to be able to speak freely, away from the institution of the Royal Family. The Sussexes announced they would "step back" as senior royals in January 2020. Meghan is currently involved in an ongoing legal battle with the publishers of the Mail on Sunday newspaper over the publication of a letter she sent to her estranged father. The duchess had successfully sued for the misuse of a "personal and private" letter and breach of copyright - but Associated Newspapers has appealed against the ruling. Meanwhile, in London, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge attended the Royal Variety Performance at the Royal Albert Hall in London. Comedian Alan Carr told Prince William he was "not hitting on his wife" after complimenting Catherine, as the couple attended the Royal Variety Performance. Greeting the royals at the 94th annual performance, Mr Carr said to the duchess: "You look absolutely beautiful." Addressing William, the comedian added: "Sir, I am sure you do not know who I am but I am not hitting on your wife." The royal couple enjoyed performances from Years & Years, James Blunt, Elvis Costello, Gregory Porter and Anne-Marie as well as the cast of the Royal Shakespeare Company's production of Matilda the Musical.
Instagram: US states investigate how platform targets children. A group of US states is investigating how Instagram targets children, despite it posing potential risks to them. The group - made up of both Democrat and Republican states - is investigating Instagram and Facebook's parent company Meta to determine if consumer protection laws were broken. It comes after a company whistleblower testified in the US that the company knew its products can harm children. A Meta spokesman on Thursday denied that their platforms are unhealthy. Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey, a Democrat who first announced the inquiry, tweeted: "Facebook, or Meta, has known Instagram is linked to depression, eating disorders & suicide among young people." "We will identify if any laws were broken and end the abuse for good." Nebraska Attorney General Doug Peterson, a Republican, said that the companies "treat our children as mere commodities to manipulate for longer screen time engagement and data extraction". "These social media platforms are extremely dangerous and have been proven to cause both physical and mental harm in young people," added New York Attorney General Letitia James. Facebook Files: 5 things leaked documents revealFacebook under fire over secret teen research Facebook, which owns Instagram and WhatsApp changed its name to Meta last month after a series of scandals. A Meta spokesman pushed back against the consortium's allegations. "These accusations are false and demonstrate a deep misunderstanding of the facts," a spokesman said in a statement. "While challenges in protecting young people online impact the entire industry, we've led the industry in combating bullying and supporting people struggling with suicidal thoughts, self-injury, and eating disorders," he added. The announcement comes after a series of explosive reports based on of documents leaked by former Facebook employee Frances Haugen. In testimony to lawmakers in the US, she said the company knowingly pushed its platforms to young children despite knowing that they could cause health issues. In September, the platform abandoned plans for a child-focused app after a group of over 40 state attorneys general wrote and urged them to cancel it. Instagram, like other platforms, requires users to be over 13, but the company has admitted that it knows some users are younger. When Meta's CEO Zuckerberg responded to Frances Haugen's leaks he said something intriguing. "If we attack organisations making an effort to study their impact on the world, we're effectively sending the message that it's safer not to look at all, in case you find something that could be held against you." What Zuckerberg was essentially saying is if companies get whacked for conducting research into the effects of their products - they won't conduct the research at all. It's important because Instagram is by no means the only social media platform that teens use. TikTok for example has an enormous teen following, as does Snapchat. How do they affect teen mental health? Well we don't know, because if they have conducted this research, they haven't released it. This is Meta' great grievance - that it is facing the consequences of bothering to understand the impact of their products. But that isn't quite right either. The nature of Instagram, its algorithmic push that promotes beauty, style, success - is different to other apps. It would be far better if Facebook gave its data to independent analysts to able to research harmful effects. But it would be far worse if the company simply stopped looking under the bonnet, in case it found something it didn't like.
Biden mulls US diplomatic boycott of Beijing Olympics. US President Joe Biden has said that he is weighing a US diplomatic boycott of the 2022 Winter Olympic games due to be held in Beijing, China. "That is something we are considering," he told reporters ahead of talks with the leaders of Mexico and Canada. A diplomatic boycott would mean that no US officials are sent to attend the games. The decision comes amid rising tension in the US-China relationship. On Monday, Mr Biden held his first direct talks with China's Xi Jinping. At the White House, Biden spokeswoman Jen Psaki said that the US and China leaders did not discuss the Olympics during their three-hour virtual meeting on Monday. Both Democratic and Republican lawmakers have called for a diplomatic boycott as a means to protest against Chinese human rights abuses. A diplomatic boycott would not affect athletes, but Ms Psaki said the US is still finalising "what our presence will be" at the games, which are due to begin on 4 February. The US has accused China of genocide towards the Uighurs - a Muslim minority group which lives mostly in the autonomous region of Xinjiang. Tensions have also risen over the way China has acted to repress political freedoms in Hong Kong. Mr Biden's comment came as he was hosting Mexico President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador and Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau for formal talks at the White House. The talks, dubbed the Three Amigos Summit, are expected to focus on border issues, tax subsidies for electric vehicles, Covid precautions and other issues. Human rights groups call for China Olympic boycottWhat Biden and Xi want from each other Last month, US senators proposed a draft amendment to a bill that would ban the US State Department from spending government funds to "support or facilitate" the attendance of US diplomats at the Games. Nancy Pelosi, the most senior Democrat in Congress, has called for a boycott, saying that US leaders who attend would lose their "moral authority". Republican Senator Tom Cotton said on Thursday that diplomatic boycott of the "genocide Olympics" would be "too little, too late" and called for a total boycott of all athletes, officials and US corporate sponsors. Nikki Haley, the former US representative to the UN under Donald Trump, has also called for a complete boycott.
Poland border crisis: Camp empty as migrants move to warehouse. Migrants camping on the border between Belarus and Poland have been moved to nearby warehouse, border guards have confirmed. About 1,000 people, mostly from the Middle East, have been living at the makeshift camp with the aim of entering the EU. The move marks a de-escalation of tensions between Belarus and the EU. Belarus has been accused of pushing migrants to the border as revenge for EU sanctions, a charge it denies. In another development on Thursday, more than 400 Iraqis were repatriated from Belarus on a flight arranged by the Iraqi government. One man who was on the flight, told the New York Times he had made eight attempts to cross into Poland. He was successful on one attempt, only to be dragged back by Polish guards. Those left at the border have been moved to a logistics depot several hundred metres away, according to Polish border guards. People started moving on Wednesday with more arriving at the site on Thursday. Images of the border camp show it completely deserted. It is hoped that the change of tack by Belarus could help calm down the situation. Earlier this week, the crisis reached boiling point with Polish forces using tear gas and a water cannon to repel migrants trying to cross into the country. Several Polish forces were injured after migrants attempted to breach the crossing and threw missiles. UK Defence Secretary Ben Wallace announced on Thursday that the UK will send about 150 British soldiers to help reinforce Poland's border with Belarus. For months, men, women and children have been amassing at Belarus's western borders. Many of those arrived by plane but airlines have been cutting down on the number of flights from the Middle East to Minsk. Poland has the EU's backing in not letting the migrants into the bloc. Belarus had called for EU members to take in 2,000 of the migrants but was rejected by Germany and the European Commission. EU-Belarus relations have been severely strained since Mr Lukashenko declared victory in a discredited presidential election last year and tried to silence dissenting voices.
Julius Jones: Oklahoma prisoner's execution halted at last minute. Oklahoma's governor has halted the execution of prisoner Julius Jones hours before he was due to be put to death. Kevin Stitt said he was commuting the sentence to life imprisonment without parole. Hundreds of students earlier walked out of school demanding clemency for Jones. Jones was sentenced to death in 2002 for killing Paul Howell during a carjacking three years earlier. He maintains his innocence. His case has attracted the support of celebrities including reality TV star Kim Kardashian and anti-death penalty activists. Jones' execution by lethal injection was scheduled for 16:00 local time (2200 GMT) at the state penitentiary in McAlester. But Gov Stitt, a Republican, said he intervened "after prayerful consideration and reviewing materials presented by all sides of this case". The state's Pardon and Parole Board earlier recommended in a 3-1 majority vote that Jones' sentence be commuted to life in prison with the possibility of parole. The case has attracted widespread attention in recent years, partly due to the 2018 ABC documentary series "The Last Defense". More than six million people have signed a Justice for Julius petition which states he was put on death row because of "fundamental breakdowns in the system tasked with deciding". Jones was found guilty of fatally shooting Mr Howell, an insurance executive, during a 1999 carjacking on his driveway. In October, he was among five people who won stays of execution from a three-judge panel of the 10th Circuit US Court of Appeal. "I did not kill Mr Howell," he wrote in a letter to the parole board in April, after exhausting his appeals. "I did not participate in any way in his murder; and the first time I saw him was on television when his death was reported." But Mr Howell's relatives have said Jones' calls for clemency have victimised them further.
HMAS Sydney: DNA reveals identity of Australia's famous 'unknown sailor'. Australia says it has identified the body of the only sailor recovered from a ship sunk during World War Two. Thomas Welsby Clark, 20, joined the HMAS Sydney just four months before it was ambushed by a German raider in the Indian Ocean in 1941. All 645 men on board the ship died - one of Australia's best-known wartime disasters. Three months after the sinking, a body washed up in a life raft on Australia's Christmas Island. Dressed in navy overalls that had been bleached white from the sun, he became known as the "unknown sailor". He was buried first on the island, a territory 1,500km (930 miles) off Western Australia. Decades later, he was reburied on the mainland with military rites. No other bodies were ever recovered, even after the ship's wreckage was discovered in 2008. On Friday, after years of DNA testing, Australia revealed the unknown sailor as Mr Clark. Historians said the able seaman had come from a wealthy grazing family and trained as an accountant. Both of his brothers had also served in the war. Remembering Australia's 'Pearl Harbor'World War One's forgotten Anzacs Tests from his teeth matched the genetic material of his surviving descendants. His family was informed of the news last week, officials said. "It's a testament to modern science and technology that we have been able to identify Tom, after all these decades," Veteran Affairs Minister Andrew McGee said. "Even after 80 years, we are still working so hard to identify and honour our servicemen and women." The Australian War Memorial in Canberra said it would dedicate its daily Last Post ceremony to Mr Clark on Friday. Some of his relatives would lay a wreath at a shrine, it said. His grave in Geraldton, Western Australia, will also get a new headstone. Currently the inscription reads: "A Serviceman of the 1939-1945 War HMAS Sydney."
Facebook tells LA police to stop spying on users with fake accounts. Facebook has written to the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD), demanding that it stop setting up fake profiles to conduct surveillance on users. This comes after the Guardian revealed that the US police department had been working with a tech firm, analysing user data to help solve crimes. Facebook expressly prohibits the creation and use of fake accounts. The intent, it said, was to "create a safe environment where people can trust and hold one another accountable". "Not only do LAPD instructional documents use Facebook as an explicit example in advising officers to set up fake social media accounts, but documents also indicate that LAPD policies simply allow officers to create fake accounts for 'online investigative activity'," wrote Facebook's vice president and deputy general counsel for civil rights Roy Austin in a letter outlining Facebook's policies. "While the legitimacy of such policies may be up to the LAPD, officers must abide by Facebook's policies when creating accounts on our services. The Police Department should cease all activities on Facebook that involve the use of fake accounts, impersonation of others, and collection of data for surveillance purposes." Documents obtained through public record requests made by non-profit organisation the Brennan Center of Justice showed that in 2019, the LAPD had been using Voyager Labs' social media surveillance software to collect data from suspects' social media networks, including their friends' accounts. Voyager Labs claims its software is able to analyse large amounts data to help solve crimes, including helping to discern users' motives and beliefs. The LAPD said in emails that the software had been particularly useful in investigating the activities of street gangs online and crucial in helping its robbery and homicide division collect evidence. Facebook argues that spying on users and impersonating legitimate users goes against its purpose, which is to enable people to "connect and share with real people using their authentic identities". However, Robert Potter, an Australian security expert specialising in lawful surveillance, thinks fake names can be justified in situations where human rights activists or journalists are seeking to protect their privacy online, or for users in countries where there is internet censorship. And he is surprised at the social network's strong stance against the LAPD, when it has been slow to take action in the past on issues like misleading political ads, online scams and social media's negative effects on teenagers. "It's genuinely interesting to see that Facebook has become the nexus for so many problematic communications, from child trafficking and terrorism communications to Covid disinformation," he told the BBC. "Yet they seem to care more about the LAPD misusing their platform than sometimes they do about China or Russia." Despite its claims regarding authenticity and accountability, in August the social network banned the accounts of US academics researching political ads on its platform. Facebook said the researchers' data-scraping browser extension tool undermined its security, while the academics argued that their work was vital in maintaining democracy and keeping the social network's practices transparent. "If you're not cracking down across the board on malicious actors using your platform, you don't have strong grounds to crack down on legitimate use of the platform," said Mr Potter, who built the Washington Post's cyber-security operations centre and has advised the Australian government on cyber-security. "You're not special if you run a social media platform. If there's not a rule saying you can't have an undercover cop in a church, why should a social media platform be any different?"
Crypto bid to buy US constitution copy at auction fails. A cryptocurrency group has lost in its efforts to buy a rare copy of the US constitution at auction. The group - ConstitutionDAO - said it planned "to put the constitution in the hands of the people". It had amassed more than $40m worth of donations through crowd-funding. But the document instead sold to another buyer for $43.2 million (£32m) at Sotheby's on Thursday, in what the auction house said was a record price for a historical document. The donors will now have all of their money returned, according to a statement from the group on Twitter. Published in 1787, there are 13 known copies to have survived from a run of 500 originally printed after the text was settled at the Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The copy is one of only two not held in the collection of an institution, according to Sotheby's. The auction house had estimated the copy to be worth $15m to $20m. The identity of the new buyer is not known. Proceeds of the auction will go to the Dorothy Tapper Goldman Foundation - a non-profit group that works to promote understanding of democracy.
