Peng Shuai: Doubt cast on email from Chinese tennis star. The head of the Women's Tennis Association (WTA) has cast doubt on an email released by Chinese state media attributed to tennis player Peng Shuai. Steve Simon, chairman of the WTA, said in a statement he had a "hard time believing" the email was written by Ms Peng or on her behalf. One of China's biggest sporting stars, she has not been heard from since she made sexual assault allegations against a top Chinese official. The email was shared on Wednesday. Broadcaster CGTN published the correspondence - allegedly written by Ms Peng - online. Written in her voice, it claims she was not missing or unsafe, adding: "I've just been resting at home and everything is fine." The email also said the sexual assault allegation attributed to her was false. Many responding on social media have cast doubt on the authenticity of the email - including pointing out that a typing cursor appears to be visible on the screenshot of the email published by CGTN. Ms Peng - a former number one-ranked tennis doubles player - had not been heard from since posting an allegation about former Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli on Chinese social media site Weibo in early November. She alleged she was "forced" into sexual relations with Mr Zhang - who served as the country's Vice Premier between 2013 and 2018 and was a close ally of China's leader Xi Jinping - in a post that was later taken down. She has not been seen or heard from publicly since. The WTA and leading voices from the world of tennis have increasingly spoken out about Ms Peng since. Naomi Osaka voices concern over Peng ShuaiTennis star accuses top Chinese official of abusePeng 'must be heard' on sex abuse claim Responding to the email published Wednesday, WTA chair Steve Simon said the email he received "only raises my concerns as to her safety and whereabouts". "I have a hard time believing that Peng Shuai actually wrote the email we received or believes what is being attributed to her," he said in a statement, adding: "The WTA and the rest of the world need independent and verifiable proof that she is safe." Mr Simon also reiterated that her sexual assault allegation must be investigated "with full transparency and without censorship". "The voices of women need to be heard and respected, not censored nor dictated to," he added. Ms Peng, 35, is a prominent figure in Chinese tennis. She has won two Grand Slams at Wimbledon in 2013 and the 2014 French Open, both alongside Taiwan's Hsieh Su-wei.
Naomi Osaka voices concern over Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai. World tennis champion Naomi Osaka has become the latest athlete to voice concerns over the whereabouts of Chinese tennis player Peng Shuai. One of China's biggest sporting stars, Ms Peng has not been heard from since she made sexual assault allegations against a top Chinese official. The Women's Tennis Association (WTA) said it had confirmed that she is "safe and not under any physical threat". However, they were not able to directly reach her. "I was recently informed of a fellow tennis player that has gone missing shortly after revealing that she has been sexually abused," Ms Osaka tweeted, using the hashtag #WhereisPengShuai. "I hope Peng Shuai and her family are safe and ok. I'm in shock of the current situation and I'm sending love and light her way." It comes as a number of tennis players have spoken up about Ms Peng. Earlier this week, world number one tennis player Novak Djokovic said he hoped she would okay, adding that he was shocked. French player Nicholas Mahut also weighed in, saying "we are all concerned". Tennis star accuses top Chinese official of abusePeng 'must be heard' on sex abuse claim Ms Peng - a former number one ranked tennis doubles player- had posted about the alleged assault against Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli on Chinese social media site Weibo in November. In the post, she said she was "forced" into a sexual relationship with Mr Zhang. Mr Zhang, 75, served as China's Vice Premier between 2013 and 2018 and was a close ally of Chinese President Xi Jinping. He has not responded to her claims. Her post was later taken down from the site and all mention of her on social media have been scrubbed. Ms Peng has also not been seen or heard of publicly since. Chief Executive of the WTA Steve Simon had earlier called on Chinese authorities to conduct "a full and transparent investigation" into Ms Peng's allegations involving sexual assault. "We commend Peng Shuai for her remarkable courage... women around the world are finding their voices so injustices can be corrected." Mr Simon said the WTA had received confirmation from several sources, including the Chinese Tennis Association that Ms Peng was safe, but added that he had not been able to reach her directly. "My understand is that she is in Beijing in China, but I can't confirm that because I haven't spoken directly with her," Mr Simon told news outlet The New York Times. Ms Peng's allegation is the highest profile case in China's #MeToo movement, which has mostly been going under the radar. You may also be interested in:
Peng Shuai: Chinese tennis star makes sexual assault claims. Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai has publicly accused a retired Communist official of sexual assault. In a post on Chinese social media site Weibo, Ms Peng said former Vice Premier, Zhang Gaoli, had "forced" her to have sexual relations with him. It is the first time such an allegation has been made against one of China's senior political leaders. Mr Zhang has not responded to her claims. The post has since been scrubbed from China's internet. Searches for Ms Peng - a former number one ranked tennis doubles player - also appear to have been restricted. Mr Zhang, 75, served as China's Vice Premier between 2013 and 2018 and was a close ally of Chinese President Xi Jinping. "I know that someone of your eminence, Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli, you'll say that you're not afraid", Ms Peng wrote in her post, "but even if it's just striking a stone with a pebble, or a moth attacking a flame and courting self destruction, I will tell the truth about you." She said he had first coerced her after she visited his home to play tennis. "That afternoon I didn't give my consent and couldn't stop crying," she wrote. "You brought me to your house and forced me and you to have relations". Ms Peng, 35, acknowledged that she would not be able to provide proof to back up her claims. "I have no evidence, and it has been impossible to leave any evidence... You were always afraid that I would bring something like a tape recorder, to record evidence or something... There is no audio record, no video record, only my distorted but very real experience." The #MeToo icon China is trying to silenceChinese court dismisses landmark #MeToo caseChina prosecutors drop Alibaba sexual assault case The tennis star's social media post is the latest development in a series of high profile MeToo cases in China. A popular TV host, Zhou Xiaoxuan, came forward with her claims against another TV personality, Zhu Jun in an online essay in 2018. The piece went viral and prompted many others to come forward with their own experiences of sexual harassment. Mr Zhu has denied all the claims. Though Ms Zhou launched legal action against Mr Zhu, the case was dismissed in September. Chinese courts rarely grant hearings to such cases, and the country only very recently passed legislation that clearly defined sexual harassment. In her tennis career, Ms Peng has won two Grand Slam women's doubles trophies, the first at Wimbledon in 2013 and the second at the Roland Garros tournament in 2014, both alongside Taiwan's Hsieh Su-wei. By Kerry Allen, China media analyst Peng Shuai is a big star, and a search of her on China's most popular search engine, Baidu, shows up more than seven million results. But there is evidence of a huge clampdown on the popular Sina Weibo microblog - China's equivalent of Facebook - to stop people talking about her. A search of her name shows only some 700 results and users see no results at all when they search for her account, despite her having more than half a million followers. ​ Weibo users are screened from seeing comments posted by ordinary social media users - search results on Weibo only show posts by verified government media accounts. The word "tennis" in Chinese similarly only shows verified results, and not posts by ordinary users. Search result restrictions are commonly imposed when a topic becomes sensitive, as historically, outright censoring sensitive words has made censorship appear much more obvious. The names of China's top leadership, past and present, have long been sensitive words on Sina Weibo. Users have been unable to search for ordinary comments left by users on China's Politburo, and have only seen posts by official media. However, social media users have long found creative workarounds to get their voices heard. Some users are talking about her by commenting on posts about another tennis player, Zhang Shuai. Historically, users have also used the words for "rice" and "rabbit" to talk about the Me Too movement, as the Chinese words for rice and rabbit are pronounced "me too".
Xianzi: The #MeToo icon China is trying to silence. Xianzi sounds exhausted. "Sorry. I've been crying the last half hour," she tells the BBC over the phone from Beijing. It is the day after a court ruled on the Chinese activist's landmark sexual harassment case against one of the country's biggest celebrities, which has made her the face of China's fledgling #MeToo movement. But three years on, her journey has hit a dead end. The court threw out her case saying there was insufficient evidence. Before our call, Xianzi had tried to contact a supporter through Weibo, the Twitter-like social media platform on which the 28-year-old has built a closely-knit following. But she'd been fully blocked on Weibo following the court hearing, and so was her supporter, apparently because she was publicly advocating for Xianzi. The realisation that she was now cut off from her online community had reduced Xianzi to tears. "People's accounts are constantly getting suspended. There is no way for me to contact them. I've lost the chance to say thanks to them. The past three years have been all about Chinese feminists being separated from each other." In 2018 as #MeToo caught on in China, Xianzi - her real name is Zhou Xiaoxuan, but she is better known by her pen name - was one of many women who began sharing accounts of sexual harassment. In a 3,000-word essay that later went viral, she accused Zhu Jun - a host with state broadcaster CCTV - of sexually harassing her in 2014 when she visited his dressing room hoping to do an interview with him. At the time she was a 21-year-old intern, while Mr Zhu was a household name in China, a familiar face to tens of millions for presenting the annual Spring Festival Gala television event. A subsequent essay laid out more details, accusing him of groping her repeatedly for about 50 minutes despite her attempts to block him, and forcibly kissing her. Their interaction was interrupted several times by staff briefly going in and out of the room, but she described being so frozen with fear and shame that she could not alert them. She said she only got out of the room when Mr Zhu was distracted while speaking with a crew member, which provided an opportunity for her to "slowly come to her senses". "I was scared that offending Zhu Jun would affect my studies, so I didn't dare to fight back," she wrote at the time. Mr Zhu has consistently denied all the allegations. He has said he is a victim of a smear campaign and he has endured "tremendous humiliation". The day after her encounter, Xianzi reported the incident to the police. But, according to her, she was told to keep it to herself as Mr Zhu was a national example of "positive energy" - a state campaign aimed at promoting good behaviour - and therefore someone whose reputation could not be sullied. So she kept quiet - until the #MeToo movement happened. The case gained even more notoriety after Mr Zhu sued her for defamation. She counter-sued him for "violation of personality rights", using a law that at the time was the closest thing to anti-sexual harassment discrimination. Since then, Xianzi's life has been upended. Born to a middle-class family in Wuhan, she moved to Beijing to study film directing when she was 18 and was working as a scriptwriter. She has since quit, and these past three years has been living off her savings and sporadic income from freelance writing gigs. Her lawyer is only charging her a small fee. Xianzi has been focused on fighting her legal battle and campaigning for sexual harassment victims - many of whom have approached her seeking advice - on her social media accounts where she has amassed more than 300,000 followers. At the same time, authorities' efforts to censor her have intensified, shutting down discussions and barring her from posting on Weibo. Even the phrase "rice bunny", a Chinese homonym for the #MeToo campaign, has been removed from Chinese social media. At first, she circumvented this by passing her essays to supporters who posted on their accounts on her behalf. But then their accounts were also suspended. Xianzi has also increasingly become a target of criticism, with some nationalistic bloggers accusing her of lying and alleging she was  "colluding with foreign forces" to stir up controversy.  This week a commentary on her case in the state-run Global Times claimed the #MeToo movement was being used by Western forces to "tear Chinese society apart". Then, there were the legal setbacks. According to Xianzi, the court rejected her request to label the case as a sexual harassment lawsuit after a new court rule kicked in. She also said that during the trial, the court gave her little opportunity to speak, and blocked her efforts to present what she describes as supporting evidence, such as video footage of the area outside the dressing room and a photo of her meeting Mr Zhu. In 2014, she turned in a piece of evidence, a dress that she had worn on the day of meeting Mr Zhu. The initial examination found no traces of his DNA. But when she later requested further examination, she said she was told in court that the dress was "nowhere to be found". She said she was also told by the court that it was "unnecessary" to compel Mr Zhu to testify. China law expert Darius Longarino tells the BBC he finds the court's reasoning to be "unconvincing". Some in China believe there were political motivations behind these court decisions. On top of all this, Xianzi still has to grapple with Mr Zhu's defamation suit against her, where he is demanding 650,000 RMB ($100,000,  £73,000) as compensation. The BBC has attempted to contact Mr Zhu and his lawyers, but has not received any reply. All of this has taken a toll on Xianzi. In a video shared by supporters last week, she appears despondent as she speaks to them shortly after leaving the courtroom in Beijing. "I was 21 when the incident took place. Now I'm 28, I'm so tired… I don't know if I can summon my courage to fight another three years," she says, while nervously wringing a copy of China's civil law. She tells the BBC that sometimes she gets anxious about if she can ever resume her career after such scrutiny. So she tries to distract herself - by watching a movie, or taking a nap. Her activist friends, family, and boyfriend have been vital in giving emotional support. But the most effective therapy for her has been to speak out through her essays and talking with her friends - "Talking is healing," she says - which is why the mounting censorship has been painful. "If you prohibit people from saying they are hurt, then you are really trying to destroy them," Xianzi says. "I don't understand what I did wrong. Why do they want to destroy me?" Xianzi's case was in fact, the second high profile case in recent weeks to have come to a halt. Earlier this month, prosecutors dropped charges against an employee of tech giant Alibaba who had been accused of raping a colleague on a work trip while she was drunk. This was even though police investigations found the man had "committed indecencies" with her. The man was eventually fired from Alibaba and detained for 15 days. Only very few cases of sexual harassment have made it to court in China. A high bar for evidence, which tends to demand video recordings or photographs of the actual incident, puts a heavy burden of proof on plaintiffs to prove their case, according to legal experts. Some end up publicising their accounts online, usually because their employer or institution has failed to take adequate steps. "These victims feel they have no choice but to reach out to the public, which reflects the failure of these institutions to address complaints. A victim should not need to publish their experience on Weibo for their employer to pay attention," says Aaron Halegua, research fellow at New York University Law School. But doing this then puts them at risk of getting sued for defamation by their alleged harassers  - and studies of such cases show that quite often they lose. In January a new civil code of law came into effect in China, containing Article 1,010 which clearly specifies that a person can sue another if he or she has been sexually harassed, and that institutions and organisations must take measures to prevent such behaviour and investigate cases. When it was first introduced last year it was heralded as a win. But with those making allegations of sexual harassment or assault facing a different reality on the ground, the legal system is sending a "mixed message", says Mr Longarino, a research scholar at the Yale Law School. "There are many more downsides than upsides in standing up, which creates a chilling effect," he adds. Mr Halegua says the law needs to be more explicit on what liabilities employers will face if they do not address sexual harassment, and also protect those who say they are victims from retaliation. The outcome of Xianzi's case has been an obvious setback for China's #MeToo movement, say activists. Some see it as a bitter illustration of the increasing difficulties that alleged victims face. Activist Liang Xiaowen tells the BBC that a 300-member feminist group on chat app Wechat was silenced shortly after Xianzi's trial.  The members could still post in the chat, but couldn't see messages from others. "You are isolated, but you are not even aware of it," Ms Liang says. Some are finding ways around the clampdown. After Xianzi's trial, her supporters found a way to communicate with her online by posting a song called Rose-coloured You. Part of its lyrics go: "You look exhausted but you never stop... I will remember what you did in this era. You were beyond yourself." The silver lining in Xianzi's case has thus been its legacy, that it has significantly raised awareness of women's rights within China. "#MeToo is important because of its rebelliousness... it is one of the last few meaningful voices that are still speaking out in China," says veteran feminist Lu Pin. "And it can't go away, because it stems from the true lived experiences of Chinese women." Xianzi says she sees her case as having made "progress" in the fight for justice, and she is currently preparing to launch an appeal. "Together we persist. It's already a victory to some extent," she says determinedly. "I have never thought it's not worth [all the effort]. Not for one second."
Alec Baldwin: Rust script didn't call for gun to be fired, lawsuit alleges. A lawsuit against Alec Baldwin alleges that a film script did not require him to fire a gun when he fatally shot cinematographer Halyna Hutchins. Script supervisor Mamie Mitchell - who called police after the shooting on the New Mexico film set - filed the suit. Her lawyer accused the actor of "playing Russian roulette" when he fired the gun without checking it. Mr Baldwin and the film's producers, who were also named in the lawsuit, have not yet commented. The Hollywood actor has previously shared comments from a crew member rejecting suggestions that the film set was unsafe. Authorities are still investigating the 21 October shooting that took place on the set of the Western film Rust. No criminal charges have been brought against anyone. Ms Mitchell's lawsuit claims that the script called for three tight camera shots - one of Mr Baldwin's eyes, another of a bloodstain on his shoulder and a third of his torso "as he reached his hand down to the holster and removed the gun". "There was nothing in the script about the gun being discharged by defendant Baldwin or by any other person," it says. EXPLAINER: What are the rules for guns on film sets? In a news conference on Wednesday, her lawyer Gloria Allred described the behaviour of Mr Baldwin and the film's producers as "reckless", as she accused them of failing to follow safety protocols. According to court records, Mr Baldwin was handed the weapon by the film's assistant director who did not know it contained live ammunition and indicated it was unloaded by shouting "cold gun". Ms Allred said Mr Baldwin "chose to play Russian roulette when he fired a gun without checking it and without having the armourer do so in his presence". She added that a range of safety failures meant that it was "a case where injury or death was much more than just a possibility — it was a likely result". Ms Mitchell was standing less than 4ft (1.2m) away from Mr Baldwin when the weapon was discharged, according to the lawsuit. "I relive the shooting and the sound of the explosion from the gun over and over again," she told reporters. Her lawsuit is claiming assault, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and deliberate infliction of harm, and is requesting unspecified damages. It is the second to be filed over the incident, after the set's head electrician began legal action earlier this month. The film's armourer, who was responsible for the guns and ammunition on set, has said she does not know how a live round came to be in the weapon.
Vancouver storm: A state of emergency has been declared in British Columbia. A state of emergency has been declared in the Canadian western province of British Columbia after a major storm cut road and rail links in the region. The Canadian Armed Forces are being deployed to help thousands of stranded residents who have been trapped since the storm hit overnight on Sunday. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau pledged assistance during a visit to Washington DC and said troops would help rebuild. One woman was killed in a landslide, and two people are missing. Thousands remain evacuated after an "atmospheric river" - a long strip of moisture in the air that transports water from tropical areas towards the poles - dumped the region's monthly rainfall average in 24 hours. Officials in the region have attributed the natural disaster to the effects of climate change. The impact of climate change on the frequency of storms is still unclear, but we know that increased sea surface temperatures warm the air above and make more energy available to drive hurricanes, cyclones and typhoons. As a result, they are likely to be more intense with more extreme rainfall. The world has already warmed by about 1.2C since the industrial era began and temperatures will keep rising unless governments around the world make steep cuts to emissions. British Columbia Premier John Horgan said the emergency order took effect at 12:00 local time (20:00GMT) in a news conference on Wednesday. He said that travel restrictions will keep people off flooded roads, and ensure that essential goods will "reach the communities that need them". "There's not a person that hasn't been affected or will not be affected by the events of this past weekend," he said, adding: "These events are increasing in frequency due to human caused climate change." Mr Horgan said British Columbia must "bring the seven billion other souls that live on this planet to understand that we need to act now… to protect us from these types of events that will happen in the future". University of British Columbia atmospheric scientist Rachel White told the BBC that the massive devastation caused by this storm can likely be attributed to a combination of human-caused factors. "As we warm up the climate, heavy rainfall events such as these are going to get more intense," she said. "As we warm up the atmosphere, as we warm up the oceans - more water is evaporated from the oceans. So then when we have these atmospheric river events, essentially the atmosphere can carry more water towards our mountains." This then condenses into rain. Logging and wildfires have also removed old-growth trees with deep roots, leading to a higher risk of landslides when it rains. Human development in flood plains, and the increase of non-absorbent asphalt also increases risks of flooding, Prof White said. The extreme weather in Canada comes days after world leaders met for the COP26 climate conference in Glasgow. The same region, British Columbia, suffered a record high heat wave in the summer that killed more than 500 people as well as wildfires, including one that destroyed the village of Lytton. FEATURE: The day a heatwave destroyed a villageWATCH: What are 'atmospheric rivers'? The rains and winds had largely finished by Tuesday afternoon, but several communities remain stranded. More rain is forecast later in the week, and officials have warned that the death toll is likely to rise. Helicopters on Wednesday dropped food supplies to stranded mountain communities after slides destroyed roads and floods submerged major highways. The town of Tulameen has about 400 people trapped there, according to Reuters news agency. Some communities at higher elevations have seen temperatures drop below freezing. Farmers and ranchers at lower elevations have struggled with widespread flooding and thousands of animals have died. Approximately 1,500 travellers became stranded in the town of Hope after roads closed, Grace Baptist Church Pastor Jeff Kuhn told BBC News in an email on Wednesday. The local school is currently housing about 700 people, and the church is hosting about 250 people and also feeding about 400 people per day. Around town, "many [are] sleeping in their cars at night", he added. He said that power was restored on Tuesday, which lifted spirits, but food supplies are running low despite an emergency air drop. "The community emergency services have organised some airlifted supplies that have allowed us to keep feeding people," he said. "But the situation with food will become worse if the roads do not open soon." Premier Horgan has called on residents to stay at home, and to not hoard items. "What you need your neighbours need as well," he said. Residents of some neighbourhoods in the city of Abbotsford were told on Tuesday to leave immediately as rising water levels posed "a significant risk to life". In a press conference on Wednesday, Mayor Henry Braun said water levels in the nearby Fraser River were dropping but warned: "We're not out of this yet. "If we have another weather event like we just went through, we're in deep doo-doo," he said. Rescue operations are still under way in the area, and aerial assessments of the damage are being conducted. The Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) confirmed on Tuesday that one woman was killed in a highway landslide near Lillooet, about 250km from Vancouver. Motorist Kathie Rennie told CBC News she saw the landslide come down on traffic that was already at a standstill. "I just turned around, and I'm just watching the whole side of the mountain coming down and taking out these cars... everything just being swept away. Just complete panic," she said.
Merkel: Germany hit by full force of Covid. Germany is in the grip of a "dramatic" fourth Covid wave, Chancellor Angela Merkel has said on the eve of a crisis meeting with regional leaders. Daily infections hit a new German record of 52,826 on Wednesday as European governments responded to a surge on much of the continent. Belgium announced a series of measures in an attempt to avoid a lockdown. "All the alarm signals are red," said Prime Minister Alexander De Croo, as he told people to limit personal contact. "Europe's map is quickly going red, and we are the same." Children in Belgium will have to wear masks from the age of 10, rather than the current age of 12. Working from home will become compulsory from Saturday for four days a week. Passes known as Covid Safe Tickets will be required in theatres, cinemas and museums. A third booster vaccination will be rolled out for all Belgians by the end of April 2022. Austria which imposed a lockdown on an estimated two million unvaccinated people on Monday, reported record daily infections on Wednesday. The Netherlands, which also reported record cases, has already brought in a partial lockdown. Sweden is introducing a Covid vaccination pass from 1 December for the first time for concerts and other indoor events involving more than 100 people. "You who are unvaccinated cannot just carry on as normal; your most important contribution is to get vaccinated," said Social Affairs Minister Lena Hallengren, who accepted the measure was tough but said Sweden was not isolated from the rest of the world. Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis said anyone who had not been vaccinated (or could show they had had recovered from Covid-19) would be banned from accessing public events or services. From Monday, negative tests would no longer be enough. Neighbouring Slovakia, where a record 8,342 cases were reported on Wednesday, is planning similar measures: workplaces and non-essential shops will be accessible only to vaccinated staff or to people who could prove they have recovered, says Prime Minister Eduard Heger. Vaccination rates vary across the continent. Slovak take-up is among the lowest in the EU at 44% while the Czech rate is 58%, in Austria it is 65% and in Germany 68%. Both Germany and Austria have reported queues at vaccination centres, but they have some of the lowest take-up rates in Western Europe. GERMAN SURGE: Warning of 100,000 deaths Austria also has a very high incidence rate of 971.5 cases per 100,000 people, far higher than Germany's 319.5. As well as its lockdown for the unvaccinated, some Austrian officials are calling for tighter restrictions for others too, such as a possible night-time curfew. Although Germany's overall death toll is far lower than that in the UK, 294 deaths have been recorded in 24 hours and Mrs Merkel spoke of an emergency with intensive care beds filling up in hospitals. The UK reported another 201 deaths within 28 days of testing positive for Covid on Wednesday, and a further 38,263 infections. Mrs Merkel called for a faster booster drive, adding: "It's not too late to decide to get a first vaccination." Many German regions are now only allowing vaccinated people access to most services, including bars, cafes, hairdressers and gyms. Politically the situation is complicated as the outgoing Merkel government is set to be replaced by a coalition of Social Democrats, Greens and pro-business liberals who aim to present planned Covid measures to parliament on Thursday. France is being hit by a fifth wave of Covid, according to government spokesperson Gabriel Attal, with more than 20,000 new cases reported on Wednesday for the first time since Augusts. But there are no plans beyond the current Covid passport as "we are coping better than previously thanks to the vaccines and the health pass". He said France was light years away from the situation a year ago, and anyone aged 50-64 could now make an appointment for a third Covid vaccination.
Young Dolph: Rapper fatally shot in Memphis cookie shop. US rapper Young Dolph has been killed in a drive by shooting in Memphis, officials have confirmed. The 36-year-old musician was shot dead at a cookie shop in his hometown of Memphis on Wednesday. Young Dolph, real name Adolph Robert Thornton, Jr, released his debut album in 2016 and racked up millions of video views on YouTube. Other artists including Megan Thee Stallion and Chance The Rapper have paid tribute to the star. News of Young Dolph's death was confirmed by Memphis Mayor Jim Strickland. "The tragic shooting death of rap artist Young Dolph serves as another reminder of the pain that violent crime brings with it," he said. Local media said the artist was fatally shot while visiting the Makeda's Homemade Butter Cookies store near the city's airport just before 13:00 local time (19:00 GMT) on Wednesday. His cousin told The Daily Memphian that the star had been visiting his sick aunt and was also set to hand out Thanksgiving turkeys, something he did every year. A representative for APA agency, which lists the rapper as a client, said in a statement that the company was "shocked and deeply saddened" at the star's death. "The world has lost an icon, a great man and beloved artist who has been taken too soon," the statement said. Young Dolph had been the target of shootings in the past. In February 2017, the rapper said his vehicle had been shot at multiple times in Charlotte. Then in September the same year, he was injured in a shooting in Los Angeles. A number of well-known figures in the US have paid tribute to Young Dolph including Rick Ross. Megan Thee Stallion described Young Dolph as a friend and "true legend". The pair released a song together in 2020.
US tourists fined for sneaking into Rome's Colosseum for a beer. If you've travelled to Rome, you may have been warned that drinks in popular tourist spots can be rather expensive. Well, earlier this week, two American travellers likely racked up one of the priciest drinks bills in the Italian capital's long history. The pair, both in their 20s, snuck into the Colosseum in the early hours of Monday morning to enjoy a beer. They were spotted sitting on the second ring of the ancient gladiator stadium at about 05:30 local time (04:30 GMT). However, entry to the almost 2,000-year-old landmark is prohibited overnight. And while the drinks and the scenic surroundings may have been enjoyable at the time, it is unlikely to be something they repeat. That's because the pair, who have not been named by police, were fined 800 euros ($905; £670) after they admitted illegally entering the Colosseum. That's a pretty expensive round. While the coronavirus pandemic has hurt tourism, the Colosseum remains one of Italy's most visited landmarks. It was the biggest amphitheatre in the Roman Empire, famous for hosting gladiatorial fights and other public spectacles in front of crowds of tens of thousands. The monument attracted about 7.6 million visitors in 2019. And if you're thinking of going yourself - make sure to visit during opening hours. You can always enjoy a drink at one of the city's many bars afterwards.
Poland border crisis: Belarus moves migrants stranded in camp. Belarus has said temporary shelter has been provided for about 1,000 migrants who had been camping on its border with Poland, trying to get into the EU. Poland confirmed that the large migrant camp on Belarus's side of the border was emptying on Wednesday. For months, thousands of men, women and children have been amassing at Belarus's western borders. Belarus has been accused of pushing migrants, mostly from the Middle East, to the border to destabilise the EU. Belarus's long-time authoritarian leader, Alexander Lukashenko, has repeatedly denied luring migrants to the border in revenge for EU sanctions. The border crisis reached boiling point on Tuesday after Polish forces used tear gas and water cannon to repel migrants trying to cross into the country. Some of the migrants attempted to breach a heavily fortified crossing and threw missiles at the Polish forces, leaving several with injuries. The migrants have been living in camps in freezing conditions and with little food or water just inside Belarus, stranded between Polish guards on one side and Belarusian guards on the other. But after more than a week of stalemate, Belarus said it had opened a temporary shelter for them in a transport and logistics centre near the Kuznica checkpoint, where in recent days, thousands have gathered, hoping for a way into Poland and the European Union. Belarusian state news agency Belta showed pictures of migrants lying on the floor of the facility with mattresses, blankets and food packages. Many in the group are Iraqi citizens, and the news agency said a lot of them still intended to enter the EU. "We will not return to Iraq. It's very bad there. For the sake of the future of our children, we want to go to Germany," one woman said. Earlier, Poland's deputy interior minister Maciej Wasik said Mr Lukashenko had, for the first time, sent buses to collect migrants on the border. "The camp near Kuznica is slowly emptying," Mr Wasik told Poland's TV Republika. Video footage from Poland's border guard agency appeared to show the migrants leaving the camp on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Iraqi Airways confirmed it would send a plane to Belarus on Thursday to take its citizens home. The EU has asked Middle Eastern countries to stop flights to Belarus and several have agreed. Poland, with EU backing, is determined not to let the migrants into the bloc and has warned that the border and humanitarian crisis may go on for months. "We have to prepare for the fact that the situation on the Polish-Belarusian border will not be resolved quickly," Polish Defence Minister Mariusz Blaszczak said. European officials have accused Mr Lukashenko of orchestrating a scheme to entice migrants to the border with the false promise of easy entry into the EU. Calling the accusations "absurd", Mr Lukashenko's government has criticised the EU for not taking in the migrants and pushing them back at the border. Poland has been accused of pushing people back across the border into Belarus, contrary to international rules of asylum. EU-Belarus relations have been severely strained since Mr Lukashenko declared victory in a discredited presidential election last year and tried to silence dissenting voices. VOICES: The lives entangled in the Poland-Belarus crisisREALITY CHECK: What routes do migrants use to reach Minsk?BEHIND THE SCENES: How social media posts fuelled the Belarus crisis Outgoing German Chancellor Angela Merkel has tried to defuse the border crisis by discussing the issue with him several times this week, stressing the need to let the United Nations provide aid to the stranded migrants. He has previously threatened to retaliate to a new round of EU sanctions, which European officials approved earlier this week. On Wednesday, the Belarusian government said it would stop supplying electricity to Ukraine - an EU ally - within the next 24 hours. In a statement, the Belarusian government cited "contractual relations" as the reason for terminating electricity supplies. But it was not immediately clear if this was part of any retaliatory act by Belarus.
US annual drug overdose deaths hit record levels. More than 100,000 Americans have died of drug overdoses over a year-long period during the Covid-19 pandemic. It is the highest yearly death toll from drugs ever recorded in the US. Data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shows that overdose deaths rose 28.5% in the 12 months ending this past April. Experts believe that overdoses likely spiked because of the psychological toll of the pandemic and more synthetic opioids like fentanyl in the supply. Overdoses rose in all but four of 50 US states. Using data from death certificates, the CDC estimates that 100,306 people between April 2020 and April 2021, compared to 78,056 deaths reported the year prior. Katherine Keyes, a drug abuse expert and associate professor of epidemiology at Columbia University, told the BBC that while overdose deaths have been rising "exponentially" over the last several years, the pandemic "added fuel to that fire". "The data that is available indicates that there were more people using drugs alone, which we know is a risk factor for overdose," she explained. "There was also a decrease in access to services that might support overdose prevention, harm reduction, treatment and recovery." The number of deaths from drugs has now surpassed those from guns, car crashes and the flu. The highest increase in overdose deaths was recorded in Vermont, where the number of fatalities rose 70% to 209. Vermont was followed by West Virginia (62%) and Kentucky (55%). The other public health crisis killing Canadians Ms Keyes said that the rise of synthetic opioids - particularly fentanyl - are "among the most central contributors" to the rise in overdose deaths. Users of other drugs, such as cocaine or methamphetamine, are increasingly testing positive for fentanyl. "It's kind of a moving epidemic that was really concentrated on people who primarily used opioids such as heroin, but now is kind of spreading out into people who are using other drugs as well," she added. "That really accelerates the overdose deaths that we're seeing to a broader range of drug users." Shannon Monnat, the director of the Lerner Center for Public Health Promotion at Syracuse University, said that the overdose deaths are "an American tragedy, and it is preventable". "Even after Covid is over, overdoses will likely continue to increase," she said. "We have to attack this crisis from multiple angles." Among the possible solutions, she said, are fentanyl test strips and supervised consumption sites where users can be monitored and connected to recovery and healthcare services. "But beyond this, we need to recognise that the increase in drug use disorders over the past 20 to 30 years is a symptom of much larger social and economic problems," Ms Monnat added. "Ultimately, solutions to combat our drug overdose crisis will only be effective if they address the long-term social and economic determinants that are at the foundation of the crisis."
Malcolm X's 1965 assassination: Convictions of two men to be quashed. A senior US prosecutor says two men convicted of the murder in 1965 of the US civil rights leader Malcolm X are to have their convictions quashed. Muhammad Aziz and Khalil Islam did not get the justice they deserved, the Manhattan District Attorney says. Prosecutor Cyrus Vance Jr told the New York Times that the FBI and police had withheld evidence that would have likely resulted in their acquittal. Malcolm X was shot dead at a New York City ballroom in front of his family. Aziz and Islam - along with a third man, Thomas Hagan - were convicted of the murder, and sentenced to life in prison. The three men - members of the Nation of Islam political and religious movement - have all since been paroled. Islam died in 2009. In an interview with the New York Times newspaper, Mr Vance apologised on behalf of the law enforcement agencies, saying they had failed Aziz's and Islam's families. "This points to the truth that law enforcement over history has often failed to live up to its responsibilities. "These men did not get the justice that they deserved." Mr Vance tweeted that more information would be given on Thursday. In 2020, the Manhattan District Attorney launched a review of the convictions after meeting representatives of the Innocence Project, a non-profit legal group campaigning for justice for individuals it said had been wrongly convicted. Earlier this year Malcolm X's daughters requested that the murder investigation be reopened in light of new evidence. They cited a deathbed letter from a man who was a policeman at the time of the 1965 killing, alleging New York police and the FBI conspired in the murder. Malcolm X's family seeks to reopen murder inquiry Malcolm X was a charismatic advocate for black empowerment. After years as the prominent spokesman for the Nation of Islam - which advocated separatism for black Americans - his views later became more moderate. He was 39 when he was killed.
Capitol riot: Steve Bannon pleads not guilty to contempt of Congress charge. Former Trump strategist Steve Bannon has filed a not guilty plea to contempt of Congress charges after he refused to give evidence about the Capitol riot. Mr Bannon surrendered to the FBI on Monday, two days after being charged by the Department of Justice. He has vowed to fight the charges. Lawmakers investigating the 6 January attack had summoned him to testify on what he knew about riot plans. He faces up to a year in prison and a $100,000 (£74,100) fine if convicted. Mr Bannon is accused of one count of refusing to appear for a deposition and one count of refusing to provide subpoenaed documents to a committee investigating the riot. He filed the not guilty plea on Wednesday. Mr Bannon was expected to issue the plea in court on Thursday, but his lawyers have requested the judge to waive the proceeding. His indictment is the first to come out of the House of Representatives Select Committee's inquiry into the Capitol riot. The 6 January riot saw supporters of former President Donald Trump storming Congress as results of the 2020 election were being certified inside. According to subpoena documents, Mr Bannon said on the eve of the riot that "all hell is going to break loose tomorrow". His lawyers have argued that his communications involving the former president are protected. On Monday, the right-wing podcast host lashed out at the Biden administration and vowed that "this is going to be the misdemeanour from hell". Mr Bannon told reporters he believes the charges are politically motivated and vowed to fight them. The court has mandated that Mr Bannon check in weekly, remain at his listed address and notify plans to leave the Washington area. He has also been forced to surrender his passport.
US Congress punishes lawmaker over violent clip. The US House of Representatives has voted to punish a Republican lawmaker who tweeted a cartoon depicting him attacking Democrats with swords. The Democratic-controlled Congress voted 223-207 to censure Arizona Congressman Paul Gosar and remove him from his committee roles. It came after he posted then deleted an anime video that Democrats say promoted violence against President Joe Biden and lawmaker Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. He has called it a "symbolic cartoon". It comes just 10 months after supporters of Republican President Donald Trump stormed Congress in an attempt to block the certification of Mr Biden's election victory. The vote largely fell along party lines, with only two Republicans voting to censure Mr Gosar. Ahead of the vote, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said that "this is about workplace harassment and violence against women." "Yet, the member has never apologised for his actions. 'It's a cartoon, relax,' he said. Really?," Pelosi said. Mr Gosar, for his part, said he rejects "the false narrative" that he espouses violence and said the video depicts "a policy battle". Earlier this year Democrats stripped another Republican lawmaker, Marjorie Taylor Greene, of committee assignments for past remarks that included support for violence against Democrats. Conservatives accused them of hypocrisy for taking no punitive action against a Democratic lawmaker, Ilhan Omar, who made remarks that were construed as anti-Semitic. US lawmaker defends 'offensive' Israel remark The House resolution, which was posted online on Tuesday, calls for Mr Gosar to be removed from the Committee on Oversight and the Natural Resources Committee. The 90-second video posted on 8 November featured an edited version of a Japanese anime cartoon interspersed with scenes from the US-Mexico border. In one portion, characters whose faces were replaced by Mr Gosar and other prominent conservative Republicans were shown fighting other characters. One character, who had been made to look like New York congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, was seen being hit in the neck with a sword. A character altered to look like Mr Biden was also seen being attacked. In response, top Democrat Nancy Pelosi tweeted that "threats of violence against Members of Congress and the President of the United States must not be tolerated". Mr Gosar has denied the video was inciting violence. In a statement, he said "the cartoon depicts the symbolic nature of a battle between lawful and unlawful policies and in no way intended to be a targeted attack against Representative Cortez or Mr Biden. "It is a symbolic cartoon. It is not real life." Paul Gosar: Siblings savage congressman in attack ad Twitter added a warning label to the tweet, after determining it had violated the company's rules on "hateful conduct". While attending the COP26 climate summit in Glasgow, Scotland, Ms Ocasio-Cortez called Mr Gosar "creepy" and described his tweet as a "fantasy video of him killing me". Mr Gosar has previously drawn scrutiny for spreading false information about the 2020 presidential election and appearing at a rally where a far-right activist spoke in favour of white nationalism.
Probe after British F-35 fighter crashes in Mediterranean. A British F-35 fighter jet has crashed into the sea during a routine operation in the Mediterranean, the Ministry of Defence has said. The pilot ejected and has safely returned to the Royal Navy aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth and an investigation has begun, the MoD added. The incident occurred at 10:00 GMT over international waters and no other aircraft were involved. The MoD said it would be inappropriate to comment during the investigation. Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said the jet came down soon after take off. He said: "We are pleased the pilot is safe and well and back on board." Mr Wallace added that operational and training flights onboard HMS Queen Elizabeth are continuing despite the incident. There are eight UK F-35Bs on the carrier and 10 from the US Marine Corps. They have conducted around 2,000 take-off and landings on board HMS Queen Elizabeth without any major incident over the past six months. The aircraft are Britain's most advanced and expensive jets. Costing almost £100m, they can land vertically, similar to the Harrier Jump Jet, and combine radar-evading stealth technology with supersonic speeds. With the pilot having ejected and now back on board, efforts now will be to recover the jet, each of which costs around £100m. The F-35 is packed with highly sensitive technology and data. The US-designed stealth jet - hard to detect on radar - is one of the most expensive defence projects undertaken by the American military. This is the first time a UK F-35 has crashed, but there have been several involving US jets. In 2018 the Pentagon briefly grounded its entire fleet of F-35s after the discovery of problems with the advanced fighter's fuel tubes. Those had been resolved. An investigation is already under way into why the British jet came down. With no other aircraft involved or hostile actions that investigation is likely to focus on a technical failure or potential human error. Jets from HMS Queen Elizabeth previously participated in strikes against the remnants of the so-called Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. The 65,000-tonne Royal Navy flagship is returning to the UK from its maiden deployment, which included exercises with the Indian military. It was part of the carrier strike group's deployment to the Indo-Pacific region amid heightened tensions with China. The F-35s are operated by the renowned 617 Squadron, known as the "Dambusters". Built by the US firm Lockheed Martin, the UK's F-35s are the B variant of the jet and are flown by pilots from the Royal Air Force and Royal Navy, based at RAF Marham in Norfolk. Foreign Secretary Liz Truss spent time on board the vessel last month on the final day of her two-day visit to India.
IBM claims advance in quantum computing. IBM has unveiled an advanced "quantum" processor that is part of an effort to build super-fast computers. These machines could revolutionise computing, harnessing the strange world of quantum physics to solve problems beyond reach for even the most advanced "classical" ones. But the hurdles in building practical, large-scale versions have kept quantum computers confined to the lab. The new chip has 127 "qubits", twice as many as the previous IBM processor. Qubits (quantum bits) are the most basic units of information in a quantum computer. The company called its new Eagle processor "a key milestone on the path towards practical quantum computation". But one quantum computing expert said more details were needed to assess whether it represented a significant advance. Google claims 'quantum supremacy' for computerQuantum computers 'one step closer'Quantum computer 'blueprint' drawn up Recent years have seen a surge of interest in the machines because of their potential to vastly improve computing power. They could be used to help develop new materials and medicines or improve aspects of artificial intelligence. Quantum computers tap into the strange way matter behaves at very small scales. In classical computers, the unit of information is called a "bit" and can have a value of either one or zero. But its equivalent in a quantum system - the qubit - can be both one and zero at the same time. This is the concept of superposition, where something can exist in multiple states at once. To harness their power, multiple qubits must be linked together, a process called entanglement. And with each additional qubit added, the computational power of the processor is effectively doubled. The Eagle processor follows the company's 65-qubit Hummingbird, unveiled in 2020, and the 27-qubit Falcon, in 2019. "The arrival of the Eagle processor is a major step towards the day when quantum computers can outperform classical computers for useful applications," senior vice-president and research director Dr Darío Gil said. "Quantum computing has the power to transform nearly every sector and help us tackle the biggest problems of our time." An important step is to demonstrate what has been loosely dubbed "quantum supremacy". In 2019, Google said its 53-qubit Sycamore quantum processor had surpassed the performance of a conventional computer - on a particular task - for the first time. Google researchers published the results in the prestigious academic journal Nature. At the time, scientists from IBM questioned some of Google's figures and its definition of quantum supremacy. Regarding the new Eagle chip, Prof Scott Aaronson, from the University of Texas at Austin, said: "I look forward to seeing the actual details." On his blog, the quantum computing expert added that information released so far by IBM lacked key parameters he used to assess quantum-computing progress. In 2016, IBM was the first company to put quantum computing on to the cloud, opening up access to the machines for more users. Follow Paul on Twitter.
