Chris Cuomo: CNN fires presenter over help he gave politician brother. US anchor Chris Cuomo has been fired by CNN for help he gave his brother, ex-New York governor Andrew Cuomo, while he was battling harassment allegations. The decision came after CNN said additional information had emerged over the extent of Chris Cuomo's involvement in his older brother's defence. Andrew Cuomo resigned in August after prosecutors said he had harassed staff. Chris Cuomo, 51, said in a statement that he was disappointed and it was "not how I want my time at CNN to end". He had worked for the network since 2013 and became one of its most recognisable news presenters, most recently leading CNN's coverage of the 2020 US presidential election. A CNN statement said that a "respected law firm" had been hired to investigate Chris Cuomo's efforts to help his politician brother fight allegations of sexual harassment. But while that review was happening, "new information has come to light" leading to the network terminating his contract, "effective immediately". Chris Cuomo had already been suspended by CNN on Tuesday after the extent of his behind-the-scenes efforts to help with the scandal were revealed. At that time, the network said that while it "appreciated the unique position [Chris Cuomo] was in and understood his need to put family first and job second", the advice he offered to his brother was a breach of journalistic ethics. Documents released by New York Attorney General Letitia James on Monday showed that the younger Cuomo continuously pressed the governor's staff to let him play a larger role in his brother's defence. "You need to trust me," he texted Melissa DeRosa, his brother's secretary, in March, adding: "We are making mistakes we can't afford." He also pledged to contact other US media outlets to try and learn of other allegations that were forthcoming. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter In a staff email seen by the New York Times, CNN's President Jeff Zucker said: "It goes without saying that these decisions are not easy, and there are a lot of complex factors involved." The star anchor's dismissal will raise serious questions about journalistic standards in the US. CNN's media correspondent Brian Stelter said that "viewers need to be able to trust what they're hearing here on television when we're covering a sensitive story, even if it involves the family member of a colleague". The Cuomo family has long been one of the most dominant dynasties in US politics. Andrew Cuomo was elected to three successive terms as New York governor and their father Mario led the state for over a decade between 1983 and 1994. Prior to his resignation in October, Andrew Cuomo was a leading political figure, before after an investigation conducted by his own Attorney General concluded that he had sexually harassed and groped 11 women working for him.
CNN's Chris Cuomo suspended over help to governor brother. CNN star Chris Cuomo has been suspended indefinitely over help he gave his ex-New York governor brother while he was battling sex abuse allegations. The decision came after the New York attorney general released new documents that showed the extent of his work for his older sibling, Andrew Cuomo. CNN said the documents show "a greater level of involvement in his brother's efforts than we previously knew". Andrew Cuomo resigned in August after prosecutors said he harassed staff. Chris Cuomo's behind-the-scenes efforts to help his politician brother were widely considered a breach of journalistic ethics in the media industry. The thousands of pages release by Attorney General Letitia James on Monday show that the younger Cuomo continuously pressed the governor's staff to let him play a larger role in his brother's defence. "You need to trust me," he texted Melissa DeRosa, the governor's secretary, in March. "We are making mistakes we can't afford," he added. Last year CNN briefly suspended its rule barring Cuomo from covering his brother as New York became the global epicentre of the coronavirus pandemic. The host began interviewing his brother on air and praising his leadership as governor. The network had previously defended Cuomo, who joined the channel in 2013, amid the controversy surrounding his efforts to help his powerful brother. But CNN said in a statement on Tuesday: "The documents, which we were not privy to before their public release, raise serious questions. "When Chris admitted to us that he had offered advice to his brother's staff, he broke our rules and we acknowledged that publicly. "But we also appreciated the unique position he was in and understood his need to put family first and job second. "However, these documents point to a greater level of involvement in his brother's efforts than we previously knew." Scores of emails and text messages show the involvement the TV anchor had with the governor's staff. "Please let me help with the prep," he texted a senior aide. He also pledged to contact other US media outlets in order to try to learn of other allegations that were forthcoming. At one point, Ms DeRosa asked him to help by checking his "sources". "On it," the primetime host responded. Fox host condemned over Fauci Nazi doctor commentsChris Cuomo: Is 'Fredo' considered an Italian slur? A state investigation in March concluded that Andrew Cuomo, whose father was also a Democratic New York governor, sexually harassed and groped 11 women working for him. Once lavished with praise by US media for his daily Covid briefings in 2020, Mr Cuomo found himself facing pressure to resign from members of his own party, including President Joe Biden. The younger Cuomo apologised in May this year for his discussions with his brother's team, and maintained he was a staunch defender of sexual abuse victims.
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo resigns in wake of harassment report. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo has resigned after an inquiry found that he sexually harassed multiple women, prompting efforts to remove him. "The best way I can help now is if I step aside," he said, while continuing to deny the claims. The resignation will take effect in 14 days. Lt Governor Kathy Hochul will become the first woman to lead New York state. Mr Cuomo had been facing pressure to resign from fellow Democrats, including President Joe Biden. Just a year ago he was basking in adulation as millions of Americans tuned in daily to his no-nonsense televised briefings on the coronavirus pandemic. Mr Cuomo is the third New York governor in a row to leave office under a cloud of scandal. The independent investigation by the New York Attorney General's office found that Mr Cuomo, 63, sexually harassed 11 women, including state employees. Women alleged that he made sexual comments, inappropriately touched or groped them, and kissed them without consent. The report led many prominent Democrats to turn against Mr Cuomo, including Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi, Senate leader Chuck Schumer and New York's two US senators. His fellow New York Democrats had begun plans to impeach him. He is still facing criminal investigations relating to the harassment claims. As he announced his resignation on Tuesday, Mr Cuomo continued to deny allegations of sexual harassment but said he wanted to "deeply, deeply" apologise to any women who may have been offended by his actions. "In my mind I've never crossed the line with anyone. but I didn't realise the extent to which the line has been redrawn," he said. He added that his instinct was "to fight through this controversy, because I believe it is politically motivated". But he said he was resigning because the "current trajectory" of the scandal would generate months of distractions and "cost taxpayers millions of dollars". Mr Cuomo said the allegations had harmed his relationship with his daughters. "I have sat on the couch with them, hearing the ugly accusations for weeks. I have seen the look in their eyes, and the expression on their faces. It hurt," he said. He said he told them he "never did and would never intentionally disrespect a woman". Following Mr Cuomo's announcement, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, a long-time critic of the governor, said "it was past time" for him to resign. "I respect the governor's decision," Mr Biden told reporters at the White House. "I respect the decision he made." White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki earlier said the president had not spoken to his old friend since the report was published and did not have advance notice of his resignation. Mr Cuomo's brother, CNN primetime anchor Chris Cuomo, has also faced calls to resign after it emerged he had been advising the governor ahead of his Tuesday announcement. The younger Cuomo in May had apologised to viewers for strategizing with his brother about how to handle the initial misconduct claims. He recused himself from covering the matter on air, and has not commented on the official report. He has since gone on holiday. A separate federal inquiry is also looking into whether the governor's office deliberately undercounted the number of Covid deaths in New York care homes. This is a stunning reversal of fortunes for a former heavyweight of the Democratic Party - who was hailed as a national hero during the Covid pandemic just last year. His image now is closer to that of a villain. Before the report came out - and initially after its release - Andrew Cuomo tried to survive the scandal. He knew the #MeToo movement had changed the conversation around sexual assault, after all he had passed legislation with new protections for victims. So in public statements he tried, in a sense, to have it both ways. He said women should be heard, but then tried to discredit his accusers. He said what the women had described as sexual advances were in his view harmless gestures that arose from his upbringing and culture's physical warmth. The pressure did not let up and it became increasingly clear that Andrew Cuomo was backed into a corner. Still, when the resignation announcement did come from this defiant politician, it was major surprise that rocked New York and the country. Kathy Hochul will become the first female governor of the fourth most populous US state. The 62-year-old is a centrist Democrat from the Buffalo area of New York state. She joined the governor's team in 2014, and has held the largely ceremonial role of lieutenant governor. She was not part of Mr Cuomo's inner circle, but he described her on Tuesday as "smart and competent". Ms Hochul had joined the chorus of politicians denouncing the New York governor last week, and said his resignation on Tuesday was the "right thing to do". "As someone who has served at all levels of government and is next in the line of succession, I am prepared to lead as New York State's 57th Governor," she said in a statement. It's unclear whether she will seek a full term in the 2022 election.
Indonesia volcano: Dozens injured as residents flee huge ash cloud from Mt Semeru. One person has died and dozens are injured after a volcano erupted on Indonesia's Java island, officials said on Saturday. Residents were filmed fleeing a giant ash cloud from Mt Semeru. Witnesses described nearby villages covered in debris, and thick smoke blotting out the Sun, leaving them in pitch darkness. The deputy chief of Lumajang district put the number of injured at 41, saying they had suffered burns. Indah Masdar called for helicopters to help rescue at least 10 people trapped in buildings. "We're in big distress," she said. "It's harrowing, their families are all crying." Indonesia's disaster mitigation agency (BNPB) later said it knew of 35 people being treated at local medical facilities. Evacuation efforts have been hampered by choking smoke, a power blackout, and rainstorms during the eruption which turned the debris into mud. Thoriqul Haq, a local official, told Reuters that a road and bridge from the area to the nearby city of Malang had been severed. "This has been a very pressing, rapid condition since it erupted," he said. Several hundred people have been moved to shelters or left for safer areas, local broadcaster tvOne quoted him as saying. The eruption took place at about 14:30 local time (07:30 GMT). Local authorities have set up a restricted zone within 5km (3 miles) from the crater. Airlines have been warned of an ash cloud rising up to 15,000m (50,000 ft). The Volcanic Ash Advisory Center (VAAC) in Darwin, Australia said the ash appeared to have detached from the summit and was drifting south-west over the Indian Ocean. The VAAC provides advice to the aviation industry about the location and movement of potentially hazardous volcanic ash. Campbell Biggs, a meteorologist at the VAAC, told the BBC that the 15,000m plume was higher than the cruising altitude for most aircraft and would cause most flights in the vicinity to divert their flight paths to avoid it. Ash that solidifies on cooler parts of plane engines can disrupt airflow, which can lead to engines stalling or failing completely. It also affects visibility for the pilots and can affect air quality in the cabin - making oxygen masks a necessity. Mt Semeru was quite an active volcano that regularly spewed ash up to about 4,300m, so Saturday's eruption was a "pretty significant increase in intensity", Mr Biggs said. What does volcanic ash do to planes? The ash cloud should slowly dissipate, he said. Mt Semeru rises 3,676m above sea level and previously erupted last December, forcing thousands of residents to seek shelter. It is among Indonesia's nearly 130 active volcanoes. Indonesia is on the Pacific "Ring of Fire" where continental plates meet, causing frequent volcanic and seismic activity. Videos shared by emergency officials and local media showed residents running away as a giant ash cloud rose behind them. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter How have you been affected by the volcano erupting? Email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Or Upload your pictures/video hereTweet: @BBC_HaveYourSayPlease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission.
Michigan school shooting: Suspect's parents deny involuntary manslaughter. The parents of a teenager suspected of a deadly school shooting have denied charges of involuntary manslaughter following their arrest on Saturday. James and Jennifer Crumbley were found hiding in a Detroit basement having failed to show up in court on Friday. The judge set bail at $500,000 each after agreeing with prosecutors that the Crumbleys posed a flight risk. They are accused of ignoring warning signs before their son's alleged rampage. Prosecutors say Ethan Crumbley, 15, used his father's gun to shoot classmates in the nearby Michigan town of Oxford, killing four and wounding seven. The Crumbleys' lawyers said that the pair had intended to turn themselves in to the authorities on Saturday morning, according to US media. However reports in the US say the couple had withdrawn $4,000 (£3,000) from an ATM and had turned off their mobile phones. Ethan Crumbley is alleged to have opened fire on fellow students and teachers at his school in Oxford, about 35 miles (60 km) north of Detroit, on Tuesday. The four killed were Tate Myre, 16, Madisyn Baldwin, 17, Hana St Juliana, 14, and Justin Shilling, 17. Ethan Crumbley is being charged as an adult, and is facing one count of terrorism, four counts of first-degree murder, seven counts of assaults with intent to murder and 12 counts of possession of a firearm. Oakland County lead prosecutor Karen McDonald said the terrorism charge was neither "usual" nor "typical" but reflected the wider impact the shooting would have. "What about all the children who ran, screaming, hiding under desks? What about all the children at home right now who can't eat and can't sleep and can't imagine a world where they could ever step foot back in that school?" she said. "Those are victims, too, and so are their families and so is the community. The charge of terrorism reflects that." On Friday, Ms McDonald acknowledged that charging parents in a child's alleged crime was also unusual. According to her office's investigation, the boy was with his father last Friday when Mr Crumbley bought the firearm believed to have been used in the shooting. A post on the boy's social media later that day showed off his dad's new weapon as "my new beauty", adding a heart emoji. America's gun culture in chartsHow a medieval English law affects guns in New York Just one day before the shooting, a teacher said she saw the boy searching online for ammunition, which prompted a meeting with school officials, Ms McDonald said. After being informed of the incident, Mrs Crumbley texted her son: "LOL I'm not mad at you. You have to learn not to get caught." And on Tuesday morning - hours before the rampage - Mr and Mrs Crumbley were called into the school for an urgent meeting after teachers found a note by their son, including several drawings of guns and bloodied people alongside captions like "the thoughts won't stop. Help me", and "blood everywhere". The boy had also written "My life is useless" and "The world is dead", according to the prosecutor. School officials told the pair they would have to seek counselling for their son. But the boy's parents did not want him to be removed from school that day, Ms McDonald said, and did not ask him whether he had the gun with him, or search his backpack. At 13:22 later that day, Mrs Crumbley texted her son to say: "Ethan, don't do it." Minutes later her husband called police to report his gun was missing, said the prosecutor. But authorities say the boy had already emerged from the school bathroom and opened fire on fellow students. Ms McDonald said the charges were meant to hold the Crumbleys accountable and to send a message about responsible gun ownership. "The notion that a parent could read those words and also know that their son had access to a deadly weapon that they gave him is unconscionable, and it's criminal," she said. The prosecutor had previously noted that, although the gun had been purchased legally, it "seems to have just been freely available" for the child's use. According to her, the suspect took the gun from an unlocked drawer in his parents' bedroom and brought it to school. Neither federal nor state law requires gun owners to keep their weapons locked away from their children. In a video message posted to YouTube on Thursday, the school's superintendent Tim Throne said that - while the boy and his parents had been called to the office - "no discipline was warranted" at the time. He added that the school looked like a "war zone" and would not be ready to operate again for weeks. Ms McDonald alleged on Friday that, when James Crumbley heard about the shooting, he "drove straight to his home to look for his gun" before calling authorities to say he suspected his son was the perpetrator. "I'm angry as a mother. I'm angry as a prosecutor. I'm angry as a person that lives in this county," she said. "There were a lot of things that could have been so simple to prevent." She said her office had "a mountain of digital evidence" to show the suspect had planned the attack "well before the incident".
Coronavirus: UK tightens travel rules amid Omicron spread. Travellers heading to the UK will now have to take a Covid test before their departure in an effort to limit spread of the virus, the government has said. Health Secretary Sajid Javid said the tightened requirements would come into force from 04:00 GMT on Tuesday. Everyone aged 12 and over will be required to take a pre-departure test a maximum of 48 hours before leaving. Currently people only need to self-isolate until they test negative within two days of arriving. Nigeria will be added from Monday to the red list of countries from where people arriving must quarantine in a hotel for 10 days, Mr Javid also confirmed. The health secretary said the government's strategy since the discovery of the Omicron variant had been to "buy time" to assess and to "put in place protective measures", adding: "We've always said that we would act swiftly should new data require it." What are the UK's new travel rules?Is Omicron more harmful than other Covid variants?First data points to Omicron re-infection risk The Department of Health and Social Care later said 21 Omicron cases linked to Nigerian travel had been discovered in recent days. Mr Javid said this number was growing and Nigeria was now second only to South Africa in terms of linked cases to Omicron. He called on people to get a booster vaccine when called to do so by the NHS, describing vaccinations as the country's "first line of defence" against coronavirus. A further 26 Omicron cases - of which 25 were recorded in England and one in Scotland -  were confirmed in the UK on Saturday. Those cases took the total for England to 129. Scotland has so far recorded 30 cases while one case was identified in Wales, bringing the total for the UK as a whole to 160. The Scottish and Welsh governments have confirmed they will also bring in the updated measures for travellers following the assessment of the UK Health Security Agency. The moves come after pressure on the UK government to tighten the policy on overseas arrivals. Last week the government's scientific advisory body Sage said pre-departure tests for those arriving in the UK would be valuable, in the leaked minutes of a meeting seen by the BBC. Following the latest announcement Labour's shadow health secretary Wes Streeting called for further action and for the number of booster jabs given to be increased to 500,000 per day. In a tweet he said: "Finally the health secretary accepts Labour's call for pre-departure tests, but why up to 48 hours before flight?" by Katy Austin, BBC transport correspondent While Labour has pushed for pre-departure testing to avoid Omicron spreading, travel businesses will see it as a significant setback - just when green shoots of recovery were emerging. Airlines have supported the red list re-introduction and extension. But they view the introduction of blanket restrictions as unnecessary and ineffective. There was already concern in the industry that people's confidence to travel, and to book future trips, would be knocked by the requirement to take a PCR test within 48 hours of arriving in the UK, and the need to self-isolate until a negative result. The fear is this latest measure will provide a further deterrent. Also, the addition of another country to the red list comes as some UK residents in South Africa are still struggling to get home, because they can't find quarantine hotel rooms available on the day their flight arrives. Earlier this week, Downing Street said any further testing requirement would have a detrimental effect on the travel industry and those planning to go travelling. Commenting on the announcement, British Airways' Chairman Sean Doyle said the move was "completely out of step with the rest of the world, with every other country taking a measured approach based on the science". "Our customers will now be faced with uncertainty and chaos and yet again this a devastating blow for everyone who works in the travel industry," he added. Airlines UK said the change was a "premature" move that would "hit industry and passengers before we see the full data" on the effect of the Omicron variant. The trade body added: "The red list extension made complete sense - that's what it's there for - but we know from experience that blanket restrictions do not stop the importation of variants. "It's already here. They've now changed their travel advice twice within a week. It's impossible for anyone to plan." Travel association Abta said the re-introduction of pre-departure tests would be "a huge blow" to "an already devastated travel industry". The group called for the government "to step up to save jobs and businesses" and for the cost of PCR tests to be reduced. Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said additional caution is needed as scientists continue to work to understand the new variant. In a tweet he said: "We appreciate this will be difficult for the travel sector as we prioritise public health and protect the progress of our world-leading vax and booster programme." WHAT RISK DOES AI POSE TO OUR FUTURE?: Stuart Russell explores the future of Artificial IntelligenceTHE FAMOUS PHOTO OF A US PRESIDENT THAT'S ACTUALLY FAKE: How long has catfishing been around for?
Pacific Ocean garbage patch is immense plastic habitat. Scientists have discovered marine animals living on plastic debris in an area of the open ocean dubbed "the Great Pacific Garbage Patch". Many of the creatures are coastal species, living miles from their usual habitats, on a patch halfway between the coast of California and Hawaii. Plants and animals, including anemones, tiny marine bugs, molluscs and crabs, were found on 90% of the debris. Scientists are concerned that plastic may help transport invasive species. The study examined plastic items more than 5cm (2in) in diameter gathered from a gyre - an area where circulating currents cause floating debris to accumulate - in the Pacific. Lead researcher Dr Linsey Haram, who carried out the work at the Smithsonian Environmental Research Centre, said: "Plastics are more permanent than many of the natural debris that you previously have seen in the open ocean. They're creating a more permanent habitat in this area." Dr Haram worked with the Ocean Voyages Institute, a charity that collects plastic pollution on sailing expeditions, and with oceanographers from the University of Hawaii at Manoa. The world has at least five plastic-infested gyres. This one is thought to hold the most floating plastic - an estimated 79,000 tonnes in a region of more than 610,000 square miles (1.6m sq km). "All sorts of stuff ends up out there," said Dr Haram. "It's not an island of plastic, but there's definitely a large amount of plastic corralled there." Much of that is micro-plastic - very difficult to see with the naked eye. But there are also larger items, including abandoned fishing nets, buoys and even vessels that have been floating in the gyre since the Japanese tsunami in 2011. The researchers, who reported their findings in the journal Nature Communications, initially embarked on the investigation following that devastating tsunami. The disaster caused tonnes of debris to be ejected into the Pacific ocean, and hundreds of coastal Japanese marine species were found alive on items that landed on the shores of the North American Pacific coast and the Hawaiian Islands. "We want to get a handle on how plastics may be a transport for invasive species to coasts," Dr Haram told BBC News. Some of the organisms the researchers found on the plastic items they examined were open-ocean species - organisms that survive by "rafting" on floating debris. But the most eye-opening finding, Dr Haram said, was the diversity of coastal species on the plastic. "Well over half of the items had coastal species on them," she said. "That creates a lot of questions about what it means to be a coastal species." The scientists said the discovery highlighted another "unintended consequence" of plastic pollution - a problem only expected to grow. One previous study estimated that a total of 25,000 million tonnes of plastic waste would be generated by 2050. Follow Victoria on Twitter
Biden and Putin to hold call amid Ukraine invasion fears. US President Joe Biden and Russia's Vladimir Putin will speak via video call on Tuesday, the White House says, amid mounting tensions over Ukraine. It comes after Secretary of State Antony Blinken said the US had evidence that Russia had made plans for a "large scale" attack on Ukraine. But he added it was unclear if Mr Putin had made a final decision to invade. Russia has denied any such intention, and accused Ukraine of executing its own troop build-up. In a statement released on Saturday evening, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said that Mr Biden will "underscore US concerns with Russian military activities on the border with Ukraine and reaffirm the United States' support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine" during his call with the Russian president. Ukraine says Russia has deployed armoured vehicles, electronic warfare systems and 94,000 troops along their shared border. It is the largest massing of Russian forces on its borders since it annexed Crimea from Ukraine in 2014. Citing intelligence reports, Ukraine's Defence Minister Oleksii Reznikov said Moscow could be planning a military offensive at the end of January. The Russian troop movement has strained already tense relations between Russia and the US. EXPLAINER: Why Russia is stoking border tensions with Ukraine On Friday, Mr Biden warned he would make it "very, very difficult" for Mr Putin to "go ahead and do what people are worried he may do". The US and its European allies have discussed imposing sanctions on Russia if it takes aggressive action. While Ukraine is not a Nato member, it has close ties with the bloc and has received Western weapons including US Javelin anti-tank missiles. Russian officials have denied any plans for an invasion, and say the border troops are there for military exercises. Moscow has accused Nato of engaging in provocative behaviour by holding drills in the Black Sea, off Crimea. Russia's foreign ministry also said Ukraine has itself sent 125,000 troops to their shared border. Kyiv declined to comment on the claim. This week Britain's most senior military officer said "we have to be on our guard" about the potential for conflict in the region. Gen Sir Nick Carter told the BBC that he "distinctly hoped" there would not be a war with Russia, but added that Nato would have to be ready for that eventuality. Tensions between Russia and Ukraine are nothing new. In 2014 Russia annexed Ukraine's Crimean Peninsula and soon after started to back a separatist insurgency in Ukraine's east. More recently, Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky has imposed sanctions on a powerful friend of President Putin and banned broadcasts by three pro-Russian TV stations. Presidents Biden and Putin held their only face-to-face talks in Geneva in June. Reuters reports that their last phone call was on 9 July.
Bolsonaro: Brazilian Supreme Court opens investigation into vaccine comments. Brazil's Supreme Court has opened an inquiry into comments made by President Jair Bolsonaro wrongly claiming that Covid-19 vaccines may increase the chance of contracting Aids. The comments, made during a social media livestream in October saw him temporarily banned from Facebook and YouTube under their fake news policies. Mr Bolsonaro has frequently cast doubt over the effectiveness of vaccines. He is already facing a separate inquiry into his handling of the pandemic. During the livestream on 24 October, Mr Bolsonaro claimed that reports "suggest that people who are fully vaccinated against Covid-19 are developing Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (Aids) much faster than expected". The assertion has been strongly rejected by scientists and medical experts. The embattled president, who has refused to get vaccinated himself, has defended the comments and claimed that he was simply quoting from an article in a magazine. On Friday, Supreme Court Justice Alexandre de Moraes ruled that Mr Bolsonaro had "used the modus operandi of mass dissemination schemes in social networks" which called for further investigation. Brazil's leader defiant as Covid inquiry launchedWhy could Brazil's president face criminal charges? Mr de Moraes instructed Brazil's top prosecutor, Augusto Aras, to try to establish whether the president's comments are linked to a group of his supporters who are currently being investigated for the large-scale production of fake news. The group, known in local media as the Office of Hate, has spread misinformation throughout the pandemic and has called for a military coup that would give Mr Bolsonaro, a former army captain, unlimited powers to rule the country. Investigations into the group have already seen the arrest of a number of the president's allies, including Roberto Jefferson, the head of the right-wing Brazilian Labour Party. Mr Bolsonaro has come under heavy pressure in recent months and faced a number of political crises that have dented his popularity. In October, Brazilian senators voted to recommend charging him over his response to the Covid-19 pandemic. A special Senate investigative panel backed a report calling for charges to be filed against the president, including crimes against humanity. Mr Bolsonaro has maintained he is "guilty of absolutely nothing". Brazil's death toll from Covid-19 is the second highest in the world, behind the United States. More than 615,000 people have died, and 22.1 million have been infected with the virus, although there are fears the true numbers are far higher. In March, as deaths spiked, the president told Brazilians to "stop whining" and downplayed the threat of the virus, as the health system was crippled by the crisis.
Ghislaine Maxwell trial: Key moments from the first week. Prosecutors in Ghislaine Maxwell's sex trafficking trial dragged in one of paedophile Jeffrey Epstein's green massage tables to show jurors, as the first week of proceedings wrapped up in New York. The socialite, 59, is accused of grooming teenage girls for abuse by the late Epstein. She's pleaded not guilty to all the charges, which cover a period from 1994 to 2004. The opening week of the trial heard emotional testimony from some of the alleged victims of Epstein and Ms Maxwell. But there were also claims that Ms Maxwell was being targeted because Epstein, whose death in prison was ruled to be a suicide, could no longer face trial himself. Ms Maxwell, who has British, American and French citizenship, has been in a US jail since her arrest last year. She faces up to 80 years in prison if convicted. PROFILE: Who is Ghislaine Maxwell, Epstein's ex-girlfriend? Here are the key moments in her trial so far. In her opening statement on Monday, prosecutor Lara Pomerantz called Ms Maxwell a predator who recruited and groomed underage girls  for her long-term companion Epstein to abuse. "She preyed on vulnerable young girls, manipulated them, and served them up to be sexually abused," the prosecutor said. Ms Maxwell and Epstein were said to be "partners in crime" in the abuse. But the defence said Ms Maxwell was being scapegoated because Epstein was no longer alive. "The charges against Ghislaine Maxwell are for things that Jeffrey Epstein did, but she is not Jeffrey Epstein," her lawyer Bobbi Sternheim argued. On Tuesday, the trial's first witness, Epstein's long-time personal pilot Larry Visoski, told the court he flew VIPs to luxury locations worldwide. Mr Visoski recalled flying Prince Andrew, Bill Clinton and Donald Trump. None of them are accused of criminal wrongdoing. Asked to describe Ms Maxwell's standing in Epstein's operations, Mr Visoski described her as "the number two". "Epstein was the big number one," he told the court. The first of four Maxwell accusers to give evidence at the trial cried as she described being sexually abused by Epstein when she was 14. The woman, using the pseudonym Jane, said Ms Maxwell showed her how Epstein liked to be massaged, and sometimes took part in their sexual encounters. "Ghislaine was very casual, acting like it wasn't a big deal," Jane said. But on Wednesday, Ms Maxwell's defence sought to find inconsistencies in Jane's testimony. Defence lawyer Laura Menninger pointed out that Jane now worked as an actress. "You are an actor who convincingly portrays someone else for a living," the lawyer stated. "You are able to cry on command." On Thursday, Epstein's former housekeeper Juan Alessi recalled how Ms Maxwell had tightly controlled every detail in the financier's Florida mansion. Ms Maxwell was the "lady of the house", ordering staff to speak only when spoken to and to avoid eye contact with Epstein, according to Mr Alessi, who said his job included cleaning their sex toys. He said staff were given a 58-page instruction manual, warning them to keep Epstein's and Ms Maxwell's activities or whereabouts secret. "I was supposed to be blind, deaf and dumb," Mr Alessi told the court. Wrapping up a week of testimony in New York, Ms Maxwell's legal team sought to undermine the credibility of Mr Alessi during cross-examination. They challenged his recollection of meeting 14-year-old Jane in 1994, pointing to an earlier statement that he met her years later when she may have been of legal age. Later, jurors were shown a green massage table seized from Jeffrey Epstein's Palm Beach mansion during a 2005 police raid. Prosecutors have alleged that Epstein used massages as a "ruse" before escalating his encounters with young girls. Michael Dawson, a detective who took part in the 2005 search, recalled how officers found a variety of sexualised images at Epstein's home. Prosecutors also displayed a photo of a box labelled "Twin Torpedos", which Det Dawson said contained sex toys and was taken from an upstairs cupboard. Gruelling testimony in the courtroom By Pratiksha Ghildial , BBC News, New York After nearly 18 months in a New York prison, this was the week Ghislaine Maxwell finally faced her first accuser. Smartly turned out and out of her prison scrubs, the British socialite sat calmly - occasionally whispering to her lawyers, and listening intently to each testimony. In a wood-panelled Manhattan courtroom, her alleged relationship with Jeffrey Epstein was laid out for the world to see. We saw pictures from inside his Florida mansion and his infamous "portable and collapsible" massage table. Epstein's former pilot and house manager revealed a life of power and opulence socialising with the rich and famous. But for the alleged victims, the week was one of gruelling testimony of alleged abuse at Epstein's hands. In an emotional testimony, the first accuser, "Jane," described in graphic detail alleged sex acts at the hands of Epstein and Ms Maxwell. Though Epstein's shadow looms large over this trial, the prosecution tried to elucidate how Ms Maxwell may have facilitated abuse. Ms Maxwell's team, in cross-examination, alleged several inconsistencies in the accuser's statements, questioning her memory. Two of Ms Maxwell's siblings have been there to show solidarity. There was a gasp in the courtroom when one of the defence lawyers, accidently, uttered Jane's real name despite a strict anonymity order - prompting an admonishment from Judge Alison Nathan.
MH370: Could missing Malaysian Airlines plane finally be found?. The disappearance of a Malaysia Airlines flight, carrying 239 passengers and crew, is one of the world's biggest aviation mysteries. But a British aeronautical engineer, who has spent more than a year working on the disaster, thinks he has calculated where MH370 crashed. Richard Godfrey believes the Boeing 777 crashed into the Indian Ocean 2,000km west of Perth, Western Australia. The aircraft vanished from radar during a flight in March 2014. Mr Godfrey told the BBC he hoped "we'll be able to give closure to the next of kin and answers to the flying public and the aviation industry on exactly what happened with MH370 and how we prevent that in the future". He combined different data sets that were previously kept in separate domains, to align to this new location in the Southern Indian Ocean. Mr Godfrey said it was a "complicated exercise", but previously there was simply a lack of lateral thinking, across multiple disciplines, to bring this together. "No one had the idea before to combine Inmarsat satellite data, with Boeing performance data, with Oceanographic floating debris drift data, with WSPR net data," he said. Mr Godfrey said work with a team has been progressing for a year now, and "we've done quite a lot of testing of this new idea and we've came to the confidence to apply it to MH370". The exact point determined by data calculations is around 33 degrees south and 95 degrees east in the Indian Ocean. There have been two extensive searches of the Indian Ocean for MH370, which have yielded inconclusive results. The searches have cost hundreds of millions of dollars, and whilst there is demand from family members to find their loved ones, the costs associated are enormous. Grace Nathan lost her mother, Anne, in the crash. "It's really just been an ongoing nightmare. There is never an end. We just seem to be going in circles and hitting a brick wall after another. "We've been hoping for the longest time for something new - a new breakthrough, something new that would warrant the search starting again and at least there being a more precise location for the search being conducted at and to increase the odds of finding the plane" she told the BBC. Ms Nathan, a criminal defence lawyer who lives in Kuala Lumpur, wants the new data to be tested by aviation experts who can understand the science and physics behind the location and to test the theory is credible. She said: "We welcome all new findings, especially if it's based on tangible evidence. In this case it is based on tangible evidence. It's things that can be calculated. It's not based on just Google images or loose things that can't be backed up." Aviation chief quits over MH370 failingsFour-year hunt for missing MH370 endsMH370 'not brought down by rogue pilot' Previous searches for MH370 have been difficult because of the size of the search area. Mr Godfrey said: "An area as large as a 120,000 sq km has been searched and that's not looking for a needle in a haystack - that's looking for something microscopic in a haystack. It's very difficult to do." The engineer's new proposal is a circle radius of 40 nautical miles, far smaller than previous searches. "The wreckage could be behind a cliff or in a canyon on the ocean floor," he said. "And you need maybe three or four passes before you start to pick things up." The wreckage could lie as far as 4,000 metres deep, he added. More than thirty pieces of aircraft debris have been washed up on the beaches of the African coast and islands in the Indian Ocean. In 2009, Mr Godfrey was due to be a passenger on Air France 447 from Rio de Janeiro to Paris, but work plans meant he had to remain in Brazil. That flight never reached its destination and was lost in the Atlantic. From this point, he became interested in flights lost at sea and locating them. Mr Godfrey is a founding member of the MH370 Independent Group, and an engineer with a background in building automatic landing systems and autopilot systems for aircraft. He said: "I've done a lot of work on information systems and handling lots of data and that's important on this analysis. There is huge amount of data to get through and filter out the needle in the haystack." David Gleave is the chief investigator at Aviation Safety Consultants. He has worked on aeroplane crashes and disappearances for decades. Mr Gleave expects there to be a new search, saying: "The funding of the new search will be the issue. Given that we now have additional accurate data that as to where the crash site might be, that appears to be entirely credible and consistent with other theories". The timing and launch of another search will depend on the availability of specially designed equipment and also the sea state. He said: "Realistically we want to be in the Southern Ocean in the southern summer - which is about now. So quite when the search will be, it may start again in 12 months, because you can't get the assets together and on site in a short period of time. "But I think either the Chinese will take responsibility and look for their victims. Or private companies might search, sponsored by insurance companies." There were 122 Chinese nationals on board MH370, which departed from Kuala Lumpur but never reached its destination, Beijing. The vanishing has led to a huge number of theories as to what happened. One of the theories is that it was a 'pilot hijacking', where the pilot took control, and deactivated radar technology before turning around above the Gulf of Thailand and heading west. Mr Gleave said: "If you are choosing to hide the aeroplane in the Southern Indian Ocean, just make sure it was further to the west of the standard flight path, far away from beyond the range of Australia's search and rescue teams aircraft. So, this pinpointed location is consistent with that theory." The Australian Transport Safety Board (ATSB) involvement in the underwater search for MH370 concluded in October 2017. It told the BBC: "The ATSB is not involved in any contemporary efforts to establish the location of the aircraft. "Any decision to resume the search for the aircraft would be a matter for the Malaysian government, as the state of registry of the aircraft." The Malaysian government and Chinese government have been approached for a response. Grace Nathan said: "It's in the interests of global aviation safety that this plane is found so we can prevent something like this happening in the future. "It goes beyond our need for our closure."
Gambia elections: Ex-President Yahya Jammeh's shadow looms over poll. Gambians are voting in their first election since the former President Yahya Jammeh left office and fled the country in 2017. Six presidential candidates, including the incumbent Adama Barrow, are running. The election is seen as a litmus test for the West African nation's democratic transition. Some 960,000 voters, almost half of the country's population, are eligible to cast ballots. Unemployment, economic recovery from the impact of the Covid pandemic, and whether Mr Jammeh should return from exile have been the central issues in the campaign. Long queues have formed outside several polling stations, but many voters are not wearing masks or observing social distancing measures, the BBC's Thomas Naadi in the capital, Banjul, reports. The Gambia's unique marble voting system - introduced in 1965 because of the country's high illiteracy rate - is still being used. On arrival at a polling station, and after their ID has been verified, a voter will be directed to a series of drums painted in the party colours of the different candidates. Protruding from the top of each drum is a pipe into which the voter will slot a marble handed over by an election official. Why Gambians won't stop voting with marblesWho is Yahya JammehBeauty queen 'raped by Gambia's ex-President Jammeh' Mr Jammeh fled into exile in Equatorial Guinea following his shock defeat in 2017. Last week President Barrow received a long-delayed government report on alleged abuses under his 22-year rule. Hundreds of witnesses told the truth commission of state-backed executions squads and other rights violations including Aids patients being forced to take bogus cures. Mr Barrow has promised to ensure justice for the victims. The truth commission's report sets the scene for a showdown between the two men, who have already abandoned a controversial pre-election deal their parties announced in September. Six candidates in the running: Adama Barrow (National People's Party) - the incumbentOusainou Darboe (United Democratic Party) - a lawyer who briefly served as Mr Barrow's vice-president. He was part of the coalition that brought down Mr Jammeh and is contesting for a fifth time Essa Mbye Faal (Independent) - a lawyer and former lead counsel at the recently concluded TRRC. Contesting for the first timeMama Kandeh (Gambia Democratic Congress) - came third in the 2016 contest, backed by Mr JammehAbdoulie Ebrima Jammeh (National Unity Party) - a former teacher who once headed the country's civil aviation authority. Contesting for the first timeHalifa Sallah (People's Democratic Organisation for Independence and Socialism) - an MP contesting for the fifth time
Eitan Biran: Cable car survivor returned to Italy after custody battle. A six-year-old boy who was the sole survivor of a cable car crash has been returned to Italy after a bitter custody dispute. Eitan Biran's parents, brother and two great-grandparents were among 14 people killed in the accident in May. His paternal aunt, who lives in Italy, was given guardianship by an Italian judge afterwards. But in September, Eitan was flown to Israel by his maternal grandfather, Shmulik Peleg, without her permission. Mr Peleg insisted his actions were legal and in the boy's best interests, but Italian prosecutors opened a kidnapping investigation, demanding the boy's return. An Israeli court agreed that Eitan must be returned to Italy, but the transfer was delayed after his family appealed to the Supreme Court. Judges rejected that appeal last month. The Peleg family said they would continue to fight "in every legal way" to return the child to Israel. The legal battle will now continue in the Italian courts, but it is not yet clear what legal options are available. Eitan had been living in Italy for several years before the accident in northern Italy which killed his brother Tom, his parents Amit Biran and Tal Peleg, his paternal great-grandparents, and nine other people. After the boy was discharged from hospital in June, an Italian judge granted custody to his paternal aunt, Aya Biran-Nirko, an Israeli-born doctor who lives in the Italian city of Pavia. On 13 September, Eitan was taken out for the day by Mr Peleg, who had visitation rights. He travelled by car with Eitan to the Swiss city of Lugano and then flew with him to Tel Aviv in a private jet, using the boy's Israeli passport.
Belgian zoo hippos test positive for Covid. A Belgian zoo has said that its two hippopotamuses have been taken into quarantine after testing positive for coronavirus. It is unclear how Imani, aged 14, and Hermien, 41, caught the virus, Antwerp Zoo said, adding the animals were doing well - apart from having runny noses. Restrictions have been tightened at the zoo until the animals test negative. Globally, there have been several reports of captive and domesticated animals infected with Sars-CoV-2. The hippos' noses are usually wet, but vets at Antwerp Zoo decided to test the pair after they noticed they were "expelling snot". Their enclosure has been sealed off. Their handlers - who have tested negative - must wear masks and safety glasses, and disinfect their footwear before any contact with the hippos. "To my knowledge, it's the first recorded contamination among this species. Throughout the world this virus has mostly been seen in great apes and felines," said Antwerp Zoo vet Francis Vercammen. Earlier this week, Canada also confirmed that three Covid cases had been discovered in wild deer - the first such report in the country's wildlife. But limited testing means no-one knows how prevalent coronavirus is in the wild. Pets can catch Covid from owners, study suggestsCovid therapy from llamas shows promise
