Mexico truck crash: At least 53 people killed as trailer overturns. At least 53 people have been killed and dozens more injured after the truck they were being transported in crashed in southern Mexico, authorities say. Some 100 people, said to be migrants from Central America, were crammed into the trailer when the truck rolled and hit a bridge in the state of Chiapas. Pictures from the crash scene show victims strewn across the road next to the overturned truck. There were also rows of what appeared to be bodies covered in white cloths. It is one of the worst accidents of its kind in Mexico, with at least 58 people injured, some seriously, said Luis Manuel Garcia, head of the Chiapas civil protection agency. He said the victims included men, women and children. Most of the the people in the trailer were migrants from Honduras, the local fire brigade chief told Reuters news agency. The truck was reportedly speeding when it flipped on a sharp bend and hit a pedestrian bridge on a main road leading to the Chiapas state capital Tuxtla Gutiérrez. Chiapas, which neighbours Guatamala, is a major transit point for undocumented migrants. Hundreds of thousands of migrants fleeing poverty and violence in Central America try to cross through Mexico each year in a bid to reach the US. Many of them pay smugglers, who illegally transport them in crowded and dangerous trucks on the long journey. Mexico's President Andrés Manuel López Obrador described the crash as "very painful" and wrote on Twitter that he "deeply regrets the tragedy". Last month, a migrant caravan heading through Chiapas found that the local authorities had clamped down so hard on people providing lifts to migrants, they effectively had to undertake the entire journey on foot. That meant carrying their children in their arms in the blistering heat and torrential downpours of southern Mexico's rural states. It's a tactic employed by the government to try to break the migrants' will, to see if any will give up and turn back or accept asylum conditions in Mexico. Throughout it all, trucks have continued to transport thousands of migrants right under the noses - or with the complicity - of the state authorities. Their trailers filled with scores of families standing in cramped and unsafe conditions for hours, it's a wonder such accidents aren't more frequent. Often the biggest danger to the migrants is from suffocation as the people-smugglers fail to provide sufficient ventilation or hydration for the trip. Yet most of those in this horrific accident came from Central America and will have been escaping economic ruin, the effects of severe weather from climate change on their livelihoods or gang violence. Or some combination of all of these factors. With that in mind, many thousands more will continue to consider the dangers of the road to be a risk worth taking to flee the unbearable conditions at home.
What are President Biden's challenges at the border?. US President Joe Biden entered the White House promising to tackle immigration challenges that have remained unsolved for decades. Yet since he took office in January, the US has seen a record influx of migrants at its southern border, prompting criticism of the administration's policies from across the political spectrum. Some two million "encounters" between government agents and migrants near the border are expected by the end of 2021, Mr Biden's Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas has said. About 125,000 unaccompanied minors have already been taken into the government's care. Mr Mayorkas told US senators in November that the US immigration system was "broken". Will things get worse before they get better? Here's what we know about the situation. While the number of migrants at the border has been steadily increasing since April 2020, the numbers spiked sharply after Mr Biden took office. Economic problems in Honduras, Guatemala, El Salvador, Nicaragua and Cuba worsened during the pandemic, forcing some to take on a long and perilous journey north. Gangs and violence have also been given as reasons why some left home. Mr Biden's plan to offer legal status to an estimated 11 million undocumented people in the US - that proposal has been watered down by the president's fellow Democrats in the House of Representatives and looks likely to be rejected outright in the Senate - is also blamed by conservatives for encouraging migrants. Though he has avoided Mr Trump's rhetoric, Mr Biden has repeatedly called on migrants, including asylum seekers, not to attempt the journey to the US. Despite a slight decline in September, the number of migrant encounters still represented about a 33% increase from the 144,000 recorded in May 2019 - the highest total of the Trump administration. There's also been a sharp increase in the number of children crossing the border. Migrants cross the border in one of two ways. Those who believe they "have suffered persecution or fear that they will suffer persecution" in their home country are eligible to apply for asylum when they present themselves at a port of entry for admission into the US. Others may evade border officials by hiding in cars or travelling undetected across unprotected - and often treacherous - parts of the US-Mexico border. According to the Pew Research Center, at least 40% of unauthorised migrants in the country entered legally on short-term visas and overstayed. On Covid, Mr Biden kept a Trump-era emergency policy to automatically expel almost all undocumented migrants seeking entry, bypassing normal immigration laws and protections. The policy - known as Title 42 - is aimed at preventing the spread of Covid-19 in holding facilities, officials say. The measure sparked controversy in September when the Biden administration used Title 42 to deport nearly 4,000 Haitian migrants who had been detained at the border city of Del Rio, Texas. Why are so many Haitians at the US-Mexico border? The Biden administration has defended the Trump-era policy in courts, where civil rights groups have argued that it violates existing US asylum laws. Politicians from Mr Biden's own Democratic party have also spoken out against the policy. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said in August that the policy will remain in effect until the spread of Covid by non-citizens stops being a "serious danger" to public health. It plans to review the situation every 60 days. In contrast to Mr Trump, however, Mr Biden has decided not to refuse entry to unaccompanied minors and some families. One of the most substantive changes in border policy under Mr Biden has been a shift in how the government deals with migrant families. A so-called "zero-tolerance" policy under Mr Trump meant families divided by US authorities, in some cases with parents being deported back to their home countries without their children. Mr Biden has reversed that specific practice, and some families - but not all - have been reunited. A task force set up by the president estimated that 3,913 children had been separated from their parents. As of September, authorities were still trying to reach the parents of 303 children separated from their families, according to a court filing. As mandated by US anti-trafficking laws, Mr Biden's administration has been transferring non-Mexican minors to shelters overseen by the government. Critics of the administration previously suggested that holding children in those facilities harkened back to a Trump-era policy, though children were being held for less time under Mr Biden. In May, the number of children held in detention facilities declined by nearly 90% after they were transferred to the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for temporary resettlement. On Mr Biden's first day in office, his administration suspended a controversial Trump-era policy that forced asylum seekers to wait in Mexico for their US immigration hearings. Since it was introduced in January 2019, about 70,000 migrants were enrolled in the programme informally known as Remain in Mexico. After Mr Biden took office, the initiative quickly became the focus of intense legal wrangling. While the policy - which Mr Biden had previously called "inhumane" - was terminated in June, an August ruling by Trump-appointed federal court Judge Matthew Kacsmaryk found that the administration had improperly cancelled the policy. As a result, the US and Mexican governments said on 2 December that they would reinstate the policy and send would-be asylum seekers to Mexico to await claims decisions. At a news conference following the announcement, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said the administration stood by its opposition to the policy. She added that the programme has "endemic flaws" with "unjustified human costs". "But we also believe in following the law," Ms Psaki said. The White House, however, said several new steps would be taken to address concerns, including providing Covid-19 vaccinations for migrants and a six-month time limit for each asylum advocate. Implementation of the re-instated policy was scheduled to begin the week of 6 December, beginning in El Paso and Brownsville, Texas and San Diego, California. Mr Biden signed an order on his first day in office to pause all wall construction and to end the national emergency declaration on the southern border. He later ordered that military funds Mr Trump had tapped for the project be diverted, leading to a Republican-requested inquiry into whether Mr Biden had inappropriately re-directed congressionally approved funds. Property owners near the border have complained that despite the pause, the government is still seeking to seize borderlands for future construction using a process known as eminent domain. Dozens of eminent domain cases brought by the federal government remain open and could take years for the courts to decide. Some wall construction sites remain abruptly abandoned, with building materials strewn about, as construction had continued right up until the moment of Mr Biden's order to halt. On 27 September, the US Department of State announced that the government plans to increase the number of refugees allowed into the US to 125,000 for the fiscal year that began on 1 October. With the move, Mr Biden fulfilled one of his campaign promises. During his presidential bid, Mr Biden repeatedly criticised Mr Trump's decision to set the annual refugee cap at 15,000 - a historic low. Mr Biden had stunned his supporters in April by announcing plans to only allow 15,000 refugees into the US in 2021. The annual refugee cap was set by Mr Trump the year before. Following intense public backlash, he raised the number to 62,500 refugees. About 110,000 refugees were admitted to the US in the last year of President Barack Obama's final term. Mr Biden also called for more refugees to come from Africa, the Middle East and Central America, and for an end to restrictions on resettlements from Somalia, Syria and Yemen.
Boris Johnson's press chief Jack Doyle spoke at No 10 party last year. The PM's press chief addressed staff and gave out awards at a Downing Street party last Christmas that is now under investigation, it is understood. Jack Doyle, then deputy director of communications, gave a speech to 20-30 people at the gathering on 18 December. A source has told the BBC there were food, drinks and games at the event. Downing Street said: "There is an ongoing review, and we won't be commenting further while that is the case". This event is one of three government staff gatherings from last year now being investigated by the UK's top civil servant, Simon Case. Labour's deputy leader Angela Rayner said news of Mr Doyle's attendance had "exposed" Mr Case's inquiry as a "sham". What were the rules on Christmas parties?Three government staff parties to be investigatedEducation department chief admits December party Mr Doyle was also attending Covid meetings in No 10 that night, which went on until late in the evening, the BBC has been told. It is understood every Friday Mr Doyle would thank staff for working hard and give out an award. ITV News, which first reported that Mr Doyle was present at this event on 18 December, said he had also handed out award certificates to staff on this occasion. The event took place two days after London went into Tier 3 lockdown restrictions, meaning people were told not to mix indoors with anyone outside their household or support bubble. No 10 has refused to explain how the party complied with Covid restrictions in force at the time, despite a deepening row and days of questioning by reporters. Sources in Westminster are questioning whether it is possible for Mr Doyle to stay in his job. In part that's because one of the problems this week for No 10 has been their efforts to deny and explain what did or didn't happen. Ministers, and the prime minister himself, have been stuck in the Kafka-esque position of saying that they are sure no rules were broken, but they also don't know what went on. If they don't know what happened, how can they be sure that nothing went wrong? And if multiple sources have said there was a gathering of several dozen people, and people who were not on the Downing Street payroll had been invited, how can that have been just a few work drinks at the desk in a Covid-secure office? Mr Doyle, well-liked by his colleagues, is - as director of communications - in charge of the government's messaging. This week the message has misfired, which makes his confirmed attendance a very big problem. And for government spinners over the years have often found, there is one fundamental error they cannot make. That's to become part of the story themselves, an uncomfortable position that Boris Johnson's press chief now finds himself in. Read more. On Wednesday, the prime minister told the Commons that he had been "repeatedly assured" that there had been no party and that no Covid rules had been broken on that date. The row has already prompted the resignation of government adviser Allegra Stratton, who quit her post on Wednesday after an angry backlash over a video she appeared in from last December where she joked about a Christmas party. In the video, obtained by ITV News, the PM's then-press secretary took part in a mock press conference four days after the 18 December event, where she laughed with other staff about how to describe it. Following her resignation, Mr Johnson told MPs that he was "furious" about the clip and was launching an investigation into whether rules had been broken last Christmas. Cabinet Secretary Simon Case, who is carrying out the investigation, is also looking into a No 10 staff event on 27 November last year, and a gathering at the Department of Education on 10 December. The inquiry could be widened out if it considered there are credible allegations about other events. After it emerged Mr Doyle spoke at the 18 December event, Ms Rayner said: "The government's internal investigation has been exposed as the sham it is. "The investigation has only just published its terms of reference, and we are already seeing more details from the media than the Cabinet Office about the parties." Mr Johnson is also facing pressure on other fronts, including fresh questions about a revamp of his official Downing Street flat. On Thursday, the Conservative Party was fined £17,800 by the Electoral Commission for "failing to accurately report a donation" that paid for the work. Labour says new information revealed by the elections watchdog suggests the PM lied to his own standards adviser, Lord Geidt, about how the work was funded. Asked explicitly if Mr Johnson had lied to Lord Geidt, the PM's spokesman said: "No." Mr Johnson is also facing a rebellion from Conservative MPs over his plans announced on Wednesday to introduce tighter Covid curbs in England to tackle the Omicron variant. Dozens of Tories have hit out at his extra restrictions ahead of a vote next week, particularly the plans for mandatory Covid passes for nightclubs and large events. The Plan B measures aiming to limit the spread of Omicron also include wider rules on wearing face coverings, and once again advising people to work from home if they can. Commenting on the disquiet among Conservative ranks, former cabinet minister Andrew Mitchell said the mood in the party was "sulphurous", adding: "What we need now is a bit of grip from No 10." Mr Mitchell added: "It's no good having these stories dragged out by the media. The government needs to make a clean breast of it."
Jussie Smollett: Actor found guilty of lying about attack. US actor Jussie Smollett lied to police when he claimed to have been the victim of a racist, homophobic assault, a Chicago jury has found. At trial this week, Smollett, 39, stood by denials that he staged the hoax attack against himself. Prosecutors countered that he "lied for hours" on the stand as he repeated what he told to Chicago police. He was found guilty on Thursday of five counts of disorderly conduct. Each count carries a penalty of up to three years in prison. Given Smollett's lack of previous convictions, experts have said a lighter sentence or probation is likely. A sentencing date has yet to be scheduled. The jury of six men and six women reached its decision one day after deliberations began. The trial stemmed from an incident nearly three years ago, in January 2019, when the former Empire television show star told police he was the victim of an attack. Smollett, who is black and gay, told police he was set upon by two assailants who shouted slurs, yelled a Trump slogan, dumped a "chemical substance" on him, and tied a noose around his neck while he was walking late at night in Chicago. How the Jussie Smollett drama unfolded Authorities opened an investigation into the attack, but in February of that year, police charged Smollett with filing a false police report, alleging he had staged the assault. He faced a total of six charges, each referring to different instances in which he was accused of lying to police. He was found guilty of five of the six charges, meaning that the last one had not been proven in court. At trial, jurors heard from brothers Abimbola and Olabinjo Osundairo, who said Smollett had orchestrated the attack himself and paid them $3,500 (£2,600) to carry it out. Smollett said the cheque was for a meal and workout plan from Abimbola, a friend and an extra on Empire, a TV drama about a hip hop dynasty. Asked by his defence lawyer if he gave the man payment for the alleged scheme, Smollett replied: "Never." He also testified that he and Abimbola were involved in a sexual relationship before the alleged attack. Special prosecutor Dan Webb asked the actor repeatedly about a "hoax" attack. Each time, Smollett denied that was the case. "There was no hoax on my part," he said. "Any question you're going to ask about that is going to be denied." In his closing arguments, Mr Webb said Smollett caused Chicago police to spend enormous resources investigating the alleged crime. "Besides being against the law, it is just plain wrong to outright denigrate something as serious as a real hate crime and then make sure it involved words and symbols that have such historical significance in our country," Mr Webb said. Outside the court after the verdict was read, Mr Webb added that "for Mr Smollett to get up in front of [the jury] and lie for hours and hours, that really compounded his misconduct". He called it "unexpected" that Smollett would lie repeatedly during trial, and said that it will be something that he raises with the judge during sentencing. Nenye Uche, a lawyer for Smollett, said that the team "obviously respectfully disagree with the jury's verdict", and that they are "100% confident" that the case will be overturned on appeal. Authorities have said Smollett wanted to boost his profile because he was "dissatisfied with his salary" on Empire. By the fifth season of the show, he said he was being paid $100,000 per episode. He was eventually written out amid the controversy around the alleged attack.
Astroworld: Travis Scott says he was unaware fans were hurt. US rapper Travis Scott has said he did not realise that concertgoers were in trouble during a deadly crowd surge as he performed in Texas last month. "I stopped a couple of times... at the end of the day you just hear music," he told the Breakfast Club radio show in his first interview since the incident. Ten concertgoers were killed after panic broke out at the Astroworld music festival in Houston on 5 November. Multiple lawsuits have since been filed over the tragedy. Among those killed as a result of the crowd surge during Scott's headline set was nine-year-old Ezra Blount. The 30-year-old musician, one of the biggest names in rap music, has been criticised for not ending his show more abruptly. In a YouTube interview published on Thursday, Scott told Breakfast Club presenter Charlamagne Tha God that he did not hear details about what had happened that night until a press conference after the show. "At that moment you're like: 'Wait, what?' People pass out, things happen at concerts, but something like that," he said. He described how he had paused his show "to make sure everyone was OK", but that he did not notice any fans pleading for help or any apparent danger. Asked how he felt about what had happened and how he was coping, Scott said he was still trying to come to terms with it all. "Nothing like this has ever happened... at the end of the day these fans are your family, so you feel like you've lost something," he said, adding that he now wanted to be "the voice" of the victims. Astroworld tragedy: Were warning signs missed?Festival survivors recall panic: 'I had to get out of there'Who were the victims? Scott launched Astroworld with concert promoters Live Nation in 2018. At the time of the incident, there were about 50,000 people attending the festival at Houston's NRG Park complex. The ages of the victims range between 10 and 27. Scott has offered to pay all funeral costs, but this has been rejected by half of the bereaved families, including the family of Blount. Blount, who lived in Dallas, died nine days after the concert. He had previously been placed in medically induced coma due to the severity of his injuries. In a statement, Scott has asked victims to reach out to him, saying he "desperately wishes to share his condolences and provide aid". He has also previously stated in an Instagram video that he was not aware how bad the situation had become during his set. "Any time I could make out anything that's going on, I just stopped the show and helped them get the help they need," he said. "I could just never imagine the severity of the situation." But some Texas officials say the rapper should have stopped the show much earlier. In an interview with NBC's Today show last month, Houston fire chief Samuel Peña said: "At one point there was an ambulance that was trying to make its way through the crowd. The artist has command of that crowd."
Beijing Winter Olympics boycott is insignificant, says Macron. France has no plans to join a diplomatic boycott of the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing, President Emmanuel Macron has said. Mr Macron said any such move would be insignificant and merely symbolic. The US, UK, Canada and Australia have said they will not send government representatives to the February games because of concerns over China's human rights record. This includes allegations of abuse against Uyghurs and other minorities. Relations are also strained over a crackdown on political freedoms in Hong Kong and concerns about Chinese tennis player Peng Shuai, who was not seen for weeks after she accused a top government official of sexual assault. China says countries that boycott the games "will pay the price for their mistaken acts". Meanwhile United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guterres said he had accepted an invitation to attend the opening of the games. China preps for Winter Olympics as pressure growsTesting times in the Olympic mountains At an extended news conference on Thursday, Mr Macron said the Olympics should not be politicised, and that he preferred actions which had a "useful effect". "To be clear: You either have a complete boycott, and don't send athletes, or you try to change things with useful actions," he said. The president added that France would work with the International Olympic Committee on a charter to protect athletes, in a veiled reference to Peng Shuai. "I don't think we should politicise these topics, especially if it's to take steps that are insignificant and symbolic," he said. In a wide-ranging conversation with reporters, Mr Macron also touched on the following: He said he wanted the European Union to focus on defence and border protection, as well as reform of the Schengen agreement on free movement - France takes over the six-month rotating presidency of the EU in JanuaryHe said the EU should rethink its budget rules to encourage investment as the world emerges from the Covid-19 pandemicThe UK government has failed to keep its word on Brexit, he said, but there has been progress in talks in recent weeksBritain's role in pushing for the Aukus security pact with the US and Australia, which prompted Australia to cancel a submarine contract with France, "was not the most obvious sign of friendship"
Capitol riot: US appeals court rejects Trump's request to block files. A US appeals court has rejected a bid by former President Donald Trump to block Capitol riot investigators from accessing his White House records. Mr Trump, a Republican, has argued that his past communications are protected by executive privilege, under which presidential files can be kept secret. But President Joe Biden has waived executive privilege on the documents. Lawmakers are trying to find out if Mr Trump had foreknowledge of the riot, which took place on 6 January. Trump supporters stormed the Capitol building as Congress was meeting to certify Joe Biden's presidential election result. Mr Trump has refused to acknowledge losing the election to Mr Biden last year, making claims - without evidence - of mass voter fraud. He is expected to appeal against Thursday's decision, which will then be passed to the Supreme Court. Who stormed the Capitol?Capitol riots timeline: How the day unfolded Announcing their ruling, three judges from the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit said the former president had provided "no basis" for them to grant his request to override Mr Biden's judgment. They said both branches of government agreed that there was a unique legislative need for the records, which were directly relevant to the attack. The inquiry is being conducted by a committee set up by the House of Representatives, which is dominated by President Biden's Democrats. The panel wants to see phone records, visitor logs and other White House documents that could shed light on events leading up to the attack on Congress. Mr Trump's lawyers had said in an earlier filing to the appeals court that their client could "suffer irreparable harm through the effective denial of a constitutional and statutory right to be fully heard on a serious disagreement between the former and incumbent president". Following the Capitol riot, Mr Trump was impeached by the lower house of Congress, but cleared by the then Republican-dominated upper house - the Senate - of inciting an insurrection. More than 670 people have been arrested for the invasion of the Capitol complex.
New York’s Met museum to remove Sackler name from exhibits. New York City's Metropolitan Museum of Art and Sackler family members have announced the famed museum will drop their name, linked to opioid-maker Purdue Pharma, from its exhibit halls. The Sacklers founded the company, which manufactured drugs like OxyContin, blamed for fuelling the opioid crisis. In 2019, the Met announced that it would no longer accept gifts from the family amid increased public scrutiny. A total of seven exhibition spaces at the Met bear the Sackler name. In a joint statement released on Thursday, the Met and members of the Sackler family said that the action was "mutually agreed" in order to "allow the Met to further its core mission". "Our families have always strongly supported the Met, and we believe this to be in the best interest of the Museum and the important mission that it serves," the descendants of Dr Mortimer Sackler and Dr Raymond Sackler said. "The earliest of these gifts were made almost fifty years ago, and now we are passing the torch to others who might wish to step forward to support the Museum," the family added. The seven exhibition spaces bearing the Sackler name include a wing housing the famous Temple of Dendur, an ancient Egyptian temple commissioned by the province's Roman governor. The Met's president and CEO, Dan Weiss, said in a statement that the Sacklers "have been among our most generous supporters". "This gracious gesture by the Sacklers aids the Museum in continuing to serve this and future generations." Globally, several prominent museums had already taken similar steps to distance themselves from the family, including the Tate Museum and National Portrait Gallery in the UK and the Louvre in Paris. In May, the Raymond Sackler family launched a website to address what it said were "many false allegations" blaming the family, Purdue Pharma and one of its products, OxyContin, for "creating" the opioid crisis. Addiction to both legal and illegal opioids has been a serious, ongoing problem in the US, which had nearly half a million deaths from overdoses between 1999 and 2019, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Josh Duggar: Ex-reality TV star found guilty of child porn charges. Former US reality TV star Josh Duggar has been found guilty of downloading and possessing child pornography. Duggar, 33, was a member of the TLC cable show 19 Kids and Counting, which followed a conservative Christian couple and their 19 offspring. In April, Duggar pleaded not guilty to the charges, although he had earlier apologised for a pornography addiction. He now faces up to 20 years in prison and fines of up to $250,000 (£189,000) for each count. According to prosecutors, Duggar downloaded a Linux partition - which allows users to divide hard drives into isolated sections - onto a laptop to deceive software that monitors internet use. In an Arkansas court, federal authorities said that they began investigating Duggar after a detective in the city of Little Rock discovered child pornography on a computer that was linked back to him. In May, a federal agent testified that the images of sexual abuse - which included toddlers - were downloaded in 2019 to a computer that investigators traced back to a car dealership owned by Duggar. Duggar's defence attorneys contended that he hadn't downloaded or uploaded the material to the computer. In addition to being shown logs of Duggar's internet usage, jurors in the trial heard from a close family friend who testified that he had confessed to molesting young girls in 2003. A sentencing date has not yet been set. Television channel TLC cancelled 19 Kids and Counting in 2015 after In Touch magazine reported that Duggar had molested four younger sisters and babysitter when he was a teenager. At the time, Duggar acknowledged his actions and said in a statement that he "acted inexcusably" when he was an adolescent. "I hurt others, including my family and close friends," he said. In 2015, Duggar also admitted to leading "a double life" and being addicted to pornography after he was revealed to have been a frequent user of Ashley Madison, a Canada-based dating website that caters to people seeking extramarital affairs.
How a Russian invasion of Ukraine could spill over into Europe. A senior Western intelligence official has warned that if Russia decides to invade Ukraine, a conflict could spill over further into Europe. Speaking to journalists, including the BBC, the senior intelligence official, who asked not to be named,  said: "Let's not be blind. If Russia initiates a scenario of any kind it will also initiate action against Nato members". "To think war could be contained to one nation would be foolish," they added. Those concerns have been echoed by Britain's most senior military officer. On Tuesday, the Chief of the Defence Staff, Admiral Sir Tony Radakin, told reporters: "The significance of the worst scenarios in terms of a full-scale invasion would be on a scale not seen in Europe since the Second World War". The admiral described Russia's military build-up on its border with Ukraine as "deeply worrying". Despite warnings from the US and its Nato allies that any invasion by Russia of Ukraine would have "severe economic consequences," Moscow's military build-up on the border continues. The senior Western intelligence official described it as a "steady" rather than dramatic. Is Russia preparing to invade Ukraine? Putin-Biden talks: What next for Ukraine? Western intelligence estimates that Russia already has up to 100,000 troops positioned near to the border with Ukraine, along with tanks and artillery. Washington has suggested that force could rise to 175,000 by the end of January. The Western defence official said that if Russia chose to carry out an attack now it could do so. But he said Russian forces massed on the border were still missing some crucial elements - such as full logistical support, ammunition stocks, field hospitals and blood banks. The intelligence official described the build-up as a "slow drip" and a "slow ratcheting up of pressure". US officials have also pointed to an increase in Russia's social media "disinformation". Meanwhile, other Western defence sources have expressed concern about an increase in signals intelligence and "chatter" being monitored which could signal Russia's preparedness to invade. If Russia did decide to invade Ukraine, the senior Western intelligence official said large numbers of people would be displaced. "We could have a very large number of refugees, deaths could reasonably be expected to be high as would destruction within Ukraine," he said. The war that erupted in eastern Ukraine in 2014 has already left 14,000 dead and an estimated 1.4 million displaced. But the official said Russia could also initiate actions against Nato members such as cyber and hybrid warfare, and even physical attacks. "If there's a spill over elsewhere, all of these effects could be expanded," he said. The West is still unclear about President Putin's intent. But the senior Western intelligence official warned that "military options are highly likely on the table in the Kremlin" if Russia's demands are not satisfied. "Has Putin decided to initiate a conflict? The jury is still out," he said. But the official noted there had been a combination of sharp bellicose rhetoric from Moscow, accusations of being provoked by Ukraine and Nato, a lack of transparency, and a worrying track record, including the annexation of Crimea in 2014. "Added to that are the recent border crisis involving thousands of migrants in Belarus, as well as Russia's backing of separatists in the Caucasus and elsewhere," he said. While the official said it was hard to say these were all strategically related, it showed that there was an issue on Eastern Europe's eastern flank. He said the security situation in Europe was without precedent since the fall of the Iron Curtain. The US and Nato have made clear they want a dialogue with Russia to avoid conflict, and Moscow wants dialogue to continue, too. President Biden's virtual meeting with President Putin earlier this week was a start and will be followed up by more talks with other Nato members. But Russia's demands and so-called "red lines" are making diplomacy difficult. Russia wants assurances that Ukraine will never be allowed to join Nato; that Nato members will have no permanent forces or infrastructure based in Ukraine; and for a halt to military exercises near Russia's border. Nato insists it is a defensive alliance and not a threat to Russia. But the alliance has also made clear that it believes that Ukraine has a right to make its own decisions as a sovereign nation, and it is not willing to give Russia a veto on Ukraine's future.
Ghislaine Maxwell: Jury sent home for day after lawyer falls sick. A judge has put Ghislaine Maxwell's federal sex trafficking trial on hold for the day after a lawyer in the case fell ill and needed medical attention. Judge Alison Nathan said the attorney in question was needed for direct examination of an upcoming witness: the fourth Maxwell accuser. Ms Maxwell, 59, is facing charges over allegedly grooming girls for abuse by Jeffrey Epstein between 1994 and 2004. She has pleaded not guilty to eight counts of sex trafficking and perjury. Who is Ghislaine Maxwell, Epstein's ex-girlfriend?Epstein and Maxwell pictured at Queen's residence Prosecutors have moved through their case quicker than expected and were on course to rest their case this week. Judge Nathan expressed confidence that court proceedings would resume in New York on Friday morning. She added there was no reason to believe the prosecutor's illness was Covid-related. When the trial resumes, Annie Farmer - the fourth and only named accuser to take the stand - is expected to testify about abuse she suffered at the hands of Epstein at age 16, and Ms Maxwell's alleged role in involving her with the paedophile. Defence lawyers for Ms Maxwell argue their client is being used as a scapegoat for the crimes of her former boyfriend and business associate. Epstein was accused of running a "vast network" of underage girls for sex. He was convicted for sex crimes in Florida in 2008, but died by suicide in a New York jail in 2019 before he could face trial for federal sex trafficking charges.
Starbucks to get its first unionised US store since 1980s. Staff at one Starbucks coffee shop in New York state have voted to establish the first labour union at one of the chain's own stores since the 1980s. Out of a staff of 27, 19 voted in favour at Elmwood Avenue, Buffalo. Despite the small numbers involved, the vote is likely to rattle the giant coffee chain brand. Starbucks had pulled out all the stops to persuade staff to vote against unionising, including flying in top executives. Campaigners for the union gathered in Buffalo to watch the vote be counted via Zoom and cheered as the result was announced. However staff at a second Buffalo store voted against establishing a union. The vote at a third is not yet resolved as some of the ballots are under review. In all, about 100 baristas and supervisors took part. Starbucks workers in Buffalo began the campaign to unionise in August, saying they were overworked, but not listened to by the company. The mobile app in particular has added to their workload, they said, by enabling multiple complicated orders to arrive in quick succession, which they are then under time pressure to fulfil. The vote could set a precedent at the coffee chain, which has more than 8,000 company-owned stores across the US, none of which have been unionised since the 1980s. Gen Z fights for unions, one Starbucks at a timeThe woman who took on Google and wonOfficial recommends rerun in Amazon union fight Staff at three further locations in Buffalo and one store in Arizona have already applied to unionise. The vote was held in the face of an all-out campaign by the company over the last four months to persuade staff to vote no. Executives, and Starbucks founder Howard Schultz, were flown into Buffalo to lobby employees. They held meetings, sometimes individually with staff, and sent texts asking them to vote "no". According to Workers United, the union to which the new Starbucks branch will be affiliated, the Buffalo stores were flooded with out-of-town Starbucks managers to try to discourage discussion of the issue among staff. This amounted, the union said, to a campaign of "bullying and intimidation". The coffee chain, which recently announced that it would be lifting its minimum wage to $15 an hour by next summer, has stressed that it is not anti-union, but argued that the issues raised by workers did not justify establishing a union. "We've always been one Starbucks, we're always going to be one Starbucks," Rossann Williams, president of Starbucks North America, said just before the count began. "It's going to be a partner-by-partner relationship that we build, and that's going to be the same." Starbucks said having to deal with a union would complicate the company's ability to respond quickly to its workers' needs. Starbucks, which describes its staff as "partners", offers better pay and conditions than many service sector outlets, including healthcare benefits, equity in the form of stock, paid parental leave and free online college tuition. It also reflects the progressive values of many of its staff with Fairtrade initiatives and anti-racism training. "I think that a lot of us have a rose-tinted view coming into Starbucks because of those things," said Casey Moore, 25, who works at one of the Buffalo stores that has not yet voted. "The reality when you're in the stores is quite different. "I've left crying because of the way customers treat us. They treat us like coffee robots." She said Starbucks' focus on productivity had led to compromises on staff safety in relation to Covid. "The pandemic was a catalyst, for certain," said Michelle Eisen, who has worked at Starbucks for more than a decade. "But working conditions began to decline before that," Ms Eisen said, adding that she is paid only $1.20 more per hour than new hires. In August, staff at several Buffalo stores said their workload had become untenable because of absences and high customer demand. "We acknowledge there are some great benefits [at Starbucks]. The main issue is we don't have a voice. There's no accountability when we do have a problem," said Will Westlake, a 24-year-old barista who has worked at the Camp Road Starbucks in Buffalo since May this year. The vote comes against a backdrop of growing influence from the US labour movement. With many firms struggling to recruit enough staff, workers are in an unusually strong position when asking for enhanced rights or higher pay. Support for unions has risen to a 50-year high, according to a poll conducted by Gallup in August. It showed 68% of Americans now approve of labour unions. Industrial action has interrupted work at a range of firms in the last few months, including cereal maker Kellogg's, tractor manufacturing firm John Deere, snacks makers Mondelez and Frito-Lay and the McDonald's burger chain. Buffalo, New York state's second largest city, has a history of strong support for the labour movement, with a higher proportion of workers unionised than in most parts of the US.
Kenya police recruits brag: 'We are the bad ones'. Kenya's national police have condemned a video showing a group of newly graduated officers boasting about how they are "the bad ones". It has been widely circulated on social media in the east African country, with many users voicing concerns. Police bosses have called their remarks "irresponsible, unacceptable and reckless". The video goes to reinforce the view of many Kenyans that some of their police officers can behave like thugs. "This is it, this it ... we have finished, we are done. We are representing, what is this? Red beret!" one of the group says in the video in the Kenyan slang, Sheng. "We are coming outside now [graduating], and we are the bad ones! Pa! Pa! Pa! Squad 26! We are the bad ones." The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter Kenyans on social media have been sharing concerns over the video, with some saying it portrays a group of men more keen on issuing threats than serving the people. Others say their words imply the group is threatening to harshly deal with civilians upon graduating. The video comes at a time when cases of police brutality in Kenya have been increasing, just months before the general election. Kenya has a long history of officers using excessive force when enforcing law, often resulting in deaths, but security officers are rarely held to account. In a statement, the national police said an internal review was ongoing with a view of taking appropriate measures regarding the incident. The police said the clip did not reflect the views of the General Service Unit (GSU), a paramilitary wing in the Kenyan police service. But some on social media mocked this assertion. The controversy comes after a Kenyan police officer shot dead his wife and five other people with an AK-47 on Tuesday. Kenyan policemen jailed over UK aristocrat's deathAfrica Live: Updates on this and other stories
