Covid: Austria introduces lockdown for unvaccinated. About two million people who have not been fully vaccinated against Covid-19 have been placed in lockdown in Austria as the country faces a surge in cases. "We are not taking this step lightly, but unfortunately it is necessary," Chancellor Alexander Schallenberg said. Unvaccinated people will only be permitted to leave home for limited reasons, like working or buying food. About 65% of Austria's population is fully vaccinated - one of the lowest rates in western Europe. Meanwhile, the seven-day infection rate is more than 800 cases per 100,000 people, which is one of the highest in Europe. Overall, Europe has again become the region most seriously-affected by the pandemic and several countries are introducing restrictions and warning of rising cases. However, the UK, which has one of the highest Covid infection rates, has yet to reintroduce restrictions, despite health leaders calling for rules like mandatory face coverings in crowded and enclosed spaces to be brought back to avoid a winter crisis. Covid passes set to stay as Europe heads for winterHow fast is vaccine progress around the world? The measures introduced in Austria on Monday, which come amid growing pressure on the nation's hospitals, will initially last for 10 days. Children under the age of 12 and people who have recently recovered from the virus will be exempt. Over the weekend, hundreds of people protested outside the chancellery in the capital, Vienna, waving banners that read: "Our bodies, our freedom to decide." The unvaccinated were already barred from visiting restaurants, hairdressers and cinemas, but will now be expected to stay at home. "In reality we have told one third of the population: you will not leave your [home] apart from for certain reasons," Mr Schallenberg said. "That is a massive reduction in contacts between the vaccinated and the unvaccinated." The government says police will carry out spot checks in public spaces to determine the vaccination status of individuals. But critics have questioned whether the move is constitutional. The far-right Freedom Party has said it will create a group of second-class citizens. In neighbouring Germany, where Health Minister Jens Spahn has warned of a pandemic of the unvaccinated, the federal government and state leaders are due to meet later this week to discus possible new restrictions. Germany's 67.3% vaccination rate is higher than in Austria, but not by much. Germany has designated Austria a high-risk area, meaning anyone arriving from the country must go into quarantine. In the Netherlands, "lockdown-lite" measures have been imposed to limit social contacts in response to a sharp increase in infections. The measures include early closing for restaurants and shops and barring spectators from sporting events. About 84% of Dutch adults have been fully vaccinated. Most patients in Dutch hospitals have not had their jab. Vaccination rates are significantly lower in some eastern European nations. Latvia, where 59% of the population are fully vaccinated, re-imposed lockdown last month and has banned lawmakers who refuse the vaccine from voting on laws and taking part in debates until the middle of next year. They will also see their pay docked. In Russia, only about 35% of the population has been fully vaccinated, according to Our World In Data. At the end of October, Moscow shut shops, restaurants and schools in a partial lockdown and workers were given nine days paid holiday to curb infections. Some other countries are also introducing measures applying only to the unvaccinated. In Australia, the state of Queensland will bar unvaccinated people from restaurants, pubs and sports events from 17 December. And Singapore has said that those who remain unvaccinated by choice will have to pay for their own medical bills from December.
Covid: Dutch accept life within 'lockdown-lite'. Twinkling fairy lights embellish the Linden trees around the Dutch parliament square. Flames warm friends huddled beneath heaters glowing amber against the autumnal dusk. While the anti-lockdown, anti-vax protesters and conspiracy propagators who hurled fireworks at riot police dominated the front pages, they represent a minority. Most people in the Netherlands reluctantly agree that sacrificing parts of their social lives can contribute to the greater good. The Dutch government has announced a lockdown-lite designed to limit social contacts, in response to a sharp increase in infections. A record 16,324 new cases were recorded in one day this week and they remain stubbornly high. "I do think it disproportionately affects young people," says Saskia Heyster, who is worried about her mental health. "My studies can be stressful, last lockdown I got overwhelmed with the stress of managing everything. I really relish having a coffee and not having it feel illegal. I hope to have time to focus on other activities that don't involve going out for drinks. Honestly though, I've been having a meltdown." "It's pretty gutting, pretty frustrating," says Neill Bo Finlayson, who has just finished his pint. "My experience is lockdown after lockdown. It's especially hard as we've just seen what life can be like, but public safety comes first and you've got to do what you've got to do. The rules aren't that draconian, and we're well conditioned to it now." "Mental health should be treated the same as physical health and we young people are affected most by these measures - physically and mentally," says Natasja, who confides she's afraid of loneliness if the measures drag on beyond the planned three weeks. The Netherlands has been criticised for taking a relatively relaxed approach in the past. This liberal, conservative nation was one of the last in the world to make face masks mandatory, and the slowest in Europe to roll out its vaccination programme. But with the intensive care units almost at capacity, operations cancelled, and struggling German hospitals warning they cannot accept patients from across the border, this initial short sharp shock is considered crucial to bring the record-breaking daily infection numbers under control. The new restrictions have widely been referred to as a "partial lockdown", and yet during the day life will remain largely unchanged. Bars, cafes and restaurants can keep serving (QR codes required for diners who want to stay rather than take-away) between 06:00-20:00. Sports matches can go ahead, but without spectators, and coronavirus entry passes and assigned seats are mandatory in food and drink venues. The mandatory closing time does not apply to artistic and cultural performances, for instance in cinemas, theatres and concert halls. Which has led many to sardonically ponder whether the Dutch government considers Covid only transmissible after dark. And the impact is already being felt. Supermarkets rammed with masked shoppers dodging each other in the aisles, stocking up on crates of beer and trolleys full of carbs. House parties are discouraged - maximum four visitors a day permitted, but everyone is aware this particular rule is virtually impossible to police. Just like the last time the bars and restaurants closed, our neighbours in The Hague are already booming beats and welcoming friends to ensure they are not deprived. There is a risk these measures will increase the spread of the virus at home, which according to government statistics is already responsible for the largest percentage of new infections. Bas Swillens, manager at Cafe Leopold on the cobbled square outside parliament, notes the irony. "We do everything to keep people safe, we check QR codes, people are sitting down... we are very careful. At home, no one is checking anything, yet again we are being blamed and penalised." Entrepreneurs in at least four Dutch cities have vowed to ignore the early last orders rules. The question is, what happens when - or if - councils decide to enforce them. Clubs and restaurants across the border in Belgium and Germany are reporting "red hot" booking lines with Dutch nationals keen to ensure they have alternative places to party. Considerable frustration and consternation exist among people who diligently wore their masks, kept their distances, and turned up for their jabs too. The widely held expectation was that this obedience would be sufficient to ward off a fourth wave, or at least protect them from the consequences. About 84% of Dutch adults have been fully vaccinated. Most patients in Dutch hospitals have not had their jab. One mum dropping her son at ballet today did not possess the mandatory QR code Covid pass to enter. She explained, "Ik doe niet mee" ('I'm not participating'), popped her five-year-old inside and left the building. The week before we'd shared crackers and chats while our children practised their pliés. The rules are carving divisions. Plans to create the 2G Covid passes - which will only give those who've been immunised or recently recovered from the virus a QR code - will further polarise. A few hours before the restrictions kicked in, families in fancy dress came out to catch a glimpse of the traditional Sinterklaas arrival parade. Floats and festivities weaved through the crowd-lined streets between the harbour and the centre of The Hague. Overall, the Dutch are displaying a determination to live, within the limitations. But many are increasingly asking, when and how will this end?
Germany coronavirus: Record rise prompts warning of 100,000 deaths. One of Germany's top virologists has warned that a further 100,000 people will die from Covid if nothing's done to halt an aggressive fourth wave. Case numbers have soared and Germany on Wednesday registered its highest rate of infection since the pandemic began, with almost 40,000 cases in a day. "We have to act right now," said Christian Drosten, who described a real emergency situation. Doctors in the intensive care Covid ward at Leipzig University Hospital warn this fourth wave could be the worst yet. One patient here, a woman in her 20s, has just given birth. Her baby is fine, but staff say they don't know whether she'll survive. This state of Saxony has the highest seven-day infection rate in Germany at 459 cases per 100,000 people. The national rate is 232. It also has the lowest take-up of vaccine: 57% of the population here have been vaccinated. There are 18 patients on the Covid ward. Just four were vaccinated. "It's very difficult to get staff motivated to treat patients now in this fourth wave," says Prof Sebastian Stehr, who heads the department. "A large part of the population still underestimates the problem." By now, Prof Sehr says, most people will know someone who's had Covid and should, therefore, be aware of the risk of infection. "Nevertheless," he adds, "we are still seeing so many patients who are not vaccinated." Germany's health minister has publicly blamed those people for the soaring cases, describing the current situation as a "pandemic of the unvaccinated". At the start of this week, Saxony banned unvaccinated people from bars, restaurants, public events and sport and leisure facilities. At least several other states are expected to follow suit. Germany's anti-vaxxers are furious. Several thousand protested last weekend in Leipzig. "This is discrimination, and we want to express vehemently that we do not accept this in our society," said Leif Hansen, who represents anti-vax "Bewegung Leipzig" (Leipzig Movement). He doesn't trust the companies that made the vaccine or the authorities who approved it. "They say the vaccination is ok, that I should give it to my children? Never!" he told me. "I have a feeling that it should never go into my body, and I will fight all I can to prevent it coming into my body." Sixteen million Germans over the age of 12 have not been fully vaccinated. The German government has admitted it's unlikely to persuade many of those people now, and politicians worry that social divisions might deepen. What many fear is another lockdown. Nadine Herzog's bar in Leipzig barely survived the last one. She deftly prepares cocktails as she tells us that even before the authorities required it she and her co-owner banned unvaccinated drinkers. "My business is dying. My dreams came true and now they suffer from people who don't do logical things to prevent others from getting ill or dying and I'm so angry," she told the BBC. A long queue formed outside a vaccine centre in the city earlier in the week. Evidence, perhaps, that some have changed their minds. But Germany is also now rolling out booster jabs amid concerns about waning protection in those who have been vaccinated. On the intensive care Covid unit they fear the damage is done. Operations have already been cancelled, procedures postponed to make way for Covid patients. Doctors here told us that nearly half of the people who end up here will die. For Germany, which invented one of the world's first Covid vaccines, that is a source of great shame.
Liverpool explosion: Three arrested under Terrorism Act after car blast at hospital. Three men have been arrested under the Terrorism Act after a man was killed in a car explosion outside Liverpool Women's Hospital. A taxi carrying one passenger pulled up just before 11:00 GMT - as a national two minutes' silence for Remembrance Sunday was due to begin - and exploded. The passenger was declared dead at the scene and is yet to be formally identified. The male driver was injured and is in hospital in a stable condition. Detectives from Counter Terrorism Police North West said three men - aged 29, 26 and 21 - were detained in the Kensington area of the city. They said they were continuing to keep an open mind about the cause of the blast and were working with Merseyside Police as the investigation continued "at pace". The security service, MI5, is also assisting. Armed officers have carried out raids on properties in Rutland Avenue near Sefton Park, and Boaler Street in Kensington. Specialist officers remain outside the property in Rutland Avenue, in an operation police say is linked to the explosion. Police negotiators are on the scene, a fire crew is on standby, and a number of residents have been evacuated. A large cordon, guarded by uniformed officers, is in place with six marked police vans and four cars stationed at the ends. Carl Bessant, whose partner had just had a baby, was inside the hospital at the time of the blast. "My partner is really shook up to be honest," he said. "We were so close and she was feeding the baby when it happened. We heard a loud bang and looked out of the window. "We saw the car on fire and someone jump out... screaming, and there was someone inside the car. "The hospital shut down, no-one in or out, so they said, but people were using the back entrance." Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Twitter: "My thoughts are with all those affected by the awful incident in Liverpool today. "I want to thank the emergency services for their quick response and professionalism, and the police for their ongoing work on the investigation." Home Secretary Priti Patel also tweeted she was "being kept regularly updated on the awful incident". By Jim Clarke, BBC North West Tonight deputy editor The first raid happened at about 13:00 GMT on Rutland Avenue in the Sefton Park area of the city. It's about 0.75 miles from the hospital. It's an area of the city with large Victorian houses. The house that was raided had been split up into flats. Local residents said they had not seen anybody coming or going from the property for some weeks - they thought it was unoccupied. The street remains cordoned off and some residents have been evacuated. Police were also seen at Boaler Street in the Kensington area of the city. It's about a mile away from the hospital. Eyewitnesses on the street said armed police arrived at about 14:00 GMT and raided a house. They said they saw two men being arrested and handcuffed. They were led by armed officers into a car. That street also remains cordoned off. Chief Constable Serena Kennedy, of Merseyside Police, sought to reassure the public, saying events of this nature were very rare and that there would be an increased and visible police presence on the streets in the coming days. A bomb disposal unit and fire engines attended the scene earlier, which remains cordoned off. Road closures are also in place. Police were called at 10:59 GMT to reports of a car explosion. Phil Garrigan, chief fire officer of Merseyside Fire and Rescue Service, said the car fire had been "fully developed" when crews arrived shortly after 11:00 GMT. "The operational crews extinguished the fire rapidly but... there was one fatality," he said. "Another individual had left the vehicle prior to the fire developing to the extent that it did. Our thoughts are with them and the families of those involved." Liverpool Women's Hospital said visiting access had been restricted until further notice and patients had been diverted to other hospitals where possible. "We are reviewing our patient activity for the next 24-48 hours and patients should wait to be contacted for updates about any planned appointments or other attendance at the hospital," chief executive Kathryn Thomson said. Liverpool Women's Hospital receives about 50,000 patients annually and is the largest hospital in its specialism in Europe. Did you witness what happened? Email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Or Upload your pictures/video hereTweet: @BBC_HaveYourSayPlease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission.
COP26: Climate deal sounds the death knell for coal power - PM. The Glasgow climate deal is a "game-changing agreement" which sounds "the death knell for coal power", Boris Johnson says. Although countries only agreed to "phase down" rather than "phase out" coal, the prime minister said this was a fantastic achievement. The wording change was made after a late intervention by China and India. But it remains the first time plans to reduce coal have been mentioned in such a climate deal. The agreement was reached after the two-week Glasgow COP26 summit went into overtime on Saturday. Critics have said the deal does not go far enough and will not meet the key summit goal of limiting global warming to 1.5C by the end of the century. Scientists say this would limit the worst impacts of climate change. During a Downing Street news conference, Mr Johnson said: "We can lobby, we can cajole, we can encourage, but we cannot force sovereign nations to do what they do not wish to do""For all our disagreements, the world is undeniably heading in the right direction"The "tipping point has been reached in people's attitudes" - with leaders "galvanised and propelled by their electorates"But "the fatal mistake now would be to think that we in any way cracked this thing" Mr Johnson said that despite the achievements of the summit, his reaction was "tinged with disappointment". He said there had been a high level of ambition - especially from countries where climate change was already "a matter of life and death". And "while many of us were willing to go there, that wasn't true of everybody", he admitted. But he added the UK could not compel nations to act. "It's ultimately their decision to make and they must stand by it." New global climate deal struck in GlasgowWhat's been agreed at COP26?Is the UK on track to meet its climate targets? Mr Johnson also said he thought the watered-down language on coal did not "make that much of a difference", adding that the direction of travel was "pretty much the same". He said most of Western Europe and North America had been persuaded to pull the plug on financial support for overseas fossil fuel projects by this time next year. "And when you add all that together, it is beyond question, Glasgow has sounded the death knell for coal power," he said. Speaking alongside the PM, COP26 president Alok Sharma revealed that at one point during the final negotiations, he had feared the agreement was in jeopardy. "There was an hour where really we weren't going to get a deal," he said. Mr Sharma, who fought back tears as he closed the summit following the late intervention, said: "I can tell you there was one really tense hour where I did feel the weight of the world on my shoulders... this deal was absolutely in jeopardy. We got it over the line." Earlier he said that "China and India will have to explain themselves" to climate-vulnerable nations. One of the main goals set out by COP26 was to ensure global warming does not go above 1.5C by 2100 - but a report by the Climate Action Tracker group has calculated that at the current rate, the world is heading for 2.4C warming by that date. As part of the agreement struck in Glasgow, countries will meet next year to pledge further major carbon cuts with the aim of reaching the 1.5C goal. Under the Glasgow climate pact: Countries were asked to republish their climate action plans by the end of next year, with more ambitious emissions reduction targets for 2030There is an emphasis on the need for developed countries to increase the money they give to those already suffering the effects of climate change - beyond the current $100bn annual targetThe language about coal has been included for the first time ever in a global climate dealA pledge in a previous draft to "phase out" coal was instead watered down to a commitment to "phase down" coal The UN's climate change chief Patricia Espinosa described the mention of fossil fuels as a "huge step forward" but added there was a need to "balance out the social consequences" for people of cutting coal power - particularly in poor countries. She said that the 1.5C target was "definitely alive" but, earlier, Labour's shadow business and energy secretary Ed Miliband said the goal was "in intensive care". Simple guide to climate changeWhat will climate change look like for you?How extreme weather is linked to climate change Climate stripes visualisation courtesy of Prof Ed Hawkins and University of Reading.
Joe Biden and Xi Jinping: What they want from talks. US President Joe Biden and Chinese President Xi Jinping will hold a virtual summit on Monday as tensions between the countries deepen. The competing superpowers surprised many last week by issuing a joint declaration to address climate change, at talks in Glasgow, Scotland. But growing concerns of a military confrontation over Taiwan have thrown their differences into sharp relief. The pair's third meeting will address several thorny topics. Cybersecurity, trade and nuclear non-proliferation are subjects on the table, sources familiar with the negotiations told US media. In a statement released on Friday, the White House said "the two leaders will discuss ways to responsibly manage the competition between the United States and the PRC, as well as ways to work together where our interests align". China and US in surprise joint climate agreement Could China’s hypersonic missile spark a new arms race? The duo have spoken twice since Mr Biden took office in January, but both have acknowledged bumps in the relationship. Writing to the National Committee on US-China Relations non-profit last week, Mr Xi said his country was ready to work with the US to get relations back on track. He added that cooperation was "the only right choice". Our correspondents in Washington and Beijing assess how it might play out. Zhaoyin Feng, BBC News, Washington The expectation is low, but the fact the meeting happens at all will be a major outcome in itself.  Both sides intend to repair the US-China relationship, which has taken a nosedive in the past few years. Taiwan is likely to top the agenda. Biden wants Xi to pledge to maintain peace across the Taiwan Strait, as Beijing has shown growing willingness to intensify military pressure on the island. In return, the US leader will have to reassure his Chinese counterpart that America takes no position on Taiwan's sovereignty. The meeting will also be Biden's chance to convince Xi that the US administration's China strategy could be a stable framework for the bilateral relationship. Biden's China doctrine was previously summed up by his Secretary of State Antony Blinken - "competitive when it should be, collaborative when it can be, and adversarial when it must be". But Beijing has made it clear that issues of cooperation, such as climate action, cannot be divorced from points of contention in the diplomatic relations. "If the oasis is all surrounded by deserts, then sooner or later, the 'oasis' will be desertified," said the Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi in September. Will the talks bring water to the "deserts" and put out the fires? Robin Brant, BBC News, Shanghai Taiwan and talking - two words sum up the key concerns of China as Xi Jinping prepares to sit down and Zoom his US counterpart. The island off the east coast of China, with its own democratically elected president, seems like an obscure issue for many outside Asia. But for Beijing, Taiwan is the renegade province that it has always wanted to fully reunite with the "motherland". Xi Jinping talks about it as an inevitability. He knows canonisation awaits if he is the man to do it. What is the 'One China' policy?What do young Americans most admire about China? But just a few weeks ago Joe Biden pledged to defend Taiwan if China attacked. America's commitment to what to regards as a beacon of its values seems clear. Xi Jinping will want clarification. (In the meantime we know from satellite images in recent media reports that the Chinese military is using structures shaped like US aircraft carriers for target practice.) The prospect of a war is why "talking" is up the top of the "virtual summit" wish list too. Relations are in a bad place - a White House ordered report from the US intelligence agencies has twice now re-iterated China's lack of openness on the investigation in to the origins of Covid-19. Just last week President Biden agreed further restrictions on trade with a Chinese telecom company. He's been successful too in starting to rebuild alliances to challenge China's influence and power in the Asia-Pacific region. Beijing will have noted, as we all did, that the last line of an official readout after the two men spoke by phone last September warned both sides had a responsibility to ensure "competition didn't veer in to conflict". Re-establishing multi-level mechanisms to meet, negotiate and talk could ensure that happens.
Jair Bolsonaro, guns and rising violence in Brazil. Gun culture was a key part of Jair Bolsonaro's winning campaign to become Brazil's president. Three years later, what impact has he had on the nation's relationship with firearms and how much has US politics played a part? Rice and beans hold an important place in the heart of most Brazilians. In this deeply divided country, where almost everything is politicised, at least the famous "feijao" is a food loved by everyone. That is, until recently - when Jair Bolsonaro tried to put a political spin on the humble bean. "The left says that people don't eat guns, they eat beans," he joked. He had a few weeks earlier attacked his critics for saying that buying food was more important for Brazilians than buying firearms. "So when someone attacks your house, shoot beans at them," he said ironically. It is yet another example of Bolsonaro sticking two fingers up at his critics.  And they're well-used fingers. Throughout his campaign trail in 2018, he used them in a pistol hand gesture as a clear message to his supporters - even in a country with one of the world's highest rates of gun deaths, easing firearms laws was a top priority. And on 15 January 2019, just two weeks after taking power, he made good on his promise. The Brazilian president signed a decree making it easier for Brazilians to keep weapons at home and at the same time, increasing the validity of gun licences from five years to 10. It was, according to Bolsonaro, a step that would enable "upstanding citizens to have peace inside their homes". And he's not stopped since. The president has now made more than 32 changes to the country's gun laws - they include increasing the number of guns you're allowed to own, looser restrictions on ammunition and the ability to buy more powerful weapons. For Akira Ando, who owns a gun club in the town of Atibaia in Sao Paulo state, the past few years have seen a boom in business. "The telephone just rang off the hook," says Akira of the response following the decree. "People who never even imagined they could have a firearm at home or for sport were calling up." He's had to triple the number of people he employs on the administrative side - and he's got more than 2,500 members now. Until four years ago, it was closer to a thousand. "The profile of person who comes to the club has changed in the past few years," says Ando. "Our strength is shooting as a sport but people come here to get the paperwork to own a gun, to be able to keep one at home or at work, to protect their family." Business owner Elias Paulo Kury is one such member. A relative newcomer to shooting, he enjoys the club's atmosphere but is clear about one of his main motivations to pick up a gun. "All the baddies are armed, why shouldn't we have the right to defend ourselves in our own homes? It doesn't make any sense," he says. "Nowadays, we're victims of everything that is happening around us," he says, adding that unemployment and poverty are propelling violence in the country. Times have changed in Brazil. In 2003, a Disarmament Statute was signed into law, tightening rules on weapons.  The following year, there was a National Disarmament Campaign, which saw the handing in of more than half a million weapons. Why could Brazil's president face criminal charges? But in 2005, a referendum was held asking people's views on an outright ban on gun sales. Even with guns a leading cause of death, Brazil's gun lobby campaigned hard, importing the US concept of a right to bear arms - in the end, the public voted NO to such a ban. "We are seeing the NRA discourse being imported for Brazilian context and it's completely different," says Melina Risso, a public security expert and director at Igarapé Institute in Rio de Janeiro. "Here in Brazil, it's not a right to carry a gun, it's a concession by the state and they have strict rules. But since 2005, the gun lobby has tried to change the mindset of Brazilians in general. It didn't start with Bolsonaro." But there's no doubt Bolsonaro has made the debate his own since taking power. In fact, according to the Brazilian Forum of Public Security, as of 2020, the number of guns registered with the Federal Police has doubled since 2017. And in 2020 alone, 186,071 new weapons were registered - an increase of 97% in a year. Samurai Caçador (Samurai Hunter in English) is a beneficiary of this new wave. A hunting fanatic and social media influencer, he regularly goes online to talk about guns, their merits and the challenges for regular gun-users. "I was never into arms," he says, explaining that he came from a family where weapons were thought to go against family safety and life. "I wanted to know more about this world, I took the initiative to question it." Samurai hunts wild boar - the only animal that can be legally hunted in Brazil and even then, only as a way to control numbers in the wild as opposed to a sport. But, like all aspects of guns here in Brazil, it's become increasingly popular. Between 2019 and 2020, there was a rise of nearly 30% in the number of hunting and collecting licences issued. "I was transformed by this world so I want to use my experience to explain that weapons aren't a seven-headed beast," he says. "It's about freedom. It's a choice to be armed or not. It's a right that we will defend. Our president has always defended it. It's sacred." But this, say experts, doesn't truly represent Brazil - a poor country of more than 200 million that saw over 50,000 deaths from firearms last year. Indeed, recent polls suggest two-thirds of people disagree with gun ownership. "There is a part of Brazil for whom this US style gun culture makes some sense, but not for the majority of Brazilians," says Brian Winter, editor-in-chief of Americas Quarterly. "Where most of Brazilians live - in the south-east and north-east along the coasts, these are big cities where this kind of assault-rifle toting culture makes no sense at all." So why the US-style gun strategy then? "I don't think there is a strategy, I think it's a reflection of the reality which is so much of Bolsonarismo being modelled after Trump," says Winter. "They clearly looked at the gun culture issue and said maybe we've got something here." Bolsonaro has always openly admired Trump and US culture and it's telling that several influential thinkers allied to the Bolsonaro government, such as Olavo de Carvalho and Rodrigo Constantino, live in the US. But as with the Trumps, it's very much a family affair with the Bolsonaros. Son Eduardo is an influential member of the dynasty, forging relationships with the likes of strategist Steve Bannon.  And the parallels between Eduardo Bolsonaro and Don Trump Jr posing with guns is not lost on Brazil watchers either. America's gun culture in charts "What you get is mostly the imagery and the macho posing with the AR15s," says Winter. "The visuals that are meant to project strength, I feel like [they are] often one or two degrees separated from Taliban imagery." But where now? Trump is no longer in power, and Jair Bolsonaro is yet to announce whether he will run for another term in next year's elections. The pandemic has certainly hit his popularity but a year is a long time in Brazilian politics. No matter what politics you believe in, he's made an impact. "When we look at the data, every serious study that has been conducted has shown if you have more guns, you have more violence especially in a country like Brazil," says Melissa Risso. "The damage is really huge in Brazil in terms of all the regulation they made, the weakening of the laws and how many guns are already in the population's hands. We will have a lot of consequences for many years."
Japan's former princess Mako arrives in New York after giving up title. Japan's former princess Mako has arrived in the US with her new "commoner" husband, Kei Komuro, after leaving the royal family. There was minimal pageantry as the college sweethearts, who wed last month, left from Tokyo airport on Sunday morning. They will rent an apartment in New York where Mr Komuro works at a law firm. Under Japanese law, female imperial family members forfeit their status upon marriage to a "commoner". The pair were heavily guarded by police and airport security as they strolled through the departure terminal. They passed about 100 journalists who were there to witness them leave, but did not respond to questions. Footage broadcast in Japan showed the couple arriving in New York and walking through the airport with security guards, before getting into a waiting vehicle. Their move to New York had long been rumoured and Mako, who took her husband's name when they got married, is reportedly expected to find a job in the city. However, the couple faced a set-back to their plans last month when Japanese media reported that Mr Komuro had failed the New York state bar exam. Prospective lawyers have to pass the tests to practise law in the state. Mr Komuro is currently working as a legal clerk. The move to the US has drawn comparisons with British royals Meghan Markle and Prince Harry, earning the newlyweds the nickname "Japan's Harry and Meghan". The couple faced significant opposition when they first announced their engagement four years ago and their relationship has been subject to tabloid gossip and controversy over claims that Mr Komuro's mother had reportedly taken a loan from her ex-fiancé and not paid him back. PROFILE: The woman who gave up royal status to marry The coverage led to the then-princess developing post-traumatic stress disorder, according to the Imperial Household. When the couple married last month they skipped the usual rites of a royal wedding and turned down a payment offered to royal women upon their departure from the family. Former princess Mako, who is the niece of Emperor Naruhito, is the first female member of the royal family to decline both.
Macron switches to using navy blue on France's flag - reports. President Emmanuel Macron has switched to using a darker navy blue on the official French flag, replacing the previous brighter shade, officials have told local media. The move saw flags in the new hue hoisted on the presidential palace last year without any accompanying fanfare. Mr Macron wanted to bring back the navy blue flag, a symbol of the French Revolution, Europe 1 said. However, both the darker and lighter flags have been in use for decades. France's navy and many official buildings around the country have always used the navy blue shade. But in 1976 under President Giscard d'Estaing, the French state introduced a brighter blue on the tricolour to match the blue on the flag of Europe. That decision was partly an aesthetic one, Europe 1 reports, because the French and European flags flew next to each other in so many locations. The Élysée Palace has not publicly announced its change in flags, and no orders have been given for other institutions to do the same. There was reportedly some disagreement over Mr Macron's change back to navy blue, with some arguing the new shade was ugly and would clash with the EU flag, and others nostalgic for the pre-1976 version. However, all concerned insist that the colour change should not be interpreted as an anti-EU gesture, Europe 1 reports. France is due to take on the rotating EU presidency in January. Mr Macron also faces a presidential election in April next year.
Saif al-Islam Gaddafi: Son of Libya ex-ruler runs for president. The son of Libya's late leader Muammar al-Gaddafi has registered as a candidate in the country's first direct presidential election next month. Saif al-Islam Gaddafi was once the heir apparent to his father, but his support for a brutal crackdown on protesters 10 years ago tarnished his image. Since that 2011 uprising, Libya has been riven by conflict. Rights groups have raised fears the vote, scheduled for 24 December, will not be free and fair. World powers and the UN secretary-general have warned that anyone who tries to obstruct it or falsify the outcome will face sanctions. Photos and video circulating online show Saif al-Islam Gaddafi sitting in front of a poster for the upcoming poll, signing electoral papers. Bearded and wearing traditional Libyan clothing, he addressed the camera and cited a verse from the Koran that translates as, "judge between us and our people in truth". "God always prevails in his purpose," he also said, citing another chapter of the Muslim holy book, and adding from another section - "even if the unbelievers hate it". It is a very different image from the one he presented before the uprising that brought down his father in 2011. In the aftermath of Muammar Gaddafi's brutal end, Saif al-Islam Gaddafi was himself captured by a militia. He was held for six years, receiving a death sentence that was later overturned. Mr Gaddafi is still wanted on war crimes charges by the International Criminal Court, but has gradually re-emerged onto the public stage, including via an interview to the New York Times from his villa in Zintan earlier this year [paywall]. Mr Gaddafi's comeback has sharply divided opinion in Libya, says BBC Monitoring's Amira Fathalla. Yet there is little surprise at his leadership bid, as he has been repeatedly touted as a contender for years. Memories in Libya are likely still too raw for him to win the presidency, says the BBC's Middle East editor Sebastian Usher, and his candidacy will further complicate the already fragile electoral process. After years of civil war and rival powers operating in the east and west of the country, Libya is currently led by an interim government but remains politically unstable. Disagreement between Libya's political bodies and opposing factions about the election rules and the schedule have threatened to derail the presidential vote. Other candidates in the running are the warlord Khalifa Haftar - who previously led an insurgency from his eastern base against the UN-backed government in Tripoli, plus Prime Minister Abdulhamid al-Dbeibah and parliament speaker Aguila Saleh. Who is Saif al-Islam Gaddafi?The Gaddafi family treeA quick guide to Libya
US defends air strikes that killed civilians in Syria. The US military has defended as "legitimate" an air strike attack which killed dozens of people in Syria in 2019. The attack on so-called Islamic State fighters killed 80 people, as the group made their last stand. The US identified 16 of the dead as militants, and four as civilians. But officials could not conclude on more than 60, and a spokesperson told the BBC it was "highly likely" more civilians were killed. An independent investigation into the strike was never conducted, according to a New York Times report which accused the military of a cover-up. The air strikes occurred on 18 March 2019 in the town of Baghuz in eastern Syria - then the last stronghold of the so-called IS caliphate. Three bombs were dropped by US jets on a large group of people, despite drone footage showing the presence of civilians, according to the New York Times. Commanders ignored alarm expressed in the immediate aftermath and a subsequent investigation into the incident by the defence department's inspector general was "stripped" of any mention of the strike, the newspaper reported. It added that no thorough independent investigation had ever happened. "Leadership just seemed so set on burying this. No-one wanted anything to do with it," Gene Tate, an official who worked on the case and said he was forced out of his job, told the newspaper. US Central Command rejected the accusations. In a statement to the BBC, spokesman Cpt Bill Urban said US troops had been assured there were no civilians in the area at the time of the attack. Only afterwards, he went on, did the US become aware of high-resolution video from a drone operated by an unidentified US ally suggesting civilians had been present. And footage from that drone enabled the US to conclude their bombs had killed 16 fighters and four civilians - but could not "conclusively characterise the status of more than 60 other casualties". "The reason for this uncertainty is that multiple armed women and at least one armed child were observed in the video, and the exact mixture of armed and unarmed personnel could not be conclusively determined. Likely, a majority of those killed were also combatants at the time of the strike, however, it is also highly likely that there were additional civilians killed by these two strikes." An investigation concluded that "these two strikes were legitimate self-defence strikes" and "no disciplinary actions were warranted", Cpt Urban continued. He did not address the New York Times accusation that there had been a cover-up in the investigation conducted by the inspector-general's office. Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) - allied to the US - started the final ground attack on Baghuz at the start of March 2019. The alliance was forced to slow its offensive after it emerged that a large number of civilians were also there, sheltering in buildings, tents and tunnels. Many IS fighters stayed in their midst, putting up fierce resistance, deploying suicide bombers and car bombs. The fall of Baghuz was a major moment in the fight against IS. The extremist Islamist group came to international prominence in 2014 when it seized large parts of Syria and Iraq. IS imposed its brutal rule on almost eight million people, carried out countless atrocities, destroyed cultural heritage, and generated billions of dollars in revenue from oil, extortion, robbery and kidnapping. The rise and fall of the Islamic State group After five years of fierce and bloody battles, local forces, backed by world powers, have driven IS out of all the territory it once controlled. Last year, however, IS claimed to have carried out nearly 600 attacks in Syria and more than 1,400 in neighbouring Iraq.
Queen misses Remembrance Sunday service after back sprain. The Queen has missed the Remembrance Sunday service at the Cenotaph in London as she has sprained her back. Buckingham Palace said the monarch, 95, was "disappointed" not to attend the event. The palace previously said it was the Queen's "firm intention" to attend the service, after taking time away from her duties for health reasons. She made the decision to miss the event "with great regret" this morning, a statement said. Nation falls silent for Remembrance SundayWhat is Remembrance Sunday?Who gives the Queen medical advice? As in previous years, a wreath was laid on her behalf by the Prince of Wales. The Duchess of Cornwall, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, the Earl and Countess of Wessex and The Princess Royal also still attended as planned. At his Downing Street news conference on the COP climate deal, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he had an audience with Her Majesty last week and "she is very well". This is a blow. A blow to those gathered here on Whitehall on a grey November morning, a blow to the many who had hoped to see the Queen after a fortnight of rest, and without doubt a blow to the Queen herself - Remembrance Sunday is when she, who has devoted her life to service, pays her tribute to those who served. It is, as one palace official puts it, "incredibly unfortunate timing". When the palace announced that the Queen would cancel her official engagements for two weeks it went out of its way to say that it was her "firm intention" to attend the National Service of Remembrance. It's understood that the Queen will not need hospital treatment. It looks as if a car ride from Windsor and a period of standing in the cold watching the ceremony were just impossible given her back sprain. In previous years, she may have weathered the pain. But there is no getting round the fact that she is 95 years old. For a period, at least, quieter times beckon. The Queen's back sprain is unrelated to her doctor's recent advice to rest, news agency PA Media reported. Doctors had advised the monarch to rest until mid-November after she spent a night in hospital on 20 October for checks - her first overnight hospital stay in eight years. However, she did undertake some light duties during that time, including meeting ambassadors via video link from Windsor Castle. She also recorded a video message for the COP26 climate summit in Glasgow, after pulling out of attending the event in person. And she missed the Festival of Remembrance at London's Royal Albert Hall on Saturday, which was attended by Prince Charles, Camilla, Prince William and Catherine. The Remembrance Sunday service would have been her first duty in public after her hospital stay last month. Buckingham Palace said in a statement: "The Queen, having sprained her back, has decided this morning with great regret that she will not be able to attend today's Remembrance Sunday service at the Cenotaph. "Her Majesty is disappointed that she will miss the service." The Queen will be continuing light duties at Windsor. The monarch, who lived through World War Two as a teenager, is head of the armed forces. She has only missed six other Cenotaph ceremonies during her reign - on four occasions when she was on overseas visits and in 1959 and 1963, when she was pregnant with her two youngest children. The Queen had maintained a typically busy schedule in October before being admitted to hospital, but was recently seen using a walking stick at a Westminster Abbey service, the first time she has done so at a major event. On Tuesday, she returned to Windsor Castle following a long-planned weekend away at her Sandringham home in Norfolk. Last week, she was spotted driving her car near Windsor Castle, in an area where she is known to take her Corgi dogs out for walks.
Bart Simpson graffiti appears following Kidderminster speed camera 'moon'. Graffiti depicting a 'mooning' Bart Simpson has appeared near the home of a man arrested after baring his behind to a speed camera van. Terminally ill Darrell Meekcom, exposed himself at the van in Kidderminster, Worcestershire as part of a list of things he wanted to do before he died. The street art appeared in a subway in the town on Saturday. Mr Meekcom, who thinks the work is by Banksy, said he thought the piece was "fantastic". Mr Meekcom, who uses a wheelchair and has heart disease, Parkinson's disease and kidney failure, said because of his illnesses he came up with a so-called bucket list of things he wanted to do before he died. He targeted a speed camera van in his home town after he had been "caught by them a couple of times". He said about six officers arrived at his home a short time later and after he refused to let them in, his garden gate was kicked in and the officers got him to the ground to cuff him. West Mercia Police confirmed a a 55-year-old was arrested on suspicion of indecent exposure and dangerous driving Mr Meekcom said he received anonymous messages from someone who told him they "represented an international street artist" who wanted to do a piece based on his experience. He believes the piece is a work by Banksy, but it has not been confirmed by the secretive street artist. "It is fantastic," Mr Meekcom said. "It is so well thought out...it is basically descriptive, it is clever." Mr Meekcom said he hopes the artwork can be protected. Follow BBC West Midlands on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk
US bank robber identified after decades-long hunt. The fugitive behind one of America's most notorious bank robberies has been identified after a 52-year search, law enforcement officials have announced. Ted Conrad was working as a teller at the Society National Bank in Cleveland, Ohio when he robbed his employer in July 1969. He disappeared with $215,000, worth $1.7m (£1.2m) today. Investigators from the US Marshals Service said he subsequently lived a quiet and unassuming life. Conrad, who died in May from lung cancer, was just 20 years old when he pulled off the heist. He reportedly took advantage of the bank's lacklustre security, walking out with the money stuffed into a brown paper bag as the branch closed on a Friday evening. By the time other bank employees realised the money was gone two days later, Conrad had disappeared. He sparked a manhunt that would last for more than half a century, and went on to feature on television shows like America's Most Wanted and Unsolved Mysteries. According to the Marshal Service, Conrad had allegedly told friends of his plans to rob the bank and boasted about how easy it would be to do. He was reportedly obsessed with the 1968 Steve McQueen heist film, The Thomas Crown Affair, and watched it more than a dozen times during his preparation for the robbery. Marshals say that after his disappearance Conrad changed his name to Thomas Randele and fled to Washington DC and Los Angeles, before eventually settling in a Boston suburb around 1000km (621 miles) away from the scene of the crime. Investigators say he subsequently lived a quiet and unassuming life, and the New York Times reported that he had spent the past 40 years working as a golf professional and at a used-car dealership. The case remained cold for decades before investigators, alerted by the appearance of Randele's obituary in a newspaper, were able to match papers he had filed during the 1960s with documents "Randele" had completed more recently. Ironically, this included papers from Randele's bankruptcy case in a Boston court in 2014. Marshal Peter Elliott was one of the lead investigators on the case. He inherited it from his father John, who had been obsessed with finding out what became of the daring thief. "My father never stopped searching for Conrad and always wanted closure up until his death in 2020," Mr Elliott said. "I hope my father is resting a little easier today knowing his investigation and his United States Marshals Service brought closure to this decades-long mystery."
Two Ugandan soldiers sentenced to death in Somalia. Five Ugandan soldiers serving with African Union troops in Somalia have been found guilty of killing seven civilians there in August. Two of the soldiers have been sentenced to death, while three others have been given 39-year prison sentences. The three will be repatriated to Uganda to serve their sentences there. The civilians were unlawfully killed during a gun battle in Golweyn between its troops and al-Shabab militants, the AU says. The AU's Amisom force has been in Somalia for 14 years. It has been fighting the al-Shabab Islamists who retain a stronghold on parts of the country. Almost a third of Amisom's 20,000 troops are from Uganda - making it the biggest national contingent. Saturday's court martial ruling by Uganda comes a month after the AU announced it wanted to expand its military operation in Somalia, pending approval from the UN and the Somali government. "Our mission in Somalia is to degrade al-Shabab and other armed groups. In doing so, we absolutely have every responsibility to protect the civilian population", said commander of the Ugandan contingent commander Brig Gen Don Nabasa in a statement on Saturday. VOA reports that some of the victims' families attended the court hearings organised by Uganda in the Somali capital, Mogadishu. "We are very happy with the court decision and expect compensation to be awarded to the families of those killed," Hussein Osman Wasuge - a spokesman for the bereaved relatives - is quoted as saying. He told local media that one of the bereaved and six Ugandan soldiers were allowed to testify. A quick guide to Somalia Somali concern as US troop withdrawalAl-Shabab 'collects more revenue than government' - reportWho are al-Shabab?
