US anger at Russian anti-satellite missile test debris. The US has condemned Russia for conducting a "dangerous and irresponsible" missile test that it says endangered the crew aboard the International Space Station (ISS). The test blew up one of Russia's own satellites, creating debris that forced the ISS crew to shelter in capsules. The station currently has seven crew members on board - four Americans, a German and two Russians. The space station orbits at an altitude of about 420km (260 miles). What's it like to live on the ISS? "Earlier today, the Russian Federation recklessly conducted a destructive satellite test of a direct ascent anti-satellite missile against one of its own satellites," US state department spokesman Ned Price said at a briefing. "The test has so far generated over 1,500 pieces of trackable orbital debris and hundreds of thousands of pieces of smaller orbital debris that now threaten the interests of all nations." Russian space agency Roscosmos downplayed the incident. "The orbit of the object, which forced the crew today to move into spacecraft according to standard procedures, has moved away from the ISS orbit. The station is in the green zone," the agency tweeted. The wayward material passed by without incident, but its origin is now under the spotlight. It appears to have come from a broken-up Russian satellite, Kosmos-1408. A spy satellite launched in 1982, it weighed over a tonne and had ceased working many years ago. LeoLabs, a space debris-tracking company, said its radar facility in New Zealand had picked up multiple objects where the long-defunct spacecraft should have been. But Mr Price said the danger was far from over. "This test will significantly increase the risk to astronauts and cosmonauts on the International Space Station, as well as to other human spaceflight activities," he said. "Russia's dangerous and irresponsible behaviour jeopardises the long-term sustainability of outer space and clearly demonstrate that Russia's claims of opposing weaponisation of space are disingenuous and hypocritical. "The US will work with our partners and allies to respond to their irresponsible act." It's difficult not to view anti-satellite missile tests as a form of madness. It's impossible to control the debris field that results from a high-velocity impact. Thousands of fragments are produced. Some will be propelled downwards towards Earth and out of harm's way, but many will also head to higher altitudes where they will harass operational missions for years into the future - including those of the nation state that carried out the test. What must the Russian cosmonauts on the space station have been thinking when they took shelter in their Soyuz capsule early on Monday because of the risk debris from this test might intersect with their orbital home? Space junk is a rapidly worsening situation. Sixty-four years of activity above our heads means there are now roughly a million objects running around up there uncontrolled in the size range of 1cm (0.4in) to 10cm. An impact from any one of these could be mission-ending for a vital weather or telecommunications satellite. Nations need to be clearing up the space environment, not polluting it still further. A number of countries have the ability to take out satellites from the ground, including the US, Russia, China and India. Testing of such missiles is rare, but always draws widespread condemnation whenever it occurs, because it pollutes the space environment for everyone. When China destroyed one of its retired weather satellites in 2007, it created more than 2,000 pieces of trackable debris. This material posed an ongoing hazard to operational space missions, not least those of China itself. Brian Weeden, an expert in space situational awareness, earlier said that if it was confirmed Russia had conducted a test that endangered the ISS, the conduct would have been "beyond irresponsible". The space station occupies an orbital shell that other operators try to keep clear of hardware, either working or retired. However, the astronauts are increasingly having to take precautionary measures when fragments from old satellites and rockets come uncomfortably close. The velocities at which this material moves means it could easily puncture the walls of the station's modules. Precautionary measures usually involve closing hatches between the modules, and, as happened on Monday, climbing into the capsules that took the astronauts up to the station. These vehicles stay attached to the ISS throughout the crews' tours of duty in case there is a need for a rapid "lifeboat" escape.
Space debris: Smart solutions sought to make orbital traffic safer. The UK Space Agency (UKSA) wants to hear from anyone with novel ideas for how to track all the pieces of debris now moving in orbit. UKSA has £1m to dispense in grants for smart new solutions. There are about 900,000 redundant objects larger than 1cm circling overhead. Even the smallest items are capable of doing immense damage to, or even destroying, an operational satellite in a collision. The funding is designed to seed further entrants to the UK's burgeoning space start-up sector. Europe's new space budget to enable CO2 mappingRemoveDebris: UK satellite tracks 'space junk' "We're looking to support new companies that want to use artificial intelligence and machine learning to better exploit the data that's already out there," explained Jacob Geer, the UKSA's head of space surveillance and tracking (SST). "But the second theme is around new ways to sense and track space objects - in low-Earth orbit (LEO) in particular, because it's in LEO that a lot of the new missions will be going," he told BBC News. Britain has a long history in SST. RAF Fylingdales in North Yorkshire, for example, has been using radar to track space objects for more than 50 years. But as the amount of traffic overhead - especially commercial traffic - increases, ever more sophistication is needed to monitor and understand what's going on. Today, satellite operators will sometimes receive a warning that their hardware is at risk of a collision with another object. But this notification can often be either so imprecise in its detail or arrive so close to the moment of possible intersection that it's next to useless. With thousands of new satellites, large and small, to be launched in the coming decade, SST is a field that's ripe for new thinking. Under the UKSA funding stream to be announced on Tuesday, companies will be able to bid for a maximum grant award of £250,000. The international market for space surveillance and tracking has the potential to reach over £100m by 2035, analysts believe. The UKSA hopes that if British businesses are well represented in this sector, it will also give new satellite operators the confidence to choose this country as a base as well. "What's exciting here is that if we can get this right; if we can get some assurance about operating safely, it will enable companies to push the boundaries of innovation even further in the types of new missions they intend to launch. If we're able to give them that support, they'll want to come to, and work from, the UK," said Dr Alice Bunn, the UKSA's international director. Britain made space safety a priority for itself at the recent European Space Agency Ministerial Council, by pledging more money to the policy area than any other member state. This included a substantial contribution to the ADRIOS (Active Debris Removal/In orbit servicing) programme, which is backing the Swiss-led ClearSpace-1 mission to grab some old rocket hardware and pull it out of the sky. Britain is also involved in another debris-capture demonstration called ELSA-d organised by the Japanese start-up Astroscale. Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Space debris removal demonstration launches. A Soyuz rocket has launched from the Baikonur cosmodrome in Kazakhstan to put 38 different satellites in orbit. Among the payloads was a 500kg Earth imager developed by the South Korean space agency; and a pair of spacecraft from the Tokyo-headquartered Astroscale company which will give a demonstration of how to clean up orbital debris. Astroscale's showcase will be run from an operations centre in the UK. The Soyuz flight lasted nearly five hours following a 06:07 GMT lift-off. The long duration was a consequence of having to put so many different satellites in three different orbits roughly 500km to 550km above the Earth. A lot of interest ahead of launch had focussed on the Astroscale mission. With the space environment becoming increasingly cluttered, there is heightened awareness that something needs to be done to sweep away spaceflight's legacy of discarded hardware. This debris - of which there is roughly 9,000 tonnes up there - is a potential collision risk to the operational systems that deliver much-needed services, such as weather forecasting and telecommunications. Smart solutions sought to make orbital traffic saferRemoveDebris: UK satellite tracks 'space junk'Mega-constellation satellites will need 'rapid disposal' Astroscale launched what it calls Elsa-D (End-of-Life Service by Astroscale demonstration). The demonstration mission consists of two spacecraft: a 175kg "servicer" and a 17kg "client". On the Soyuz, the duo were connected, but in the coming weeks they will be commanded to separate to begin a repeating game of cat and mouse. The servicer will use its sensors to find and chase down the client, latching on to it using a magnetic docking plate, before then releasing "the mouse" for another capture experiment. The task will become increasingly complex, with the most difficult rendezvous requiring the servicer to grab the client as it's tumbling. Ultimately, the pair will be commanded to come out of orbit to burn up in the atmosphere. "The mission simulates a scenario where we would rendezvous with, and dock with, and capture a piece of debris that is free-floating in space," explained Astroscale chief technical officer Mike Lindsay. "We would then lower the debris, such that it re-enters Earth's atmosphere and stays out of the way of other spacecraft and operations," he told BBC News. There is a burgeoning waste problem in the volume of space just above the Earth - a few hundred to a few thousand km in altitude. Can space exploration be environmentally friendly? The accumulated junk ranges in nature from big rocket segments through to tiny shards of metal that have been created in accidental explosions and collisions. All move with high velocity and are therefore capable of destroying, or at least badly damaging an active satellite, of which there are currently over 3,000. Precise tracking is possible on debris objects larger than 10cm. There are about 30,000 of these in the catalogue, but there may be one million items out there nearer to 1cm in size that are extremely difficult to monitor. Spacecraft owners are asked to adhere to guidelines that would see all their retired missions brought out of the sky within 25 years of the end of operations. But compliance is poor, and experts agree we now need to start fetching the bigger pieces of junk and bringing them down - if we want near-Earth orbits to remain useable. Astroscale wants to offer this as a commercial service. "In the same way that you call up a breakdown service when your car breaks down on the motorway, the idea is that we can do the exact same thing for space - a space sweeping service which can clean up as we go," said Harriet Brettle, the head of business analysis at Astroscale. On the design board for future commercial missions is an Elsa-M mission, where the M stands for "multi-client'. In this scenario, the servicer would capture in turn three clients and pull them down into lower orbits where they could more easily re-enter the atmosphere and burn up. The client spacecraft, or mouse, for this Astroscale demo was manufactured by Surrey Satellite Technology Limited (SSTL) of Guildford. Two other British-made satellites joined the ride to orbit, both manufactured by Open Cosmos on the Harwell science campus in Oxfordshire - the same location as for Astroscale's mission operations centre. One of the Open Cosmos platforms is to be used by Lacuna Space, again based at the Harwell Hub. Lacuna is developing an "Internet of Things" (IoT) constellation of small satellites that can link dispersed connected objects on the ground - everything from shipping containers to migrating animals.
Astronaut Scott Kelly: How to survive a year in space. Astronaut Scott Kelly tells the BBC how he managed to live for a year on the International Space Station and why, four years into his retirement from Nasa, he would go back if someone asked. It's 16 July 2015, and all three occupants of the International Space Station are squeezing into the Russian Soyuz spacecraft that acts as their lifeboat in the event of an emergency. The crew members have been told by mission control that a large, defunct satellite is hurtling their way at 14km per second. Controllers know it will come close, but they can't track the object precisely enough to know if it will skim by or score a devastating bullseye. US astronaut Scott Kelly and Russians Gennady Padalka and Mikhail "Misha" Kornienko hunker down in the cramped capsule, waiting for the speeding hunk of metal to close in, following the procedures drawn up for such an eventuality by preparing to detach from the station at a moment's notice and return to Earth. Astronaut Capt Scott Kelly's year in spaceISS crew members end year in space It's hardly the first time Captain Kelly, a former military pilot, has been in a life-threatening situation. But the experience caused him to ponder their collective powerlessness; had the satellite hit, there would have been no time to get away. "Misha, Gennady and I would have gone from grumbling to one another in our cold Soyuz to being blasted in a million directions as diffused atoms, all in the space of a millisecond," he recalls in his memoir Endurance. Crew rotations on the ISS come with many of the mundane features of everyday life on Earth: video calls, cleaning and bad days at work. But every now and then - as on this occasion - astronauts get a stark reminder of the hostile environment beyond the comforting walls of their vessel. Since 2007, Kelly has made three separate visits to the orbiting outpost. But it was on his last flight between 2015 and 2016 that he gained worldwide recognition. Along with Misha Kornienko, he was tasked with spending a whole year on the space station - twice the length of a regular stay. In doing so, he smashed the previous long duration spaceflight record for an American - set by astronaut Michael López-Alegría - by more than 100 days. But Kelly is just as well known for having an identical twin brother - Mark - who was also a Nasa astronaut. Mark, who is older by about six minutes, was elected as a senator for the state of Arizona in the 2020 US election. Speaking to me by video call from his home in Colorado, Scott Kelly says there was never a moment he felt like coming home early. "My goal was always to get to the end of the flight with as much energy and enthusiasm as I had at the beginning - and I think I did that. "I could have stayed up there longer, if there had been a good reason. So I never really doubted my ability to do that." Despite the fact that astronauts and cosmonauts are screened for their psychological ability to cope, he says: "I know that other people have had hard times with it. I've seen that myself in person - some folks having a challenge being isolated like that. It's hard, but it's not so hard you can't do it." He explains: "I don't know if it's necessarily an introvert/extravert thing, but you definitely have to be comfortable being your own entertainment," adding: "It's not for everybody." The toughest things, he says, are not being able to go outside and experience nature, as well as the formidable daily schedule of space station tasks. Another challenge, he says, was sharing a relatively small place with the same people for so long - "even though all those people are great". It was a challenge successfully navigated, however, as the close quarters confinement helped forge long-standing friendships: "I was just exchanging emails with (Nasa's) Kjell Lindgren. My wife and I did a video conference the other day with (Italian European Space Agency astronaut) Samantha Cristoforetti. I talk to Misha Kornienko and Gennady Padalka," he explains. The US is committed to four more years of funding for the ISS, but uncertainties remain about support for the orbiting lab after that. The space station was born in the 1990s, during an era of political détente between the US and Russia. "The space station programme has been a great example of international co-operation in a peaceful way," he tells me, "My experience with the cosmonauts on the station has always been one of professionalism, of respect, reliance on each other. "My hope is that, whenever we do decide to put the space station in the Pacific Ocean, there is something there to replace it. For the last 20 years, all humans have not been on Earth at the same time. I would like to see that continue." Kelly wasn't consumed by work for the whole of his year in orbit; he also managed to find time for much-needed fun and games. In what would become a viral video, he chased British astronaut Tim Peake through part of the space station dressed in a gorilla suit. Peake, it has to be said, does a good job of projecting alarm - if he is indeed acting. The suit - vacuum-packed and sent up on a supply flight - was a birthday present from Mark, and I ask Scott whether it was some sort of in-joke between the brothers. "My brother said: 'Hey, I'm sending you a gorilla suit.' And I said: 'Why are you sending me a gorilla suit?' He said: 'Why not?'" Kelly says, with a wry smile. "That's about as much thought as was put into that." The siblings were raised in suburban New Jersey by parents who were both cops. Their mother was the first female officer in the township of West Orange where they grew up, and Scott cites the determination she showed as an inspiration in his efforts to become an astronaut. Mark and Scott showed similar, early propensities for risk-taking that led to frequent injuries, including hospitalisations. But there was a point at school where Mark surged ahead in his studies, while Scott was prone to being easily distracted in class. At college, it was the party scene competing for Scott's attention. He credits a phone conversation with Mark - who told him to lay off the socialising and knuckle down - with turning his academic fortunes around. After training as a Navy pilot, Scott was assigned to a strike squadron called the World Famous Pukin' Dogs. He flew the F-14 Tomcat - the plane featured in Top Gun - during the 1990s, and carried out combat missions during the first Gulf War. However, Kelly was eager to become part of an even more elite group - those who have flown the space shuttle. Following his selection as a Nasa astronaut in the class of 1996, along with Mark, Scott served as a pilot on one shuttle mission before commanding another in 2007. On the shuttle, it's the commander that actually pilots the vehicle, and it's on the dizzyingly difficult landing that these skills come into their own. "I only flew it once. It's kind of crazy to consider how much time and effort you put into doing this one piloting task and then you get to do it once, or twice," says Kelly. "You've got one chance to land this. If you don't, it's not like you're adding power and coming around again. You recognise not only your colleagues are watching but a large part of the rest of the world." The shuttle was a magnificent, if flawed, vehicle. And the world was reminded of the huge risks of space travel when, in 2003, the space shuttle Columbia broke up while returning to Earth - killing seven astronauts. Nasa's safety culture was criticised by investigations in the wake of both the Challenger and Columbia disasters. Kelly lost friends on Columbia and, when I interview him, he is preparing to address the virtual SafetyCulture Summit, alongside Charles "Sully" Sullenberger - who landed a stricken US Airways flight on the Hudson River - and environmental campaigner Erin Brockovich. "The stuff that we do is so extraordinarily risky," he tells me. "Safety has to be everyone's responsibility… everyone needs to know that they are empowered to speak up if there's an issue." When it was originally proposed that an identical twin would be sent into orbit for a year-long stay on the ISS, one group of scientists eyed a unique opportunity to study the effects of extended periods in space on the human body. By using an Earth-bound Mark as a genetically identical "control", scientists would have greater confidence that any changes they were seeing in Scott were caused by the space environment. Both twins were subjected to a battery of tests measuring potential shifts in their physiology, cognitive abilities, immunity and DNA. Among other things, the results revealed genetic changes that suggested Scott's DNA was repairing itself due to damage from cosmic radiation. Scientists also saw unexpected changes in "caps" on the ends of Scott's chromosomes, called telomeres, as well as shifts in his blood chemistry, body mass and gut flora. But the vast majority of these reversed themselves once he was back on Earth. Four years on, he says: "I don't have any symptoms of anything that I can definitively point to as caused by that amount of time in space, but I do have some structural and physiological changes to my eyes - though it doesn't affect my vision." Scientists know that some people are affected more by ocular changes in space than others. And there has been work on the genetics underlying these differences. I ask Kelly if, as we learn more about how different people respond to the space environment, these biological markers could play a bigger role in astronaut selection - perhaps even at the expense of more traditional qualities. "I think that's not just an issue for Nasa but our society in general… it goes deeply into insurance and pre-existing conditions - whether genetic susceptibility could be considered a pre-existing condition. That is definitely an ethical conversation to be had," he says. The findings of the twins study were reassuring in light of space agencies' plans to send humans on a round trip to the Red Planet, which lies 34 million miles from Earth and could take nine months each way. But astronauts will be exposed to around 10 times the radiation dose they would get in Earth orbit - putting them at long-term risk of cancers and other illnesses. "You'll either have to find a way to shield or get to Mars quicker," Kelly says. "The other option is you just accept the risk." It's a dilemma you suspect Kelly himself would have considered carefully. He retired from Nasa in 2016, and has since been writing and speaking about his experiences. With his wife, he has since moved from Houston - the hub for Nasa's human spaceflight programme - to Denver. In the four years since he left, new opportunities have opened up for travel into space, and skillsets like his are in demand. The astronaut whose long duration spaceflight record Kelly surpassed - Michael López-Alegría - is now set to return from retirement to command a privately-funded flight to the ISS aboard Elon Musk's Crew Dragon vehicle. Despite having achieved so much, it's clear that Kelly's fascination with spaceflight remains undiminished. "If someone asked me: 'Hey do you want to fly in space?' I'd say: 'Sure, absolutely.' Depending on what I'd be launching on: I wouldn't get into a cannon and launch myself like a cannonball," Kelly says. "It would have to be something that made sense, that was safe. But I wouldn't rule it out. "If you know anyone out there who has a rocket ship they need piloting…" Follow Paul on Twitter. Captain Scott Kelly recently participated in the virtual SafetyCulture summit, sharing his tips for how businesses can succeed in 2021 despite the challenges of the pandemic.
Joe Biden and Xi Jinping: What they want from talks. US President Joe Biden and Chinese President Xi Jinping will hold a virtual summit on Monday as tensions between the countries deepen. The competing superpowers surprised many last week by issuing a joint declaration to address climate change, at talks in Glasgow, Scotland. But growing concerns of a military confrontation over Taiwan have thrown their differences into sharp relief. The pair's third meeting will address several thorny topics. Cybersecurity, trade and nuclear non-proliferation are subjects on the table, sources familiar with the negotiations told US media. In a statement released on Friday, the White House said "the two leaders will discuss ways to responsibly manage the competition between the United States and the PRC, as well as ways to work together where our interests align". China and US in surprise joint climate agreement Could China’s hypersonic missile spark a new arms race? The duo have spoken twice since Mr Biden took office in January, but both have acknowledged bumps in the relationship. Writing to the National Committee on US-China Relations non-profit last week, Mr Xi said his country was ready to work with the US to get relations back on track. He added that cooperation was "the only right choice". Our correspondents in Washington and Beijing assess how it might play out. Zhaoyin Feng, BBC News, Washington The expectation is low, but the fact the meeting happens at all will be a major outcome in itself.  Both sides intend to repair the US-China relationship, which has taken a nosedive in the past few years. Taiwan is likely to top the agenda. Biden wants Xi to pledge to maintain peace across the Taiwan Strait, as Beijing has shown growing willingness to intensify military pressure on the island. In return, the US leader will have to reassure his Chinese counterpart that America takes no position on Taiwan's sovereignty. The meeting will also be Biden's chance to convince Xi that the US administration's China strategy could be a stable framework for the bilateral relationship. Biden's China doctrine was previously summed up by his Secretary of State Antony Blinken - "competitive when it should be, collaborative when it can be, and adversarial when it must be". But Beijing has made it clear that issues of cooperation, such as climate action, cannot be divorced from points of contention in the diplomatic relations. "If the oasis is all surrounded by deserts, then sooner or later, the 'oasis' will be desertified," said the Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi in September. Will the talks bring water to the "deserts" and put out the fires? Robin Brant, BBC News, Shanghai Taiwan and talking - two words sum up the key concerns of China as Xi Jinping prepares to sit down and Zoom his US counterpart. The island off the east coast of China, with its own democratically elected president, seems like an obscure issue for many outside Asia. But for Beijing, Taiwan is the renegade province that it has always wanted to fully reunite with the "motherland". Xi Jinping talks about it as an inevitability. He knows canonisation awaits if he is the man to do it. What is the 'One China' policy?What do young Americans most admire about China? But just a few weeks ago Joe Biden pledged to defend Taiwan if China attacked. America's commitment to what to regards as a beacon of its values seems clear. Xi Jinping will want clarification. (In the meantime we know from satellite images in recent media reports that the Chinese military is using structures shaped like US aircraft carriers for target practice.) The prospect of a war is why "talking" is up the top of the "virtual summit" wish list too. Relations are in a bad place - a White House ordered report from the US intelligence agencies has twice now re-iterated China's lack of openness on the investigation in to the origins of Covid-19. Just last week President Biden agreed further restrictions on trade with a Chinese telecom company. He's been successful too in starting to rebuild alliances to challenge China's influence and power in the Asia-Pacific region. Beijing will have noted, as we all did, that the last line of an official readout after the two men spoke by phone last September warned both sides had a responsibility to ensure "competition didn't veer in to conflict". Re-establishing multi-level mechanisms to meet, negotiate and talk could ensure that happens.
Kyle Rittenhouse: Weapons charge against accused US teen dropped. Tensions are high in a Wisconsin city where closing arguments have begun in the trial of a US teen who shot three people during civil unrest last August. Prosecutors alleged Kyle Rittenhouse "provoked everything" when he shot two men dead and wounded another in Kenosha. Defence attorneys for Mr Rittenhouse, who has pleaded not guilty to five felony counts, are next set to speak. Earlier, the judge dismissed a misdemeanour weapons charge against the teen. Ahead of the verdict, 500 National Guard troops were placed on standby in Wisconsin. The case has become politically divisive and its result will be closely watched across the nation. In a statement, Governor Tony Evers urged people to "respect the community by reconsidering any plans to travel there" in response to the verdict. If Mr Rittenhouse is convicted on the most serious charges, he could face life in prison. In August of last year, riots had erupted on the streets of Kenosha after police shot Jacob Blake, a black man. Mr Rittenhouse had travelled to the city from his home in Illinois and, with a semi-automatic rifle in tow, he said he sought to help protect property from unrest on the streets. Defence attorneys for the young gunman have said he acted in self-defence on the night of 25 August 2020, but prosecutors allege he came looking for trouble that night and behaved like a vigilante. "You cannot claim self-defence against a danger that you create," lead prosecutor Thomas Binger told the court on Monday in his closing statement. "Consider whether or not it's reasonable for a criminal to be able to shoot himself out of a crime scene," he said. "If someone comes up to that person and tries to disarm them, do they forfeit their life?" Mr Binger - the assistant district attorney for Kenosha - questioned why Mr Rittenhouse broke curfew in a city he did not live in and "pretended to guard" people and property he was not familiar with. "He ran around with an AR-15 all night and lied about being an EMT [emergency responder]. Does that suggest to you that he is genuinely there to help?" asked the prosecutor. Mr Rittenhouse had worked as a first responder cadet prior to the shootings. He testified last week that he provided medical aid to people that day. Jurors were shown video, sometimes frame by frame, leading up to and after each shooting. Mr Binger assailed the teen for showing "no regard for human life" and then fleeing the scene "like he was some sort of hero in a western". Mr Rittenhouse was 17 years old when he fired the fatal shots that killed Joseph Rosenbaum, 36, and Anthony Huber, 26, while also wounding Gaige Grosskreutz, 27. On Monday, defence attorneys successfully argued that Wisconsin law could be interpreted to allow him to possess the firearm despite being under the age of 18. Judge Bruce Schroeder agreed to drop the weapons charge prior to closing arguments. The judge is yet to rule on a motion for mistrial brought up by Mr Rittenhouse's lawyers last week and has indicated he may do so later today. Five hours have been allotted for closing arguments before the jury enters into deliberations.
Timed Teaser: How did Adele help a marriage proposal?. Test your news knowledge against the clock. Can you outscore your friends? If you cannot see the quiz, follow this link. Want more of the same? Try last week's teaser. Or take Friday's quiz of the week's news. What information do we collect from this quiz? Privacy notice.
Liverpool Women's Hospital explosion: Police name suspect killed in blast. The man who died when a homemade bomb exploded outside Liverpool Women's Hospital has been named by police as Emad Al Swealmeen. The 32-year-old was a passenger in a taxi when his device blew up shortly before 11:00 GMT on Remembrance Sunday. The driver David Perry escaped before the car caught fire and has since been discharged from hospital. Four men have been arrested under the Terrorism Act and the UK terror threat level has been raised to "severe". Officers believe Al Swealmeen lived at a house in Sutcliffe Street in the Kensington area of Liverpool, where counter-terrorism police officers carried out raids earlier. Police said he had recently rented an address in Rutland Avenue, near Sefton Park in the city, which has also been searched by officers. "Our focus is the Rutland Avenue address where we have continued to recover significant items," said Det Ch Insp Andrew Meeks, from Counter Terrorism Police North West. "Any information that the public may have about Al Swealmeen no matter how small may be of great assistance to us." BBC News correspondent Ed Thomas said Al Swealmeen was a refugee from Syria who was befriended and supported by Malcolm and Elizabeth Hitchcott, who knew him as Enzo, when he arrived in the UK. Mrs Hitchcott said she and her husband were "just so sad" and were "very shocked" by his death. "We just loved him, he was a lovely guy," she added. Al Swealmeen is believed to have manufactured and brought the device into the taxi. Police said he was picked up from the Rutland Avenue area and asked to be taken to the hospital, about 10 minutes away, before the bomb exploded. He is not believed to have been known to MI5, according to BBC security correspondent Gordon Corera. He said he had come from the Middle East and gone into the the UK asylum system, but was also thought to have converted to Christianity and had mental health issues. "That I think explains why the police have been cautious about pronouncing judgement on his motivation today," our correspondent said. Terror threat level 'severe' after Liverpool blastLiverpool explosion: What we know so farTaxi driver 'lucky to be alive' after explosion Four men have been arrested under terrorism laws in the Kensington area of Liverpool - three aged 21, 26 and 29, who were held on Sunday, and a 20-year-old man who was detained on Monday. People detained under the Terrorism Act can be held without charge for up to 14 days. Police said the arrested men were believed to be "associates" of Al Swealmeen. Investigators are being cautious about drawing conclusions about the motivation of Emad Al Swealmeen. He is believed to have originally come from the Middle East and went into the asylum system. But in recent years he may have converted to Christianity and also suffered from mental health issues. The decision to declare this a terrorist incident looks less to be based on a clear understanding of his ideology and more on his methodology, with the use of an improvised explosive device. However, investigators will still be hoping to gain a better understanding of what exactly lay behind this incident. Earlier, police said Mr Perry had been released from hospital after being treated for his injuries. Posting on Facebook, the taxi driver's wife Rachel said he was "lucky to be alive". "The explosion happened whilst he was in the car and how he managed to escape is an utter miracle," she added. Police confirmed a controlled explosion had been carried out as a precaution in the Sefton Park area at about 16:00 GMT on Monday as part of the investigation. Home Secretary Priti Patel said the terror threat level had been raised from "substantial" to "severe", meaning an attack is "highly likely", because the explosion in Liverpool was the second incident in a month. The death of Conservative MP Sir David Amess, who was stabbed multiple times during a meeting with his constituents in Essex on 15 October, has been treated as a terrorist incident by police. Deputy Assistant Commissioner Matt Twist, one of Counter Terrorism Policing's senior national co-ordinators, said the change was a "precautionary measure and not based on any specific threat", adding that the public "should not be alarmed by this change". Patients have been told to attend appointments at Liverpool Women's Hospital as normal. The hospital's chief executive, Kathryn Thomson, paid tribute to "brave and dedicated" staff and emergency service workers but added the last two days had been "extremely upsetting and traumatising". Additional reporting by Doug Faulkner Did you witness what happened? Email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Or Upload your pictures/video hereTweet: @BBC_HaveYourSayPlease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission.
Biden signs 'once-in-a-generation' $1tn infrastructure bill into law. US President Joe Biden has signed into law a $1.2tn (£894bn) infrastructure spending bill, marking a legislative achievement for his administration. "Today, we are finally getting this done," the Democrat told lawmakers from both major parties in a bill signing ceremony at the White House on Monday. The bill had caused a major rift in Mr Biden's party that was blamed for a Democratic election loss this month. Another massive social spending bill is currently being considered in Congress. "My message to the American people is America is moving again. And your life is going to change for the better," Mr Biden said in a speech before signing the law. Billed as a "once-in-a-generation" spending measure, the bipartisan infrastructure legislation pledges $550bn in new federal expenditure over the next eight years to upgrade highways, roads and bridges, and to modernise city transit systems and passenger rail networks. It also sets aside funding for clean drinking water, high speed internet, and a nationwide network of electric vehicle charging points. It is the largest federal investment in the country's infrastructure for decades. The law will be financed in several ways, including unspent emergency relief funds from the Covid pandemic, new taxes on cryptocurrency and other smaller sources. An infrastructure bill to fix more than US bridgesBiden sees rebuilt roads as route to rout racismFive huge challenges for Joe Biden The other bill, known as the Build Back Better Act, still faces an uncertain future in Congress. Progressive Democrats had hoped to pass that bill alongside the infrastructure package, but faced resistance from moderates who asked that the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) first release a forecast of how much it will add to the national debt. The CBO data is expected to be released later on Monday. Earlier this month, Mr Biden denied that the Democrats' shock loss in the gubernatorial race in Virginia was a verdict on his presidency, but acknowledged that it would have been helpful for Congress to have passed the infrastructure and spending bills ahead of the vote. His explanation came amid rising discontent among voters over the party's struggle to pass major legislation, despite narrowly controlling both chambers of Congress.
Steve Bannon surrenders to face contempt charges. Trump ally Steve Bannon has surrendered to authorities to face contempt of Congress charges after refusing to give evidence about the Capitol riot. Mr Bannon defied a summons to testify on what he knew about plans for the protest that ended with Trump supporters storming Congress. On Friday, the Justice department formally charged Mr Bannon, a former Trump White House strategist. He now faces up to a year in prison and a $100,000 (£74,429) fine. Mr Bannon, 67, surrendered to officials at the FBI's Washington DC field office on Monday morning. Supporters of former president Donald Trump stormed the US Congress building on 6 January as results of the 2020 election were being certified inside. Mr Trump, a Republican, has refused to acknowledge losing the election to Democratic President Joe Biden last year, making claims - without evidence - of mass voter fraud. Mr Bannon was indicted on one count of refusing to appear for a deposition and one count of refusing to provide subpoenaed documents to a committee investigating the riot. Appearing outside the court Monday afternoon, he said he believed the charges were politically motivated and vowed to fight them. "We're tired of playing defence. We're going to go on the offense on this," he said. As part of restrictions set by the court, Mr Bannon will be required to check-in weekly, remain at his listed address and notify authorities of any plans for international travel. The court has possession of Mr Bannon's passport. No plea has yet been entered, and a virtual hearing for has been scheduled for Thursday morning. According to subpoena documents, Mr Bannon - who currently hosts the right-wing War Room podcast - said on the eve of the riot that "all hell is going to break loose tomorrow". His lawyers have argued that his communications involving the former president are protected. Mr Bannon's is the first such indictment to come out of the House of Representatives Select Committee's inquiry of the 6 January event. Mr Trump has urged former aides to reject deposition requests, arguing that they are covered by executive privilege - a legal principle that protects many White House communications. Another Trump official, former White House chief of staff Mark Meadows, may also face consequences for defying a similar subpoena to appear before the committee. Mr Meadow's decision "to defy the law" may force the committee to pursue contempt proceedings like those applied to Mr Bannon, the investigating committee's chairman has said. Dozens of subpoenas were issued last week, calling on former Trump officials to hand over documents and testify about the riot. On Sunday, Mr Trump defended his former aide - whom he fired in 2017, saying: "This country has perhaps never done to anyone what they have done to Steve Bannon".
Danny Fenster: US journalist freed from Myanmar jail. US journalist Danny Fenster has been released from prison in Myanmar after he was sentenced to 11 years in jail by a military court three days ago. He was "pardoned" before being freed on "humanitarian grounds", the military government said. The release was secured after negotiations between the junta and former US ambassador to the UN, Bill Richardson. Fenster's employer, Frontier Myanmar, said he was on a flight out of Myanmar. Fenster, who was managing editor of the English-language news site, had been convicted of breaching immigration law, unlawful association and encouraging dissent against the military. He was set to stand trial on further charges of sedition and terrorism on Tuesday, which carry a possible life term in prison. Fenster was first detained in May as he was about to fly back to the US, and spent 176 days in prison. He is one of dozens of journalists, and thousands of people overall, to be held since Myanmar's military took power in a coup in February. Myanmar coup: What is happening and why? US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Fenster had been "wrongfully detained for almost six months", and welcomed his release. "We are glad that Danny will soon be reunited with his family, as we continue to call for the release of others who remain unjustly imprisoned" in Myanmar, Mr Blinken said. Mr Richardson said he had negotiated Fenster's release in face-to-face meetings with Gen Min Aung Hlaing, the army general who seized power. Mr Richardson said Fenster would be flying home to the US via Qatar. "This is the day that you hope will come when you do this work," he said. Speaking to the BBC on Monday, Maj-Gen Zaw Min Tun, Myanmar's deputy minister of information, said the country "already had the intention to release" Fenster and was doing so for "humanitarian reasons". He denied that the US had promised anything in return for the release, saying it was Myanmar's policy to "keep good relations with other countries". According to Frontier, Fenster had previously worked for Myanmar Now, an independent news site that has been critical of the military. "The charges were all based on the allegation that he was working for banned media outlet Myanmar Now. Danny had resigned from Myanmar Now in July 2020 and joined Frontier the following month, so at the time of his arrest in May 2021 he had been working with Frontier for more than nine months," the news site said previously. Fenster's brother, Bryan, said his family could not wait to have him home again. "We are overjoyed that Danny has been released and is on his way home - we cannot wait to hold him in our arms. "We are tremendously grateful to all the people who have helped secure his release, especially Ambassador Richardson, as well as our friends and the public who have expressed their support and stood by our sides as we endured these long and difficult months." It is always difficult to guess the motives of Myanmar's reclusive military rulers; never more so than in their treatment of Danny Fenster. He was arrested when about to board a flight back to the US in May, although he had committed no obvious crime. He was charged with offences relating to a news organisation he had left almost a year before, an apparent error pointed out by his lawyers in court. He was excluded from an amnesty of more than 5,000 prisoners last month, and last week he was not only convicted and given an 11-year jail sentence, but had two more serious charges filed against him. His sudden release follows months of quiet pressure by the Biden administration, and a recent visit to Myanmar by Bill Richardson. It is unclear, though, whether the US made any concessions to win Fenster's release. The sanctions targeting members of the military junta and their associates are still in place. Dozens of local journalists remain in custody, along with thousands of other political prisoners. There is no suggestion yet that they too might be freed. Myanmar's military leaders seized power in February after suffering a massive election defeat at the hands of the ruling National League of Democracy. They said they had been forced into the move by widespread vote fraud, although the country's election commission said there was no evidence to support such claims. Mass civilian protests rose up across the country, and were brutally suppressed by the military. Since then, at least 1,265 people have been killed and 7,291 are under detention in a crackdown on dissent, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP).
Apple digital ID scheme comes with conditions and costs. Apple's much promoted digital driver's licence feature comes at a cost to the taxpayer, according to reports. Announced in September, it will allow residents in eight US states to store state IDs and driver's licences inside the Apple Wallet app on their iPhone. Apple has "sole control" of several aspects of the rollout, CNBC reports. But Arizona, Connecticut, Georgia, Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, Oklahoma, and Utah "bear the burden of maintaining [the feature], at taxpayer expense". US states to accept driver's licence on iPhones Apple's original computer fetches $400,000 Using public-record requests and other means, CNBC acquired details of the agreements between some of those states and Apple: Apple retains control over when the feature is launched and what devices are compatible -  but state agencies are responsible for maintaining the relevant computer systems and legal compliance and Apple stipulates how they report on its "performance"State bodies must employ or allocate people and resources to support the project "on a timeline to be determined by Apple" and, if Apple requests, "designate" project managers to answer Apple's questionsThe contract requires states to market the new feature - but Apple has review and approval power of those marketing materialsThe digital ID must be "proactively" offered to every new licence holder or renewal at no extra cost to the person applyingStates must promote it to agencies such as local law enforcement or anyone else who regularly checks IDs "The end result is that states bear the burden of maintaining technology systems at taxpayer expense, a move that ultimately benefits Apple and its shareholders by making its devices even more essential than they already are," CNBC's report says. Jason Mikula, a financial technology writer who also obtained the Apple records, wrote the states "have ceded a shocking degree of control to Apple". "Beyond giving Apple near total control over the programme, states also agree to terms that make it nearly impossible to terminate the programme in the future," he said. According to two memoranda of understanding, "the state agencies that have entered into them can only terminate them with Apple's consent or for cause - if Apple breaches the terms of the agreement and doesn't remedy within 30 days". Apple did not respond to a request for comment. Who needs a Covid passport and how do I get one?How Covid passports work around the world When Apple announced the first details of its ID scheme, it emphasised the encryption and other security features, stressing neither the company nor state officials could know "when or where" users showed IDs. During the coronavirus pandemic, there was significant public resistance in some countries - including the UK - to the idea of digital Covid passports or other ID, despite the NHS Covid-19 app eventually being widely adopted for that purpose in England. Civil-liberties concerns also led to the scrapping of a 2019 attempt to introduce a more general digital-ID system in the UK.
COP26: How might decisions at the climate summit change our lives?. Now that a deal has been agreed and signed at the climate summit in Glasgow, you might be left wondering what it will mean for you. Here are some ways in which the decisions made at COP26 could change your life. Switching to an electric car is among a number of lifestyle changes we're likely to be making. Experts predict that new electric vehicles could cost the same as new petrol or diesel cars within the next five years. It is also possible to lease an electric vehicle, and there's a growing second-hand market, where these vehicles are cheaper. Dozens of countries, regions and car companies have agreed to ramp up the use of electric vehicles and bring in new zero-emission buses and trucks. Meanwhile, others argue we need fewer cars on the road - walking and cycling more could also be among the changes we make. How can an average family afford an electric car? More than 40 countries have signed up to phasing out coal. A similar number have committed to ensuring that clean energy is the most reliable and affordable option for powering our homes and businesses. For countries like the UK, this will mean continuing the move towards renewable sources such as wind and solar energy - and possibly more reliance on nuclear energy. COP26 lacked a breakthrough announcement committing the world's biggest coal-users such as China and India to ending its use. However, it's hoped the announcements made at Glasgow will send a signal to the market that it is worth investing in renewable energy. Solar panels and heat pumps could become standard in our homes. We'll build new houses using low-carbon alternatives to cement and concrete - and try to re-fit old ones. How much do heat pumps cost and how do they work?Is the UK on track to meet its climate targets? There's also a focus on making sure our buildings, infrastructure and communities are able to withstand the current and future impact of climate change. Eva Hinkers, Arup Sustainable Development Director says: "We also need to make sure [buildings] are fit for more extreme scenarios." This could include improving green space in and around our homes to absorb extreme rainfall, installing "cool roofs" that reflect sunlight and prevent overheating, or introducing shutters so homes can withstand hurricane winds. Our lifestyles contribute to carbon emissions, whether we're shopping for imported food, or flying off on a foreign holiday. In future, we may see the cost of a product's carbon emissions being added to the price we pay - whether or not it's made in the UK. So if a business doesn't try and reduce the emissions of the goods it's selling, its prices may have to go up. It's hoped that will make consumers and businesses think again about how we consume and where we put our money. In response to this, some big household names like Amazon, Unilever and Ikea have now said they're looking to ensure the cargo ships they use to deliver goods will run on cleaner fuels. Amazon and Ikea in zero-carbon shipping pledge Nature's role in fighting climate change and the need to restore the natural world - from forests to peatland - was high on the agenda at Glasgow, and we may see the benefits in greener spaces around our towns and cities. "Nature can be helping us here if we looked to actually treat it with the respect it deserves," says Dr Emily Shukburgh of the University of Cambridge. The arguments to make space for nature are now clearer and louder than ever, ​says Craig Bennett, chief executive of The Wildlife Trusts.  "There is now renewed momentum about the need to... protect forests and other precious habitats and put nature in recovery." More than 100 countries signed up to the Glasgow Leaders Declaration on Forests, which aims to halt deforestation. This could see tougher action on cutting down forests in countries including Brazil and Indonesia to produce things such as soya, beef and palm oil which are then imported and consumed in richer, developed nations. This could end the era of cheap food. Deforestation link to Amazon soya and beef exportsWorld leaders promise to end deforestation by 2030 Experts say that a hard choice could be faced - deforestation will never be stopped if sustainability concerns are always out-competed by the price people pay for food: "Consumers will inevitably have to absorb some of these costs if we want to deliver on the COP 26 declaration - by paying more and consuming less," says Toby Gardner of the Stockholm Environment Institute. More than 400 financial institutions - controlling an estimated $130tn of private finance - agreed at COP26 to provide more money for green technology. It means that many major pension providers are going to be looking at investing your money in more environmentally friendly sectors. This might include "helping our customers identify ways to improve the energy efficiency of their homes… investing in companies developing new, sustainable ways of living and working," says Janet Pope of Lloyds Banking Group. We may also witness a shift in our way of thinking. Dr Stephanie Sodero of the University of Manchester says the goal of sticking to 1.5 degrees - above which scientists say climate impacts will become more dangerous and unpredictable - could galvanise community action. "On the ground, in UK communities and beyond, led by youth activists, I think there will be sustained and intense pressure to scrutinise all governance decisions - from local transport to national energy - through a climate lens," she says. Matthew Hannon from the University of Strathclyde says the drive to net zero is likely to yield benefits such as cleaner air, quieter streets and better mental and physical health. "Delivering a just, net zero transition should ultimately result in happier, healthier lifestyles," he says. "The question should therefore be less about what will I lose under net zero and more about what could I gain?"
Japan's former princess Mako arrives in New York after giving up title. Japan's former princess Mako has arrived in the US with her new "commoner" husband, Kei Komuro, after leaving the royal family. There was minimal pageantry as the college sweethearts, who wed last month, left from Tokyo airport on Sunday morning. They will rent an apartment in New York where Mr Komuro works at a law firm. Under Japanese law, female imperial family members forfeit their status upon marriage to a "commoner". The pair were heavily guarded by police and airport security as they strolled through the departure terminal. They passed about 100 journalists who were there to witness them leave, but did not respond to questions. Footage broadcast in Japan showed the couple arriving in New York and walking through the airport with security guards, before getting into a waiting vehicle. Their move to New York had long been rumoured and Mako, who took her husband's name when they got married, is reportedly expected to find a job in the city. However, the couple faced a set-back to their plans last month when Japanese media reported that Mr Komuro had failed the New York state bar exam. Prospective lawyers have to pass the tests to practise law in the state. Mr Komuro is currently working as a legal clerk. The move to the US has drawn comparisons with British royals Meghan Markle and Prince Harry, earning the newlyweds the nickname "Japan's Harry and Meghan". The couple faced significant opposition when they first announced their engagement four years ago and their relationship has been subject to tabloid gossip and controversy over claims that Mr Komuro's mother had reportedly taken a loan from her ex-fiancé and not paid him back. PROFILE: The woman who gave up royal status to marry The coverage led to the then-princess developing post-traumatic stress disorder, according to the Imperial Household. When the couple married last month they skipped the usual rites of a royal wedding and turned down a payment offered to royal women upon their departure from the family. Former princess Mako, who is the niece of Emperor Naruhito, is the first female member of the royal family to decline both.
Trump Organization selling Washington hotel for $375m, reports say. The Trump Organization has reportedly reached a deal to sell its prized Washington hotel for $375m (£279m). Under the planned sale, the Trump International will be renamed the Waldorf Astoria and managed by the Hilton group, according to reports. Last month, a US congressional probe found the hotel lost more than $70m during Donald Trump's presidency. The former US president's company opened the hotel to the public in September 2016. The Trump Organization, which bought a 60-year lease on the building, had been looking for buyers for the 263-room hotel since 2019. The deal with Miami-based investment firm CGI Merchant Group is expected to be finalised in the first quarter of next year, sources told The Wall Street Journal and Bloomberg. The 120-year-old building stands less than a mile away from the White House on Pennsylvania Avenue. The Trump Organization won approval to redevelop the historic Old Post Office building in 2012. It opened as a hotel four years later, just weeks after Mr Trump accepted the Republican Party's nomination to run for president. During Mr Trump's term as president, the hotel became popular amongst Republicans visiting the city. But it also attracted controversy. In 2018, religious leaders called for its liquor licence to be revoked, claiming its owner was "not a person of good character". More recently, a congressional investigation found that Mr Trump had "grossly exaggerated" the hotel's profits when he claimed it made $150m during his term. The congressional committee said the hotel had instead lost more than $70m while he was in office. The report also found Mr Trump seemed to have "concealed potential conflicts of interest" related to his ownership of the hotel and his roles as its lender and the guarantor of third-party loans. Documents showed that the hotel received $3.7m in payments from foreign governments - enough to cover 7,400 nights at the hotel on an average daily rate, according to the committee. The Trump Organization denied wrongdoing and called the report "misleading". The Trump Organization and CGI Merchant Group did not immediately respond to the BBC's requests for comment on the sale of the Trump International Hotel.
Poland border crisis: EU to widen Belarus sanctions as row intensifies. The European Union is to step up sanctions against Belarus in response to an escalating migrant crisis on the border with Poland. Top EU diplomat Josep Borrell confirmed the move, saying that vulnerable migrants were being exploited in a "hybrid war" that is "intensifying". Belarus is accused of pushing migrants towards its borders to undermine security, a charge it denies. On Monday, hundreds of migrants were blocked at a crossing by Polish troops. A video filmed at the border by the BBC showed migrants sitting down on a road in front of barbed wire and Polish forces in a tense stand-off. Those migrants came from a large makeshift camp at the Kuznica crossing, where thousands have settled in tents just inside Belarus. "Goodbye!" called out a smiling girl, flashing a peace sign as she, and hundreds more, streamed towards the border, hoping to get through. But they are trapped between Polish guards on one side and Belarusian guards on the other. The migrants cannot get into Poland, but are also being prevented from retreating back into Belarus, according to Polish authorities. "All these babies are crying for milk, for nappies," one man was filmed saying to the line of heavily armed Polish guards. "We... have nothing, please come and help these people," he pleaded, speaking through the barbed wire from the Belarusian side. The Polish border guard said it expected a forced attempt to breach the border, describing the presence of the Belarusian forces in the area as "worrying". Since August thousands of men, women and children have amassed at Belarus's western border with Poland. They are mostly from Iraq, Syria and Yemen, and are now enduring freezing conditions in the hope of crossing into the EU. The EU has accused Belarus of encouraging thousands of people to cross into Poland and other members states to spark a humanitarian crisis in the bloc. "It's like a football game. We are in the middle," one woman told the BBC's Steve Rosenberg. Hiding her identity with a scarf, she explained how Belarusian soldiers had helped some migrants cross illegally into Poland in the middle of the night by cutting the fence. But the migrants were founding hiding in a Polish forest, and sent back to Belarus. European officials have accused Belarus's authoritarian leader, Alexander Lukashenko, of orchestrating a scheme to entice migrants with the false promise of easy entry to the EU. Calling the accusations "absurd", Mr Lukashenko's government has repeatedly denied it is sending migrants over the border in revenge for existing EU sanctions that were imposed in June. EU-Belarus relations have been severely strained since Mr Lukashenko declared victory in a discredited presidential election last year and tried to silence dissent by cracking down on mass protests and arresting political opponents. VOICES: The lives entangled in the Poland-Belarus crisisREALITY CHECK: What routes do migrants use to reach Minsk?BEHIND THE SCENES: How social media posts fuelled the Belarus crisis On Monday, he spoke to German Chancellor Angela Merkel for about 50 minutes, Belta state news reports. It is the first conversation Mr Lukashenko has held with a Western leader since last year's election. The pair reportedly discussed providing humanitarian aid to the migrants at the border. At the same time, Russian President Vladimir Putin, a close ally of Mr Lukashenko, spoke to France's Emmanuel Macron for nearly two hours. While the leaders did not see eye-to-eye on how the crisis began, they agreed on the need for a de-escalation at the border, an adviser to Mr Macron said. Mr Putin has been accused of being the main orchestrator of the crisis. The White House has called on him to use his influence over Mr Lukashenko to "cease its callous exploitation and coercion of vulnerable people", spokeswoman Jen Psaki said. On Monday, EU foreign ministers held a meeting and agreed to move ahead with imposing more sanctions on Belarus - the fifth round of such restrictions. The exact details will by confirmed later this week, but the Belarusian airline Belavia will be affected, with the EU ending its leasing contract with the company. Travel agencies are also expected to be sanctioned if they helped to fly migrants from the Middle East and elsewhere to Minsk. On Monday, Mr Lukashenko threatened to retaliate against fresh sanctions. He claimed Belarusian authorities were trying to repatriate stranded migrants but many were refusing to go. Are you near the border? Share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Tweet: @BBC_HaveYourSayUpload pictures or videoPlease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission.
