New Covid variant: How worried should we be?. We're back in familiar territory - growing concern about a new variant of coronavirus. The latest is the most heavily mutated version discovered so far - and it has such a long list of mutations that it was described by one scientist as "horrific", while another told me it was the worst variant they'd seen. It is early days and the confirmed cases are still mostly concentrated in one province in South Africa, but there are hints it may have spread further. Immediately there are questions around how quickly the new variant spreads, its ability to bypass some of the protection given by vaccines and what should be done about it. There is a lot of speculation, but there are very few clear answers. The variant has been named Omicron by the World Health Organization, following the pattern of Greek code-names like the Alpha and Delta variants. It is also incredibly heavily mutated. Prof Tulio de Oliveira, the director of the Centre for Epidemic Response and Innovation in South Africa, said there was an "unusual constellation of mutations" and that it was "very different" to other variants that have circulated. "This variant did surprise us, it has a big jump on evolution [and] many more mutations that we expected," he said. In a media briefing Prof de Oliveira said there were 50 mutations overall and more than 30 on the spike protein, which is the target of most vaccines and the key the virus uses to unlock the doorway into our body's cells. Zooming in even further to the receptor binding domain (that's the part of the virus that makes first contact with our body's cells), it has 10 mutations compared to just two for the Delta variant that swept the world. This level of mutation has most likely come from a single patient who was unable to beat the virus. A lot of mutation doesn't automatically mean: bad. It is important to know what those mutations are actually doing. But the concern is this virus is now radically different to the original that emerged in Wuhan, China. That means vaccines, which were designed using the original strain, may not be as effective. Some of the mutations have been seen before in other variants, which gives some insight into their likely role in this variant. For example N501Y seems to make it easier for a coronavirus to spread. There are some in there that make it harder for antibodies to recognise the virus and might make vaccines less effective, but there are others that are completely new. Prof Richard Lessells, from the University of KwaZulu-Natal in South Africa, said: "They give us concern this virus might have enhanced transmissibility, enhanced ability to spread from person to person, but might also be able to get around parts of the immune system." Do variants mean we need new vaccines?How many cases are there in the UK?Why has the Delta variant spread so quickly in UK? There have been many examples of variants that have seemed scary on paper, but came to nothing. The Beta variant was at the top of people's concerns at the beginning of the year because it was the best at escaping the immune system. But in the end it was the faster-spreading Delta that took over the world. Prof Ravi Gupta, from the University of Cambridge, said: "Beta was all immune escape and nothing else, Delta had infectivity and modest immune escape, this potentially has both to high degrees." Scientific studies in the laboratory will give a clearer picture, but answers will come more quickly from monitoring the virus in the real world. It is still early to draw clear conclusions, but there are already signs that are causing worry. There have been 77 fully confirmed cases in Gauteng province in South Africa, four cases in Botswana and one in Hong Kong (which is directly linked to travel from South Africa). Israel and Belgium have also reported cases. However, there are clues the variant has spread even more widely. This variant seems to give quirky results (known as an S-gene dropout) in the standard tests and that can be used to track the variant without doing a full genetic analysis. That suggests 90% of cases in Gauteng may already be this variant and it "may already be present in most provinces" in South Africa. But this does not tell us whether it spreads faster than Delta, is any more severe or to what extent it can evade the immune protection that comes from vaccination. It also does not tell us how well the variant will spread in countries with much higher vaccination rates than the 24% of South Africa that is fully vaccinated, although large numbers of people in the country have had Covid. So for now we are left with a variant that raises significant concerns despite huge holes in our knowledge, and is one that needs to be watched closely and asks deep questions about what to do and when. The lesson of the pandemic is you can't always wait until you have all the answers. Follow James on Twitter
What are the Covid variants and will vaccines still work?. A new heavily mutated version of coronavirus has been found that scientists say is of "great concern". One of most pressing questions is will vaccines still work? There are thousands of different types, or variants, of Covid circulating across the world. That's to be expected because viruses mutate all the time. But this new variant has experts particularly worried because it is very different to the original Covid, which current vaccines were designed to fight. It has a long list of genetic changes - 50 in all. Of these, 32 are in the spike protein of the virus - the part which is the target of vaccines. However, it is too soon to know how much of a threat B.1.1.529 poses. What do we know about this new variant? Current vaccines are not an ideal match so might not work quite as well, say experts. But that doesn't mean they'll offer zero protection. Remember, vaccines are still very effective at protecting lives by cutting the risk of severe illness against other major Covid variants, including Delta, Alpha, Beta and Gamma. Doctors say it is vital people get the recommended number of doses to gain maximum protection against existing and emerging variants. In the UK, booster jabs are being offered to: Over-40sFrontline health and social care workersOlder adults in residential care homesPeople aged 16-49 years old with underlying health conditions which put them at greater risk of severe CovidAdults who share a household with vulnerable people More than 16m booster or third doses have been given so far in the UK. Although Covid infections have been rising again across the UK, the number of hospitalisations and deaths has remained well below the levels seen in earlier waves. Experts say this is because of the success of the vaccine programme. Scientists will be running lots of tests to check if the vaccines will hold up against this latest variant. It is early days, but experts will study potentially important mutations that might make it more infectious and able to sidestep some of the protection given by vaccines. And they will assess if it is causing more serious disease than other variants. How many people have been vaccinated so far? Updated versions of vaccines against Covid variants are already being designed and tested, in case they are needed at some point. Should that time arrive, a new vaccine could be ready within weeks, to run checks on. Manufacturers could scale up production quickly too and regulators have already discussed how to fast track the approval process. No corners would be cut, but the whole process - from design to approval - could be much faster than when Covid vaccines were first launched. Officials have a close watch on a few. The most potentially dangerous ones are called variants of concern and include: Delta (B.1.617.2), first identified in India and now the most common type circulating in the UKAlpha (B.1.1.7), first identified in the UK but which spread to more than 50 countriesBeta (B.1.351), first identified in South Africa but which has been detected in at least 20 other countries, including the UKGamma (P.1), first identified in Brazil but which has spread to more than 10 other countries, including the UK UK officials are also keeping an eye on a recent descendent of the Delta variant, called AY.4.2 or "Delta plus". There is no evidence that any of them cause more serious illness for the vast majority of people. As with original Covid, the risk remains highest for people who are elderly or have significant underlying health conditions. But even so, if a variant is more infectious it will lead to more deaths in an unvaccinated population. Vaccines offer high protection against severe illness with Covid-19, including infections caused by variants of concern. The shots also reduce the risk of infection. But they do not completely eliminate all risk. The advice to avoid infection remains the same for all strains: wash your hands, keep your distance, wear a face covering in crowded places and be vigilant about ventilation. How many cases are there in the UK?Why has the Delta variant spread so quickly in UK? Viruses make carbon copies of themselves to reproduce but they aren't perfect at it. Errors can creep in that change the genetic blueprint, resulting in a new version or variant. If this gives the virus a survival advantage, the new version will thrive. The more chances coronavirus has to make copies of itself in us - the host - the more opportunities there are for mutations to occur. That's why keeping infections down is important. Vaccines help by cutting transmission as well as protecting against serious Covid illness. Experts say it is possible that the new highly altered variant B.1.1.529 may have originated in a patient whose immune system was unable to get rid of a Covid infection quickly, giving the virus more time to morph.
The African countries on the red list - and other UK travel rules. New restrictions are being introduced on travel to the UK from six southern African countries - including South Africa. Concern about a new Covid variant means they are now on the UK's travel red list - with direct flights temporarily banned. The changes mark the return of the UK's travel red list, which had been cleared of all countries in October. Travellers from South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho and Eswatini will not be able to enter the UK unless they are UK or Irish nationals, or UK residents. Flights to the UK from these countries  have been suspended until 04:00 GMT on Sunday - when it's hoped quarantine arrangements will be ready. Arrivals will then have to pay for and self-isolate in a government-approved hotel for 10 days. Rates are: 10 days (11-nights) for one adult - £2,285Additional adult (or child over 11) - £1,430Children aged five to 11 - £325 Anyone arriving in the UK beforehand, who's been in one of the six countries in the last 10 days, must self-isolate at home for 10 days and take PCR tests on day two and day eight of their quarantine. Northern Ireland and Scotland are also following the new rules, but hotel quarantine will be in place for arrivals to Scotland from 04:00 GMT on Saturday. What are the rules in popular destinations? There are concerns that a new variant, known as B.1.1.529 - which was identified in southern Africa - may not respond as well to vaccines. Health Secretary Sajid Javid said it could be the most infectious variant so far. New heavily mutated Covid variant raises concern Before travelling to the UK Fully vaccinated passengers travelling to the UK from many other countries no longer have to take a Covid test before setting off. This applies to people vaccinated in the UK, the EU, the US and dozens of other recognised countries - including Brazil, Hong Kong, India, Pakistan and Turkey. You must be able to prove you are fully vaccinated. The changes also apply to under-18s resident in one of these countries, whether or not they are vaccinated. Upon arrival Fully vaccinated people travelling to the UK need to take a lateral flow test two days after arrival. They should order and pay for a test kit privately before they arrive - NHS kits cannot be used. If they have ordered a home testing kit, they will usually have to send a picture to verify the result. All travellers coming to the UK must also fill in a passenger locator form - even if they are just passing through -  which they need to fill in 48 hours or less before their journey. If you aren't fully vaccinated - and you're over 18 - you must self-isolate at home for 10 days after arrival in the UK. You also need to: take a PCR or lateral flow/antigen test (not a free NHS test) in the three days before you travel to the UKtake a test on or before day two and on or after day eight after your return. Test to Release will remain an option for unvaccinated passengers to England who want to shorten their quarantine. Vaccinated people who have had a negative test taken no more than three days before travelling can enter the US without quarantining. Another test, three to five days after arriving in the US, is recommended. Vaccine certificates - including the NHS Covid Pass and equivalents from Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland - are accepted. Children under 18 do not need to be vaccinated, but should also take a test after arriving. Masks are mandatory on planes and in airports, and travellers must follow state and local rules at their destination. Some European countries are tightening rules. In France, from 15 December, over-65s must have had a booster jab to travel or visit restaurants and museums. It is not clear whether this will apply to UK visitors. People in England can now show they have had a third dose using the NHS Covid Pass, while users in Wales will can do this from 29 November. In Austria you must have received your second or third dose less than 360 days before arrival. In Switzerland, your vaccination is also only valid for 12 months after your last dose. You need to keep checking the rules for your destination country as these can change at short notice.
Covid: US joins EU in restricting flights from S Africa over new coronavirus variant. The US will restrict travel from South Africa and seven other southern African countries to try to contain a new coronavirus variant spreading there. From Monday, only US citizens and residents will be allowed to travel from the region. This follows a similar flight ban imposed by the EU earlier on Friday. The World Health Organization (WHO) declared the new variant to be "of concern", naming it Omicron. US officials said flights from South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique and Malawi will be blocked, mirroring earlier moves taken by EU Member States. European Commission spokesperson Erik Mamer said health chiefs from all 27 EU states agreed to impose restrictions in an emergency meeting on Friday following the discovery of the first European case of the variant in Belgium. Scientists say they still have much to learn about the virus's new mutations and the WHO has said it will take a few weeks to understand the impact of the new variant, as experts work to determine how transmissible it is. The WHO on Friday said preliminary evidence suggested the new variant carried a higher risk of reinfection than other variants. Scientists have said it is the most heavily mutated version yet, which means Covid vaccines, which were designed using the original strain from Wuhan, may not be as effective. What do we know about the new variant so far?South Africans fear impact of new variant measuresCovid map: Where are cases the highest? Stock markets across the world fell sharply on Friday, amid investor fears over the potential economic impact. In London, the FTSE 100 share index dropped by nearly 3%, while markets in Germany and France also declined following falls in Asia. The WHO says so far fewer than 100 sample sequences have been reported. Cases have mainly been confirmed in South Africa, but have also been detected in Hong Kong, Israel, Botswana and Belgium. UK Health Secretary Sajid Javid said on Friday that the variant is "highly likely" to have spread to other countries. Most of the cases in South Africa have been from its most populated province, Gauteng, of which Johannesburg is the capital city. Only about 24% of South Africa's population is fully vaccinated, which could spur a rapid spread of cases there, Dr Mike Tildesley, a member of the Scientific Pandemic Influenza Modelling group (Spi-M), told the BBC on Friday. In Hong Kong, the infections were found in a person who had arrived from South Africa, and a guest in the same quarantine hotel who tested positive a few days later, the Department of Health revealed. Both were fully vaccinated. The UK's red list is back... which countries are on it?Shares hit as new Covid variant rattles investors Europe has identified its first case of the variant in Belgium. Belgian media reports suggest that the case emerged in an unvaccinated young woman who had recently travelled from Egypt via Turkey and developed mild flu symptoms 11 days later. Israel's Prime Minister Naftali Bennett said on Friday it is "on the verge of a state of emergency" regarding the new variant, and that he would "act fast, strong and now". One case was detected in a person who returned from Malawi, according to Israeli media reports quoting the country's health ministry. Another two suspected infections were yet to be confirmed with test results. All three are said to have been fully vaccinated. The WHO has warned against countries hastily imposing travel restrictions, saying they should look to a "risk-based and scientific approach." Nevertheless, an increasing number of nations including the UK have temporarily halted flights from these southern African countries: South AfricaBotswanaNamibiaZimbabweEswatini (formerly Swaziland)Lesotho The travel ban agreed by the EU comes after the head of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, called for all member nations to put on the "emergency brake" and stop flights from the region. "It is now important that all of us in Europe act very swiftly, decisively and united," she said on Friday. The EU is already struggling to cope with fresh waves of the virus, and several countries have re-imposed lockdowns and restrictions. Singapore, Italy, France and Israel are among those who have also placed Mozambique on their red lists. The Czech Republic will ban anyone who has spent more than 12 hours in those nations and also Zambia from entering as of Saturday. Japan has announced that from Saturday, travellers from much of southern Africa will need to quarantine for 10 days and take a total of four tests during that time. "The key to crisis management is to prepare for the worst," the Japan Times newspaper quoted chief cabinet secretary Hirokazu Matsuno as saying. Germany, which is currently going through a fourth wave of infections because of the Delta variant, will allow only Germans to fly into Germany from South Africa as of Friday night. The head of the country's RKI public health institute, Lothar Wieler, said he was very worried about the new variant. Meanwhile, the German air force on Friday began airlifting patients within the country for the first time during the pandemic, flying people from Bavaria to Münster-Osnabrück in the west, where there are more intensive care beds free. India has ordered more rigorous screening and testing for travellers arriving from South Africa, Botswana and Hong Kong, local media is reporting. Health Minister Joe Phaahla told reporters that the flight bans against the country were "unjustified". "The reaction of some of the countries, in terms of imposing travel bans, and such measures, are completely against the norms and standards as guided by the World Health Organization," Mr Phaahla said. The bans already appear to be causing confusion at a number of airports. Passengers on a plane travelling from Cape Town to Manchester via Amsterdam told the BBC that they were held on the tarmac at Schiphol Airport in the Dutch capital for four hours, before eventually disembarking to take PCR tests. Meanwhile, the flight bans threaten to separate families over the festive season. Ruth Daines-Slack, 70, had booked to fly from Cape Town to the UK next week for Christmas and her mother's 100th birthday celebration. She told the BBC she is "beyond devastated" that she will no longer be able to make the trip, adding that the UK's travel ban is a "knee-jerk reaction". The UK was one of the first nations to impose a flight ban, which South Africa's foreign ministry has criticised as a "rushed decision" made before the WHO has made any announcement on the variant.
Omicron: Mutations prompt new coronavirus variant concern from WHO. The World Health Organization (WHO) has declared a new coronavirus variant to be "of concern" and named it Omicron. It said the variant had a large number of mutations, and early evidence suggested a possible increased risk of reinfection. It was first reported to the WHO from South Africa on 24 November, and has also been identified in Botswana, Belgium, Hong Kong and Israel. Several countries banned travel from southern Africa on Thursday. It is not uncommon for a virus to change, or mutate, over time. A variant becomes a variant of concern when that mutation might affect things like transmissibility, virulence or the effectiveness of vaccines. In a statement on Friday the WHO said the number of cases of this variant, initially named B.1.1.529, appeared to be increasing in almost all of South Africa's provinces. The WHO has said it will take a few weeks to understand the impact of the new variant, as scientists work to determine how transmissible it is. It has warned against countries hastily imposing travel restrictions, saying they should look to a "risk-based and scientific approach". However, the UK, US, EU countries and Switzerland have temporarily halted flights from some southern African countries. "It is now important that all of us in Europe act very swiftly, decisively and united," European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen said. South Africans fear impact of new variant measuresHow worrying is the new Covid variant?The UK's red list is back... which countries are on it? South Africa's Health Minister Joe Phaahla told reporters that the flight bans were "unjustified". "The reaction of some of the countries, in terms of imposing travel bans, and such measures, are completely against the norms and standards as guided by the World Health Organization," he said. Stock markets across the world also fell sharply on Friday, reflecting the fears of investors over the potential economic impact. A "variant of concern" is the World Health Organization's top category of worrying Covid variants. The decision adds weight to the mounting scientific worry about the potential of this new variant, but it doesn't change any of the facts. The variant has an astounding collection of mutations which are thought to increase its ability to spread and bypass some, but not all, of the protection from vaccines. However, we still don't have the clear real-world data. We don't know for sure that it spreads faster, makes vaccines or drugs less effective or whether it leads to more severe disease. The WHO have also given it a name and ended days of speculation that we would end up in the slightly ridiculous position of calling the new variant the "Nu variant". There have even been arguments about the correct pronunciation of the Greek letter Nu (it's technically a "Nee"). Instead, you can guarantee we'll be talking a lot about Omicron in the weeks to come.
Channel disaster: Kurdish woman is first victim identified. A 24-year-old Kurdish woman from northern Iraq has become the first victim of this week's mass drowning in the Channel to be identified. Maryam Nuri Mohamed Amin was one of 27 people who died while attempting to cross to Britain on Thursday. Her fiancé, who lives in the UK, told the BBC she was messaging him as the group's dinghy started deflating. She tried to reassure him that they would be rescued. But help came too late, and she and 17 men, six other women - one of whom was pregnant - and three children died after their inflatable boat sank into the sea off the northern French coast. There were only two survivors - an Iraqi and a Somali. The disaster marked the biggest loss of life by drowning in the Channel in many years. Her fiancé said Maryam, nicknamed Baran, had been on the boat with a female relative. He had not known beforehand about the attempted Channel crossing and said Maryam's arrival in the UK was supposed to be a surprise. They were messaging each other on Snapchat just before the dinghy began to lose air, he said. Maryam told him that the boat was deflating and that they were trying to get the water out of it. He said she had been trying to reassure him in her last message, and give him hope that the authorities were on their way to rescue them. What's being done to stop Channel crossings?Why do migrants leave France for the UK?The migrant debate can't escape European politics Reports from Calais say the two survivors of Wednesday's sinking have been discharged from hospital and are due to be questioned about how many people were on the boat. Maryam's uncle confirmed to the BBC that she was one of the people who drowned in the English Channel. He said the family heard the news from two people who were with her, and the family were waiting for her body to be flown back to Kurdistan.
Ukraine-Russia conflict: Zelensky alleges coup plan involving Russians. Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky says Russian "representatives" are planning to overthrow his government next week, as a Russian troop build-up sparks fears of an invasion. Mr Zelensky said audio recordings suggested the country's wealthiest businessman was being dragged into the plan, though this has been denied. The Kremlin spokesman, meanwhile, said Russia had "no plans to get involved". Moscow has also dismissed concerns over the troop build-up as "alarmist". On Friday, Nato's Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg warned that Russian use of force against Ukraine would "come at a cost", without specifying what this would be. Mr Zelensky denounced a "very dangerous rhetoric" coming out of Russia. "It is a signal... that there could be escalation," he said. "There is a threat today that there will be war tomorrow. We are entirely prepared for an escalation." A large part of the Russian force is in Crimea, the peninsula which Russia annexed from Ukraine in March 2014. Troops have recently been massing near Ukraine's eastern Donbas region, the name for Luhansk and Donetsk areas partially under the control of Russian-backed separatists. "I have received information that a coup will happen in our country on 1 December," the Ukrainian president said in a lengthy news conference. Mr Zelensky said business magnate Rinat Akhmetov - seen as an opponent of the president - was "being dragged into war against the Ukrainian state". Mr Zelensky did not name the alleged plotters, but said Mr Akhmetov may or may not know about such plans that he was being drawn into by his "inner circle". In a statement, Mr Akhmetov dismissed the president's claims, saying he was "outraged by the spread of this lie". "My position was and will be unequivocal, an independent, democratic and integral Ukraine with Crimea and my native Donbas. My actions confirm this," he added in a statement published in Ukrainian media. The Ukrainian leader did not directly accuse the Russian government over the alleged plan, but Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov responded almost immediately by saying Russia "never does such things at all".
Protesters hit Amazon buildings on Black Friday. Protests are being staged at Amazon buildings in the UK, US, and Europe - on Black Friday. The shopping sales day is among Amazon's busiest all year. An international coalition of unions, equality and environmental groups called "Make Amazon Pay" is staging a day of action. The movement is demanding Amazon make changes to its business, including improved pay, an end to employee surveillance, and union engagement. In an unrelated separate protest, the Extinction Rebellion environmental group has blocked the entrances to Amazon distribution centres in the UK. The group says it has targeted 13 British buildings, including the largest one in Dunfermline. It is staging similar action abroad in Germany and Netherlands. Extinction Rebellion targets Amazon distribution centresBlack Friday spending set to soar despite fewer dealsCan you buy the tech you want on Black Friday? The Make Amazon Pay coalition is not affiliated with Extinction Rebellion group, but also has environmental groups such as Greenpeace among its members. "Amazon takes too much and gives back too little," it claims - backed by trade unions, grassroots campaigns and non-profit-making organisations in individual countries. In the UK, that includes: the GMB UnionTrades Union CongressMomentum War on Want   International Transport Workers' FederationLabour Behind the Label No UK Amazon warehouses are unionised, so legally they can't strike. Many employees will be working on the day, but campaign groups which include Amazon workers are staging protests at Amazon buildings in Coalville, Leicestershire, Coventry, Peterborough and at its London headquarters. But strikes are being encouraged elsewhere. In Germany, for example, the union Verdi called on employees at major shipping centres to strike, beginning on Wednesday night. And in France, major union CGT is also calling for workers to down tools. Worldwide, nearly 50 organisations have signed up to a list of "common demands", published by the Make Amazon Pay coalition, which include: raising warehouse workers' pay and adding hazard pay and peak time incrementshalting worker "surveillance" and strict productivity targetsextending sick leave and improving Covid-19 tracking and reportingending casual employment status and "union-busting" activitiespaying taxes without using loopholes or tax havens Owen Espley, from the War on Want campaign group, said: "Amazon is abusing its dominance across online retail, cloud services, and logistics, to create unfair competition that is driving down standards for everyone. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter "Amazon workers face unsafe conditions, constant surveillance and are treated like robots. "It's time for Amazon to pay fair wages, fair taxes, and for its impact on the planet." The GMB union also released figures on Friday that it said showed ambulance callouts to Amazon warehouses increased by nearly 50% in the run-up to Black Friday - something it blames on staff rushing to hit "crushing targets". It filed Freedom of Information requests with four ambulance trusts near "major Amazon sites". It said the data shows that over five years, November had the most ambulance visits. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter Amazon said such claims were "using incomplete information that's without context and designed to intentionally mislead". "We know we're not perfect and are continuing to get better every day, but the fact is that Amazon has 40% fewer injuries on average compared to other transportation and warehousing businesses in the UK," a spokesperson said. It claimed the "vast majority" of ambulance visits to its buildings were for pre-existing conditions. Mick Rix, from the GMB Union, said: "This company is a pandemic profiteer that can afford to do better." "It's time for Amazon sit down with their workers' union GMB and make Amazon a great, safe place to work. " Amazon reported a tripling of profits earlier this year, attributed to its success during the Covid-19 pandemic. Amazon issued a prepared statement in advance of the protests about the wider Make Amazon Pay movement. "These groups represent a variety of interests, and while we are not perfect in any area, if you objectively look at what Amazon is doing in each one of these areas you'll see that we do take our role and our impact very seriously," it said. "We are inventing and investing significantly in all these areas, playing a significant role in addressing climate change with the Climate Pledge commitment to be net zero carbon by 2040, continuing to offer competitive wages and great benefits, and inventing new ways to keep our employees safe and healthy in our operations network, to name just a few."
Adele: 30 becomes 2021's fastest-selling album despite sales drop. Adele's 30 has shot to number one, overtaking Abba to become the fastest-selling album of the year so far. Its 261,000 first-week chart sales mean it sped past the Swedish pop group's comeback album Voyage, which opened with 204,000 sales. However, Adele's sales figures are significantly lower than those of her previous album 25, released in 2015. That album, her third, opened with 800,000 first-week sales, which means 30 has sold 32% of its predecessor. The drop can be partially explained by the huge growth of streaming in the last six years. Added to which, there was a greater incentive for fans to buy 25, as it was kept off streaming platforms for its first six months of release. Adele won out over Ed Sheeran's = (Equals) album to claim top spot this week. This means she has now secured a chart double, with the album's lead single Easy On Me remaining number one for a sixth consecutive week. Adele's opening week success with 30 ensures all four of her albums have now reached number one - a record for a female act. The album made up 67% of all physical sales and became the most-streamed album of the week, with 55.7 million plays across all tracks. The numbers mark the biggest first week for an album since Sheeran's ÷ (Divide) in 2017. It is also strongest opening week for a female solo album since Adele's last studio album 25, which was released in November 2015. The London-born star has said that 30 is an attempt to explain her divorce from her husband to nine-year-old son Angelo. The BBC's review said it finds an "emotionally bewildered" Adele "at the top of her game". Adele's last album achieved platinum status in 24 hours, selling 300,000 copies in a single day. Her latest hasn't reached that figure after a week on sale. But go easy on her - album sales have fallen precipitously in the six years since Adele released 25. Back then, streaming accounted for just 11% of the UK's music market - and no-one thought it was odd for Adele to withhold her album from Spotify and Apple. By relying on CDs, vinyl and downloads, she racked up a record-breaking 800,000 sales in the space of a week. Today, 80% of music consumption is on streaming services and most of Adele's fans are happy not to own a hard copy of 30. That's reflected in lower sales figures - but Adele is still setting fire to the rain. In the US, 30 is already the biggest-seller of the year, overtaking albums by Drake and Olivia Rodrigo. In the UK, her first-week total of 261,000 is miles ahead of the 7,317 copies Dua Lipa's Future Nostalgia sold on its fourth week at number one last May (the lowest ever total for a UK chart topper). The record industry and the media still rely on album sales as a measure of success - but in reality, the public has moved on. Adele's success should really be measured in cultural impact. Her US TV special was watched by more people than the Grammys or the Oscars. The British equivalent drew a peak audience of 5.4 million viewers, helping ITV achieve its biggest Sunday night of the year. The real question is whether, after this publicity blitz, her new music will hang around. "Success may be more about whether, two months down the line, we still have memes flooding TikTok and James Corden doing skits," observed music industry analyst Mark Mulligan. "This will say as much about how the world is responding to her music than how many streams she clocks up." Abba's Voyage slips to third place this week, while Oasis are a new entry at number four with the live recording of their Britpop-defining Knebworth gig from 1996. Other debut entries in the top 10 include Robert Plant and Alison Klauss' second collaboration Raise The Roof and London rap collective D Block Europe's new mixtape Home Alone 2. Rock-pop veterans Elbow also feature with their latest album Flying Dream 1. Adele gets Spotify to take shuffle off album pagesWhat we learned from Adele's Oprah interviewAdele's comeback single: Hit or miss? In the singles rundown, Adele's chart domination means her biggest competition remains... herself. The singer's 101,000 chart sales and 11.5 million streams of Easy On Me beat out her two other tracks from 30 - Oh My God, which claims the week's highest new entry at number two, and I Drink Wine at number four. Easy On Me is now Adele's longest-running chart-topper, outstripping Someone Like You. Her closest competition in the singles chart, Sheeran, slipped to third with Shiver, while Bad Habits spent its 22nd week in the top 10 at number five. This week's biggest chart jump comes courtesy of 17-year-old Nashville pop prodigy Gayle, whose track ABCDEFU rises 26 positions to number 14. Follow us on Facebook, or on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Channel migrants: Johnson under pressure to reduce small boat crossings. Usually tragedies bring people together but the deaths in the Channel seem to have highlighted the differences between the UK and French governments The prime minister is under pressure from many of his own MPs - who in turn are under pressure from a substantial number of their voters - to do more to stop the small boats coming to our shores. So it was perhaps unsurprising that Boris Johnson made his letter to the French president public, portraying himself as offering potential solutions. Downing Street insiders say they were genuinely surprised at what they regarded as a disproportionate response from France. And they point out that it is not unknown for French ministers to use social media to criticise UK positions, or indeed to denounce the prime minister personally for "populism". Migrant tragedy is biggest loss of life in ChannelChannel deaths: What do we know so far?Macron and Johnson clash over migrant boats Downing Street is emphasising that everything Mr Johnson asked for publicly in his letter - for example, joint patrols or an agreement on returning refugees - had already been asked for privately, but to no avail. And those close to discussions with the French government say that many of the arguments that are now out in the open had persisted for some time behind closed doors. It had been thought that the events of this week might have led to a willingness to revisit some of the more contentious issues. The atmosphere, though, has instead turned more negative. But while the sound of megaphone diplomacy has dominated much of the coverage today, there are quieter attempts to get the UK/French relationship on an even keel. There is a move to try to get Home Secretary Priti Patel's invitation to meet her French counterpart, Gérald Darmanin, reinstated. I'm told that amid rocky relations with France over fishing and the Northern Ireland protocol, the entente between the Home Office and the French interior ministry is usually relatively cordiale. So while she is currently not on this weekend's guest list in France, Ms Patel did speak to Mr Darmanin this afternoon. Home Office officials are already in France tonight to try to discuss closer co-operation. And the UK government is still paying by instalments the £54m promised to France to help bolster patrols and surveillance on the other side of the Channel. But Labour realises what a potentially toxic issue this is for Boris Johnson. In his attack today, the shadow home secretary Nick Thomas-Symonds has targeted the prime minister's vulnerabilities. He deliberately echoed concerns of Mr Johnson's backbenchers by accusing him of "losing control of the situation in the Channel". But he has also picked at another political sore. With concerns about how Downing Street has handled some difficult issues in recent weeks, the Labour MP has accused the prime minister of "a gross error of judgment" over his diplomacy by Twitter. It's well known in Whitehall that Boris Johnson has been frustrated at the continuation of the migrant crisis. His critics say he has focused too much on small boats, while not doing enough to tackle the underlying factors driving migration. Lives remain at risk, but the longer the crisis persists, the greater the political risks for the prime minister too.
Australia missing campers: Pilot accused of murders remanded in custody. A commercial airline pilot has been accused of murdering two elderly campers who went missing in Australia 20 months ago. Greg Lynn, 55, was arrested on Monday night after police helicopters descended on his campsite in Victoria. He was charged with murdering Russell Hill, 74, and Carol Clay, 73. There has been no trace of the pair since March last year. On Friday, Mr Lynn was remanded in custody to face a court next year. He was stood down as a pilot by Jetstar - a budget airline owned by Qantas - shortly after his arrest. The disappearance of Mr Hill and Ms Clay from the Victorian Alpine National Park sparked one of the state's largest missing person investigations. Police allege they were murdered on 20 March, according to court documents reported by The Age newspaper. They had used a high-frequency radio to call a friend earlier that day. During the call, the pair said they were setting up camp in the Wonnangatta Valley. Passers-by found their campsite destroyed by fire the next day. "Our efforts to locate the remains of Russell and Carol will continue," Victoria Police Assistant Commissioner Bob Hill said on Thursday. The campsite where Mr Lynn was arrested is about 55km (34 miles) from where the pair went missing. Police have conducted several extensive searches of the Victorian Alpine National Park since their disappearance, looking for clues in the rugged terrain. The families of the missing pair have also issued appeals for information in recent months. "It's really hard. It's not getting any better not knowing. It's just unknown - he just disappeared and you're just stuck in the middle," said Mr Hill's daughter, Debbie, last month. Ms Clay's sister, Jill, said: "We need to know what happened and we need to know where their bodies are so we can put them to rest." Three other people have gone missing in the Victorian Alps in the past decade, but none is suspected to have met with foul play. Mr Hill knew the area well from frequent visits and work decades ago as a logger, local media reported.
Russian coal mine: Dozens killed in Siberia accident. Fifty-one people have been killed in Russia's worst mining disaster in a decade, prompting three days of mourning in Siberia's Kemerovo region. Among the dead were five rescue workers, although a sixth was found alive and taken to hospital in a serious condition. The blast happened at the Listvyazhnaya mine when coal dust caught fire in a ventilation shaft on Thursday. Rescuers suffocated as they tried to reach dozens of missing miners. At the time of the accident early on Thursday there were 287 people in the mine, some 3,500km (2,175 miles) east of Moscow. Many managed to get out and 49 people were taken to hospital, some of them suffering from smoke inhalation. But dozens were trapped and rescue operations had to be suspended because of high concentrations of methane. Officials said a methane gas explosion had filled the mine with smoke and the victims had died because of a lack of oxygen and high concentration of poisonous gas. By Petr Kozlov, BBC Russian Relatives sobbed outside the mine office on Friday. One man who said his grandson had died was prevented from going in and argued bitterly with a guard. A woman came out carrying a black plastic bag containing her dead son's clothes and boots: "My boy is under the ground now, there is nothing more to say." Relatives said warnings about growing levels of methane gas in the mine had gone unheeded. They said there had been a fire at the mine only 10 days earlier and miners had been frustrated that more was not done to improve safety. Amid all the sadness there was one moment of relief. As hope faded for the lives of the missing, the rescuers managed to find one man alive. The survivor from the rescue team was named as Alexander Zakovryashin and Russian Emergencies Minister Alexander Chupriyan said it was a "miracle carried out by our people". The mine director, his deputy and the disaster area supervisor were arrested over alleged safety failings, according to Russian news agencies. Russian mine accidents are not uncommon and this is not the first accident at Listvyazhnaya. In 2004, a methane gas explosion left 13 people dead. In 2016, authorities assessed the safety of the country's 58 coal mines and declared 34% of them potentially unsafe. The list did not include the Listvyazhnaya mine at the time, reports say. President Vladimir Putin described the loss of life as "a great tragedy".
Poorest face food crisis amid fertiliser shortage. A global shortage of fertilisers is driving up food prices and leaving poorer countries facing crisis, says the boss of a major fertiliser firm. Svein Tore Holsether, chief executive of Yara International, said higher gas prices were pushing up fertiliser costs and affecting food prices worldwide. Fertiliser requires large amounts of gas in its production. Mr Holsether said Yara had been forced to cut some production due to higher gas prices, which had led to shortages. The chief executive said developing countries would be hit hardest by the shortages, with crop yields declining and food prices rising. "It's really scary, we are facing a food crisis and vulnerable people are being hit very hard," he told the BBC's Today programme. "It's impacting food prices all over the world and it hits the wallets of many people. But for some people, especially in the developing world, this is not only a question about the wallet, but it's a question of life or death." Less fertiliser, Mr Holsether said, meant farmers in developing countries would not be able to plant as efficiently, leading to smaller crops. Farmers apply fertilizers to boost yields of crops such as corn, canola and wheat. The process of creating ammonia, which is present in many fertilisers, currently relies on hydropower or natural gas. The increase in gas prices in recent months has been triggered by several factors which have increased demand, including the unlocking of economies during the pandemic and reduced wind or rain for renewable power. This has led to a sharp rise in the cost of producing fertiliser, with the price of ammonia - the product Yara International produces more than anyone in the world - up 255% on last year. Mr Holsether said the situation was "very volatile" and called for support and funding for the World Food Programme "to avoid famine at massive scale". He said that last year Yara donated 40,000 tonnes of fertiliser, which resulted in small-hold farms in East Africa tripling their crop yields. "It says a lot about the impact that fertiliser can have," he added.
Clashes as protesters demand end to violence against women. Riot police in Turkey and Mexico have fired tear gas and smoke bombs at protesters calling for an end to violence against women. In the Mexican city of Guaymas, three people were shot dead in an apparent attack on the city's female mayor. And in the Turkish city of Istanbul, clashes broke out with security forces. There were also large rallies in Barcelona, Paris and London to mark the international day for the elimination of gender-based attacks. Mexican media say the incident in Guaymas saw armed attackers storm the city's municipal palace, shooting dead a female protester and two men - a government worker and a bodyguard for Mayor Karla Córdova, who was in the palace at the time. Eyewitnesses told local journalists that they heard something like a grenade exploding at the door of the building, before gunshots rang out. The identity of the attackers and their motives remain unknown. There was another rally in Mexico City, where crowds chanted "not one (woman) less" as they demanded an end to femicide - the intentional murder of women because of their gender. "We are always protesting and it shouldn't have to be this way, violence needs to end at some point," protester Laura Valle told Reuters news agency. "We notice the authorities are not acting on it, for example, when we report it [violence]," she added. Police fired smoke bombs at a small group of hammer-wielding protesters who tried to grab their shields. At least 10 women and girls are killed every day in the Latin American country, according to Amnesty International. "Femicide Mexico! They're killing us!" one woman reportedly shouted during a tussle with police. Some hooded demonstrators threw bottles, stones and flares at police, local media reported. Seventeen people, including 10 female police officers, were injured during the march, according to police. The demonstration in Istanbul's Taksim Square came just months after Turkey withdrew from an international treaty aimed at protecting women. Police scuffled with protesters as they urged them to disperse from the area. Many demonstrators were pictured holding banners while others called for the government to resign over its withdrawal from the Istanbul Convention in June. Some in the party of Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan had argued that the agreement was inconsistent with Turkey's conservative values. Mr Erdogan said Turkey would use local laws to protect women. 'Black and White' campaign highlights Turkish femicideHundreds join 'Day of Dead Women' march in Mexico "Women are being killed," one protester told Reuters. "They are being publicly murdered. As of June, we have started to move away from the guarantees that protect us. "We do not and will not accept this and we will keep fighting". According to rights groups in Turkey, 345 women have been killed so far this year.
