US jury awards $25m in damages over Unite the Right rally. A US jury has awarded millions in damages against the organisers of a deadly far-right rally in August 2017. The defendants were found liable in four out of six counts over the bloodshed at the Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia. Nine of those injured sued the event's organisers arguing they had conspired to commit racially motivated violence. A woman was killed and dozens were hurt after an avowed neo-Nazi drove a car into counter-protesters. The total damages awarded amount to $25m (£19m), according to US media. In court, the jury awarded $500,000 in punitive damages against 12 defendants, and $1m against five white supremacist organisations. Punitive damages are awarded at a court's discretion to punish a defendant for conduct judged to be especially harmful. Additionally, the jury awarded $250,000 in compensatory damages to two plaintiffs and $200,000 against several defendants. A total of $12m in punitive damages was also imposed against the driver of the car in the fatal incident. The lawsuit alleged that the defendants "brought with them to Charlottesville the imagery of the Holocaust, of slavery, of Jim Crow and of fascism". "They also brought with them semi-automatic weapons, pistols, mace, rods, armour, shields and torches," the lawsuit said. The defendants include several prominent figures in America's white nationalist and far-right sphere. Among those found liable in the case were Jason Kessler, the rally's main organiser, and Richard Spencer, who famously coined the term "alt-right" and spoke at the event. Another defendant, Christopher Cantwell, became famous as "the crying Nazi" after an emotional YouTube video he posted after the rally went viral. The lawsuit largely rested on an 1871 law passed after the US Civil War to protect black Americans following their emancipation from slavery from the Ku Klux Klan. US white supremacists face a legal reckoning It allows private citizens to sue others believed to have committed civil rights violations - with the condition that the plaintiffs must prove that they conspired to do so. The 2017 rally began as a protest against the removal of a Confederate statue. Then-President Donald Trump came under fire after saying afterwards that there were "very fine people on both sides". In the same speech he also said neo-Nazis and white nationalists "should be condemned totally". A counter-protester, 32-year-old Heather Heyer, was killed when James Alex Fields drove his car into a crowd. He was sentenced to life in prison in June 2019. The civil case included testimony from survivors of the incident. "It was a complete terror scene. It was blood everywhere," one of the plaintiffs, Marissa Blair, testified. "I was terrified." The defendants sought to distance themselves from the violence and claimed that there was no conspiracy. "None of these defendants could have foreseen what James Fields did," Mr Kessler's attorney said.
Bulgaria bus crash: Survivors broke window to flee inferno that killed 46. The survivors of a bus inferno that killed at least 46 people scrambled to safety through a window after the vehicle caught fire and crashed in Bulgaria, officials say. Seven people escaped with burns from the vehicle, which was packed with tourists who were mostly Macedonian. The bus slammed into a barrier and went up in flames while returning from Istanbul in Turkey to North Macedonia. Twelve children were among the dead, including twin boys, aged four. Only four men and three women survived the disaster, which happened on a motorway south-west of the Bulgarian capital, Sofia, early on Tuesday. The scale of the loss has caused shock and grief in Bulgaria and North Macedonia, where three days of national mourning have been declared. Macedonian Prime Minister Zoran Zaev described the crash as "horrifying". "I met the injured in a hospital in Bulgaria. My heart broke when I was hearing the cry of a father who lost [his] child," Mr Zaev told the BBC. The PM said he had spoken to one of the survivors, who told him that passengers were asleep when the sound of an explosion woke them. "They succeeded in breaking one of the windows and saved a few people. Unfortunately, the rest did not succeed," Mr Zaev told reporters. Holiday bus tragedy traumatises young nation The cause of the disaster was not immediately clear. Bulgarian officials said the bus swerved off the motorway and tore away a 50m (164ft) section of the crash barrier. But it is not yet known if the bus caught fire before or after the crash. No other vehicles were involved in the accident. Pictures of the aftermath showed a section of the road where the crash barrier had been shorn off and the charred bus, gutted by the fire. The mayor of the nearby village of Pernik said the motorway was in poor condition on that section and there were often accidents in the area. The bus had been returning to the capital of North Macedonia, Skopje, from a weekend holiday trip to Istanbul. It was apparently travelling as part of a convoy of four buses and had stopped at a petrol station near Sofia about an hour before the accident. The other buses, which were a few minutes ahead, returned to North Macedonia safely. Saska Cvetkovska for BBC News in Skopje, North Macedonia On social media and elsewhere, reactions to this tragedy have been similar: this should not have happened. Too many people die in road accidents every year in North Macedonia. In February 2019, 15 people were killed and more than 30 were badly injured when a bus carrying workers to the Macedonian capital crashed. The accident gained a lot of political attention and the government led by Prime Minister Zoran Zaev promised to review the way transport firms were licensed. When the news of Tuesday's accident broke, many Macedonians expressed outrage and disappointment. Many feel those promises to keep people safe on the roads haven't been kept. Nikola Atanasovski lost a cousin in the 2019 bus crash. "This morning, all I could think was, 'of course this has happened again'. But it should not. I feel angry," he told me. In 2019, many people blamed the authorities. This feels different though. In a country where so many people see their future abroad, it's particularly painful to lose so many young lives. Macedonians feel they cannot afford to lose any life. Today, we lost nearly 50 people. The victims have not yet been officially named, but officials said they included 12 children, and many young people aged between 20 and 30. One man told the Sloboden Pecat newspaper that 10 of his relatives had died in the disaster. "I lost my whole family in the blaze," the man was quoted as saying. Five pupils at a primary school in Skopje and a young couple who were due to be married were also among the dead, Macedonian media said. Macedonian reports said 27-year old Gazmend Ukali and Albina Beluli, 23, from the north-western town of Tetovo, had gone to Istanbul to celebrate Ukali's birthday. Albania's foreign minister indicated that most, if not all, the passengers were ethnic Albanians from North Macedonia. Adnan Yasharovski said his 16-year-old daughter Zuleikha called him to say she had survived the crash. Mr Yasharovski told Reuters news agency he went to Sofia to see her in hospital. "She was crying. Her hands were burnt but otherwise fine," he said, outside the hospital. "She didn't say much, she was crying and she was in shock." The bus belonged to Besa Trans, a travel company that organises trips in Europe. Within hours of the crash, relatives of people who travelled to Turkey with Besa Trans last week gathered outside the firm's office in Skopje, anxiously looking for information. Bulgaria's interim Prime Minister Stefan Yanev described the incident as "an enormous tragedy". "Let's hope we learn lessons from this tragic incident and we can prevent such incidents in the future," he told reporters as he visited the crash site. Investigative service chief Borislav Sarafov said "human error by the driver or a technical malfunction are the two initial versions for the accident". Mr Sarafov told reporters that it appeared both drivers had been killed in the crash so no one was able to open the doors. Have you have been affected by the issues in this story? Email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Or Upload your pictures/video hereTweet: @BBC_HaveYourSayPlease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission.
Yalda Hakim: My return to Afghanistan. BBC presenter Yalda Hakim was born in Afghanistan. Her family fled in the 1980s, during the Soviet occupation, but she has regularly reported from the country since. Now she has returned for the first time since the Taliban seized power 100 days ago. I knew that my first return to the country of my birth since the Taliban swept to power in August would raise many questions for me. How much has the nation changed since the Taliban ousted the Western-backed government? Would the Afghan people finally get the peace they have longed for? What future would there be for women and girls who are already being pushed out of public life by their new rulers? There was one question however I had not expected to be asking myself. What strength must it take to come to work, day after day, week after week, month after increasingly harrowing month, without getting paid? But that is exactly what I have found out. From healthcare workers in Kandahar to cleaners at Kabul hospitals, none of Afghanistan's public healthcare staff have been paid since the government fell and foreign aid came to a halt. Despite everything, they still turn up for work, caring for an increasingly desperate population as they themselves slip closer to the brink. Nasreen works as a cleaner at the Indira Gandhi Children's Hospital in the capital, Kabul. "If we don't come to work, these babies will die, how can we abandon them?" she tells me. The ward needs to be as clean as possible to ensure the patients, most of them weak and severely malnourished, don't get any infections. Nasreen says she can't afford transport, so she walks to work, a gruelling commute, down the side of one of the many mountains - trekking back up again after a 12 hour shift. However dire the plight of the healthcare workers is, the patients they care for are in a far worse position. The United Nations says almost 23 million Afghans are facing starvation. Ninety-five percent of people don't have enough food. On the wards that Nasreen keeps clean, you see the youngest victims of the crisis. Gulnara, three years old, is so weak she can barely keep her eyes open. Her eyes are sunken, her hair is thinning, when she seems to wake up, she cries in pain. This is what severe malnutrition is doing to the children of Afghanistan. EXPLAINER: Ten days that shook AfghanistanANALYSIS: A country abandoned: John Simpson on AfghanistanON THE GROUND: What has changed in Afghanistan in 20 years The Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen points the finger of blame at the international community and tells me the suffering of the Afghan people has been caused by the actions of the West. "If they are saying that this country is heading towards catastrophe, starvation, humanitarian crisis, then it is their responsibility to take action, proper action to prevent all these tragedies." "The international community and others countries who are speaking about human rights… they should reconsider taking steps that lead to a humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan," he adds. Whether or not you accept his analysis as to who is to blame - most observers would agree that the solution to this problem will come from international funding. Nowhere is this more apparent when it comes to the economy. When the international aid taps were turned off, the economy collapsed. "I used to work at the brick kilns," one man tells me while waiting on the streets for any labour work. "Back then my salary was 25,000 afghanis ($270) a month. Now I cannot even make 2,000 ($22) a month. All four of his children are sick at home and he doesn't have any money for medicine. "I don't see any future, Poor families don't have a future," he tells me.
Meredith Kercher: Student's killer Rudy Guede ends sentence. Rudy Guede, convicted of the 2007 murder of UK exchange student Meredith Kercher, has finished his sentence early saying he wants to be forgotten. Guede, 34, was the only person jailed over the notorious sexual assault and murder in Perugia, in central Italy. Meredith Kercher's American flatmate Amanda Knox and her Italian boyfriend were also initially convicted. Their case ran through the courts for years before they were eventually acquitted on appeal. Guede's initial 30-year jail term was cut to 16 years and he has spent the past year doing community service. The Ivorian national was due to be freed in January but magistrates in the city of Viterbo, where he now lives, granted him early release. His lawyer confirmed to the BBC on Tuesday that they had received notification that the jail sentence had been completed. "My initial thoughts are with Meredith Kercher's family who've been confronted by this painful affair," the lawyer, Fabrizio Ballarini, told Italian media. Kercher family lawyer Francesco Maresca said that while Guede had served his time there was a moral issue about the length of the sentence. "From a moral standpoint, of concrete and effective justice, clearly the term he served was very low with respect to the tragic nature of the event," he said, quoted by Ansa. Ms Kercher, from Coulsdon in south London, had been in Perugia for three months on an exchange from Leeds University when she was killed. She was studying modern history, political theories and history of cinema. Since her death, her family has campaigned for the truth. Six years ago her sister Stephanie said they were unlikely to ever know what really happened. Guede left Perugia and travelled to Germany in the days after Ms Kercher's murder. After his extradition back to Italy he chose a fast-track trial, held in a closed session without journalists present, and was subsequently convicted of the murder after his bloodstained fingerprints were identified at the scene. However, he continues to deny murdering Ms Kercher. Who was Meredith Kercher?Amanda Knox: Figure at the centre of a saga He was given partial prison release in 2017, and his lawyer told local media after the ruling that his client was "calm and socially well integrated". Over the last year, Guede has volunteered for the charity Caritas and worked as a librarian at the Viterbo criminological studies centre, Italian media say. Claudio Mariani, a teacher at the centre, told Ansa that numerous media outlets had asked Guede for interviews but that he "wants to be forgotten by the world". Ms Knox and her then-boyfriend Raffaele Sollecito were separately convicted of Ms Kercher's murder in 2009. Their arrests and the guilty verdicts generated international media attention. The pair served four years behind bars before those convictions were overturned. After a number of appeals and retrials Italy's highest court acquitted them both definitively in March 2015.
Ethiopia's Tigray conflict: Foreigners advised to leave. Germany and France have become the latest countries to advise their citizens to leave Ethiopia, amid an escalation in the country's civil war. The US and UK have also recently issued advisories, and the UN has begun what it describes as a temporary relocation of some staff. This comes as rebel Tigrayan fighters say they are still advancing towards the capital Addis Ababa. PM Abiy Ahmed says he will go to the front line to face the rebels. The year-long conflict has led to a humanitarian crisis, with hundreds of thousands facing famine-like conditions in the north of Ethiopia. Thousands of people have been killed and millions forced from their homes. US Special Envoy Jeffrey Feltman said progress was being made towards a diplomatic solution but this was being threatened by the escalation on the ground. He said both sides seemed to believe they were on the cusp of a military victory. Mr Feltman warned that if the rebels moved on Addis Ababa it would be unacceptable and catastrophic. Reports from the front line are hard to verify but the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF) says its fighters are in control of a town just over 200km from Addis Ababa. The Ethiopian government has previously denied reports of rebel advances. Germany's foreign ministry said its nationals should depart on the first available commercial flights, while France urged its citizens to leave the country "without delay". Meanwhile an internal UN security document said "eligible family members of internationally recruited staff" should be evacuated by 25 November. Previously the US and UK announced they were pulling out non-essential diplomatic staff, and told other citizens to leave. In a post on social media on Monday evening, Abiy Ahmed, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2019, said he would go to the front to lead the defence forces. "Those who want to be among the Ethiopian children, who will be hailed by history, rise up for your country today. Let's meet at the front," he said. His Nobel win came after ending nearly two decades of tension with Eritrea that continued after the war between the two countries. The TPLF has dismissed Mr Abiy's statement with its spokesperson, Getachew Reda, saying that "our forces won't relent on their inexorable advance towards bringing [Mr Abiy's] chokehold on our people to an end". The African Union is leading efforts to find a negotiated end to the fighting, but neither side has committed to talks. At the root of the war is a disagreement between Prime Minister Abiy and the TPLF, which for almost 27 years dominated the whole country, not just Tigray. Mr Abiy came to power in 2018 and in a whirlwind of reform, in which he liberalised politics and made peace with long-time foe Eritrea, the TPLF was sidelined. The simmering dispute between the TPLF and Mr Abiy then erupted into war 12 months ago when Tigrayan forces were accused of attacking army bases to steal weapons and the federal government responded. More on the Tigray crisis: ANALYSIS: How Ethiopia's once mighty army has been outflankedANALYSIS: Why the Ethiopia conflict matters to the worldREALITY CHECK: Why Facebook and Twitter are under fire in EthiopiaPROFILE: The Nobel Peace Prize winner who went to war
Brian Laundrie: US blogger Gabby Petito's fiancé 'died by suicide' - family lawyer. The fiancé of murdered US blogger Gabby Petito, Brian Laundrie, took his own life, his family's lawyer has said in a statement. Mr Laundrie returned from a road trip without his fiancée and her body was later found in Wyoming. Mr Laundrie's body was identified last month using dental records. He had been the subject of a manhunt for more than a month before his body was found. Police had described him as a person of interest in Gabby Petito's death. "Chris and Roberta Laundrie have been informed that the cause of death was a gunshot wound... and the manner of death was suicide," the family's lawyer said. "Chris and Roberta are still mourning the loss of their son and are hopeful that these findings bring closure to both families," Steven Bertolino told ABC Action News. The case of Ms Petito, 22, and Mr Laundrie, 23, sparked nationwide media attention. The couple had been documenting their summer road trip in a van through national parks on social media. Ms Petito's parents reported her missing on 11 September after they had been unable to contact her for a fortnight. Her body was eventually discovered in Wyoming, where the couple had been travelling, on 19 September. A coroner later found that she had been strangled. It eventually emerged that Mr Laundrie had returned to Florida without Ms Petito on 1 September. Her family repeatedly appealed for her fiancé and his family to co-operate with investigators, but he then went missing himself. His parents told police they last saw him on 13 September - when he went hiking alone and never returned. His body was discovered in a Florida park on 20 October.
Walgreens, CVS, and Walmart fuelled opioid crisis, Ohio jury finds. Three big US retail chains have been found guilty of helping fuel a painkiller crisis in two Ohio counties, in the first case of its kind. A federal court found that actions by Walgreens Boots Alliance, CVS, and Walmart helped create an oversupply of addictive opioid pills. The scale of compensation to be paid to the two Ohio counties will be decided at a future hearing. CVS said it would appeal against the judgement. The other retailers, who all contested the cases, did not immediately comment. US drug overdose deaths hit record levelsSacklers win immunity from further opioid litigationOpioid crisis: US drug giants reach $26bn settlement The case could open the door to further cases. More than 3,300 similar cases have been brought, largely by US state and local governments, which have faced huge costs in managing an epidemic of painkiller addiction. Over the last few decades, millions of Americans have become addicts through over-prescription and abuse of legal opiate-based painkillers such as Fentanyl and OxyContin. Nearly 500,000 deaths were attributed to painkiller overdoses between 1999 and 2019. As well as the pharmacy chains, big pharmaceutical companies and medical professionals have been accused of turning a blind eye to the problem. Lawyers for the two Ohio counties, Lake and Trumbull, said the costs are potentially $1bn for each county, to cover social and legal expenses related to the impact of the opioid epidemic. "The judgment today against Walmart, Walgreens and CVS represents the overdue reckoning for their complicity in creating a public nuisance," they said in a joint statement. They argued that the pharmacies created a public nuisance by failing to ensure opioid prescriptions were valid and so allowing excessive quantities of addictive pain pills to flood their communities. Walgreens Boots Alliance, CVS and Walmart denied the allegations, saying they had taken steps to prevent painkillers being diverted from their intended legal use. CVS in a statement said it strongly disagreed with the verdict and would appeal. "As plaintiffs' own experts testified, many factors have contributed to the opioid abuse issue, and solving this problem will require involvement from all stakeholders in our healthcare system and all members of our community," CVS said. Other cases around the country are relying on the "public nuisance" argument to target the companies involved in making and distributing the opioid painkillers. However earlier this month courts in Oklahoma and California rejected it as a legal argument in cases against drugs makers.
Throne Speech: Trudeau's Liberals lay out parliamentary agenda. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has laid out a legislative agenda with  a focus on climate and economic recovery. The Throne Speech comes after a five month parliamentary hiatus during which voters re-elected his minority Liberals. Mr Trudeau must once again seek cross-party votes to pass new legislation. The opposition Conservatives said the speech failed to adequately address issues like rising inflation and affordability concerns. Laying out the Liberal government priorities in parliament on Tuesday was Governor General Mary Simon, the first indigenous person to serve as the Queen's representative in Canada. Reading a speech written by Mr Trudeau, Ms Simon said the government would seek to pass laws continuing Covid support, addressing climate change, strengthening gun control, and increasing efforts towards indigenous reconciliation. She also renewed the Liberal party's call for a ban on gay conversion therapy, and to provide $10 per day for childcare to families across the country. The federal government has so far signed childcare agreements with a majority of provinces. The speech also praised the people of British Columbia who are reeling from deadly and destructive rain, slides and flooding that hit last week and warned that the "Earth is in danger". "From a warming Arctic to the increasing devastation of natural disasters, our land and our people need help," said Ms Simon. After a debate over the coming weeks, Canadians legislators will vote on whether to they support the government's agenda. If they reject it, it could trigger another election, though that scenario is unlikely. The left-wing NDP party, which the Liberals hope to get support from, have backed enhanced paid sick leave, a continuation of Covid benefits, and a law outlawing gay conversion therapy. Party leader Jagmeet Singh told reporters after the speech that that Liberals have been warned not to take NDP votes "for granted". "This is not a speech that demonstrates a willingness to work together," he said. The return to parliament also comes amid a row over vaccine mandates for MPs. The Liberals, New Democrats and Bloc Québécois have confirmed their members are vaccinated, but Conservatives had for weeks threatened to challenge how the new rule was implemented in parliament. Party leader Erin O'Toole said on Friday that all his MPs present for the Tuesday session would either been fully vaccinated or had secured medical exemptions to the requirement.
Mexican nursery's lottery win turns into nightmare. Parents in southern Mexico say they are being threatened by a gang after their children's nursery won 20m pesos ($950,000; £710,0000) in a lottery. The nursery has just over two dozen pupils and their parents were put in charge of administering the prize. Soon after their win was made public, they received threats from an armed group, which demanded that they use the money to buy weapons for the gang. The families say they had to flee their village and have been living rough. Gang violence is rife in Mexico and armed groups often try to recruit locals in their fight with rivals for control of territory. A number of the 500-peso tickets in Mexico's much-publicised "plane lottery" were bought by anonymous benefactors and donated to poor schools and nurseries across the country. The Mexican state organised the lottery after a previous plan to raffle off the presidential plane to raise funds for hospital supplies had been shelved because it was deemed impractical. A list of the 100 winners was announced in September 2020 and published in Mexican newspapers. The tiny nursery in the indigenous village of Ocosingo was among the winners. While the windfall was cause for celebration at first, the problems started soon after news of it spread. Members of the parents' association say that they started receiving threats from an armed group called Los Petules which demanded that the prize money be used to buy guns for the gang, which reportedly planned to attack a rival group in a neighbouring village. The parents refused and instead spent part of the money on a new roof for the nursery. The threats increased this year when the parents decided to use the remaining 14m pesos for works to improve their village. In March, one father was shot at by gang members who demanded he hand over the prize money. Last month, the situation escalated further when the gang reportedly attacked women and children in the village, causing 28 families to flee. One member of the parents' association said the community had lost "cattle, our homes, refrigerators, our corn and bean harvests, our chickens". A spokesman for the families said that they had alerted the local authorities to their plight but that unless the gang  was disarmed and dissolved, they would not be able to return to their homes.
Crypto US constitution bidder refunds hit by high fees. The people behind a failed bid to buy a rare original copy of the US constitution are facing an avalanche of refunds - up to $40m for 17,000 donors. The ConstitutionDAO team used a "decentralised" approach - largely unregulated and using cryptocurrency - to amass the fortune. But large fees for those crypto-transactions are eating up huge sums of money in the refund process. The group said issuing refunds was its top priority. ConstitutionDAO - short for "decentralised autonomous organisation" - raised the vast sums of money in the Ethereum cryptocurrency to bid on an extremely rare privately-owned copy of the original printing of the US constitution. The group had promised to maintain the historic document "for the people". Crypto bid to buy US constitution raises over $40mCrypto group fails in bid for rare US constitution But they were outbid by a private investor, and the document sold for more than double the auction house's original estimate. Now, some investors in the scheme are reporting that they must pay fees of up to half their refund. That is because the Ethereum network records its transactions on the blockchain, the same basic technology idea that powers other cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin. And like Bitcoin mining, it requires computational power to run. "Gas" is the fee paid to those who run the computer systems to facilitate transactions. And it changes price based on supply and demand. That means that at times, it can be much more expensive to make any kind of transaction, depending on how busy the Ethereum network is. And the network has recently seen high usage - and high gas prices. Buying a pink NFT cat was a nightmare On its official Discord - the chat app which allows anyone to create rooms and discussion channels for enthusiasts on almost any topic - the group said it had 17,437 donors with a median donation of $206.26. High gas fees mean that "small" donations could be severely hit by the transaction charge. One user on the Discord said that in order to get $400 refunded, they would have to pay $168 in gas. Others complained of the fees being higher than the relatively small amount of their refund. "Wow, lessons learned, [Ethereum] is no good. Gas too high," wrote another in the support channel. A different contributor lamented that the experience might sour cryptocurrency for those who were not already investors, but got caught up in the drama of "buying the constitution". "Almost a third of people that contributed are new to [Ethereum] and their first experience is this. Not only that, they'll have to know the pain of paying $200+ in gas for literally nothing," they said. Senior figures in the Discord- known as delegates - said there was no clear solution. "We looked at and did everything in our power to come up with a gas-free refund option. However there was nothing that could be set up in a timely manner," wrote one. "Providing a safe refund process as soon as possible was the primary goal." Another admin on the server told users: "This was a very, very hard call and we've all been at our computers for the last several days for every waking hour trying to find the least bad option. There was no solution that was going to please everyone." But despite the chaotic refunds process after the group's initial reason for existence failed, its organisers have pledged that this is not the end. The group was only established days before the auction of the historic document by Sotheby's, and so had little time to set up its desired decentralised structure. Instead, a core group of insiders - the delegates - took care of managing the project, writing and rewriting the rules and FAQs as they went. The group had originally planned to use ownership of digital tokens as a way of allocating voting power over the care and display of the constitution document, and briefly proposed a new type of token to decide its future. That has since been scrapped - but the group is promising an imminent announcement "regarding the future of ConstitutionDAO". "We know you have been waiting patiently, and we are grateful for it. We know you have questions, and we are working on answers."
Ahmaud Arbery: Jury to decide fate of men accused in his murder. After a 13-day trial, a Georgia jury has begun deliberating in the case of three men accused of chasing down and killing a black jogger last year. Ahmaud Arbery, 25, was fatally shot during a confrontation with Travis McMichael, his father Gregory and their neighbour, William Bryan. If convicted, the men face the possibility of life imprisonment. They deny all charges. The racially charged case has garnered nationwide interest in the US. Mr Arbery was shot by Travis McMichael after being pursued and confronted by the men while jogging on the afternoon of 23 February 2020. The case gained widespread attention after footage of Mr Arbery's final moments - filmed by Mr Bryan - went viral months later. The defendants each face nine criminal charges, including malice and felony murder, aggravated assault and false imprisonment. The 12-member jury heard from more than two dozen witnesses over the course of the trial, including Travis McMichael, who was the only defendant to take the witness stand. Lawyers for the men argued in court that the defendants acted in self-defence while making a citizen's arrest, which was legal in the state of Georgia at the time. It has since been repealed. The trio say that they suspected Mr Arbery of theft from a nearby construction site. Closing arguments in the case wrapped up on Tuesday morning. In a rebuttal to the defence's argument on Tuesday, lead prosecutor Linda Dunikoski said that the men had no legal authority to confront Mr Arbery. "They don't have any authority to use verbal commands," Ms Dunikoski said. "This is a fellow citizen. This is another human being." While Travis McMichael, 35, fired the shots that killed Mr Arbery, Ms Dunikoski said that his father Gregory, 65, and Mr Bryan, 52, are equally responsible for the killing. Ahmaud Arbery went jogging. Why did he die? "When three people chase an unarmed man in pick-up trucks with guns in order to violate his personal liberty, who gets to claim I am not responsible for that?" she said. "Under the law in Georgia, no one gets to say that. Everybody is responsible." In their closing arguments on Monday, the defence team continued to focus on the right to make citizens arrests, as well as Travis McMichael's worries that Mr Arbery could harm him. "You do have the right to stop a person and hold them and detain them for police," the younger Mr McMichael's attorney said on Monday. "There's a risk with that." An attorney for Gregory McMichael, Laura Hogue, said that a "good neighbourhood is always policing itself" and argued that some of Mr Arbery's actions that day were partly to blame for his death. The composition of the jury - with 11 white and one black member - has been criticised by some observers who believe it doesn't reflect the local community, which is 55% Black.
Grammy Awards: Olivia Rodrigo dominates nominations for 2022. Olivia Rodrigo has emerged as the front-runner for next year's Grammy Awards, with nominations in all four of the main categories. The 18-year-old is up for best album, best new artist, record of the year and song of the year, for Drivers License. She faces competition from Billie Eilish and Lil Nas X in all of those categories, except best new artist. Abba also received their first ever Grammy nomination in the record of the year category. The Swedish band are recognised for their bittersweet comeback single, I Still Have Faith In You, which was released in September. Taylor Swift also picks up her second consecutive album of the year nomination, for Evermore. She won the award earlier this year for its companion album, Folklore. British musicians are relatively thin on the ground, but Ed Sheeran's Bad Habits is up for song of the year; while Arlo Parks and Glass Animals make the shortlist for best new artist. Coldplay also receive their 36th Grammy nod, for the single Higher Power, which is in the running for best pop group performance. Although relatively unknown in the UK, the jazz keyboardist Jon Batiste leads the nominations, with 11 in total - recognising both his eclectic solo album We Are and the soundtrack to the Pixar film, Soul. Justin Bieber, Doja Cat and H.E.R. follow with eight nominations apiece. Billie Eilish and Olivia Rodrigo are close behind with seven. Meanwhile, Korean pop sensation BTS miss out on the main categories, receiving a single nomination for pop duo/group performance. The group's monster hit Butter, which spent 10 weeks at number one in the US, is nominated alongside Tony Bennett and Lady Gaga's I Get A Kick Out Of You, Justin Bieber's Lonely, Coldplay's Higher Power and Doja Cat's Kiss Me More. This year's ballot also makes Jay-Z the most-nominated artist in Grammy history. He had been tied with legendary record producer Quincy Jones on 80, but surges ahead with three new nominations, including two in the best rap song category, for collaborations with DMX and Kanye West. The unstoppable rise of Olivia RodrigoIs Lil Nas X the defining star of his generation?Grammy Awards scrap controversial voting committees The nominees were announced at the Grammy Museum in Los Angeles on Tuesday morning, with help from Billie Eilish, H.E.R., Eurovision winners Måneskin and BTS themselves. With almost 22,000 songs and albums submitted for consideration, the shortlists in the main categories were expanded from eight to 10 nominees for the first time. "We're living in a time of extraordinary growth in music," explained Recording Academy CEO Harvey Mason, Jr. "Over 60,000 songs a day are being released. With so much more music available. There's a lot more excellence to recognise and celebrate." The Grammys also made sweeping changes to their rules for 2022, after The Weeknd was controversially shut out of this year's awards. Organisers subsequently scrapped dozens of anonymous committees that had the ability to overrule votes in 72 of the 86 categories, allowing rank-and-file voters to choose the shortlists instead. Veiled in secrecy, the committees had been accused of vote-rigging, favouritism and racism. Several high profile artists including Drake, Frank Ocean and The Weeknd himself, boycotted recent ceremonies in protest. The change seems to have boosted the chances of artists with broad appeal, such as Tony Bennett and Lady Gaga, whose duets album Love For Sale generated six nominations. The so-called "big four" are the Grammys' most prestigious prizes. This year's field looks like this. Album of the year We Are - Jon BatisteTony Bennett & Lady Gaga - Love For SaleJustin Bieber - JusticeDoja Cat - Planet HerBillie Eilish - Happier Than EverH.E.R. - Back Of My MindLil Nas X - MonteroOlivia Rodrigo - SourTaylor Swift - EvermoreDonda - Kanye West Song of the year (recognising the songwriters) Bad Habits - Ed SheeranA Beautiful Noise - Alicia Keys and Brandi CarlileDrivers License - Olivia RodrigoFight For You - H.E.R.Happier Than Ever - Billie EilishKiss Me More - Doja Cat ft SzaMontero (Call Me By Your Name) - Lil Nas XPeaches - Justin Bieber ft Daniel Caesar & GiveonLeave The Door Open - Silk SonicRight On Time - Brandi Carlile Record of the year (recognising the whole recording) I Still Have Faith In You - AbbaFreedom - Jon BatisteI Get A Kick Out Of You - Tony Bennett and Lady GagaPeaches - Justin Bieber ft Daniel Caesar & GiveonRight On Time - Brandi CarlileKiss Me More - Doja Cat ft SzaHappier Than Ever - Billie EilishMontero (Call Me By Your Name) - Lil Nas XDrivers License - Olivia RodrigoLeave The Door Open - Silk Sonic Best new artist Arooj AftabJimmie AllenBaby KeemFinneasGlass AnimalsJapanese BreakfastThe Kid LaroiArlo ParksOlivia RodrigoSaweetie Read more: The main nominees for the 2022 Grammy Awards This time last year, Olivia Rodrigo was best known as the star of the Disney series High School Musical: The Musical: The Series. Then, in January, a few weeks before her 18th birthday, she released the lovelorn piano ballad Drivers License - which became an instant, but organic, global hit. The teenager followed it up with Sour, a debut album inspired by the same heartbreak (allegedly her Disney co-star Joshua Bassett). Showcasing her piercing, precise lyrics and precociously accomplished songwriting, it saw her hailed as "pop's newest icon" and hit number one on both sides of the Atlantic. In its incessantly hooky choruses, Sour embraced Rodrigo's musical inspirations, from Taylor Swift to Paramore. Both artists later received writing credits for their influence, and therefore share her album of the year nomination. If Rodrigo sweeps all of the "big four" categories next January, she'll be only the third person in history to do so, after Christopher Cross and Billie Eilish. But she faces stiff competition from Bruno Mars' impeccably-crafted soul band Silk Sonic and, of course, from Swift herself. This year, the Grammys are actually recognising a 13-month time period, from 1 September, 2020, to 30 September, 2021. Even so, that rules out some of pop's biggest new albums, including Adele's 30, Ed Sheeran's = and Abba's Voyage. Also absent is The Weeknd, who is refusing to participate in the Grammys after being snubbed last year. Ariana Grande and Doja Cat also declined to submit their duets with the star for awards, in an apparent show of solidarity. But Kanye West didn't get the memo: His single Hurricane, which features The Weeknd and Lil Baby, made it onto the best melodic rap song shortlist. Taylor Swift also withheld her re-recorded version of Fearless from consideration. The original, released in 2008, is itself an album of the year winner. And Dua Lipa failed to submit her 4x-platinum chart hit Levitating, apparently to avoid recognising featured rapper DaBaby after he made homophobic comments earlier this year. Country star Morgan Wallen also failed to receive a nomination after being filmed using a racial slur earlier this year. The singer, whose album Dangerous is the biggest-selling country record of 2021, was ruled ineligible at the Academy of Country Music Awards, but had been allowed to enter the Grammys, only for voters to pass him over in favour of acts like Chris Stapleton and Sturgill Simpson. The Grammys are ostensibly decided by the 12,000 voting members of the Recording Academy. But for decades they were overseen by a shadowy group of "secret committees", who narrowed down the top 20 finalists in each category to the final shortlist of between five and eight nominees. Those committees were accused of corruption and insider dealing, most notably by ousted Recording Academy CEO Deborah Dugan, who said votes had been overruled and artists promoted onto shortlists without merit (the Academy called her allegations "categorically false"). It came to a head this time last year, when R&B singer The Weeknd was overlooked in the nominations list, despite his single Blinding Lights having become one of the best-selling songs of the century. "The Grammys remain corrupt," he tweeted in response. "You owe me, my fans, and the industry transparency." In April, the Grammys announced the committees would be scrapped; with regular voters getting to decide the shortlists in every category - including the "big four": Song of the year, record of the year, best new artist and best album. Even so, the awards have managed to stir up controversy, thanks to a separate group of committees: The steering committees, who decide which prizes artists are eligible for. The Nashville screening committee decided that Star-Crossed, the latest record by country superstar (and 2018 album of the year winner) Kacey Musgraves was actually a pop album, not country. Musgraves responded on Instagram with her middle fingers raised. "You can take the girl out of the country (genre), but you can't take the country out of the girl," she wrote. In the end, the album failed to receive a single nomination in the more competitive pop field. The single Camera Roll, however, sneaked into the best country song shortlist. What happened at the 2021 Grammys? Beyoncé and Taylor Swift make Grammys historyGrammys 2021: Five weird and wonderful momentsReview: Grammys reflect a year of solitude and protest Follow us on Facebook, or on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Parkland shooting: Families involved in 2018 attack settle FBI lawsuit. The families of those killed in a Florida school shooting have reached a multi-million dollar settlement with the US government after the FBI failed to act on a tip about the gunman. A lawyer for the plaintiffs said the agreement, once finalised, would mark "an important step" towards justice. At least 17 people died after a former student opened fire at the campus in Parkland on 14 February 2018. It was one of the deadliest school shootings in US history. Parkland school shooter pleads guilty to murder Department of Justice officials did not immediately comment on the settlement of between $125m and $130m (£97m), whose details were confirmed by the BBC's US partner, CBS News and other US media. Parents of the victims argued in a 2018 lawsuit that the authorities had failed to act on complaints about the gunman's stated desire to carry out a school attack and his weapons cache. A month before the attack at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, a woman had warned on the FBI's tip line that the suspect was "going to explode". The FBI acknowledged it had failed to follow up on the tip, which the bureau said had provided information about "Cruz's gun ownership, desire to kill people, erratic behaviour, and disturbing social media posts, as well as the potential of him conducting a school shooting". FBI failed to investigate USA Gymnastics abuser The Parkland families last month reached a $25m settlement with the Broward County school district in a lawsuit that had accused it of negligence. Their lawyers filed nearly two dozen legal actions in the aftermath of the attack. The gunman pleaded guilty last month to 17 counts of murder and 17 counts of attempted murder. He faces a possible death sentence.
