Omicron: WHO warns of 'high infection risk' around globe. The World Health Organization (WHO) has warned that the Omicron coronavirus variant poses a high risk of infection surges around the globe. The variant could lead to severe consequences in some regions, the WHO said on Monday. The head of the organisation, Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, renewed a call for a global push to get vaccines to poorer nations. Covid-19 is "not done with us" yet he warned. The variant was detected in South Africa earlier this month with initial evidence suggesting it has a higher re-infection risk. South Africa has been praised for its prompt reporting of the variant. "Omicron has an unprecedented number of spike mutations, some of which are concerning for their potential impact on the trajectory of the pandemic," the WHO said. Cases have already been reported in a number of countries including Canada, the UK, Portugal, Belgium and the Netherlands. The new variant has prompted the UK, EU and US to issue a travel ban on Southern African countries - a decision criticised by South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa. Japan has announced it is closing its borders to new foreign visitors from midnight on Tuesday, while Australia has paused its long-awaited plan to ease border restrictions. Travel into Australia for international students and "skilled workers" holding visas was meant to re-start on Wednesday but has now been delayed until 15 December. Israel has also banned foreigners from entering the country. How worrying is the new Covid variant?How do you detect Omicron? In the UK, Covid booster jabs are set to be offered to all over-18s to help stop a new wave driven by Omicron. The US has also followed suit with Joe Biden telling Americans to "go get your booster". He also urged people to wear masks indoors. But Mr Biden also said he did not anticipate any further US travel restrictions or lockdowns at this time. There have been more than 261 million cases and five million deaths around the globe since the pandemic started in 2020, according to data from John Hopkins University.
Magdalena Andersson: Sweden's first female PM returns after resignation. Sweden's first female prime minister has been reappointed to the top job after political turmoil forced her to resign within hours of taking the post last week. MPs backed Social Democratic Party leader Magdalena Andersson by a narrow margin in a new vote on Monday. She will attempt to lead a one-party government until an election in September next year. She stood down as PM last Wednesday after her coalition collapsed. Just hours earlier, Ms Andersson had been elected as Sweden's first female prime minister by a single vote in parliament. But the 54-year-old economist's plan for forming a new coalition government with the Green Party was thrown into disarray when her budget proposal failed to pass. Sweden's first female PM resigns hours after appointment Instead, parliament voted for a budget drawn up by a group of opposition parties, including the far-right Sweden Democrats. The Green Party said it would not accept a budget drafted by the far-right and walked away from the government, leading to its demise. By convention, the prime minister in Sweden is expected to resign if a coalition party leaves government. In Monday's vote in Sweden's parliament, the Riksdag, 101 of its 349 members voted yes, 75 abstained and 173 voted no. To be appointed prime minister under Sweden's political system, a candidate only needs to avoid a majority voting against them. At a news conference after the vote, Ms Andersson said she was ready to "take Sweden forward" with a programme focused on welfare, climate change and crime. But without the support of other parties, Ms Andersson will struggle to pass legislation in parliament, where the centre-left Social Democrats hold 100 of 349 seats. After a week of drama, Magdalena Andersson's prime ministerial career is back on track, but Sweden's political soap opera is far from over. Ms Andersson still has to implement a budget put together by some of her right-wing rivals. Plus, she's got to govern a fragile minority without the formal support of the Greens, who've been a crucial coalition partner since 2014. All this has highlighted the complexities of having a deeply divided eight-party parliament. Some political commentators here are worried that Ms Andersson's chaotic rise to power may have dented trust in the entire political system. Once formed, Ms Andersson's new government will remain in place until general elections, which are set to take place in September next year. Until then, she's got just over nine months to prove herself to the public. A former junior swimming champion from the university city of Uppsala, Ms Andersson began her political career in 1996 as political adviser to then-Prime Minister Goran Persson. She has spent the past seven years as finance minister before becoming leader of the Social Democrats at the start of November. She replaced Stefan Lofven, who resigned as prime minister after seven years in power. Until Ms Andersson took over, Mr Lofven had remained prime minister of a caretaker government after being ousted in an unprecedented vote of no confidence in June.
Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey steps down as chief executive. Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey is stepping down as chief executive of the company. He will be replaced by the current chief technical officer, Parag Agrawal, Twitter said. Mr Dorsey, who co-founded Twitter in 2006, has been serving as chief executive of both Twitter and payment firm Square. "It's finally time for me to leave" he wrote in a statement, saying the company was "ready to move on." Mr Dorsey said he had "deep" trust in his replacement. "I'm deeply grateful for his skill, heart, and soul. It's his time to lead," he said. Mr Agrawal joined Twitter in 2011, and has been the firm's head of technology since 2017. Twitter's share price jumped slightly as rumours of his departure emerged. Trading of shares on the stock exchange was temporarily halted as a result, but has since resumed. News of Mr Dorsey's departure was first reported by CNBC on Monday, citing anonymous sources familiar with the matter. Reuters news agency separately reported it had been told the same. On Sunday, Mr Dorsey tweeted, apparently unprompted: "I love Twitter." The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter In a separate message to the official corporate statement, Mr Dorsey tweeted: "Not sure anyone has heard but I resigned from Twitter". "There's a lot of talk about the importance of a company being 'founder-led'. Ultimately I believe that's severely limiting and a single point of failure," he wrote in an attached email he sent to staff. He added that he would leave the board after his term expires. "Why not stay or become chair? I believe it's really important to give Parag the space he needs to lead." In a way, Jack Dorsey typifies the Silicon Valley CEO. He's a multi-billionaire - and has founded two hugely successful companies - Twitter and Square. Yet he dresses in tie-dye t-shirts and sports a beard like a wizard. He's a hippie at heart, with high ideals for how technology can change the world for good. He genuinely believes, for example, that Bitcoin has the ability to create "world peace". And with Twitter, he certainly has changed the world. In particular it revolutionised how politicians communicate with voters - and how news is communicated with the public. Perhaps the best known user of Twitter was Donald Trump. The populist US president used the platform as a key way of bypassing traditional media. The decision to remove him from the platform after the Capitol Hill riots was undoubtedly the most controversial moment of Jack Dorsey's time. The nature of his departure is also interesting. He is extricating himself from the company, even giving up his board seat. That's very different to say, Jeff Bezos, who retains much influence at Amazon despite stepping down as boss earlier this year. Mr Dorsey claims this is his decision. But at a multi-billion dollar company, there could well be more at play behind the scenes. He is in his mid-40s, and still has lofty ambitions to change the world. With his track record, he may well do so again. The 45-year-old co-founded the company with Biz Stone, Evan Williams and Noah Glass in 2006. Mr Dorsey has, however, become the face of the company, having sent the earliest tweets on the service and due to his long tenure as chief executive. He left the role of Twitter chief in 2008 and founded the digital payments app Square, which has also grown into a multi-billion dollar company. Jack Dorsey's Square in Australia's biggest buyoutJack Dorsey's first ever tweet sells for $2.9m However, he was brought back to helm Twitter in 2015 after then-chief executive Dick Costolo stepped down. The role has seen him appear in televised inquiries before US politicians to be quizzed about his platform and its potential role in the spread of disinformation - something Twitter has been repeatedly accused of acting too slowly on in recent years. Like other social media sites it has also been accused of political bias on both sides of the US political divide. Calls for his departure came in 2020 from Elliott management, an investment firm which owns a significant amount of Twitter's shares. The firm reportedly felt that a full-time chief executive with only one company to run would be better for Twitter's fortunes. Twitter: Five anti-vaccine strikes and you are outTwitter works with news sites to tackle disinformation But the two sides later came to an agreement which saw Mr Dorsey remain in his post. Reacting to the news of Mr Dorsey's resignation, Elliott said the new management team were "the right leaders for Twitter at this pivotal moment for the company". The change in leadership comes alongside several other changes to Twitter's board, including the appointment of Bret Taylor, an existing Twitter board member and veteran of Google and Salesforce, as the new chairman. "I want to thank Jack for his visionary leadership and unrelenting dedication to Twitter since its founding," Mr Taylor said. "Jack returned to Twitter and turned the Company around at the most critical time. The progress since then has been nothing short of incredible. "Jack has given the world something invaluable and we will continue to carry it forward."
China surveillance of journalists to use 'traffic-light' system. The Chinese province of Henan is building a surveillance system with face-scanning technology that can detect journalists and other "people of concern". Documents seen by BBC News describe a system that classifies journalists into a "traffic-light" system - green, amber and red. Journalists in the "red" category would be "dealt with accordingly", they say. The Henan Public Security Bureau has not responded to a request for comment. The documents, discovered by the surveillance analyst firm IPVM, also outline plans to surveil other "people of concern", including foreign students and migrant women. Human Rights Watch said: "This is not a government that needs more power to track more people... especially those who might be trying to peacefully hold it accountable." The documents, published on 29 July, are part of a tendering process, encouraging Chinese companies to bid for a contract to build the new system, won, on 17 September, by NeuSoft. NeuSoft has not responded to BBC News request for comment. The system includes facial-recognition technology linked to thousands of cameras in Henan, to alert authorities when a "person of concern" is located. "People of concern" would be categorised into "thematic libraries" - in an already existing database of information about and images of people in the province. The system would also connect with China's national database. One of the groups of interest to the Henan Public Security Bureau is journalists, including foreign journalists. "The preliminary proposal is to classify key concerned journalists into three levels," the documents say. "People marked in red are the key concern. "The second level, marked in yellow, are people of general concern. "Level three, marked in green - are for journalists who aren't harmful." And an alert would be triggered as soon as "journalists of concern", marked as "red" - or "yellow", if they had previous criminal charges - booked a ticket to travel into the province. The system would also assess foreign students and divide them into three categories of risk - "excellent foreign students, general personnel, and key people and unstable personnel". "The safety assessment is made by focusing on the daily attendance of foreign students, exam results, whether they come from key countries, and school-discipline compliance," the documents say. The schools themselves would need to notify the authorities of students with security concerns. And those considered to be of concern would be tracked. During politically sensitive periods, such as the annual meeting of the National People's Congress, "a wartime alarm mechanism" would be activated and tracking of "key concern" students stepped up, including tracking their cell phones. The documents outline a desire for the system to contain information taken from: cell phonessocial media - such as WeChat and Weibovehicle details hotel stays travel ticketsproperty ownershipphotos (from existing databases) It should also focus on "stranded women", or non-Chinese migrant women who do not have the right to live in China. A large number of women enter China to find work. Others have been trafficked from neighbouring countries. And the system would "dock" with the National Immigration Bureau, the Ministry of Public Security and Henan police, among others. The documents were published around the time the Chinese government criticised foreign media outlets for their coverage of the Henan floods. Conor Healy, Government Director of IPVM, said: "The technical architecture of mass surveillance in China remains poorly understood... but building custom surveillance technology to streamline state suppression of journalists is new. "These documents shed light on what China's public-security officials want from mass surveillance." China's facial-recognition system is thought to already be in use across the country. And last year, the Washington Post reported Huawei had tested artificial-intelligence software that could recognise people belonging to the Uighur ethnic minority and alert police. Human Rights Watch's China director Sophie Richardson said: "The goal is chilling, ensuring that everyone knows they can and will be monitored - and that they never know what might trigger hostile interest."
Enes Kanter Freedom: NBA star changes name to celebrate US citizenship. Outspoken professional basketball player Enes Kanter will legally change his name to Enes Kanter Freedom to celebrate becoming a US citizen. The Swiss-born, Turkish-raised Mr Kanter, 29, will reportedly have his citizenship ceremony on Monday afternoon. He has repeatedly condemned human rights violations in China and Turkey. The NBA star has said his Turkish passport was revoked by authorities in 2017. In an interview with CNN, Mr Kanter, who plays with the Boston Celtics, said the name change will reflect his "fight" for freedom throughout his life. "Here [in the US] there is freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom of expression, freedom of the press," he said. "I didn't have any of those with Turkey." In his remarks, Mr Kanter said that "freedom is the greatest thing a human being can have". "That's why I wanted to make that word a part of me, and carry it wherever I go," he added. Mr Kanter's manager told the AP news agency that the name change will take place at the same time as his naturalisation ceremony on Monday. The name 'Freedom' will be on his jersey when the Celtics face off against the Philadelphia 76er later this week. Mr Kanter has said his teammates already call him by that name. In the years since he first arrived to the US in 2009, Mr Kanter has been an outspoken critic of both his native Turkey and China. In October, his name was blocked on Chinese social media and streams of Celtics games were reportedly cancelled after he referred to President Xi Jinping as a "brutal dictator". "My message for the Chinese government is free Tibet," Mr Kanter told his followers. "Tibet belongs to Tibetans." He has also used his social media to criticise Chinese government mistreatment of the Uyghur people and has argued for a boycott of the 2022 Beijing Olympics. In response, China's foreign ministry accused Mr Kanter of "trying to get attention". The 11-year NBA veteran has also repeatedly referred to Turkish President as a "dictator". In 2019, Turkish authorities filed an international arrest warrant for Mr Kanter, accusing him of having links with groups involved in a failed 2016 coup. He denied the allegations.
Ghislaine Maxwell accused of preying on young girls for Epstein to abuse. Prosecutors have alleged that British socialite Ghislaine Maxwell and convicted paedophile Jeffrey Epstein were "partners in crime", and that she groomed vulnerable young girls for him to sexually abuse. Ms Maxwell appeared in court in New York on the first day of her trial for sex trafficking charges, which she denies. Her defence said she was being used as a scapegoat for Epstein's crimes. Epstein died in prison in 2019. Ms Maxwell has been in a US jail since her arrest last year, awaiting the high-profile six-week trial. The 59-year-old, who also has American and French citizenship, has pleaded not guilty to all the charges against her. Lawyers for Ms Maxwell, as well as family members, have repeatedly complained about her conditions in jail and her legal team has made several unsuccessful applications for bail. Epstein died in a New York prison cell on 10 August 2019 as he awaited his trial on sex trafficking charges. His death was ruled to be a suicide. Who is Ghislaine Maxwell, Epstein's ex-girlfriend?Panorama: The Prince and the Epstein ScandalWho was Jeffrey Epstein? The trial of Ms Maxwell, the daughter of late media mogul Robert Maxwell, began at around 08:30 local time (13:30 GMT) on Monday. A jury of 12 was selected, followed by opening statements. For the prosecution, Assistant District Attorney Lara Pomerantz said Ms Maxwell "preyed on vulnerable young girls, manipulated them, and served them up to be sexually abused", accusing her and Epstein of being "partners in crime". The defence however said she is only on trial because prosecutors cannot bring Epstein to justice, and said Ms Maxwell was not like powerful men who abuse women. "The charges against Ghislaine Maxwell are for things that Jeffrey Epstein did, but she is not Jeffrey Epstein," her lawyer Bobbi Sternheim said. No cameras are allowed in the courtroom. According to a letter by Ms Maxwell's lawyer, the defence will say her accusers might have faulty memories. The letter says that leading experts in psychiatry and memory will be brought in to testify in her defence. Ghislaine Maxwell 'won't get fair trial' - brother Ms Maxwell is accused of having helped Epstein sexually abuse underage girls. US prosecutors allege she "played a critical role in the grooming and abuse" of minors. Four charges relate to the years 1994-97 when she was, according to an indictment, among Epstein's closest associates and also in an "intimate relationship" with him. Two other charges - of sex trafficking conspiracy and sex trafficking of a minor - came in an amended indictment and relate to the period 2001 and 2004. Sarah Ransome, one of Epstein's alleged victims, has told the BBC's Panorama programme that Ms Maxwell worked closely with him. She said: "Ghislaine controlled the girls. She was like the madam. She was like the nuts and bolts of the sex trafficking operation." Ghislaine Maxwell's highly awaited trial will be closely followed from New York to London. The British publishing heiress for years dodged the press as her accusers came forward with shocking and disturbing claims. In the long and twisted saga of Jeffrey Epstein's sex trafficking scandal, his arrest and death under unusual circumstances, many questioned whether this trial would in fact take place. Legal experts say this is one of the most high-profile cases to try a woman for allegedly facilitating a sex trafficking operation. The four underage girls in the indictment, now grown women, are expected to take the stand to tell their stories under oath. It's unclear if Ghislaine Maxwell will do the same. Her brother, Ian Maxwell says at least one sibling will be present every day of the trial to support her. This case will be narrowly focused on the charges in the indictment, and therefore will not answer every burning question around Epstein's sex trafficking ring. But it will add another piece to the puzzle. Born outside Paris on Christmas Day, 1961, Ms Maxwell grew up in a country mansion, went to Oxford University and speaks several languages. She is Robert Maxwell's ninth and youngest child. She is said to have had a very close relationship with her late father, and he named his luxury yacht - the Lady Ghislaine - after her. Soon after her father's death in 1991, Ms Maxwell left the UK to settle in America, where she worked in real estate, and not long after met Jeffrey Epstein. She sold her Manhattan townhouse in 2016, and kept a low profile until she was arrested last July at her secluded mansion in the state of New Hampshire.
Virgil Abloh: How he 'helped black people dream in fashion'. "Virgil gave me the ability to think and imagine I could be in spaces that weren't necessarily for black people in the first place." From musicians to models to sports stars, many people have paid tribute to designer Virgil Abloh this week. On Sunday it was announced the founder of the Off-White fashion label died from cancer, aged 41. He became recognised while working as Kanye West's creative director - and later made history as the first African-American to lead Louis Vuitton. But his influence has not been limited to those in the celebrity world. Radio 1 Newsbeat has been speaking to fashion designers and students about the legacy Virgil Abloh leaves behind.  "He opened the doors for a generation of thinkers from marginalised communities," says Maxwell Shoroye. Maxwell is a graduate and designer in men's fashion, and the 23-year-old credits Virgil for his impact on the black community. "Virgil gave us the ability to dream, because we [black people] don't necessarily see ourselves in the media in good ways." And that's something Bianca Saunders can relate to. The 28-year-old has her own menswear brand (also called Bianca Saunders), and feels having a black person at the very top of the industry has been "influential". Bianca already had a sense of what her brand would be when she was a student - but seeing Virgil achieve as much as he did inspired her. "It gave me an idea of where the glass ceiling could actually go - because there's not many people that look like me in the industry in terms of being black and in fashion." Bianca feels it's possible for black creatives to have their own brands and believes there are opportunities out there. Fashion student Kiara Morris feels Virgil represented something special. "He showed you can make it and not to let anything ever hold you back," Kiara, 20, says. "The fashion industry has been traditionally white and middle class. But hearing him speak in interviews, it felt like that's what black excellence is about." Kiara feels Virgil showed "there's a space" for black people, particularly in luxury retail and fashion. "I'm not saying I'll be like him, but I have someone to look up to. "And I want to say thank you [to him] for showing me I can have a seat at the table."  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter It's Virgil's multiple talents that made him such an innovative and disruptive figure. As well as one of the most influential designers in the fashion industry, he was also a DJ, an artist, and had degrees in civil engineering and architecture. "When you look at his work you wonder how he did it? And then you realise it's through his hard work, taking opportunities and his creative genius," Kiara says. Maxwell adds: "Virgil knew the power of combining different walks or different industries to create new things." Having a range of voices and stories "makes fashion exciting," which is what Virgil was able to do, he says. And that's what Maxwell is trying to bring to his own identity as a designer. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter But it's not just the creative genius which makes Virgil a standout, according to both Bianca and Kiara. Bianca met Virgil for the first time this year and says it's not just his professional skills that make him stand out - but that he was "super nice". "In terms of offering advice, saying I could message him any time." "He was always a person grateful to be here, and I felt like he wanted people to know that as well." Kiara says the tributes that have come in from so many different people show "there's something about the way he works". "Everyone loved him. He wasn't someone that I ever saw as problematic or a bad person, just someone who's genuine." "Virgil has shifted the world and I hope fashion follows in his footsteps and has this mass integration of different communities coming together," Maxwell adds. Follow Newsbeat on Instagram, Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. Listen to Newsbeat live at 12:45 and 17:45 weekdays - or listen back here.
Covid: Biden urges calm over Omicron fears. US President Joe Biden has called the Omicron Covid variant a "cause for concern, not a cause for panic" one day after it was detected in North America. Cases have been found in Canada, and his speech from the White House comes as US travel bans on eight African countries takes effect. Mr Biden also urged people to get a booster and to wear masks. He said he does not anticipate any further US travel restrictions or lockdowns at this time. In remarks on Monday, the president called it "almost inevitable" that the Omicron strain, first reported by South Africa, will be found in the US "at some point". He added that said vaccine companies are creating "contingency plans" for new vaccines "if needed". Late last week, the US announced a ban on flights from South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique and Malawi. Canada, the UK and the EU and other countries have also restricted travel from southern Africa. In his remarks, Mr Biden said that the ban had bought some time for the US to study the new strain. While the World Health Organization has deemed Omicron a "variant of concern", it is still not clear whether it is associated with more transmission or more risk of evading vaccines. How do you detect Omicron?Latest news on Covid Omicron variant "We have the best vaccine in the world, and the best medicines, the best scientist and we're learning more every single day," the president said. He also vowed to "fight this variant with scientific and knowledgeable actions and speed. Not chaos and confusion". He praised the scientific community of South Africa for reporting the strain, despite criticism that travel bans are being used to punish the country. "To their credit, the scientific community in South Africa quickly notified the world of the emergence of this new variant," Mr Biden said. "This kind of transparency is to be encouraged and applauded because it increases our ability to respond quickly to any new threats, and that's exactly what we did." He also said he was directing the US Food and Drug Administration, which regulates vaccines, to use the "fastest process available without cutting any corners" to approve any potential new vaccines that specifically target Omicron. Canada, the US neighbour to the north, said on Sunday that the Omicron strain had been discovered in two patients who had recently travelled to Nigeria. A third case was announced on Monday.
Jussie Smollett: Jury selection begins in actor’s trial. Jury selection in the high-profile trial of US TV actor Jussie Smollett begins on Monday, nearly three years after he claimed he was the victim of a racist and homophobic attack. Mr Smollett, 39, claimed in January 2019 that he was attacked by two men who yelled pro-Donald Trump slogans and tied a noose around his neck. Authorities accused him of staging the attack on himself as a publicity stunt. He has denied any wrongdoing. Authorities allege that Mr Smollett paid two brothers $3,500 (£2,630) to carry out the attack to promote his career because he was "dissatisfied with his salary". Mr Smollett has claimed that the payment was for one of the brothers to work as a personal trainer. The former Empire show actor was indicted by a special prosecutor in Illinois last year on six counts of lying to police. Previous disorderly conduct charges against him had been dropped following an emergency court appearance in March 2019, prompting Chicago police and the city's mayor to accuse courts of letting Mr Smollett "off scot-free". A special prosecutor, Dan Webb, was later assigned to investigate how the case was handled. Mr Webb said that his office had obtained "sufficient factual evidence" to argue that the case should not have been dropped. In a statement, Mr Webb said that prosecuting the case was "in the interest of justice", partly due to the "extensive nature of Mr Smollett's false police reports" and the resources expended by Chicago police to investigate. How the Jussie Smollett drama unfolded If convicted, Mr Smollett faces a prison sentence of up to three years. Given Mr Smollett's lack of previous convictions, however, legal experts have said a lighter sentence or probation is more likely. It remains unclear if Mr Smollett will testify during the trial, which is expected to last a week. The two brothers accused of carrying out the attack - Abimbola and Olabinjo Osundairo - are both expected to take the witness stand. Both men had worked as extras on 'Empire'. Ever since authorities cast doubt on his claims, Mr Smollett has repeatedly maintained his innocence. In an Instagram Live interview with US author Marc Lamont-Hill last year, Mr Smollett said that the last two years had been "beyond frustrating". "They won't let this go…there is an example being made," he said. "The sad part is it's an example being made of someone that didn't do what they're being accused of."
Oscar Pistorius: Reeva Steenkamp's parents to meet her killer. Reeva Steenkamp's parents are preparing to meet her murderer, the former Paralympics star Oscar Pistorius. It is part of a process that could lead to his eventual release on parole. The South African athlete has been moved to a prison closer to Barry and June Steenkamp to enable the meeting to go ahead. Pistorius has served half his 13 years and five months sentence, handed to him for the 2013 Valentine's Day killing. The Steenkamp family lawyer has previously said the announcement he was being considered for release came as a shock, but that they were willing to participate in what the South African authorities describe as "restorative justice". As part of this, offenders are expected to speak to their victims or their relatives. They must also acknowledge the harm they have caused, the department of correctional services said. He has been moved from a prison in the capital, Pretoria to one in the port city of Gqeberha, previously known as Port Elizabeth, in the Eastern Cape. Pistorius shot his girlfriend Ms Steenkamp dead in 2013, saying he mistook her for a burglar at his Pretoria home. He fired four times through a locked toilet door. The making and unmaking of Oscar PistoriusMy friend Reeva Steenkamp Africa Live: More on this and other stories from the continent In 2014, at the conclusion of a trial that was followed around the world, he was given a five-year term for manslaughter. But Pistorius was found guilty of murder on appeal in 2015 and the sentence was later increased to 13 years and five months. When the possibility of Pistorius' release first came up earlier this month, the Steenkamps' lawyer, Tania Koen, told national broadcaster SABC that they "would like to participate in the victim-offender dialogue". "June [Steenkamp, Reeva's mother] has always said that she has forgiven Oscar, however that doesn't mean that he mustn't pay for what he has done... Barry [Steenkamp, Reeva's father] battles with that a bit, but that is something he will have to voice at the appropriate time," Ms Koen added. "The wound, even though so much time has passed, is still very raw." The lawyer also told the UK's Daily Mirror newspaper that the Steenkamps had received a letter from Pistorius which she described as being "emotionally distressing" for them. According to AFP, social workers are expected to speak to the family before the meeting goes ahead. The authorities have not said when the meeting will take place, simply saying "the timeframe... will be guided by the level of preparedness by all participants". The department of correctional services asked people not to put pressure on those taking part to reveal what was said. Prior to the murder, Pistorius was well known as a Paralympic gold medallist. In 2012, he made history by becoming the first amputee sprinter to compete at the Olympics running on prosthetic "blades". His legs were amputated below the knee when he was 11 months old because he was born without fibula bones. August 2012: Competes in London Olympics and Paralympics, where he won a gold medalFebruary 2013: Shoots dead his girlfriend Reeva SteenkampMarch 2014: Trial beginsSeptember 2014: Judge finds Pistorius guilty of culpable homicideOctober 2014: Begins five-year sentenceOctober 2015: Transferred to house arrestDecember 2015: Appeal court changes verdict to murderJuly 2016: Sentenced to six years in jail for murderNovember 2017: Sentence more than doubled to 13 years, five months Oscar Pistorius trial: 10 key moments
The Simpsons: Tiananmen episode not found in Hong Kong. An episode of The Simpsons that refers to the Tiananmen Square massacre is reported to be missing from Disney's streaming service in Hong Kong. Customers noticed that episode 12 of season 16 is missing from Disney +, which launched in the city this month. It comes as authorities in Hong Kong clamp down on the entertainment industry, banning films that violate a strict national security law. Disney has not commented on the missing episode. The episode, named "Goo Goo Gai Pan", sees the cartoon family visit China. During their trip to Beijing, they visit Tiananmen Square where a sign reads: "On this site, in 1989, nothing happened" - a nod to censorship of the deadly crackdown on protesters there that year. The demonstrators were calling for greater political freedom, and soldiers killed many unarmed civilians. Nobody knows for sure how many were killed. In June 1989, the Chinese government said 200 civilians and several dozen security personnel had died. Other estimates have ranged from hundreds to many thousands. In another part of the episode, the Simpsons also visit the embalmed body of former Chinese Communist leader Mao Zedong, whom Homer refers to as "a little angel that killed 50 million people". Mao led China through its Cultural Revolution, and a devastating famine that killed many millions of people. It is not clear why the episode is missing and who made the decision not to include it on the streaming service. The BBC has contacted Disney for comment. China's new law: Why is Hong Kong worried?What were the Tiananmen Square protests about? Since the introduction of the national security law last year, authorities have cracked down on dissent in Hong Kong. The legislation, which came after huge pro-democracy protests in 2019, criminalises secession, subversion, terrorism and collusion with foreign forces. Last month, Hong Kong's legislature passed a new law banning films that violate China's national security interests. Book publishers in Hong Kong have admitted to self-censoring and the largest pro-democracy paper, Apple Daily, closed earlier this year amid a national security investigation. Meanwhile, many opposition figures are already in prison or in exile.
Covid: Omicron variant causes passengers to scramble for flights. Travellers and airlines are scrambling to rearrange plans as the latest Covid restrictions cause travel turmoil for people trying to return to the UK. Passengers criticised airlines and government for a lack of information on returning from "red list" countries. One told the BBC he had found a return flight from South Africa but now cannot get a quarantine hotel in the UK. Alex Clarke, from near Reading, said a lack of hotel space meant he might have to re-arrange his return again. "I should have landed back in the UK this morning," he told the BBC. "My flight was cancelled but I managed to book another for Friday. Now that's been cancelled. "I found return flights via Dubai and Amsterdam, but they have now been closed off. I now have a return booked for Thursday, but the website that books quarantine hotels says everything is booked." What are the UK's new travel rules?How do you detect Omicron?Latest news on Covid Omicron variantAustralia delays reopening over Omicron variant Cases of the new Covid variant - Omicron - were first recorded in South Africa last week. There are concerns it could be more infectious and less responsive to vaccines. As a result, Covid rules are being strengthened once more. The government has added 10 southern African countries - including South Africa where Mr Clarke is stuck - to the UK's travel red list. The only people allowed to enter the UK from these countries are UK or Irish nations, or UK residents. They will have to pay for and self-isolate in a pre-booked government-approved hotel for 10 days. Mr Clarke, who has been staying with friends while his wife and two young children remained at home in the UK, had travelled from Cape Town to Johannesburg when he thought he had secured an alternative flight. He estimates the extra airline, hotel and UK quarantine costs will be about £4,000. He said: "There has been absolutely no communication from British Airways or the UK government on getting back to the UK. "In the one email received from BA, the helpline that BA set up went to a call centre and the person in the phone had no idea that flights to the UK had been suspended or cancelled." When he telephoned again later, he was directed to BA's website. Meanwhile, another traveller, Mike Haswell, from Cardiff, told the BBC on Sunday how he had been struggling to return from Malawi, where he was working. He reached Ethiopia, where ground staff at Addis Ababa airport refused to let UK nationals onto the flight to the UK. Mr Haswell said he and about 30 other UK passengers have been stuck at the airport for 18 hours and still did not know when a flight would be available. If your flight is cancelled, you are entitled to a full refund and you can choose to receive that refund in cash rather than as a voucher. An airline should refund the money within seven days, although some people have waited longer. A package holiday should be refunded, in full, within 14 days. Read more here Meanwhile, Virgin Atlantic has said it will operate its first flight from Johannesburg to London on Wednesday.  The airline has not flown from South Africa since last Friday morning. All passengers will arrive into Heathrow Terminal 4, which is being reinstated as an arrival facility for red list countries and passengers. They will then go to a managed hotel quarantine facility, as per the new guidance. A Heathrow spokesperson said: "We are reopening Terminal 4 as a dedicated arrivals facility for red list countries on Wednesday 1 December. In the meantime, there will be no direct flights arriving from affected areas." As well as adding more countries to the UK's red list, the government has said that from 04:00 GMT on Tuesday, 30 November, anyone entering the UK will require a PCR test within 48 hours of arrival and will need to self-isolate until they have a negative result. However, Willie Walsh, the head of the IATA airline trade body and formerly the boss of IAG, the group that owns BA, Iberia and Aer Lingus, told the BBC that the latest developments exposed the lack of a sensible testing regime and risk-based approach. "I'm very disappointed to see this knee-jerk reaction by governments to the latest development," he said. "It's clear that these measures have been completely ineffective in the past but impose huge hardship on people who are trying to connect with families and friends, and clearly massive financial damage to the tourism and airline industry." Mr Walsh said the failure of similar restrictions to prevent a second coronavirus wave in the UK after being implemented in May last year demonstrates they "do not have any long-term benefits" and are "not the answer". "I think sensible testing regimes which have been proven to be effective could be introduced which would enable people to continue travelling in a safe environment," he added. Tim Alderslade, the chief executive of Airlines UK, which represents UK-based carriers, also said the government could do more. "The situation is developing rapidly, and hopefully as more data emerges emergency border restrictions can be reversed quickly - and applied only where they will make a material difference," he said. "In the meantime, we urge ministers to make mandatory PCR tests free of charge for impacted passengers, many of whom are now in the invidious position of having less than 48 hours to arrange extra testing whilst overseas." Transport Secretary Grant Shapps tweeted that the changes were "targeted measures to provide confidence and protection", and they would be reviewed in three weeks "to ensure they are working effectively".
