Rand Paul blasts Fauci: 'Astounding and alarming' to declare 'I represent science': Sens. Ted Cruz and Rand Paul have grilled Fauci over gain of function research. Dr. Frita Fisher joined 'Fox Report Weekend' to discuss the new COVID variant. Dr. Anthony Fauci escalated his spat with some lawmakers over the nation’s COVID-19 response by claiming they oppose "science." Fauci has served as the face of the government’s pandemic response, putting him at odds with lawmakers who remain critical of that response. Sen. Rand Paul, R-Kt., has frequently sparred with Fauci over various statements and policies the president’s chief medical adviser has made or endorsed. NIH DIR. COLLINS: COVID VACCINES WILL ‘MOST LIKELY’ PROTECT AGAINST OMICRON VARIANT, BUT TOO SOON TO TELL Most recently, Rand blasted Fauci for "obfuscating the truth" about the National Institute of Health funding gain-of-function research after the organization admitted in a letter to House Oversight Committee ranking member James Comer, R-Ky., that a "limited experiment" was indeed conducted. Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, speaks during a Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee hearing on Capitol Hill, Thursday, Nov. 4, 2021, in Washington. Fauci, during an interview with "Face the Nation," dismissed opposition by such lawmakers as "noise," saying they’re "really criticizing science." BARRASSO SLAMS BIDEN AS ‘MAD HATTER’ ON SPENDING: ‘THIS IS ALICE IN WONDERLAND LOGIC’ "Anybody who’s looking at this carefully, realizes that there’s a distinct anti-science flavor to this, so if they get up and criticize science, nobody’s going to know what they’re talking about," Fauci said. "But if they get up and really aim their bullets at Tony Fauci, well people can recognize that there’s a person there, so it’s easy to criticize, but they’re really criticizing science because I represent science." Paul took to Twitter Sunday morning to respond to Fauci’s claims, calling it "absolute hubris" for Fauci to declare he represents science. SCHIFF HINTS THAT JAN. 6 COMMITTEE MIGHT MAKE ‘DECISION’ ON HOLDING MARK MEADOWS IN CONTEMPT THIS WEEK "It’s astounding and alarming that a public health bureaucrat would even think to claim such a thing, especially one who has worked so hard to ignore the science of natural immunity," Rand wrote. Senator Rand Paul, a Republican from Kentucky, speaks during a Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee hearing in Washington, D.C., on Thursday, Nov. 4, 2021. Photographer: Al Drago/Bloomberg via Getty Images Fauci also dismissed a suggestion from Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, that he should be prosecuted by the attorney general over his comments about the gain of function research. Cruz tweeted that "It’s a crime to knowingly lie to Congress, so I asked AG Garland if he'd appoint a special prosecutor to investigate Fauci." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Fauci laughed at the suggestion, asked "What happened on January 6th, senator?" and claimed "you’d have to be asleep" not to believe that Republicans are trying to "scapegoat" him. Fox News' Charles Creitz contributed to this report.
Waukesha parade attack: 7 children still recovering in hospital one week after deadly ambush: Six died and least 62 people were injured. Joseph Sifnaios, co-owner of The Coop restaurant in Waukesha, Wisconsin, says about $15,000 was raised for the holiday parade victims. The city of Waukesha asked residents to light a blue light outside their homes and share a moment of silence at 4:39 p.m. CT on Sunday, exactly one week after the Christmas parade attack that left at least six people dead and dozens more injured. Businesses and city council members gave out blue lights to residents, who were asked to keep them illuminated outside of their homes through the holidays. Mayor Shawn Reilly, who led the moment of silence with other city officials, told Fox News "blue is the color of unity." Amy Mack lights candles at a memorial at Veterans Park for the victims of Sunday's deadly Christmas parade crash in Waukesha, Wis. The city of about 70,000 people held a candlelight vigil on Monday and set up a memorial for the victims in Veterans Park, just blocks away from where 39-year-old Darrell Brooks allegedly broke through barricades in a red SUV and plowed through a crowd at a Christmas parade. WAUKESHA PARADE CARNAGE COMES JUST OVER 6 YEARS AFTER SIMILAR ATTACK IN OKLAHOMA WITH EERIE SIMILARITIES A Waukesha police officer said that Brooks "had no emotion on his face" as he swerved from side to side in "an intentional act to strike and hurt as many people as possible," according to a criminal complaint filed this week. Darrell Brooks was charged with five counts of first-degree intentional homicide on Tuesday. Brooks was charged with five counts of first-degree intentional homicide on Tuesday, but the district attorney said more charges may be coming. Five adults were pronounced dead just hours after the tragedy – Wilhelm Hospel, 81; Virginia Sorenson, 79; LeAnna Owen, 71; Tamara Durand, 52; and Jane Kulich, 52. WAUKESHA PARADE SUSPECT DARRELL BROOKS FACING 5 COUNTS OF 1ST-DEGREE INTENTIONAL HOMICIDE, HELD ON $5M BAIL Jackson Sparks, 8, was marching in the parade with his baseball team when he was struck by the SUV and succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday. Jackson Sparks, 8, died Tuesday after he was struck in the Christmas parade attack. At least 62 people were injured in total and seven children are still in the hospital, according to Children's Wisconsin. Three of the hospitalized children are in serious condition, while three are in fair condition and one is in good condition. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP One of those children, 11-year-old Jessalyn Torres, was hit so hard by the SUV she had marks from the vehicle's grille across her chest. "She told them, ‘Just glue me back together,’" Ryan Kohnke, Jessalyn's uncle and a Waukesha resident who attended the parade, told Fox News Digital. "For her to crack a joke and have that type of human moment was big. My sister and I both kind of chuckled. We thought that was funny."
CNN roasted for tweet saying Waukesha parade attack was caused by 'a car' that drove through parade: The CNN tweet places responsibility on Brooks' vehicle, making no mention of the career criminal behind the wheel. Ryan Kohnke recounts horrific Christmas parade attack on 'Justice with Judge Jeanine.' CNN was the center of intense backlash on Sunday over a tweet suggesting that the SUV involved in the Waukesha parade attack was responsible for the massacre that resulted in six deaths. Darrell Brooks was charged with intentional homicide after driving his red SUV through a crowded street commemorating the holiday season, claiming six lives of those ages 8 to 81 and injuring dozens more. On Sunday however, CNN appeared to place the responsibility on Brooks' vehicle, making no mention of the career criminal behind the wheel. WAUKESHA PARADE ATTACK: DEBRA MESSING BLASTS MEDIA FOR DOWNPLAYING MASSACRE AS AN 'ACCIDENT' "Waukesha will hold a moment of silence today, marking one week since a car drove through a city Christmas parade, killing six people and injuring scores of others," the tweet reads. Screenshot/Twitter Critics tore into the liberal outlet on social media for an apparent attempt to deflect blame from the suspect. "Well, how about that? Autonomous cars seem to be running amok," legal scholar and McCormick professor Robert P. George wrote. "Evidently, one got it into it's head to kill and maim a bunch of humans, so it 'drove through a Christmas parade, killing six people and injuring scores of others.' We should punish that car to teach others a lesson."  "A ‘car’ did this? Not a human being with intent to kill and maim and being held on $5 million bail?" California congressional candidate Buzz Patterson agreed. "You guys are a joke." "Hey, @CNNKeith, what is up with this headline and tweet of your article?" Newsbusters deputy managing editor Nicholas Fondacaro asked. "You guys know the movie Cars isn't real right? Cars are not living things," he wrote in a separate tweet. "Someone  is radicalizing cars," former New York Times reporter Nellie Bowles tweeted. "A car drove through a city Christmas parade," radio host Jason Rantz emphasized. "Give me a break CNN,"  Sen. Ted Cruz's communication adviser Steve Guest wrote. "A car drove through a city Christmas parade" The headline was written like this for a reason." Pluribus editor Jeryl Bier noted that CNN appeared to change the headline of the article to, "Waukesha will hold a moment of silence Sunday, one week after a man plowed a vehicle through a Christmas parade." The CNN tweet comes amid ongoing criticism over the media's decision to refer to the deadly attack as a "parade crash," downplaying the intent prosecutors have leveled against the career criminal.
Biden 'prematurely declared independence from the virus': NBC's Chuck Todd: President Biden announced travel bans from 8 African countries on Friday due to omicron variant. Fox News contributor Sean Duffy joined 'Fox & Friends Weekend' to discuss the incident and how the American people are losing trust in the government. NBC's Chuck Todd challenged President Biden for how he's handled the coronavirus pandemic, particularly in light of the new omicron variant that has prompted the White House to ban travel from several African countries, beginning Monday. Todd, host of "Meet the Press," suggested that omicron, from which most cases were discovered in southern Africa, was not just a health problem. It's a political one as well for the current administration, he argued, flashing back to when Biden "prematurely" declared a sort of victory over the virus on July 4. "Ultimately, this is also a political problem," Todd said Sunday. "Biden ran on taming the pandemic and he prematurely declared independence from the virus back in July." President Joe Biden at the White House on Oct. 4, 2021. BIDEN PROMISED TO ‘SHUT DOWN’ COVID, BUT OMICRON VARIANT POSES NEW CHALLENGE FOR ADMIN Biden announced that the U.S. had achieved the "upper hand" against the coronavirus from the South Lawn of the White House in July 2021. But within days of his speech, the highly contagious delta variant spread through the country and led to hundreds of thousands more infections. More Americans were found to have died from the disease in 2021 than in 2020, according to data from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. More Americans were found to have died from COVID-19 in 2021 than in 2020, according to CDC data. OMICRON COVID-19 VARIANT: US TO LIMIT TRAVEL FROM 8 SOUTHERN AFRICA COUNTRIES Todd said more of the same earlier on NBC's "Sunday Today," telling host Willie Geist that it seemed Biden has not been properly leading in the battle against the virus. "One of the things about his COVID response, over the last couple of months, it can be argued he has not been the face of the COVID response, not in some time," Todd said. "Not really since we declared our – back in July, when he declared our independence from the virus, obviously prematurely." But Todd also pointed fingers at Republican politicians who have been fighting against vaccine mandates. He suggested Biden needs to use his "bully pulpit" to push back on "vaccine misinformation" because none of his political agenda will pass until he does. "This is a reminder he needs to be more front and center on the COVID response than he has been so far," Todd said. The newest strain of the virus, omicron, which has been detected in at least 10 countries, has been described by experts as highly contagious, yet it is largely unknown whether it comes with mild or severe symptoms. Dr. Angelique Coetzee, a board member of the South African Medical Association who first reported the presence of the variant, said it presents "unusual but mild" symptoms. Omicron still has no documented cases in the U.S., but some experts have suggested it's already in the country. The Biden administration announced on Friday that it was restricting travel from South Africa and seven other countries, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique and Malawi. People lineup to get on an overseas flight at the airport in Johannesburg, South Africa on Friday Nov. 26, 2021. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Biden also previously declared that former President Trump's pandemic-prompted travel ban from China was "xenophobic." "We need to lead the way with science – not Donald Trump’s record of hysteria, xenophobia and fear-mongering," Biden tweeted at the time.
ABC's 'Good Morning America' guest worries omicron variant could hurt Biden's economic 'progress': Dow dropped 903 points on Friday. Dr. Frita Fisher joined 'Fox Report Weekend' to discuss the new COVID variant. A guest on ABC’s "Good Morning America" posed concerns over how the omicron variant of the coronavirus could affect President Biden’s economic record. ABC congressional correspondent Rachel Scott filled in as the anchor for the morning show on Sunday when she spoke with deputy political director Averi Harper on the emergence of this new variant. Namely, Scott asked what kind of challenge the omicron variant posed to Biden. BIDEN ‘PREMATURELY DELARED INDEPENDENCE FROM THE VIRUS’: NBC’S CHUCK TODD President Joe Biden points to the Oval Office of the White House as he arrives on Marine One on the South Lawn in Washington, Sunday, Nov. 21, 2021, as he returns from Wilmington, Del. "Nearly 150 days ago the president said we were closer to declaring independence from the virus. Now we see this new Covid variant. How much of a challenge does this pose for the President," Scott asked. Harper remarked that the latest variant could pose "a significant challenge" on the "economic front" after the largest single-day drop of the year in U.S. stocks on Friday. "We know that New York's governor has declared a state of emergency and we saw the markets took a nosedive on Friday all because of the omicron variant. So, I would say this poses a significant challenge to the Biden administration, particularly on the economic front," Harper said. A healthcare worker conducts a polymerase chain reaction BIDEN PROMISED TO ‘SHUT DOWN’ COVID, BUT OMICRON VARIANT POSES NEW CHALLENGE FOR ADMIN Harper also showed some concern that the omicron variant could be a threat to the "progress of the economy" that she claimed Biden has made in the past year as well as the upcoming 2022 elections. "Last week, we heard the president urge Americans to have confidence in the progress of the economy has made. Well, the omicron variant could pose a significant threat to that progress. And heading into an election year for the Biden administration, which is critical, it could spell trouble," Harper said. Stocks Take Another Plunge As Economic Uncertainty Over Coronavirus Continues NEW YORK, NY - MARCH 11: Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange  on March 11, 2020 in New York City. The Dow plunged more than 1400 points as Coronavirus cases rose around the world. Other media pundits, like "Meet the Press" host Chuck Todd, hit Biden for "prematurely" declaring the U.S. had the "upper hand" against the virus back in July, and argued he had to "get out in front" of the ongoing fight against the disease. He added the president should use his "bully pulpit" to push back against Republicans who have shunned vaccine mandates or his political agenda would get nowhere. Markets currently worry that the variant could lead to new restrictions and bans that will greatly impact businesses. However, their biggest concern remains rising inflation rates which could be exacerbated by a new coronavirus strain. Various economic advisors, including ones from the Obama administration, have denounced Biden’s policies as contributing to the rapidly increasing inflation rates. The Biden administration has since denied inflation as a growing concern, with many members of the media also downplaying concerns over economic consequences. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
New York Times columnist says he has 'high tolerance' for inflation in 'white-hot economy': David Brooks: 'Since we can’t really fine-tune an economy, we’re probably overheating and we’re getting inflation'. FOX Business correspondent Hillary Vaughn has the latest on 'Special Report' as eager shoppers brave long lines for Black Friday specials despite rising prices and new COVID fears. The media continues to downplay mass inflation in today’s economy, including New York Times columnist David Brooks, who encouraged a "white-hot economy" and said he has a "high tolerance" for inflation. "I want a white-hot economy," he said. "I want a white-hot economy that will raise wages at the bottom, which is happening, that will bring people back into the labor force, which is happening, which is spreading wealth around the country and not concentrating in a few cities." Brooks' push for a hyperactive economy is due to his recognition of society "coming apart" in recent years, he said, in areas like income inequality and labor. But the consequence of these pressures is what’s causing inflation to surface. LIBERAL MEDIA ROUTINELY DOWNPLAY INFLATION OR TURN IT INTO A POSITIVE: ‘SLASH YOUR SHOPPING BURDEN’ "Since we can’t really fine-tune an economy, we’re probably overheating and we’re getting inflation," he said. Post-pandemic inflation, he said, is less of a threat than Jimmy Carter’s inflation of the 1970s which he said "builds on itself." "I have a high tolerance for inflation in this kind of economy because I think we need it as a society to heal," he said. "But if it turns out to be accelerating 1970s inflation, that becomes its own monster. And I don’t think we know. And I’ve read a million economists on the subject, and believe me, they don’t know." MSNBC COLUMNIST CLAIMS CURRENT INFLATION CRISIS IS ACTUALLY A 'GOOD THING' This is not the first time a media pundit has lessened the crisis of higher prices as the holiday season rolls in. MSNBC's Stephanie Ruhle claimed in an interview with "Sunday Today" host Willie Geist earlier this month that Americans "on average" can afford the higher prices that come with inflation, earning her the nickname "Stephanie Antoinette" from her critics. "The dirty little secret here, Willie, while nobody likes to pay more, on average, we have the money to do so," she said on NBC. "Household savings hit a record high over the pandemic, we didn't really have anywhere to go out and spend." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Fox News’ Cortney O’Brien contributed to this report.
'More money than God:' Chinese titan lavished Hunter Biden with 3-carat gem, offer of $30 million: Miranda Devine details Biden's family involvement with the Chinese government in new book. Retired Brig. Gen. Peter Zwack discusses the potential of an armed conflict with China on 'Americas Newsroom.' The Biden family offered their services to a huge, Chinese-government-linked energy consortium to expand its business around the world. How do we know? Because of hundreds of emails documenting the deal found on Hunter Biden’s laptop, left in a Delaware repair shop in April 2019. In her new book, "Laptop from Hell," New York Post columnist Miranda Devine tells the tale: James Gilliar, a wiry, 56-year-old British ex-SAS officer, got to know Ye Jianming, the 40-year-old chairman of CEFC, when they were both working in the Czech Republic. CEFC was a Chinese conglomerate, one of the largest energy companies in the world. Ye’s task at was to spend $1.5 billion as quickly as possible to ensure the Czech Republic would become China’s "Gateway to the European Union," a priority of President Xi. Gilliar connected with Hunter Biden through trusted Biden family friend Rob Walker, a former Clinton administration official whose wife, Betsy Massey Walker, had been Jill Biden’s assistant when she was second lady. Gilliar emailed Walker in February 2015 to praise Hunter’s appearance in Beijing at a board meeting of the fledgling investment fund Hunter had founded with John Kerry’s son, called BHR. "Hunter was great," Gilliar wrote to Walker. "True sheikh of Washington." He emailed Hunter a few weeks later: "It has been made clear to me that CEFC wish to engage in further business relations with our group." Gilliar knew CEFC was the capitalist arm of President Xi’s Belt and Road Initiative to spread China’s influence – and debt traps – across the world. No Chinese company executed its goals more ardently than CEFC and its young chairman, who was dubbed the "Belt and Road billionaire" in the press. The White House promised to keep the identities of buyers a secret, but "many ethics experts expressed sharp disapproval of the arrangement," according to Politico’s Ben Schreckinger. Chinese President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China, is said to be China's most authoritarian leader in decades. HUNTER BIDEN'S FIRM HELPED CHINESE COMPANY PURCHASE RICH COBAL MINE IN $3.8 BILLION DEAL: REPORT Chairman Ye had built his provincial energy company into a Fortune 500 colossus virtually overnight, an achievement described by Chinese news agency Caixin as "another great enigma in the miraculous world of Chinese business." He enjoyed the support of President Xi and was former deputy secretary general of the government’s propaganda arm, the China Association for International Friendly Contacts. In a rare interview with Caixin at CEFC’s palatial marble headquarters in Shanghai’s upscale French Concession District, Ye is portrayed as a "hermit king" sitting on a golden chair in "a room that resembles a miniature Great Hall of the People." Uniformed staff members wearing earpieces glide by. "Most of them were young women wearing smart clothes and bright faces." Ye’s face was "as expressionless as a stone statue. Amidst the gilded surroundings, his canvas shoes had an eye-catching plainness. . . . "In his public activities as a private entrepreneur, Ye Jianming is always walking alongside important foreign political figures. He has been photographed with world leaders such as Israeli President Peres, Turkish President Erdogan, Chadian President Déby, and European Commission President Juncker. He has met with the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, and the Prime Minister of Bulgaria held a feast to welcome him." In the winter of 2015, Chairman Ye and CEFC Executive Director Jianjun Zang, a.k.a. "Director Zang," flew to Washington, D.C. A meeting with Ye was scheduled in Hunter’s diary for Dec. 7, 2015, in a week that was a swirl of back-to-back Christmas parties hosted by Joe and Jill at the vice president’s residence at the Naval Observatory. One of his former associates, who spoke on condition of anonymity, believes that Hunter brought Chairman Ye to meet Joe at one of those parties. There is no indication of any such meeting on the laptop, but Hunter had a pattern of introducing business associates to Joe when they came to D.C. After a frustrating experience in another Chinese deal as a minority partner in private equity firm BHR, in which the payday would not come until the end of the fund’s life, Hunter and his uncle Jim Biden wanted more control of the CEFC partnership and a regular income stream. Enter Tony Bobulinski. The naval officer turned wealthy institutional investor came highly recommended by Gilliar to build what they planned would be a world-class investment firm, called SinoHawk, named after Hunter’s late brother Beau’s favorite animal, the hawk. In December 2015, Gilliar tells Bobulinski he needs help structuring a Chinese joint venture for "one of the most prominent families in the United States." ‘MY SON HUNTER’ MOVIE RELEASES PHOTOS DEPICTING BIDEN'S SON SMOKING, PARTYING WITH SCANTILY CLAD WOMEN The plan is to "build an investment firm like Goldman Sachs," he writes in a WhatsApp message, transcripts of which were obtained separate from the laptop. "The family is the Biden family," Gilliar will soon disclose. Joe, who has announced that he will not run for president in 2016, will be actively involved once he leaves office, and the Bidens expect billions of dollars of projects to flow through the company, Gilliar says. He lets Bobulinski in on the last piece of the puzzle in March 2016: the Bidens’ Chinese partner is CEFC, which has "more money than God," he writes. "This is the capital arm of one belt one road." At about this time, Bobulinski is introduced to Rob Walker, who tells him he is "a proxy for Hunter Biden, Jim Biden and the Bidens around the world." Finally, in February 2017, Gilliar sends Bobulinski a WhatsApp message saying he wants to introduce him to his "partner." "Who is your partner?" asks Bobulinski. "Hunter Biden," replies Gilliar. Bobulinski is leery. "I understand you want me to . . . help drive things in the US, but Hunter is [already] here." Gilliar: "Money there, intent there . . . skill sets missing . . . We need to create the best deal platform in history, and they haven’t got a clue." Bobulinski doesn’t like the fact Hunter "was kicked out of US Navy for cocaine use." "But he’s super smart," says Gilliar. "Just a lot of under achievers around them using their name. Has a few demons but u are used to those, right?" Bobulinski asks: "Is he the decision maker or the Chinese?" CNN, MSNBC, ABC, CBS, NBC IGNORE NYT BOMBSHELL REPORT ON HUNTER BIDEN'S BUSINESS DEAL WITH CHINESE COMPANY Gilliar: "New platform. Best discuss face to face but I’m the driver." Later, Bobulinski asks: "Ok who is putting up the $10MM [million]?" Gilliar: "Joint vehicle – half us and then equally split – money is already in. Discuss more face to face." Three weeks after his father left office, in 2017, Hunter flew to Miami with Gilliar and Walker to meet Chairman Ye, who was there for the Miami International Boat Show. They booked into the $700 a night beachfront Nobu Hotel on Monday, Feb. 13, 2017, and scheduled lunch with the Chinese for Thursday in a private room set for 10 at the Bourbon Steak restaurant in the ritzy JW Marriott Turnberry Resort & Spa, where Ye was staying with his entourage. But Hunter flew home the day before the lunch. He already had met with Ye, over a private dinner on the Tuesday night, at which the CEFC chairman made him an offer too good to refuse: $10 million a year, for a minimum of three years, for "introductions alone," as Hunter would later assert in an imperious email to CEFC executives. Ye sealed the new alliance with a rich gift – a 3.16 carat diamond worth $80,000. Photographs of the stunning stone appear on Hunter’s laptop along with a grading report that lists it as a "round brilliant" of Grade F with prime "VS2" clarity and "excellent" cut. VIOLENCE IN SOLOMON ISLANDS RECEDS DESPITE THE GOVERNMENT SHOWING NO SIGNS IT WILL ADDRESS THE PROBLEMS The gift could not have come at a better time. Hunter was in the middle of an ugly divorce from Kathleen, and his office manager, Joan Peugh, had just sent him the latest in a series of overdue bills, a tax collection notice from the District of Columbia for $47,226.78. Hunter would tell the New Yorker’s Adam Entous that he had flown to Miami to meet Chairman Ye purely for charitable purposes, hoping to secure a donation to World Food Program USA, the nonprofit on whose board he served and which he had used before as a cover for his foreign business activities. Hunter said it was just chance that the altruistic encounter "turned to business opportunities" and claimed to be surprised when Ye gave him the diamond. He didn’t mention the happy coincidence that his business partners Gilliar and Walker were with him in Miami to clinch a business deal with CEFC. Board Chair Hunter Biden introduces Vice President Joe Biden during the World Food Program USA's 2016 McGovern-Dole Leadership Award Ceremony  on April 12, 2016, in Washington. CHINESE MEDIA APPLAUDS INTERPOL APPOINTMENT, DISMISSES INTERNATIONAL CONCERN OVER ‘OPERATION FOX HUNT’ But the diamond was just an appetizer. Nine days after Hunter’s meeting in Miami with Ye, $3 million is wired into an account for Rob Walker’s company, Robinson Walker LLC, from State Energy HK Limited, a Shanghai-based company linked to CEFC, according to the Chuck Grassley-Ron Johnson inquiry. On March 1, another $3 million is wired to Robinson Walker by the same company. Both transactions are flagged by the Department of Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement network in a "suspicious activity report," filed with the Senate committees as "Confidential Document 16." Using the document as a source, the Grassley-Johnson report of Nov. 18, 2020, says: "At the time of the transfers, State Energy HK Limited was affiliated with CEFC China Energy, which was under the leadership of Ye Jianming. In the past, State Energy HK Limited transferred funds to at least one company associated with Hunter Biden’s business associate, Gongwen Dong . . . "These transactions are a direct link between Walker and the communist Chinese government and, because of his close association with Hunter Biden, yet another tie between Hunter Biden’s financial arrangements and the communist Chinese government." The Senate report concludes it is "unclear what the true purpose is behind these transactions [$6 million from CEFC] and who the ultimate beneficiary is." We know from the laptop that Hunter received regular payments from Robinson Walker. One document lists $56,603.74 from Robinson Walker as income for Rosemont Seneca Advisors, between June and December 2017. Rob Walker paid at least $511,000 to Hunter’s firm Owasco in 2017, according to an email from Hunter’s tax accountant, Bill Morgan. Walker tells Bobulinski his role in CEFC is "being a surrogate for H [Hunter] or Jim when gauging opportunities, i.e. digging around in Texas on high speed rail with some of my republican friends . . . or hitting new countries and contacts abroad where things are lukewarm, but not hot enough for H to close or too odd for H to be present . . ." Chinese President Xi Jinping speaks during an event to commemorate the 40th anniversary of the establishment of the Shenzhen Special Economic Zone in Shenzhen in southern China, Oct. 14, 2020. BIDEN INVITES TAIWAN TO DEMOCRACY SUMMIT IN LIKELY SLAP AT CHINA On March 5, 2017, Page Six breaks the news that Hunter and his brother’s widow Hallie are an item. When Hunter doesn’t show up for a scheduled meeting three days later in New York, Gilliar tells Bobulinski it doesn’t matter: "In brand he’s imperative but right now he’s not essential for adding input to business." It is at this point that Gilliar explains to Bobulinski that the Chinese involved in CEFC are "intelligence so they understand the value added" of the Biden name. Bobulinski remains troubled by Hunter’s scandals, and Gilliar, who is in Australia with Director Zang looking for acquisitions, is worried he might pull out. So, he arranges for him to meet Hunter the following month at the Chateau Marmont, in Bobulinski’s hometown of L.A. They meet by the hotel pool in April and speak for two hours while Hunter chain-smokes. Bobulinski finds him respectful and polite. Hunter boasts that he has his father’s ear and can bypass his advisers. Hunter tells Bobulinski how the joint venture vehicle should be structured and expresses caution about U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act , a 1938 antispying law that requires anyone acting as a lobbyist for a foreign power to register with the U.S. government as a foreign agent. "No matter what, it will need to be a U.S. company at some level in order for us to make bids on federal and state funded projects," Hunter writes later. "Also, we don’t want to have to register as foreign agents under the FCPA which is much more expansive than people who should know choose not to know. "Regardless we should have a . . . company called CEFC America, and ownership should be 50 me 50 them. We then cut up our 50 [percent] in a separate entity between the 4 of us." Hunter seems focused, but Bobulinski is puzzled about Uncle Jim’s frequent meddling in CEFC business. For instance, in April 2017, Jim pulls strings at New York’s elite Horace Mann School to get Director Zang’s daughter Rouqi fast-tracked for entry, although she ends up enrolling in another school. Jim also writes a letter on behalf of CEFC to New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo requesting a meeting. "We intend to discuss potential projects and investments in New York." He lists the other attendees as Hunter, Chairman Ye, Director Zang, and an unnamed "Member of the Royal Family of Luxembourg." "What is the deal w Jim Biden as he wasn’t part of the discussion but now seems a focal point?" Bobulinski asks Gilliar. "What role does Jim see himself playing?" "Consultant is what he’s offered as [far as] I know," Gilliar replies. "He [Hunter] brought in Jim simply to leverage getting more equity for himself and family in the final hour, that is evident." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP In another WhatsApp message, Gilliar tells Bobulinski: "With H [Hunter’s] demons, could be good to have a backup, he [Jim] strengthens our USP [unique selling point] to Chinese as it looks like a truly family business, and I like the dude." With the deal progressing, Hunter tells Bobulinski it’s time for the next step. "I want Dad to meet you," he says. Excerpted with permission from "Laptop from Hell: Hunter Biden, Big Tech, and the Dirty Secrets the President Tried to Hide" , out Tuesday. Click here to read more on the New York Post.
Kamala Harris, Michelle Obama are Democrats' top 2024 picks if Biden doesn't run: poll: Biden would be 81 on Election Day in 2024 -- but would turn 82 soon after. Tomi Lahren and Lynne Patton react to Kamala Harris becoming first female president for 85 minutes Vice President Kamala Harris is the top choice for Democrats if President Biden chooses not to run again in 2024, according to a new poll. The vice president received support from 13% of respondents in The Hill/HarrisX poll despite her historically low approval ratings, according to The Hill. Former first lady Michelle Obama came in second with backing of 10%. Receiving support below 10% were a handful of former 2020 hopefuls, including Sens. Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker; billionaire former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg; businessman Andrew Yang; and Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg. President Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris greet each other on the South Lawn outside the White House in Washington, Nov. 15, 2021. The former first lady remains deeply popular within the party but has repeatedly insisted she has no plans to run for any office. Obama is the co-chair of the get-out-the-vote initiative When We All Vote, which she created. PSAKI SAYS BIDEN INTENDS TO RUN IN 2024 DESPITE PLUMMETING POLL NUMBERS In 2017, she said, "I wouldn’t ask my children to do this again because when you run for higher office, it’s not just you. It’s your whole family," according to The Independent. Another 13% of respondents said they would pick someone not listed on the poll, according to The Hill. Biden reportedly plans to run for reelection in 2024. He would be 81 on Election Day that year, but would turn 82 soon after. White House press secretary Jen Psaki reiterated last week that it was Biden’s "intention" to run as the president boarded Air Force One for an early Thanksgiving visit with troops in North Carolina. Michelle Obama has insisted she has no presidential ambitions despite her popularity among Democrats. A Biden adviser, speaking this month to The Washington Post on condition of anonymity, said, "He has told people privately that he plans to run and we will be ready for that." Biden's poll numbers have also dropped in recent months. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Former President Trump has topped most polls asking who Republicans would choose as a nominee. Trump has teased the idea of running again after his 2020 loss, hinting at it in a Thanksgiving message last week. "A very interesting time in our Country, but do not worry, we will be great again—and we will all do it together," he wrote in a statement. "America will never fail, and we will never allow it to go in the wrong direction. Too many generations of greatness are counting on us. Enjoy your Thanksgiving knowing that a wonderful future lies ahead!" He has said previously he would likely wait until after the 2022 midterms to announce a presidential bid.
Buttigieg responds to criticism over racist roads comment: ‘The point is not to make America feel guilty’: 'I don’t know why anybody would be against reconnecting people,' the transportation secretary said. ‘Fox & Friends Weekend’ co-host Will Cain discusses Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg’s comments about racism ‘built into roads,’ Biden’s poll numbers, and Kamala Harris’ trip to Europe Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg on Sunday responded to criticism over his recent comments about racist bridges and highways, saying "the point is not to make America feel guilty" but to fix what he believes are injustices in the country’s infrastructure. During an appearance on MSNBC’s "The Sunday Show," Buttigieg was asked to respond to critics who don’t believe his argument that some bridges and highways were built with racist intentions. WASHINGTON POST FACT-CHECK ADMITS IT WAS WRONG FOR 'KNEE JERKED' DEFENSE OF BUTTIGIEG'S RACIST BRIDGE COMMENTS Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg during the daily briefing at the White House on Nov. 8, 2021. "What we’re doing is we are reconnecting people who may have been disconnected or divided by discriminatory decisions in the past," the secretary responded. "That helps everybody. I don’t know why anybody would be against reconnecting people who have been divided by discriminatory decisions in the past. "And again, the point is not to make America feel guilty," he continued. "The point is to make America better and more equitable and more effective in moving people to where they need to go. The point of transportation is to connect, so if a transportation was ever used to divide, we have a responsibility, a moral one but also a very practical one, to fix it." Buttigieg raised eyebrows earlier this month after he talked about the bipartisan infrastructure bill addressing racism in highways during a White House press briefing. Pete Buttigieg speaks during the U.N. climate conference in Glasgow, Scotland, on Nov. 10, 2021. "I’m still surprised that some people were surprised when I pointed to the fact that if a highway was built for the purpose of dividing a White and a Black neighborhood, or if an underpass was constructed such that a bus carrying mostly Black and Puerto Rican kids to a beach, or that would have been in New York, was designed too low for it to pass by, that that obviously reflects racism that went into those design choices," Buttigieg said on Nov. 8. Conservatives on social media immediately doubted the story, prompting The Washington Post’s resident fact-checker Glenn Kessler to come to Buttigieg’s defense, citing a narrow passage from Robert Caro’s Pulitzer-Prize winning book "The Power Broker," a biography of New York civic planner Robert Moses. A Transportation Department official confirmed to Kessler that Buttigieg was indeed referring to Caro’s book. Pete Buttigieg looks at a Tesla Model S during an electric vehicles event outside the Department of Transportation on Oct. 20, 2021 in Washington, D.C. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Kessler later admitted that his "knee jerked" and that experts have increasingly doubted the racist bridge story in Caro's book. "Obviously this cannot be easily resolved," Kessler wrote. "Caro quotes one of Moses’ top aides as saying the height of the bridges was done for racist reasons, but increasingly that story has been questioned as not credible. Buttigieg should tailor his remarks to reflect what is historically unimpeachable – and we should be more careful to double-check on the latest views of historians. Even a Pulitzer Prize-winning book is not always the last word on a subject."
Biden's socialist Build Back Better bolstering IRS to 'spy' on Americans' bank accounts: Mace: Plan includes $80 million to hire 87,000 more IRS agents. Rep. Nancy Mace, R-S.C., argued the legislation is part of a broader movement to expand the social safety net amid massive government spending. A Republican congresswoman from South Carolina says President Biden’s Build Back Better plan includes $80 million in funding to hire some 89,000 more IRS agents who will be tasked with "spying" on Americans' bank accounts like socialist countries around the world do. Rep. Nancy Mace, R-S.C., reacted in an appearance on Fox News Channel’s "Sunday Morning Futures" to the highly contested IRS funding stipulation added to the Build Back Better Act. "It’s wrong. Eighty billion for 89,000 more agents to spy on our bank accounts. This isn’t America," Mace, representing the Lowcountry Region, said. "This kind of thing has been tried in socialist countries elsewhere. It does not work. And the fact that we’re going to continue to do this rather than reform our tax policy to make it more friendly and easier to use – either a flat tax or a consumption tax – we’re going to hire all these agents to spy on our bank accounts. It’s un-American." BIDEN'S SOCIALIST BUILD BACK BETTER OVERHAUL IS PROOF HE'S USED TO ‘SIGNING BACK OF CHECK, NOT FRONT’: MEADOWS "Republicans have a lot to run on next year, but the problem is going to be, ‘How do we reverse this bad policy if it goes through and gets passed?’" she added. The Build Back Better Act’s investments in the IRS include $80 million to hire some 87,000 more IRS agents, which would result in an estimated 1.2 million additional audits each year. Nearly half of the audits would impact families earning less than $75,000 a year. One quarter of the audits would affect Americans earning $25,000 or more per year. Mace predicted that the Build Back Better plan will only increase inflation, arguing that socialist spending will incentivize people not to work, worsening supply chain issues and raising taxes for average Americans already facing increased prices for groceries, gas and other goods. Those results will hand Republicans sweeping victories in the 2022 midterm elections, Mace predicted, arguing the GOP will gain as many as two dozen more congressional seats. But she says once Republicans do regain the majority, they’ll be tasked with undoing the Build Back Better Act’s damage should it get passed by Senate leadership this week. "This is a global effort. There’s something called ‘Build Back Better’ going on around the world. This is about social spending, providing social safety nets and paying people," she said. "One of the reasons why inflation is going to get significantly worse is because of the greater spending we have through ‘Build Back Better,’ through other COVID-19 relief programs. Spending we’ve done in the past. Taxes are going to go up. That will also affect inflation, I believe, until Republicans are in the majority in 2022." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "And I believe that will happen. It will be significant," Mace added. "At least two dozen seats or more. It will be incumbent upon us to try to reverse some of the policies that will be creating this. And that’s going to be very difficult to do if it goes through."
Omicron variant: European country bans Christmas markets, public drinking in bid to combat COVID-19 wave: The mayor of Prague called the move 'outrageous' as thousands took to the street in protest. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Thousands of protesters gathered in Prague, the capital of the Czech Republic, to protest new COVID-19 restrictions aimed at combatting the spread of the new omicron variant. Among other things, the Czech government banned the popular Christmas markets and any public consumption of alcohol, such as mulled wine, which Czechs and visitors often drink at such markets. "The government's decision to abolish the outdoor Christmas markets literally from day to day is outrageous for all market operators and the stallholders themselves, who often bought the goods on credit," Prague Mayor Zdeněk Hřib said on Facebook, according to a translation from expats.cz. "It's unbelievable that the stalls were built and now must be torn down again. The government must pay adequate financial compensation to all stallholders." CZECH PROTESTERS DEMAND 'FREEDOM' AS NEW COVID RESTRICTIONS GO INTO EFFECT FOR THE UNVACCINATED The Czech government mandated Thursday that Christmas markets – which had only just opened – shut down at 6 p.m. on Friday. It also banned the consumption of alcohol in public, clamping down on a popular activity at the markets, the consumption of mulled wine and grilled sausages. Vendors can still sell Christmas trees and fresh carp on the street, and markets that stay open all year can remain open, as well, although food and drink purchased there cannot be consumed on the spot. The government declared a 30-day state of emergency, closing the Christmas markets and mandating that bars, restaurants, nightclubs, discotheques, and casinos close at 10 p.m. A general view of a Christmas market in Old Town Square in Prague, Czech Republic, Friday, Nov. 26, 2021. Due to the high rise in COVID-19 infections, Czech government banned Christmas markets in the whole country as of the evening of Friday Nov. 26, 2021. Thousands took to the streets in Prague to protest the new restrictions, marking the third protest in the last two weeks. According to the Associated Press, participants did not wear face coverings or follow social distancing rules. They also drank beer in public, in violation of the ban. Protesters chanted "Freedom!" and "We've had enough!" while holding banners expressing opposition to vaccine mandates, such as "My body my choice." Police reportedly declined to intervene. Market organizing company Taiko also condemned the decision to close the markets. "We are shocked and we are desperate," Taiko spokeswoman Hana Tietze told Pražská Drbna. "We are surprised that the department stores will remain open, but the markets outside will close." "We have year-round costs for storage and repairs of stalls. We've hired some employees, so we'll call for compensation," Tietze added. Health workers at the Motol University Hospital take out of army helicopter one of the patients with COVID-19, who was transported to Prague from a hospital in Brno, Czech Republic, Thursday, Nov. 25, 2021. The country has set repeated records in new daily infections, hitting a record high of almost 28,000 cases on Thursday. The infection rate was at 1,191 new cases per 100,000 residents over the past seven days. Overall, the nation of 10.7 million has registered over 2.1 million cases with 32,837 COVID-related deaths. It has lower vaccination rates than many other EU nations. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Other new restrictions limit the number of spectators at cultural and sports events to 1,000 people who have been vaccinated or have recovered from COVID-19, or only 100 visitors, down from 1,000.
London headmaster resigns amid complaints after introducing Critical Race Theory in curriculum: report: The American School in London's teachings on race relations became 'so extreme,' parents said. Tony Kinnett says the more we shed light on things going on that parents should know about, the more nervous the district is getting, so they locked me out. The headmaster of an exclusive private school in London has reportedly announced her resignation amid allegations of racist and anti-Semitic incidents at the school since she introduced Critical Race Theory  into the curriculum last year. Robin Appleby is leaving her nearly $530,000-a-year position at the American School in London starting in January in order to "focus on her own wellbeing and that of her family," the school told parents in an email last week, the Daily Mail reported. INDIANA CRITICAL RACE THEORY WHISTLEBLOWER: CLASSES FOUNDED WITH 'RACIAL EQUITY PRIORITY' The reported resignation follows a deluge of complaints from parents ever since Appleby introduced CRT at the school in the wake of the George Floyd unrest last summer. The school even launched racially segregated after-school clubs, which some parents argued is illegal. Some Jewish parents also complained of a "culture of fear" at the school, saying their kids were ostracized by their peers following lessons about Israel. Loudoun County School Board meeting protest A lawyer representing 26 parents at the school recently issued a complaint to the U.K.’s Department for Education saying the school’s teaching of race relations "has already become so extreme as to amount to a serious, systemic and ongoing breach of the Independent School Standards." There are also allegations that anti-Semitic remarks were made about Jewish parents at a meeting of the school’s entire faculty of teachers earlier this month, just days before Appleby’s resignation announcement. The governing board of trustees at the school has since launched what a spokesman called the "complaints process" regarding those claims. People talk before the start of a rally against "critical race theory" CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Teachers did not refer to parents by any of the words you’ve mentioned," the spokesman told the outlet. "However, Mrs. Appleby and the school were concerned that the question contrasting the responses to racism and anti-Semitism could cause offense to members of the community, and this was addressed immediately." "We are committed to building and sustaining a diverse, equitable and inclusive school community and firmly believe this will lead to a better future for all our children," the spokesman added.
Canadian health expert’s claims of indigenous ancestry don’t check out: reports: Carrie Bourassa’s colleagues sensed something was wrong after she added more tribal claims to her story and began dressing in indigenous attire, a report said. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. She claimed to have ancestral ties to the Metis indigenous peoples of Canada, but a recent report revealed that a top health official’s kin more accurately hailed from Russia, Poland and Czechoslovakia. "My name is Morning Star Bear," Carrie Bourassa told a TED Talk audience in 2019 at the University of Saskatchewan, according to the CBC report. "I’m Bear Clan. I’m Anishinaabe Metis from Treaty Four Territory," she continued, trying to further establish her indigenous credentials. CANADIAN SCHOOL DISTRICT CANCELS SPEECH BY ISIS RAPE SURVIVOR, NOBEL WINNER DUE TO ‘ISLAMOPHOBIA’ FEARS But Bourassa’s colleagues at the university sensed something was wrong after she added more tribal claims to her story and began dressing in indigenous attire, the New York Post reported. Carrie Bourassa's claims of indigenous ancestry led to suspensions from two government roles, according to a report. When they pressured Bourassa to provide more substantive proof of her background, she changed her story, claiming to have been adopted by a Metis friend of her grandfather, the report said. Earlier this month, the Independent of Britain reported that Bourassa had been suspended from her two government jobs after the CBC’s report in October revealed she was White. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP She had served as scientific director of the Canadian Institutes of Health Research’s Institute of Indigenous People’s Health and as a professor at the University of Saskatchewan, the Post reported. Her story has drawn comparisons to previous ancestry claims made by Rachel Dolezal, a former local NAACP activist who claimed to be Black, and Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., who claimed Native American roots until her story failed to hold up.
Taiwan scrambles air force fighters to warn off 27 Chinese jets in buffer zone: The latest excursion included 18 fighter jets, five nuclear-capable H-6 bombers and a Y-20 aerial refueling jet.. Former State Department official Christian Whiton has the latest on Chinese diplomacy ahead of Xi Jinping's virtual summit with President Biden on Monday. Taiwan deployed its air force Sunday in an effort to drive back dozens of Chinese aircraft that entered its air defense space. China has repeatedly deployed aircraft into the area as part of "grey zone" warfare with the island country. Taiwanese officials fear that China executes these maneuvers to test Taiwan’s response and wear out its forces with repeated scrambles. KELLOGG: CHINA, RUSSIA MILITARY DEAL ‘TROLLING’ BIDEN, DISPLAYING ‘LACK OF RESPECT’ FOR UNITED STATES Taiwan claimed that around 150 aircraft from the People’s Liberation Army  since Oct. 1, Reuters reported. The latest excursion included 18 fighter jets, five nuclear-capable H-6 bombers and a Y-20 aerial refueling jet. The squadron flew south of Taiwan into the Bashi channel separating it from the Philippines before returning to China. ‘MORE MONEY THAN GOD:’ CHINESE TITAN LAVISHED HUNTER BIDEN WITH 3-CARAT GEM, OFFER OF $30 MILLION The Taiwanese defense ministry charted the flight and showed how close it flew into the ADIZ. FILE PHOTO: Chinese President Xi Jinping speaks at a meeting commemorating the 110th anniversary of Xinhai Revolution at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, China October 9, 2021. REUTERS/Carlos Garcia Rawlins/File Photo On Friday, a PLA spokesperson said the military carried out "naval and air force combat readiness patrol in the direction of the Taiwan Strait." COTTON DRAGS WHO FOR BEING ‘MORE CONCERNED’ ABOUT PROTECTING ‘FEELINGS’ OF CHINESE GOV. THAN PUBLIC HEALTH The maneuver follows a U.S. Congressional delegation visit to the island – the second this month in support of Taiwan, the National Review reported. Representatives Elissa Slotkin, D-Mich., Nancy Mace, R-S.C., Mark Takano D-Calif., Sara Jacobs, D-Calif., and Colin Allred, D-Texas visited the island at the same time that the PLA held a three-day military conference attended by Chinese President Xi Jinping. The PRC leader stressed the need for "military cultivation" to support and lead progress in strengthening the armed forces. Slotkin claimed on Twitter that the Chinese Embassy messaged her office about the trip and urged her to call off the trip. Rep. Elissa Slotkin, D-Mich., visited Taiwan as part of a bipartisan trip. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP President Tsai Ing-wen pledged that her country "will continue to step up cooperation with the United States in order to uphold our shared values of freedom and democracy and to ensure peace and stability in the region."
New Jersey police officer fatally struck nurse with vehicle, drove body to his mom’s house: reports: Newark police Officer Louis Santiago was charged Nov. 18 and surrendered Tuesday in connection with the Nov. 1 incident, authorities say. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A New Jersey police officer was arrested earlier this month after allegedly hitting and killing a nurse with his vehicle, then transporting the body away from the scene before ultimately returning it. Newark Officer Louis Santiago, 25, of Bloomfield, was off duty at the time of the incident, which occurred around 3 a.m. Nov. 1 near Exit 151 of the Garden State Parkway, the New York Post reported. The deceased person was identified as Damian Dymka, 29, of Garfield, according to the Essex County Prosecutor’s Office. Santiago was traveling northbound in a 2005 Honda Accord with passenger Albert Guzman, 25, when the incident occurred, the Post reported. Santiago had struck Dymka after drifting off the roadway and onto the shoulder, where Dymka was located. GEORGIA POLICE OFFICER'S SHOOTING DEATH LEADS TO 3RD ARREST, AUTHORITIES SAY Neither Santiago nor Guzman contacted 911 nor tried to assist the victim, the report said. Instead, they traveled away from the scene and back several times before loading Dymka’s body into the Accord and driving the corpse to the home of Santiago’s mother, purportedly to seek advice on how to handle the situation, according to the Post. Newark, New Jersey, police Officer Louis Santiago is facing numerous charges after allegedly killing a man with his vehicle and then moving the body, authorities say. Ultimately they drove the body back to the accident scene, the newspaper reported. Meanwhile, Santiago’s father, a Newark police lieutenant, reported his son being in the accident. When police arrived at the scene, they found the body still inside Santiago’s vehicle after he had driven back to the site, the Post reported. Santiago was charged with vehicular homicide, leaving the scene of a crash resulting in death, endangering an injured victim, desecrating/moving human remains, hindering one’s own apprehension, conspiracy to hinder prosecution, tampering with physical evidence, obstructing the administration of law, and two counts of official misconduct, the Post reported. Both Guzman and Santiago’s mother, Annette Santiago, 53, were charged with conspiracy to desecrate human remains, hindering apprehension and conspiracy to hinder apprehension and tamper with physical evidence, the report said. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP All three defendants were released pending further legal action, the Post reported. Santiago was charged Nov. 18 and surrendered Tuesday to the New Jersey State Police, WABC-TV of New York City reported. He was said to be cooperating with investigators, the report said.
NYC suspect nabbed months after attempted subway robbery that left Asian woman dead: David Robinson allegedly knocked a 58-year-old Burma woman down the stairs at Chinatown station. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A suspect the NYPD had sought for about four months for allegedly knocking an Asian woman and her adult son down subway steps during a fatal allleged robbery attempt this summer has been arrested and charged with murder. Police had publicly identified 53-year-old David Robinson on July 28 – 11 days after investigators say he approached Than Wtwe Than, 58, and her 22-year-old son at 9:40 a.m. inside the Canal Street "N" subway station in Manhattan. Police say Robinson tried to forcibly remove a bag, causing the two victims to fall down a flight of stairs at the Chinatown subway station on July 17. Authorities say a surveillance camera captured footage of the suspect at the station. SUSPECT IDENTIFIED IN ATTEMPTED NYC SUBWAY ROBBERY THAT LEFT ASIAN WOMAN DEAD NYPD identified David Robinson on July 28 as the suspect sought in a Chinatown subway station robbery attempt. The 58-year-old-female victim knocked down the stairs died 11 days later, and the case was reclassified as a homicide. Than was hospitalized in critical condition with a severe head injury. She slipped into a coma and died days later at Bellevue Hospital. Police named Robinson as the suspect hours after her death. NYPD detectives arrested Robinson Saturday on murder and manslaughter charges in connection to the incident. The New York Daily News reported a tipster spotted Robinson at Central Park and called police. According to the newspaper, Than and her son had immigrated from Burma three years ago. The two were on their way to a doctor appointment for Than when they were approached from behind at the subway station. The suspect allegedly grabbed onto her son’s backpack, sending the two tumbling down the stairs. Than and her son were attacked at a time of increased crime in New York City’s subway system. NYPD data also showed hate crimes targeting Asian victims had been on the rise since 2020, and the NYPD’s Asian Hate Crimes Task Force shared news of Robinson’s arrest on their Twitter account Saturday. The July incident prompted MTA communications director Tim Minton to call on prosecutors "to be as aggressive in court as the NYPD was in its investigation." In comments to WNBC, he also reiterated the need for more security cameras on the subways and at stations. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Our hearts go out to the family and loved ones of Than Wtwe Than. No one should have to suffer such a senseless and depraved attack," the MTA stated. "We agree there should be additional policing and additional security cameras in the subway system – which is why we have been so aggressive in efforts on both fronts. New York City Transit has accelerated installation of cameras in the subways at a historic pace, with cameras expected in every station by end of summer. For this specific incident, we are grateful our cameras captured the perpetrator, significantly aiding the NYPD investigation."
Indiana girl, 2, still missing after father rescued from submerged truck; authorities recover her coat: Emma Sweet, 2, and her father were reported missing Thursday. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Indiana authorities continued to search for a missing 2-year-old girl Saturday after discovering what they believed to be her coat downstream from where her father was found Friday morning inside his submerged truck. Jeremy Sweet was taken to a hospital for hypothermia after being pulled from the White River on Friday morning, the Bartholomew County Sheriff’s Office said. Sweet was "out on bond for unlawful possession of a firearm by a serious violent felon as well as possession of methamphetamine," the sheriff’s office said, according to FOX 41 in Louisville, Kentucky. He was found by duck hunters early in the morning near Columbus, Indiana, according to WISH-TV in Indianapolis. OHIO ARMY NATIONAL GUARD SPC. MICHAELA NELSON HAS BEEN MISSING FOR A MONTH His daughter, Emma Sweet, 2, was last seen Wednesday and was reported missing along with her father on Thursday, FOX 41 reported. Emma Sweet, 2, was last seen with her father on Wednesday. Personnel from multiple agencies were conducting the search. "All of the agencies have been working together for the common goal of which is to find Emma and bring her home to her family," Bartholomew County Sheriff Matt Myers said in a statement posted on Facebook. Jeremy Sweet told officers Emma had been with him, according to WISH. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Investigators confirmed the little girl wasn’t found inside or underneath the truck, the department said. "It broke my heart because I have five kids of my own," neighbor and volunteer Brittany Matney told WISH. "I have a 2-year-old daughter that I just look at and it just makes me want to cry because I don’t understand how it could happen to somebody, especially a little kid. It’s sad. It’s heartbreaking is what it is."
Jets' Zach Wilson throws awful interception in win over Texans: Wilson made his return under center for the first time in five weeks. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Rookie quarterback Zach Wilson led the New York Jets to a 21-14 road win over the Houston Texans on Sunday, but early in the first quarter, the BYU product may have thrown the worst interception of the NFL season. Wilson, who made his return under center for the first time in five weeks, was facing a third-and-17 play on the team’s second drive of the afternoon. After escaping pressure, Wilson ran up near the line of scrimmage and tried to throw a shovel pass to Jets running back Ty Johnson. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM New York Jets quarterback Zach Wilson passes in the first half of a game against the Houston Texans in Houston, Sunday, Nov. 28, 2021. NFL WEEK 12 SCHEDULE, SCORES, UPDATES AND MORE It would have been a good decision had Johnson turned around, but the football hit him in the back and fell into the hands of Texans cornerback Tavierre Thomas. New York Jets outside linebacker Quincy Williams  celebrates a sack in the first half against the New York Jets in Houston, Sunday, Nov. 28, 2021. The Texans scored on their ensuing drive. Despite the interception, Wilson led the Jets to victory, throwing for 145 yards and running for a touchdown in his return from a sprained right knee. The win ended New York’s three-game losing streak. New York Jets quarterback Zach Wilson  carries for a touchdown in the second half against the Houston Texans in Houston, Sunday, Nov. 28, 2021. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The Jets took an 18-14 lead with about eight minutes left in the third quarter. And with about three minutes to go in the game, New York converted two fourth-down attempts on a drive that ended with a 37-yard field goal by Matt Ammendola that made it 21-14.
Designer Virgil Abloh dead at 41 after private battle with cancer: Abloh's death was announced Sunday by the luxury group LVMH (Louis Vuitton Moët Hennessy) and the Off-White label. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Designer Virgil Abloh, a leading fashion executive hailed as the Karl Lagerfeld of his generation, has died of cancer. He was 41. Abloh's death was announced Sunday by the luxury group LVMH  and the Off-White label, the haute street wear brand Abloh founded in 2013. Abloh was the artistic director for Louis Vuitton's menswear. "We are all shocked after this terrible news. Virgil was not only a genius designer, a visionary, he was also a man with a beautiful soul and great wisdom," Bernard Arnault, chairman and chief executive of LVMH, said in a statement. A statement from Abloh's family on the designer's Instagram account said Abloh was diagnosed two years ago with cardiac angiosarcoma, a rare form of cancer in which a tumor occurs in the heart. Virgil Abloh poses for photographers upon arrival at the Nike Celebrates The Beautiful Game event, in London on Wednesday, Feb. 7, 2018.  Abloh, a leading fashion executive hailed as the Karl Lagerfeld of his generation, has died after a private battle with cancer. He was 41. "He chose to endure his battle privately since his diagnosis in 2019, undergoing numerous challenging treatments, all while helming several significant institutions that span fashion, art, and culture," the statement read. In 2018, Abloh became the first Black artistic director of men's wear at Louis Vuitton in the French design house's storied history. A first generation Ghanaian American whose seamstress mother taught him to sew, Abloh had no formal fashion training but had a degree in engineering and a master's in architecture. Fashion designer Virgil Abloh gives a thumbs up after the presentation of Off-White Men's Spring-Summer 2019 collection presented in Paris, Wednesday June 20, 2018. Abloh, a leading fashion executive hailed as the Karl Lagerfeld of his generation, has died after a private battle with cancer. He was 41. Abloh’s death was announced Sunday, Nov. 28, 2021 by LVMH Louis Vuitton and the Off White label, the brand he founded. Abloh, who grew up in Chicago, was often referred to as a Renaissance man in the fashion world. He moonlighted as a DJ. But in a short time, he emerged as one of fashion's most heralded designers. Abloh called himself "a maker." He was named one of Time magazine's most influential people in 2018. In 2009, Abloh met Kanye West — now called Ye — while he was working at a screen-printing store. After he and Ye interned together at the LVMH brand Fendi, Abloh was Ye's creative director. Abloh was art director for the 2011 Ye-Jay-Z album "Watch the Throne," for which Abloh was nominated for a Grammy. Designer Virgil Abloh walks backstage prior to his Off-White ready to wear Fall-Winter 2019-2020 collection, that was presented in Paris, Thursday, Feb. 28, 2019. Abloh's work with West served as a blueprint for future border-crossing collaborations that married high and low. With Nike, he partnered his Off-White label for a line of frenzy-inducing sneakers remixed with a variety of styles and Helvetica fonts. Abloh also designed furniture for IKEA, refillable bottles for Evian and Big Mac cartons for McDonald's. His work was exhibited at the Louvre, the Gagosian and the Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago. Abloh is survived by his wife Shannon Abloh and his children, Lowe and Grey.
Dan Hampton, former Bears great, arrested in Indiana on OWI charge: Dan Hampton was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 2002. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Dan Hampton, a Pro Football Hall of Fame defensive lineman who was a part of the Chicago Bears Super Bowl-winning team during the 1985 season, was arrested in Indiana earlier this month. Hampton was charged with operating a vehicle while intoxicated on Nov. 20, the Lake County Sheriff’s Office said. Police said he was released from the Lake County Jail on bond on Nov. 21. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Pro Football Hall of Fame member Dan Hampton is honored at halftime during the game between the Minnesota Vikings and the Bears at Soldier Field on Oct. 31, 2016, in Chicago. Hampton lives in Winfield, according to FOX32 Chicago. He and former Bears defensive end Ed O’Bradovich host "The Hamp & O’B Show" on WGN Radio. He played for the Bears from 1979 to 1990. He was a four-time Pro Bowler and was named to the First Team All-Pro after putting together a terrific season in 1984. He was on the same defense as Richard Dent, Steve McMichael, Wilber Marshall and Mike Singletary. HALL OF FAME DEFENSIVE LINEMAN CURLEY CULP DIES AT 75 Chicago Bears defensive lineman Dan Hampton during a game against the Buffalo Bills at Rich Stadium on Oct. 7, 1979, in Orchard Park, New York. His career was with riddled with injuries. He played in 157 games but 10 knee surgeries forced him to play fewer than 12 games four times during his great career. Hampton was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 2002 alongside George Allen, Dave Casper, Jim Kelly and John Stallworth. Dan Hampton was arrested in Indiana in 2021 on OWI charges. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Hampton’s had trouble with the law in the past. In 2002, he was sentenced to a week in jail after pleading guilty to drunk driving charges and was fined and ordered to attend alcohol education classes. CBC Sports reported it was his second arrest in the last five years.
Celtics' Enes Kanter to change his name amid outspoken rants against China: report: Enes Kanter is set to become a US citizen on Monday. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Enes Kanter is reportedly set to make a big change as he gets ready to become a U.S. citizen. Kanter, who has been the most outspoken NBA player on geopolitical issues concerning China’s human rights abuses, as well as Tibet, Hong Kong and Taiwan’s fight for freedom, will reportedly change his name. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Boston Celtics' Enes Kanter moves against Toronto Raptors' Isaac Bonga Oct. 22, 2021, in Boston. According to The Athletic on Sunday, Kanter is going to legally change his name to Enes Kanter Freedom. Kanter will reportedly be his middle name and Freedom his last name. The Boston Celtics center retweeted The Athletic report. Kanter has been outspoken about China, railing against the government over the treatment of Uyghur Muslims and has called for the freedom of Tibet, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Kanter has won sneakers promoting his own geopolitical initiatives. He’s also called on the International Olympic Committee  to abandon its plans to hold the Olympics in Beijing in February. He told "The Story" last week that even if much of the professional sports world remains uniformly silent on Chinese human rights abuses and other allegations against the Communist leadership there, "someone has to do it." GREGG POPOVICH PRAISES ENES KANTER FOR SPEAKING OUT ON CHINA WITHOUT MENTIONING CHINA "There’s so many athletes, so many actors, so many singers and rappers out there. They’re scared to say a word because they care too much about their money – the endorsement deals, what the teams they play for say," the Turkish-American athlete said. Enes Kanter during the Celtics home opener against the Toronto Raptors at TD Garden on Oct. 22, 2021, in Boston. "They should know one thing: It should be morals and principles over money. It shouldn’t be the opposite way. People’s life depends on this," Kanter added, noting that young people around the world look up to athletes in all sports – and therefore the players should be careful about how they conduct themselves. Host Martha MacCallum noted that Kanter has long been a critic of the Chinese Communist Party and its leader Xi Jinping, showing a photo of a pair of sneakers he wore during a recent game that depicted Xi as Winnie the Pooh with the caption "Xi is a control freak." Boston Celtics center Enes Kanter sits on the bench against the Wizards at Capital One Arena on Oct. 30, 2021, in Washington. "I do feel alone, yes. … So many people care too much about the business side of it. But to me, human rights are way more important than anything you offer me," Kanter told MacCallum. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Kanter has long made waves with his public pronouncements, previously being disowned by his family in 2016 due to his support for Fethullah Gulen – a Turkish religious cleric living in exile in the Pocono Mountains of Pennsylvania. Fox News’ Charles Creitz contributed to this report.
Jaguars mascot stunt gone wrong ahead Falcons game: Jaxson de Ville’s stunt may have been an omen for Sunday’s game. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. The Jacksonville Jaguars mascot, Jaxson de Ville, continues to risk it all this season with a thrilling bungee-jumping backflip before kickoff but on Sunday the daring cat had to be bailed out after getting stuck in the air. Video from Sunday’s game against the Atlanta Falcons showed the mascot starting off with a perfect backflip but on the way down his cord appeared to get stuck. FALCONS TAKE ADVANTAGE OF JAGUARS’ MISTAKES IN 21-14 VICTORY The Jacksonville Jaguars' mascot Jaxson de Ville jumps off the roof of the stadium during the NFL London 2021 match against the Miami Dolphins on Oct. 17, 2021, in England. Users on social media posted videos of the mascot being lowered into the stands among fans – unharmed. Jaxson de Ville’s stunt may have been an omen for Sunday’s game as the Jaguars lost their ninth game of the season with a 21-14 loss. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Jaxson de Ville performs during the game against the Arizona Cardinals at TIAA Bank Field on Sept. 26, 2021, in Jacksonville, Florida. The Falcons led 14-0 and then 21-3 on Matt Ryan’s touchdown pass to Russell Gage, but the Jags clawed their way back into the game late. Trevor Lawrence found Tavon Austin for a score and connected with James O’Shaughnessy for a 2-point conversion. Matthew Wright added a 34-yard field goal in the fourth period to make it a one-score game. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Atlanta Falcons wide receiver Russell Gage leaps over Jacksonville Jaguars cornerback Tyson Campbell and defensive end Dawuane Smoot after a reception Sunday, Nov. 28, 2021, in Jacksonville, Florida. Jacksonville forced a punt and got the ball back with 2:14 remaining, but Lawrence threw incomplete on four straight downs. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Michigan's Jim Harbaugh appears to take subtle shot at Ohio State's Ryan Day after win: Michigan snapped a long losing streak against Ohio State. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Jim Harbaugh finally got over the hurdle and led Michigan to a victory over Ohio State, likely catapulting the Wolverines into the top four of the upcoming College Football Playoff rankings. Harbaugh suggested after the 42-27 thrashing that the team was motivated by some of the trash-talking that occurred in the week leading up to the game. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Ohio State head coach Ryan Day, left, shakes hands with Michigan head coach Jim Harbaugh after the game in Ann Arbor, Michigan, Saturday, Nov. 27, 2021. "There's definitely stuff people said that spurred us on. Sometimes people that are standing on third base think they hit a triple, but they didn’t," Harbaugh said, via The Columbus Dispatch. Some believe the remark was a jab at Ohio State coach Ryan Day’s "hang 100 on them" remark he made last season. Day reportedly made the comment after he and Harbaugh got into a spat during a Big Ten teleconference. Michigan defensive end Aidan Hutchinson said the trash-talking was a big motivation. MICHIGAN SNAPS LOSING STREAK TO OHIO STATE, JIM HARBAUGH FINALLY GETS RIVALRY WIN Referees talk to Michigan head coach Jim Harbaugh in the Ohio State game Saturday, Nov. 27, 2021, in Ann Arbor. "These guys have been disrespecting us. Stepping on our jerseys. Talking about hanging a 100 on us. Doing all the rah-rah and doing all the talk. But we were about it today," Hutchinson said. Harbaugh was 0-5 against the Buckeyes since taking over as Michigan’s head coach for Brady Hoke before the start of the 2015 season. The closest he ever came before Saturday’s win was a three-point loss in 2016. The Wolverines were ranked No. 3 at the time and Ohio State was No. 2. Harbaugh can rest easy as the monkey is off his back when it comes to the claim he could never beat Ohio State. Michigan came into the game with an eight-game losing streak against Ohio State. The Wolverines haven’t beaten Ohio State since 2011 and only have one win against the Buckeyes since 2003. Michigan head coach Jim Harbaugh yells from the sideline against Ohio State, Saturday, Nov. 27, 2021, in Ann Arbor. A win for Michigan bolsters their resume for the College Football Playoff and likely ends all hope of the Buckeyes making the final four. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Michigan has never been in the playoff and barring a loss in the Big Ten Championship, the Wolverines could definitely see themselves competing to get to the national title game.
LeBron James hecklers avoid lifetime ban after being ejected from Lakers-Pacers game: report: LeBron James pointed the fans out to security and they were ejected from the game. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. The NBA said Sunday the fans who were ejected from the Indiana Pacers game against the Los Angeles Lakers after LeBron James got officials’ attention over what they allegedly said to him were removed for "violating the NBA Fan Code of Conduct." NBA spokesman Mike Bass made the revelation in a statement to The Athletic. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM An unidentified fan is removed from the arena following a disturbance involving LeBron James of the Los Angeles Lakers during the game against the Indiana Pacers  at Gainbridge Fieldhouse on Nov. 24, 2021, in Indianapolis. The fans crossed the line with their trash-talking to James, making inappropriate remarks to him but will face no lifetime ban or further consequences, The Athletic reported, citing sources. The incident occurred Wednesday when the Lakers defeated the Pacers. The fans were sent home early from the Gainbridge Fieldhouse after they allegedly said something to James that may have gone too far. James called referees and security over to eject the two fans from their courtside seats during the overtime period. 'LESNITCH' TRENDS AFTER LEBRON JAMES GETS PACERS FANS EJECTED FOR ALLEGEDLY GOING TOO FAR HECKLING LeBron James of the  Los Angeles Lakers points out fans that he had a disturbance with to security during the game against the Indiana Pacers on Nov 24, 2021, in Indianapolis. "There’s a difference between cheering on your home faithful, booing opponents, not wanting your opponents to be successful and there’s then moments where it goes outside the line with obscene gestures and words," James told reporters after getting the 124-116 victory, via USA Today. "That shouldn’t be tolerated in our game from nobody. I would never say it to a fan and a fan should never say it to a player." The woman pretended to be crying while she walked out. It wasn’t exactly clear what was said although a rumor started on social media the comments were about James' son Bronny. Los Angeles Lakers' LeBron James is defended by Indiana Pacers' Malcolm Brogdon Wednesday, Nov. 24, 2021, in Indianapolis. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP James was playing in his first game back since his one-game suspension. He was disciplined for striking Detroit Pistons center Isaiah Stewart in the eye.
Bucs' Vita Vea loses tooth, mouth bloodied in win vs. Colts: Buccaneers defensive tackle Vita Vea looks to be in some need of dental work. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Tampa Bay Buccaneers defensive tackle Vita Vea will need some dental work after Sunday. During the team’s road game against the Indianapolis Colts, Vea smashed his face into Colts offensive guard Mark Glowinski’s helmet. Vea, a four-year pro, had his own helmet come loose, which left the bottom portion of his face exposed. His mouth filled with blood and he lost a tooth. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Vita Vea of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers celebrates after beating the Chicago Bears 38-3 at Raymond James Stadium Oct. 24, 2021 in Tampa, Fla. While walking to the sideline, Vea smiled and pointed to his face. Vita Vea of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers looks on during training camp at Raymond James Stadium Aug. 28, 2020 in Tampa, Fla. "I don’t care. He’s got 30 other ones," Bucs head coach Bruce Arians joked. In nine games played this season, Vea has 19 tackles with two passes defended, one fumble recovery and one sack. Vita Vea of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers looks on during warm-ups before a game against the New York Giants at Raymond James Stadium Nov. 22, 2021 in Tampa, Fla. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The Bucs  came away with a 38-31 win over the Colts Sunday afternoon. Running back Leonard Fournette capped a four-touchdown game with a 28-yard TD run with 20 seconds left, giving Tampa Bay the come-from-behind victory.
Lincoln Riley's reported Oklahoma departure shocks college football world: Lincoln Riley reportedly decided to take the USC job. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Lincoln Riley’s reported decision to leave Oklahoma for the USC head football coach opening sent shockwaves through the college football world on Sunday. Riley decided to take the USC job after Oklahoma lost to Oklahoma State on Saturday, according to multiple reports. While fans were mostly stunned by the reaction, some wondered why Riley would take the USC job with the Sooners about to move to the SEC in a few years. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM The SEC will have at least 16 schools at the start of the summer of 2025. Oklahoma and Texas announced intentions to move to the conference earlier this year. Riley hasn’t officially been announced as the USC coach. The Trojans launched a national search after Clay Helton was dismissed earlier in the season. Head coach Lincoln Riley of the Oklahoma Sooners congratulates cornerback Woodi Washington after a fumble return for a touchdown against the Iowa State Cyclones on Nov. 20, 2021, in Norman, Oklahoma. Sports Illustrated reported USC was targeting Riley as their next coach and an announcement would come within the next 24 hours and The Athletic reported the deal was done. LINCOLN RILEY TO BOLT OKLAHOMA FOR USC: REPORTS Oklahoma's Lincoln Riley reacts after his Sooners scored a touchdown against the Baylor Bears on Nov. 13, 2021, in Waco, Texas. USC found a big name to replace Clay Helton, who was let go early in the 2021 season. The Trojans had been linked to Pittsburgh Steelers coach Mike Tomlin, but he would later shoot down any notion he was planning on leaving the NFL. Riley had previously been linked to NFL jobs and other college football positions. He shot down a rumor on Saturday that he was interested in the LSU job. He said he was "not going to be the next coach at LSU." He was right at the time, but didn’t divulge any plans about going to Los Angeles. Lincoln Riley gestures to his team on a play against the Oklahoma State Cowboys at Boone Pickens Stadium on Nov. 27, 2021. Riley took over as Oklahoma’s head coach before the 2017 season. He led the Sooners to three College Football Playoff appearances but never managed to win a game in the tournament. His teams saw the emergence of two Heisman Trophy winners – Baker Mayfield and Kyler Murray. Both players were No. 1 draft picks as well. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP He was 55-10 as a head coach and won four Big 12 championships.
Texans' Justin Reid 'shocked' by healthy scratch ahead of loss to Jets: Texans coach David Culley declined to elaborate after the game, calling it a 'disciplinary' benching. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Houston Texans safety Justin Reid was "shocked" to learn he would be a healthy scratch in Sunday’s game against the New York Jets, a matchup that ended with Houston's ninth loss of the season. Reports before the game indicated that Reid would be a healthy scratch for violating team rules but the third-year starter told FOX26 Houston that he was told it was over a "disagreement" during a team meeting earlier in the week. JAGUARS MASCOT STUNT GONE WRONG AHEAD FALCONS GAME "I thought the meeting went amicably, and then I came to practice Friday, and after practice was done he called me into his office and said he benched me for disciplinary reasons," Reid said. Justin Reid  of the Houston Texans reacts after missing an interception during the first half against the New England Patriots at NRG Stadium on Oct. 10, 2021 in Houston. "It is what it is. I’m shocked that it happened," he added. "I’m just gonna root for the guys out there and just keep cheering my teammates on. It’s always tough when you’re not playing. The best I can do is be there in spirit and root my guys on." Culley declined to elaborate on the benching after the game, calling it a "disciplinary" decision. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM "We’ll keep that internal," he said. Ben Skowronek  of the Houston Texans pursues at NRG Stadium Oct. 31, 2021 in Houston. Quarterback Tyrod Taylor echoed that sentiment when asked during his postgame presser. "It’s always tough, but coach said from day one we’re gonna hold everybody accountable for their actions," Taylor said. "He made a decision. As a team, we support our coaches and our leadership decisions, and we continue to keep moving forward." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Justin Reid of the Houston Texans during a game against the Indianapolis Colts at Lucas Oil Stadium Oct. 17, 2021 in Indianapolis. The Texans hoped to build on an upset of Tennessee last week that ended an eight-game losing skid, and it looked good early. Taylor threw two touchdown passes in the second quarter to give Houston a 14-3 lead, but the Texans couldn’t do anything offensively after that. Taylor threw for 158 yards with two touchdowns and an interception. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Prince Charles was the royal who asked about complexion of Meghan Markle, Prince Harry's firstborn, book says: Meghan Markle and Prince Harry previously made the allegation without specifying who said it during their tell-all interview with Oprah Winfrey. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. A new book about the British royals claims that Prince Charles was the one to infamously speculate about the complexion of Meghan Markle and Prince Harry’s firstborn son, Archie. In March of 2020, The Duke and Duchess of Sussex sat down for a tell-all interview with Oprah Winfrey during which they made shocking allegations about their time in the royal family. One of the most provocative was when Markle revealed a member of the royal family had "concerns" about the color of her child’s skin before he was born. At the time, Harry made sure to note that it was not Queen Elizabeth II nor Prince Philip, leaving the door open to speculation. In a new book by author Christopher Andersen, "Brothers And Wives: Inside The Private Lives of William, Kate, Harry and Meghan," a source close to the royal family claims that Charles wondered aloud about the child’s complexion during a conversation in 2017 that took place shortly after the Duke and Duchess of Sussex got engaged. "I wonder what the children will look like?" Charles reportedly told his wife, Camilla . MEGHAN MARKLE'S DAD THOMAS REACTS TO TIME 100 COVER: 'THERE ARE FAR MORE INFLUENTIAL PEOPLE' Prince Charles was accused of speculating about the skin color of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's child. Camilla was reportedly "somewhat taken aback" and noted that the child would be "gorgeous." Allegedly lowering his voice, Charles asked: "I mean, what do you think their children’s complexion might be?" Representatives for Charles did not immediately respond to Fox News’ request for comment. However, a spokesperson told The New York Post that "this is fiction and not worth further comment." The book claims that Charles was merely voicing an innocuous curiosity about what the child might look like while Markle, whose mother is Black, seemed to imply that it was more of a public relations issue of the royal family dealing with a darker-skinned member. Prince Charles has been accused of being the one who speculated about the skin color of Meghan Markle and Prince Harry's firstborn child. The outlet reports that Charles’ musings were quickly twisted by courtiers and given a much more toxic and racist spin by the time Markle and Harry heard about them. Nick Bullen, the award-winning documentarian as well as the co-founder and editor-in-chief of True Royalty TV, previously told Fox News that he believes Charles is "heartbroken" over the allegations. PRINCE CHARLES' LAST CONVERSATION WITH HIS LATE FATHER, PRINCE PHILIP, REVEALED IN NEW DOCUMENTARY "I think the Prince of Wales must be shocked and heartbroken," Bullen told Fox News last year. "Imagine if any member of your family, especially your son or daughter, goes on television and says, ‘My relationship has broken down with my father?’ Even if it’s true, the world now knows. So I think the Prince of Wales must be heartbroken." "I have no doubt in my mind the man cares about his son," Bullen added. "We’ve only really heard one side of the story. And so far, Meghan and Harry have won the PR war." Shortly after the interview aired, Buckingham Palace issued a 60-word statement on behalf of Elizabeth. Oprah Winfrey interviews Prince Harry and Meghan Markle on A CBS Primetime Special in March 2021. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER "The whole family is saddened to learn the full extent of how challenging the last few years have been for Harry and Meghan," the statement said. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "The issues raised, particularly that of race, are concerning," the statement added. "While some recollections may vary, they are taken very seriously and will be addressed by the family privately. Harry, Meghan and Archie will always be much loved family members."
Fourth-generation dairy farmer warns economic woes, climate change regulations could end family farms: Nash Farms fled California to avoid strict regulations only to face looming federal restrictions.  CHAPEL HILL, Tenn. – A fourth-generation dairy farmer warned that climate change-related regulations and a slew of economic woes could signal the end for her family's way of life after nearly a century. "We've been attacked in the dairy industry for a while now," Stephanie Nash told Fox News. "Instead of educating people through the farmer, we're educating them through people that have never farmed and we're killing off our family farmers." Rising costs, labor and supply shortages and little support – in addition to climate change and conservation regulations – are all major obstacles threatening the Nash family, which has been in the dairy farming business for 92 years. Stephanie, 28, and her father, Steven Nash, moved their almost century-old dairy farm from California's San Joaquin Valley to Tennessee in 2014 to escape the Golden State's strict farming regulations and high cost of doing business. SENATE REPUBLICANS TO SOUND ALARM ON RISING COST OF THANKSGIVING AMID INFLATION, SUPPLY CHAIN CRISIS "They regulate us on every step we make," Stephanie recalled from their time in California. "We’re constantly looked at, constantly manipulated and told what to do, and farmers, especially my dad’s age and older, they don’t want to be told how to farm." "Water rights, milk prices, feed prices, regulations on climate change … we had to fight with Los Angeles and San Francisco on every issue," she added. Her father agreed, saying the state took "an adversarial approach" when it came to dealing with farmers. "They weren't worried about farmers there," Steven, 61, told Fox News. California is the largest agricultural state in the U.S., growing roughly 40% of the country's vegetables, fruit and nuts, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. It is also the biggest producer of dairy and wine. Prone to drought, the state has implemented a state law limiting farmers’ access to water. While the move to Tennessee saved the family from bankruptcy, the Nashes are concerned with some rhetoric and proposed legislation coming from Washington, D.C., surrounding agriculture. "They’re making all these bills and regulations, and people living in the city actually believe it instead of believing in your farmers that are actually putting food on the table for you," said Stephanie, who is also a singer-songwriter and agricultural activist. She hopes her advocacy, the Nash Creamery and their new cheese plant will be enough to keep the family business afloat. "That's what everybody prays for," Stephanie told Fox News. "We pray for rain, we pray for fair prices and we pray for regulations that are not going to kill off our industry." Steven’s grandfather, Wallace Nash, began milking cows in central California in 1929. A decade later, Steven’s father, Howard, took over the farm and grew the operation from 30 to 200 cows. In 1980, Howard became ill, and 20-year-old Steven stepped in and took over the farm's daily operations. Over the next 40 years, the herd expanded from 200 to over 1,200 cows. "Dairy’s just something I’ve always liked," Steven told Fox News. "I really enjoy seeing a well-bred cow … that walks fluidly, has a nice udder and produces lots of milk. That’s my gratification." The Nashes milk their cows twice a day, grow their own feed and recently opened a creamery and a cheese plant to help supplement costs. In February, the USDA forecast the 2020 median farm household income at a loss of $1,840. On average, nearly 90% of a family farm's income is supplied by another source of income or employment. Small dairy farms are among the least sustainable type of farm today as they grapple with declining demand for cow's milk and consolidation in their industry, resulting in much larger but fewer farms, according to the USDA. Since 2003, the U.S. has lost more than half of its licensed dairy operations, down to under 32,000 operations. "The last farm bill, the dairy policy was put together without a lot of input from farmers," Steven said of the 2018 Agricultural Improvement Act. "They changed our pricing mechanism, and what that’s done is taken nearly a billion dollars out of the dairy industry, out of the farming sector, out of my segment, and moved it to processors and other people in the industry before it gets to the grocery store," he continued. At the urging of dairy processors, the 2018 farm bill changed an industry formula that determines the price of fluid milk under the Federal Milk Marketing Order system. "The change contributed to substantial market volatility last year and has led to an estimated $750 million in losses for farmers compared to the previous Class I formula," the National Milk Producers Federation said in an October statement. "Without a fix, dairy farmers will permanently bear unfair and unnecessary price risk compared to processors during times of unusual market volatility." Steven told Fox News: "It's a lot of money to lose. That has been very difficult for a lot of people, myself included." As a result of this formula change, price increases in grocery stores doesn't mean the farmer sees an increase on their end. Additionally, farmers face rising costs on gas and energy, labor shortages, high feed expenses and supply chain issues. "We are a capital-intensive business," Steven said. "We live and die on feed costs." He said those account for 55% of the farm’s expenses. "We’re not like other businesses where we can just cut back," he said. "Cows got to be fed every day, right?" He added that the labor shortage and supply chain delays were also critical issues. "We're time sensitive," he said. "We can miss our window of opportunity just because of a bearing or a tire." The National Milk Producers Federation estimated that shipping disruptions cost the U.S. dairy industry nearly $1 billion during the first half of the year from higher shipping and inventory costs, lost export volume and price deterioration. Stephanie often posts on TikTok and YouTube to voice her concerns for struggling farmers and to educate people on how some legislative bills affect the agriculture industry. Nash Family Creamery "You look at big seed companies, you look at the ethanol plants, you look at all these big investors, again, going back to politicians, what are they investing in?" she said. "Why are they putting all this funding into certain areas? Because they're going to make more money." "The farmer is going to be dead, and the family farms are going to be gone, and they're going to continue to get richer off of stuff like plant-based and climate change," Stephanie continued. RISING INFLATION SEES MAINE, NEW ENGLANDERS BLAST BIDEN ADMINISTRATION AND ‘RICH PEOPLE TRYING TO GET RICHER’ Stephanie often warns her followers about policy threats to the agriculture industry, like President Biden’s 30 by 30 plan, a federal push to conserve 30% of the nation's lands and waters by 2030. Similarly, the departments of the Interior, Agriculture and Commerce alongside the White House Council on Environmental Quality released Conserving and Restoring America the Beautiful, a preliminary report regarding conservation. It states that "federal agencies can and should advance conservation by supporting programs that incentivize voluntary conservation efforts and provide new sources of income for American farmers, ranchers, and forest stewards." Stephanie told Fox News: "There's a lot of money in Washington, D.C., and I'm really scared that money is going towards persuading people in the USDA to go plant-based, to go climate change, to fund all of this other stuff … so corporate and big- investor farm systems continue to farm and gain access to our pricing in the grocery store." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Steven, who hopes to pass on the farm to his daughter one day, said Nash Farms received aid from the federal government to help with coronavirus-related issues. "While we use them, we don’t like them," he said of the farmers aid programs. "I want a fair price that represents the work that we do." "We have a great product.," Steven continued. "Why does the government got to support us because we can't make it on our own? That's that's the fundamental issue here." Dairy farmers have received more than $3 billion, or about $1 of every $8, of the $24.4 billion disbursed to farmers and ranchers since COVID-19 payments began in May 2020, according to the USDA. "We are in a place that we could go either way," Steven said of his farm’s financial stability. "I've been there many times before, so we'll just have to see what the next few months bring." Teny Sahakian is an Associate Producer/Writer for Fox News. You can reach her at Teny.Sahakian@fox.com
Cyber Monday: Hottest coat deals for women: These stylish women’s coats are hot buys on Black Friday. Consumer and money-saving expert Andrea Woroch details her five Black Friday traps on 'America's Newsroom' Sure, winter technically starts on Dec. 21, but you’ll want to grab a coat long before then. Black Friday and Cyber Monday are the perfect excuse to update your outerwear collection. Or maybe you’re thinking of buying a practical gift that’ll be used after the holiday season. BLACK FRIDAY: A BRIEF HISTORY AND LITTLE KNOWN FACTS Here are a few coat selections for women that are on sale in time for the Christmas shopping kickoff. Original Price: $220 Cyber Monday Special: $154 Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Wool-Blend Dad Coat Stay cozy and stylish this winter with the Wool-Blend Dad Coat at Abercrombie & Fitch. The tailored wool-blend coat can be worn to work, a special event or a simple night out with its front-button closure, back vent and side pockets. The stylish coat is being discounted by $66 and is available in light brown, oatmeal plaid and taupe plaid. Calvin Klein Boxy Hooded Puffer Jacket Original Price: $149.50 Cyber Monday Special: $89.70 Calvin Klein is offering its Boxy Hooded Puffer Jacket for 40% off. The monogrammed coat reportedly provides "exceptional warmth and coverage" with stylish side pockets. Customers can snag this waist-length coat in the shades mascarpone, black, bonsai, chili and lime volt. An additional 20% discount can be redeemed if you enter the code word EXTRA at checkout. Charter Club Women's Packable Hooded Down Puffer Coat, Created for Macy's Original Price: $125 Cyber Monday Special: $49.99 If you need a coat that has a removable hood, look no further than Charter Club’s Packable Hooded Down Puffer Coat. The 26-inch long jacket was created exclusively for Macy’s and is available in 13 color variations, including terracotta, dark forest and sand. Customers who purchase this roomy puffer coat during Macy’s Cyber Week sale will get to save 60%. THE BEST BLACK FRIDAY NEW CAR DEALS Lauren Ralph Lauren Women's Faux-Fur-Trim Walker Coat, Created for Macy's Original Price: $355 Cyber Monday Special: $142 Your neck will never get cold with the Lauren Ralph Lauren Women's Faux-Fur-Trim Walker Coat, which was created exclusively for Macy’s. The luxe three-button walker coat is 37 inches long and has an attached faux-fur collar. Fashionistas who purchase the gray, black, new vicuna or cream/beige coat on Cyber Monday get to save $213. Michael Kors Quilted Nylon Packable Puffer Coat Original Price: $275 Cyber Monday Special: $110 The Michael Kors Quilted Nylon Packable Puffer Coat is designed to keep you warm with a form-fitting chevron-quilted fabric. Customers who purchase the coat on Cyber Monday will save $165. So far, the coat is available in taupe and black. BUY NOW, PAY LATER IS THE NEW LAYAWAY: WHAT ARE THE PROS AND CONS? London Fog Women’s Double-Breasted Hooded Trench Coat Original Price: $220 Cyber Monday Special: $131.99 Need a trench coat to take a walk on the town? Try this Double-Breasted Hooded Trench Coat from London Fog. The 38-inch long coat has a stylish removable belt and hood and is available in seven colors, including black, British Khaki, moss, steel blue, boysenberry, chili red and terracotta. Customers who snag this coat deal from Macy’s on Cyber Monday will save $88. The department store will throw in an additional 10% off if you enter the code CYBER at checkout. Moose Knuckles Roselawn Jacket Original Price: $785 Cyber Monday Special: $549 If you live in an area where the chilly nights get extreme, you’ll want to make sure you have something that can withstand snow or low temperatures. The Roselawn Jacket from Moose Knuckles is sure to fit the bill with its water-repellent and wind-resistant design, which has a certified 90/10 ratio of down feathers. Customers who purchase the coat on Cyber Monday will get to save $236 and can choose from the brand’s black, night sky and plein-air shades. Ted Baker Rose Wool Wrap Coat Original Price: $525 Cyber Monday Special: $315 Customers who buy Ted Baker’s Rose Wool Wrap Coat in bright blue or bright pink will save $210 with the U.K. designer’s Cyber Monday sale. The chic pea coat is also available in black, camel and gray, but the items are subject to different discount rates. Inventory varies on the U.S. and U.K. websites. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The North Face Explore Farther Jacket Original Price: $199 Cyber Monday Special: $119.40 Sporty winter wanderers can look toward The North Face’s Explore Farther Jacket. The breathable chevron-quilted coat is designed to keep you warm with "synthetic insulation" and has zippered hand pockets. The Explore Farther Jacket is available in twilight mauve, silver blue, vanadis grey and TNF black. Customers who purchase this coat on Cyber Monday save $79.60. Top Shop Riley Long Coat at Nordstrom Original Price: $115 Cyber Monday Special: $69.90 If you don’t need a super heavy coat for winter, check out Top Shop Riley Long Coat that’s in stock at Nordstrom. The retailer is offering a 39% discount on the textured longline coat, which was designed with work and weekends in mind. The coat is available in only one color – grey marl. FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS
Bride says you should keep your wedding dress secret, here’s why: Nicole Pellegrino from the Betches Brides Podcast advises soon-to-be brides not to show off their wedding dresses. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Keeping your wedding dress a secret from your guests might be the best thing you could do for your peace of mind. At least that’s what newlywed bride Nicole Pellegrino thinks soon-to-be brides should be doing, according to a recent TikTok video. Pellegrino, who’s a co-host of the Betches Brides Podcast, took to the video-sharing app to say one of her biggest "wedding regrets" came from showing off her gown before the big day. GROOM DISLIKES BRIDE'S DRESS AND ASKS REDDIT IF HE'S WRONG FOR TELLING HER: 'LITTLE DISAPPOINTED' Keeping your wedding dress a secret from your guests might be the best thing you could do for your peace of mind. "Do not show anyone your dress before the wedding day," Pellegrino said. "I was showing mine to literally anybody who asked. I'm not kidding. Whether it was a friend, a distant relative, a co-worker, I was doling photos of that dress out like hotcakes, and I regret it. People are bad liars no matter how hard they try. If they don't like your dress when you show them that photo, it will show on their face." "So, even if you truly love your dress and feel great in it, those little opinions will subconsciously start to taint your perspective of your own dress," she continued. "Instead, grab two to three people that you really trust, and you want their opinions on the dress, take them shopping with you, have them support you throughout the way. Only show them. That way, on the wedding day, it's a big surprise for everybody, all your bridesmaids see it for the first time, it's really special, and you don't have to deal with people's opinions." BRIDE GETS BACKLASH AFTER SHARING HER GRANDPA’S $4G WEDDING DRESS BUDGET ISN’T ENOUGH, WANTS TO ASK FOR MORE The 58-second clip has been viewed more than 395,100 times. Former and soon-to-be brides have largely found the piece of advice to be helpful. WEDDING PHOTOGRAPHERS SAY THERE ARE 3 SIGNS THAT A MARRIAGE WON'T LAST "Omg this happened to me. I would show people and they would be like, ‘Oh! It’s so cute…." And it would make me second guess my dress and I got so upset," one TikTok user wrote. "Yes! I can relate to this," another user shared. "I’ve had so many doubts about my dress over the past few weeks all because of one person’s comment and reaction." According to Brides magazine, the national average cost of a wedding dress is $1,631. With such a big price tag on the line, it's certainly understandable why some women experience buyer's remorse. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Pellegrino told Fox News that brides need to remember why they're getting married in the first place in order to curb fashion-focused self-doubt. Nicole Pellegrino, the co-host of the Betches Brides Podcast, offers advice on how brides can avoid wedding dress regret. "You and your partner love each other, so in the end, those are the only opinions that should matter. And really, a good partner will love you in anything you wear, so the only real opinion that matters is your own," Pellegrino said. "Once you decide on your dress, stick to your decision. Don't go looking at Pinterest and Instagram for more wedding dress inspiration, because that will only make you think: ‘Well what if I tried on one like this instead?’ Remember that you picked your dress for a reason and go with your gut instinct." FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS She added, "Keep in mind that everyone will have an opinion about anything you do, especially since everything's on social media these days. So, if you're trying to get a dress that you think other people will like, then you're only going to end up unhappy. Get a dress that fits your taste, style and personality. There will be people who don't like it no matter what, but you just have to ignore them."
Former ‘Baywatch’ cast member Donna D’Errico reveals her youthful secrets, why she became a vegan: The actress has been outspoken about her passion for animal rights. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Donna D’Errico can vividly recall the moment she decided to give up meat. It was about eight years ago after she was invited by director/producer Sam Simon, a vegan, to appear on his podcast. The former "Baywatch" star, who grew up in the South, said she wasn’t familiar with veganism or what it meant exactly. "We were chatting and then he asked me if I was vegan," she recalled to Fox News. "I grew up in Alabama and Georgia. We had barbecues, chicken, steak, venison – all kinds of meat. So he stopped the interview. And he said, ‘Would you be willing to go in the next room and watch a video?’ I thought to myself, ‘This is Sam Simon.’ And I really respected him. So I said sure. I went to the next room and he had me watch this undercover footage of a factory farm. At that time, I had no idea there were factory farms or what they were. I didn’t know what conditions these animals were in before they ended up on our plates and in grocery stores. I lived in the dark." "I watched the video," she continued. "I came back to the room where he had his podcast studio set up and I was in tears. I told him I was never going to eat meat again. He said, ‘Well, great. Let’s finish the podcast.’ And we did. But from that point on, I didn’t need meat anymore." FORMER ‘BAYWATCH’ STAR CARMEN ELECTRA REFLECTS ON HER RISQUÉ LOOKS FROM ‘90S: ‘IT WAS SHOCKING' Donna D'Errico said it was Sam Simon, co-creator of ‘The Simpsons' and a vegan, who helped turn her life around. The actress said that her journey to veganism originally began because she loved animals. However, she noticed some unexpected side effects along the way. "There were happy benefits, like clearer skin, better digestion, better sleep – but that’s not why I do it," said the 53-year-old. ‘I do it for the animals." D’Errico noted that it has gotten easier to become a vegan, no matter the reason, thanks to plenty of food options available in markets. "The vegan alternatives for meat and cheese are so much better now than they used to be," she shared. "And you don’t miss it. It’s so easy to switch over. But if it’s too hard to do that, try it in baby steps like with meatless Mondays. Take a week at a time. There are so many tasty alternatives out there to make it easier. And before you know it, you won’t miss it." CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Donna D'Errico said it has gotten easier to become a vegan. Over the years, the star has been outspoken about her passion for animal rights. And while D’Errico has been widely complimented by the press for her appearance, she hopes her message doesn’t get lost along the way. "I’m very flattered but I just feel like I’m more than that," she explained. "I understand it comes with the territory. And I understand that when you look at my social media, there’s that kind of stuff. But I think it’s very important for a lot of women, and for myself, to feel good about themselves. I like to look my best and I do that for myself. I don’t do it to be compared to other women or to be complimented. I don’t do it for those reasons. I do it for me. I do it to look and feel my best... It doesn’t feel nice to hear somebody say, ‘You look great for your age’ or ‘You still look amazing.’ Why not just say, ‘Wow you look amazing,’ and just move on? I think critiquing women based on their age is unfair. Men don’t face the same scrutiny and I don’t think they would like either. But I know it’s not going to go away because it’s part of our culture." When it comes to looking – and feeling – her best, D’Errico said she "stopped baking in the sun." "I used to do the old baby oil baking in the sun thing long ago to get super tan," she admitted. "I’ve stopped that. I’ve let myself get a little pale and I wear sunblock all the time, no matter the season. If I want a little glow, I’ll use a self-tanner or a tinted moisturizer. I want to take care of my skin the best that I can and the number one thing you can do is stay out of the sun." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Donna D'Errico said she keeps plenty of fruits, veggies and nuts stocked up in her fridge. "There’s no magic product that will fix everything," she continued. "I don’t have a special skincare regimen. I sometimes forget to take my makeup off at night which is a huge no-no. I’ll wake up with raccoon eyes from my mascara. But I like to wash my face with a gentle cleanser. And when it comes to trying new products, I’m a professional researcher. I read up on everything I can because everyone swears that the new thing works. I think we’re all guilty of falling into that. But I want to take care of myself as much as possible. I just think we shouldn’t be pressured into trying every single product that has all these claims. Use what truly works for your skin and keep it simple." As for staying healthy, D’Errico said she "grazes throughout the day" because that’s what truly works best for her. "I like to stock up on vegetables, fruits, nuts, and avocados," she shared. "I like to have things like Impossible Meat to make proper meals. But I like to have a handful of things here and there throughout the day, as opposed to three large meals. I started doing that years ago and it just suits me better. But again, that just works for me. It doesn’t make it better than anything else." These days, D’Errico said she encourages her followers to help animals in need. And one way to do just that is to adopt. ‘BAYWATCH’ ALUM PAMELA ANDERSON REVEALS SHE STILL FITS IN ICONIC SWIMSUIT, WEARS IT TO SURPRISE HER DATES Donna D'Errico encourages her followers to adopt, don't shop. "I recently adopted a dog – he’s deaf, has a bum leg and no teeth – but he’s the sweetest dog in the world," said D’Errico. "He sleeps with me every night… I think more and more people are becoming aware of animal cruelty and getting outraged by what’s still happening. I just hope I can enlighten people."
'Large, tender, and buttery' Alaska scallops with pumpkin Alfredo: Try the recipe: Make a fancy feast of pumpkin Alfredo with seared Alaska scallops – in under 30 minutes. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Something about eating at home just feels special. It’s almost like you’re having a night out on the town, but, you know, at home in comfy clothes. Here, in this pumpkin Alfredo with seared Alaska scallops, you’ll truly feel like you’re indulging in a restaurant-worthy meal. "Alaska scallops are large, tender and buttery. Combining their melt-in-your-mouth texture with seasonal ingredients like pumpkin and sage takes this classic dish to the next level, giving you an elevated fall dish in just a few simple steps," GRILLED LOBSTER TAIL KEBAB RECIPE WITH LEMON HERB BUTTER Jeremy Woodrow, executive director of Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute, tells Fox News, "To get the perfect sear, pat the Alaska scallops dry with a paper towel, place them in a hot sauté pan and leave them undisturbed for two to four minutes, flipping only once when the first side develops a golden crust." When shopping for scallops, or any seafood this holiday season, look for "Alaska" on the label or signage to guarantee that it is wild and sustainably caught, adds Woodrow. SALMON RICE BOWLS HAVE TAKEN OVER TIKTOK: TRY THE RECIPE Serves 2 to 3 Prep time: 10 minutes Cook time: 15 minutes CHORIZO GAME DAY NACHOS: TRY THE RECIPE Jeremy Woodrow, executive director of Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute, shares his Alaska scallops with pumpkin Alfredo recipe with Fox News. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR LIFESTYLE NEWSLETTER
Win $5,000 playing FOX Bet Super 6 'Quiz Show': Answer questions on football, travel, and Adele: Contestants can play for free on FOX Bet Super 6 app. Fox Nation host Tom Shillue reveals the questions for the $5,000 Quiz Show on 'Fox & Friends' this week. The FOX Bet Super 6 "Quiz Show," a weekly contest that features six multiple-choice questions on sports, stocks, movies and more, offers contestants a $5,000 grand prize. All contestants have to do each week is try to correctly answer six multiple-choice questions on topics ranging from sports to weather to entertainment to politics for a shot at the grand prize. The FOX Bet Super 6 app is free to download and the contests are free to enter. Fox Nation's Tom Shillue revealed this week's questions on "Fox & Friends," which include guessing the winner and margin of victory in the Ohio State-Michigan game, how many travelers will pass through TSA checkpoints the day after Thanksgiving, and how many Adele songs will make the top 10 of Spotify's "Top 200" U.S. daily stream chart on Friday. PLAY THE FOX BET SUPER 6 QUIZ SHOW More than $5 million has been paid out to various Super 6 contest winners so far. App users can also play other games answering questions on various sporting events, including the popular weekly "NFL Sunday Challenge" where you can win $100,000 of Terry Bradshaw's money. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP FOX Bet Super 6 is available nationwide with the exception of Washington state. FOX Bet is an online and mobile sportsbook originally developed through a first-of-its-kind national media and sports wagering partnership in the United States between The Stars Group Inc. and FOX Sports, a unit of Fox Corporation. On May 5, 2020, Flutter Entertainment Plc announced its acquisition of and subsequent merger with The Stars Group.
