Flashback: Biden, Harris led frenzy to amplify Jussie Smollett's false hate crime claims: Multiple politicians called the attack an attempted 'modern day lynching'. Judge Jeanine Pirro and Joe Concha weigh in on the Jussie Smollett trial on 'Hannity' Empire actor Jussie Smollett was found guilty on five charges of staging a hate crime and lying to police on Thursday raising questions whether or not several high-profile political figures would offer apologies or attempt to clarify their public defense of his innocence. "What happened today to @JussieSmollett must never be tolerated in this country," President Joe Biden, tweeted in January of 2019 when he was mulling a presidential run, "We must stand up and demand that we no longer give this hate safe harbor; that homophobia and racism have no place on our streets or in our hearts. We are with you, Jussie." Actor Jussie Smollett arrives at the Leighton Criminal Courthouse on Wednesday, Dec. 8, 2021, day seven of his trial in Chicago. WHAT THE JUSSIE SMOLLETT CASE REVEALS ABOUT US Vice-President Kamala Harris also believed Smollet’s story and posted about it on Twitter calling the alleged attack an attempted "modern day lynching." New Jersey Senator Cory Booker, a Democrat who ran for president, also referred to the alleged attack as an attempted "modern day lynching." In this courtroom sketch, special prosecutor Dan Webb, left, cross examines actor Jussie Smollett Tuesday, Dec. 7, 2021, in Chicago. "The vicious attack on actor Jussie Smollett was an attempted modern-day lynching. I'm glad he's safe," Booker tweeted. "To those in Congress who don't feel the urgency to pass our Anti-Lynching bill designating lynching as a federal hate crime– I urge you to pay attention." JUSSIE SMOLLETT CONVICTED OF STAGING HATE CRIME, LYING TO COPS Reverend Al Sharpton claimed that the "guilty must face the maximum" for the alleged crime committed against Smollet. Biden Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg took Smollet’s side as well and used the incident to push for hate crime legislation. "While the struggle for basic hate crime legislation continues here in Indiana, this horrible attack calls all Americans to stand against hatred and violence in all its forms," the former South Bend, Indiana mayor tweeted. "Let's call it what it is: A vicious hate crime," former DNC Chair Tom Perez tweeted. "My heart goes out to Jussie’s family — all of us at the DNC are praying for his full recovery." Democratic Rep. Eric Swalwell of California called the alleged attack "vile" and "tragic." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "What happened to Jussie Smollett is vile and tragic; thankfully, he will recover," Swalwell tweeted. "But hate crimes like this are happening more frequently, egged on by careless hate-filled rhetoric. We start reducing these crimes by rejecting the speech - neither can ever be accepted as normal." Actor Jussie Smollett arrives Monday, Nov. 29, 2021, at the Leighton Criminal Courthouse for jury selection at his trial in Chicago. Smollett is accused of lying to police when he reported he was the victim of a racist, anti-gay attack in downtown Chicago nearly three years ago. Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Sen. Bernie Sanders, Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot, and many other prominent Democrats also chimed in with support for Smollett. Fox News Digital reached out to several of the individuals from this report regarding a possible apology or retraction and did not immediately receive a response. After a contentious week of witness testimony, counsel arguments and deliberation, the jury found Smollett guilty on the first five counts and he was acquitted on a sixth count, of lying to a detective in mid-February, weeks after Smollett claimed he was attacked by Trump supporters in a hate crime. The jury found the 39-year-old guilty on five counts of disorderly conduct — for each separate time he was charged with lying to police in the days immediately after the alleged attack. Outside court, special prosecutor Dan Webb called the verdict "a resounding message by the jury that Mr. Smollett did exactly what we said he did." Smollett "wreaked havoc here in the city for weeks on end for no reason whatsoever," then compounded the problem by lying under oath to the jury, Webb said. Associated Press contributed to this report
Dallas Mayor Eric Johnson says 'racism within the Democratic Party' is '800 lb gorilla in the room': Johnson criticized Matthew Dowd for dropping out of the Texas Lt. Gov. race to allow for more diversity. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Democratic Dallas Mayor Eric Johnson claimed Wednesday that racism exists in the Democratic Party and likened it to an "800 lb gorilla in the room" that everyone pretends doesn't exist. "I’m confused and a little disturbed by the reasoning here," Johnson tweeted in a response to a statement from Matthew Dowd, who dropped out of the race for Texas lieutenant governor earlier this week to allow for a more "diverse" field. "Campaigns are precisely for the purpose of selecting the BEST candidate," Johnson continued. "It seems my friend is saying that Democratic primary voters are incapable of nominating women and minorities if there is a white man on the ballot?" "If this is in fact the case then shame on the Democratic primary voters who are incapable of voting for women and minority candidates if presented with a white male alternative. But for white male candidates to stop running as Democrats to 'give us a chance' feels wrong to me," Johnson added. "The problem is NOT white men running for office. The problem is the 800 lb gorilla in the room, which is the racism within the Democratic Party that many pretend doesn’t exist. So the solution isn’t folks like Dowd 'yielding' to candidates of color. It’s addressing the racism," he added. Matthew Dowd ended his campaign for lieutenant governor of Texas on Tuesday after the Democratic primary field he was running in became more diverse. MATTHEW DOWD ENDS CAMPAIGN FOR TEXAS LT. GOV, SAYING HE DOESN'T WANT TO HINDER ‘DIVERSITY’ IN POLITICS "A diverse field is now emerging in the Democratic primary for this office," Dowd said in a statement. "I do not want to be the one who stands in the way of the greater diversity we need in politics." When he decided to run for lieutenant governor in September, his only opponent "was a white male Christian," he explained in his statement. Mattherw Dowd on Feb. 14, 2017 on the Walt Disney Television via Getty Images Television Network. Dowd made the decision to run two years after penning an op-ed for ABC News arguing that "white male Christians" should step aside to make way for more diverse candidates. "Instead of waiting for the diverse population of America to keep pushing and prodding, I would humbly suggest that we as white male Christians take it upon ourselves to step back and give more people who don’t look like us access to the levers of power," Dowd wrote at the time. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "We as white male Christians should do what real leadership demands and practice a level of humility which demonstrates strength by stepping back from the center of the room and begin to give up our seats at the table," he added. Fox News' Michael Lee contributed to this report.
New Biden US Attorney Rollins threatens reporters in tirade, resurfaced video shows: 'You know what I'll do?': Rollins yelled at local reporters they could get her kids 'f---ing killed'. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A video of new Suffolk County District Attorney Rachael Rollins rebuking reporters for attempting to interview her outside of work resurfaced Wednesday after she was confirmed to be President Biden's U.S. attorney for Massachusetts. In the video from January 2021, Rollins accused journalists of risking the lives of her children after a reporter requested an interview near her home, video shows. The film crew, who work for Fox-affiliate Boston 25 News, asked Rollins if she would be willing to answer questions. Rollins, who became visibly upset, demanded to know how the reporters knew where she lived, to which they informed her it is a matter of public record. "So as a Black woman, in this moment in this country, you're going to put my f---ing house on screen?" Rollins asked the reporter. At no point in the video is Rollins' house shown. "No, no, no, ma'am, we're just here approaching you to ask you a question," the reporter replied, according to the video. BIDEN US ATTORNEY NOMINEE HAS LENGTHY DO-NOT-PROSECUTE LIST "Get away from my family. Speak to me at my job. If I get hurt or harmed because of this, you are on the record for that, or my kids are f---ing killed," Rollins told the journalists in the parking lot near her house. "Who do you think you are? This is private property. Get out of here!" On Wednesday, Vice President Kamala Harris cast a pair of votes helping the Senate confirm Rollins to be a new U.S. attorney in Massachusetts. Vice President Kamala Harris in August 2021. Rollins threatened to call the police on the Boston 25 News team, saying, "And you know what I'll do? I'll call the police and make an allegation. And we'll see how that works with you." Rollins went on to comment on the race of the female reporter before threatening to look up her identity."So the rantings of a White woman get you here and scare my children?" Rollins asked. "Get off our private property, and I swear to God, I'm dead serious. I will find your name." When the White House announced that Biden was nominating Rollins for the U.S. attorney position in Massachusetts back in July, several members of Congress praised the nomination on Twitter, including Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., and "Squad" member Rep. Ayanna Pressley, D-Mass. U.S. Rep. Ayanna Pressley praised Rollins' confirmation. "Suffolk County @DARollins is a national leader on transforming the criminal justice system and fighting the root causes of injustice," Warren tweeted. "She is a great choice for US Attorney – @SenMarkey and I were proud to recommend her to the Biden administration." Congratulations to my sister in service, @DARollins, on her historic nomination," Pressley tweeted. "She has fought to transform our legal system by prioritizing racial justice, decarceration & reimagining public safety in MA. @POTUS has made an excellent choice." Hungarian-born U.S. investor and philanthropist George Soros has been bankrolling liberal causes across the globe for years. Rollins also received some praise from far-left district attorneys who were backed by liberal billionaire George Soros. San Francisco District Attorney Chesa Boudin called Rollins a "GREAT choice!" and Arlington County Commonwealth's Attorney Parisa Dehghani-Tafti said Rollins is a "brilliant lawyer and a wonderful person." Rollins' nomination became controversial after a variety of GOP legislators vowed not to confirm her for the position. "Democrats have defunded police departments, stopped prosecutions for numerous crimes, ended cash bail, and demanded early release even for violent criminals," Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., who serves on the Senate Judiciary Committee, said in July. "These actions resulted in a historic increase in murders and contributed to the crime wave. Rachael Rollins won't stand up for the victims of these crimes, and I will seek to stop her nomination." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., has also criticized her saying she was "soft on crime advocacy" and Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, called her a "lawless so-called prosecutor." Cotton’s statement was spurred by a policy memo Rollins released shortly after taking office in January 2019 which identified more than a dozen charges she said should be declined for prosecution entirely or recommended for diversion, such as mental health or substance abuse treatment. On her campaign website for Suffolk County district attorney, she included several crimes that she wouldn't prosecute, including trespassing, drug possession, disorderly conduct, shoplifting, and breaking and entering. Jessica Chasmar and Dom Calicchio contributed to this report.
Lawyer representing Oxford parents in $100M lawsuit says school ignored Crumbley's 'obvious' intent to harm: The lawsuit alleges that Principal Steven Wolf and Superintendent Tim Thorne made 'the student victims less safe'. Attorney Geoffrey Fieger says it’s ‘time we hold people responsible’ following the tragedy at Oxford High School in an exclusive interview on ‘The Story.’ The parents of two Oxford High School students who narrowly survived the Nov. 30 shooting are suing the Michigan school district for allegedly endangering their children in a pair of lawsuits seeking $100M each. Plaintiffs Jeffrey Franz and Brandi Franz are suing the school district on behalf of their daughters Riley and Bella, who are 12th and 9th-grade students at Oxford High School. Riley was shot in the neck. MICHIGAN SCHOOL SHOOTING SUSPECT POSTED DIRECT THREAT ON SOCIAL MEDIA DAY BEFORE TRAGEDY: LAWSUIT The lawsuit alleges that Principal Steven Wolf and Superintendent Tim Thorne made "the student victims less safe" before Ethan Crumbley, 15, brought a weapon to school and opened fire on his classmates. Michigan attorney Geoffrey Fieger Famed attorney Geoffrey Fieger is representing the family. He told "The Story" on Thursday that Crumbley's intent to harm students should have been "obvious" to school officials in light of his newly uncovered social media posts where he appears to threaten his school the night before the shooting. "They were aware of posts on the internet indicating that he was intending to commit mayhem," Fieger said. "He drew pictures indicating that he was going to engage in a murderous rage … they recognized it enough where they pulled him out of class." "Instead of calling the police liaison officer, they called his parents," he added. "They told his parents to take him out of school. The parents refused. They said okay, he can stay here and go to class." That decision, Fieger said, resulted in a "tragic mistake." Ethan Crumbley, 15, allegedly shot and killed four students and injured seven others at Oxford High School. On or around Nov. 16, parents apparently voiced their concerns to Wolf about Crumbley's threats made on social media and other signs of troubling behavior. In a Nov. 16 email to parents, Wolf wrote, "I know I'm being redundant here, but there is absolutely no threat at the HS…large assumptions were made from a few social media posts, then the assumptions evolved into exaggerated rumors," according to the lawsuit. A day before the shooting, the lawsuit says, Crumbley tweeted, "Now I am become Death, the destroyer of worlds. See you tomorrow Oxford." "There’s certainly responsibility here," Fieger said. "It’s time that we stop giving lip service to all of this, and we hold people responsible. If we’re not going to hold the Second Amendment people responsible for gunning down our students over the last 20 years, and we’re going to do nothing in that regard, let’s hold the other people responsible." People embrace as they pay their respects at a memorial at Oxford High School, a day after a shooting that left four dead and eight injured, in Oxford, Michigan, December 1, 2021. REUTERS/Seth Herald  TPX IMAGES OF THE DAY CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Fieger, who sued the parents of Columbine High School gunmen Dylan Klebold and Eric Harris in 1999, told host Martha MacCallum that it is both "horrific and ironic now that 20 years later, we’re going through it over and over and over again." Riley Franz was released from the hospital this week and is expected to make a complete recovery at home. Fieger said younger sister Bella Franz, while unharmed, is "traumatized beyond belief."
New York officials: Car plunging into Niagara River 'appears to be an intentional act': As of Thursday afternoon, the vehicle is still in the Niagara River. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Officials in New York believe that a woman may have intentionally driven her car into the Niagara River on Wednesday, which prompted a recovery by the U.S. Coast Guard. The New York State Park Police is still investigating how the vehicle wound up in the Niagara River, however, according to a New York State Parks spokesperson, it appears to be intentional. "The New York State Park Police investigation into yesterday’s incident of the vehicle entering the Niagara River is still ongoing. At this point in the investigation, entry into the water appears to be an intentional act," the spokesperson said. The woman, who was in her late 60's and lived in the Western New York area, was pronounced dead but has not been identified through the medical examiner or coroner offices. NEW YORK WOMAN DIES AFTER BEING STRANDED IN SUBMERGED CAR AT TOP OF NIAGARA FALLS A first responder holds the body of a person who was pulled from a partially submerged in the Niagara River near the brink of American Falls, Wednesday, Dec. 8, 2021, in Niagara Falls, N.Y. A car entered the Niagara River and became stuck in the rapids just yards from the brink of Niagara Falls on Wednesday, the fate of any occupants of the vehicle unknown. It was not immediately clear how or where the gray car entered the frigid, rushing water or whether anyone was inside. Water levels in the river were lowered by the Power Authority after New York State Park Police were notified of a black vehicle in the river at 11:50 a.m on Wednesday. The car was only 50 yards from the brink of the American Falls. Drones and the Niagara County Sheriff helicopter were used to determine if any individuals were inside the vehicle, according to the spokesperson. A U.S. Coast Guard diver is lowered from a hovering helicopter to pull a body from a submerged vehicle stuck in rushing rapids just yards from the brink of American Falls, one of three waterfalls that make up Niagara Falls, Wednesday, Dec. 8, 2021, in Niagara Falls, N.Y. A U.S. Coast Guard diver is lowered from a hovering helicopter to pull a body from a submerged vehicle stuck in rushing rapids just yards from the brink of American Falls, one of three waterfalls that make up Niagara Falls, Wednesday, Dec. 8, 2021, in Niagara Falls, N.Y. A U.S. Coast Guard diver is lowered from a hovering helicopter to pull a body from a submerged vehicle stuck in rushing rapids just yards from the brink of Niagara Falls, Wednesday, Dec. 8, 2021, in Niagara Falls, N.Y. Emergency personnel gather at the edge of the where where a person was removed from a submerged vehicle stuck in rushing rapids just yards from the brink of American Falls, one of three waterfalls that make up Niagara Falls, Wednesday, Dec. 8, 2021, in Niagara Falls, N.Y. Emergency personnel tend to a person pulled from a submerged vehicle stuck in rushing rapids just yards from the brink of American Falls, one of three waterfalls that make up Niagara Falls, Wednesday, Dec. 8, 2021, in Niagara Falls, N.Y. A vehicle is submerged in rushing rapids just yards from the brink of American Falls, one of three waterfalls that make up Niagara Falls, Wednesday, Dec. 8, 2021, in Niagara Falls, N.Y. Authorities monitor a car partially submerged in the Niagara River near the brink of American Falls, Wednesday, Dec. 8, 2021, in Niagara Falls, N.Y. A U.S. Coast Guard diver was lowered from a hovering helicopter and pulled a body from the submerged vehicle stuck in rushing rapids just yards from the brink of American Falls, one of three waterfalls that make up Niagara Falls. An official from the New York State Parks said that as of Thursday afternoon, the black vehicle is still in the Niagara river. CAR JUMPS CALIFORNIA HIGHWAY IN SHOCKING CRASH CAUGHT ON CAMERA The Niagara Falls State Park Operations Team will be meeting today to discuss how the vehicle can be removed. A U.S. Coast Guard rescue diver is lowered toward the vehicle lodged in the water at the brink of Niagara Falls, Wednesday, Dec. 8, 2021. Videos shared by a FOX 29 Buffalo reporter show a U.S. Coast Guard diver being lowered into the river to make the rescue. According to the spokesperson, the investigation is still ongoing. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Fox News Media's All-American Christmas Tree rebuilt, relit at NYC headquarters following arson attack: Crowds gathered outside FOX Square for the tree-lighting ceremony. ‘The Five’ and other Fox favorites are joined by NYPD and FDNY to debut the rebuilt All-American Christmas Tree a day after the original was destroyed in an arsonist attack. FOX News Media held a tree-lighting ceremony for its newly-rebuilt All-American Christmas Tree roughly 24 hours after it was destroyed by an arsonist. Crowds and Christmas carolers gathered outside Fox Square Thursday evening to witness the lighting of the All-American Christmas Tree. FOX NEWS' ALL-AMERICAN CHRISTMAS TREE TO BE REBUILT, TREE-LIGHTING CEREMONY WILL AIR DURING ‘THE FIVE’ "The Five" co-hosts Greg Gutfeld, Dana Perino, Jesse Watters, Judge Jeanine Pirro and Jessica Tarlov kicked off the event and were accompanied by Cardinal Dolan, Rabbi Joseph Potasnik, Fox News contributor Reverend Jacques DeGraff, and members of the FDNY and the NYPD, both who quickly responded to the arson attack. Fox News' Lawrence Jones and Abby Horancek, who co-hosted the first tree-lighting ceremony, also returned alongside Steve Doocy, Ainsley Earhardt, Janice Dean, Mike Rowe, Pete Hegseth, Rachel Campos-Duffy, Todd Piro and Carley Shimkus. Fox News CEO Suzanne Scott at All-American Christmas Tree Lighting In a memo to staffers on Wednesday, FOX News Media CEO Suzanne Scott announced that a new tree would be rebuilt and expressed gratitude towards FDNY and the NYPD for their quick response to the attack and for apprehending the alleged arsonist. "We will not let this deliberate and brazen act of cowardice deter us," Scott wrote. "We are in the process of rebuilding and installing a new tree as a message that there can be peace, light and joy even during a dark moment like this." FOX SQUARE ALL-AMERICAN CHRISTMAS TREE ARSON SUSPECT FREE ON NO BAIL Both FOX News Media and Fox Corporation have made a $100,000 donation to Answer the Call which provides financial assistance to the families of fallen service members of the FDNY and NYPD, the two agencies who responded immediately to the arson incident.  The alleged arsonist, the 49-year-old homeless man Craig Tamanaha, was released from custody without bail after he was arrested Wednesday morning. He was seen leaving a Manhattan criminal courthouse on Wednesday night following his arraignment. "I didn’t do it," Tamanaha told reporters outside the building. Fox News CEO Suzanne Scott at All-American Christmas Tree Lighting The arson and other charges Tamanaha was facing – including criminal mischief, reckless endangerment and criminal trespass -- were considered misdemeanors, not requiring a bail payment under liberal New York City’s laws, Assistant District Attorney Matthew Bayley told the Post. video from Fox &amp; Friends team member.  Courtesy: Laura Taglianetti Craig Tamanaha mug shot Fox News security spotted the accused arsonist climbing the 50-foot-tall tree at the center of Fox Square just after midnight. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Investigators said the 50-foot artificial tree was set ablaze using a burning piece of cardboard, the New York Post reported. The fire’s damage was estimated to cost about $500,000. Fox News' Dom Calicchio contributed to this report.
Los Angeles smash-and grab-suspects knock pregnant woman to the ground: police: The thefts were the latest in a wave of robberies. Omni Private Security Services CEO Joseph Farag and CFO Andrew Dimian discuss increased demand for their services amid organized retail theft in California. Six more suspects, including four minors, have been arrested in connection with a series of smash-and-grab robberies in Los Angeles retail shops, authorities said Thursday. The incidents occurred at four locations on Nov. 22, Dec. 3 and Wednesday, the Los Angeles Police Department said. In one robbery, one of the suspects pushed a pregnant employee to the ground, police said. Maricio Ulloa, 19, is charged with burglary and Angel Torres, 21, was arrested on suspicion of robbery. SMASH-AND-GRAB ROBBERIES PLAGUE CITIES WITH LIBERAL DISTRICT ATTORNEYS The other four suspects were not identified because they are younger than 18. The LAPD did not say how much in merchandise was lost to the thefts but flash mobs have been known to ransack businesses for thousands of dollars worth of goods in a matter of seconds. The thefts were the latest in a wave of robberies featuring groups of thieves who brazenly enter retail shops and smash glass displays to steal jewelry, designer bags and other luxury items, sometimes in the presence of shocked onlookers. Critics have blamed California's zero-bail rules for incentivizing such criminal behavior. The state moved to temporarily end bail for misdemeanors and lower-level offenses in an effort to reduce the jail population during the early days of the COVID-19 pandemic. "All the suspects taken into custody are out of custody, either as a result of one juvenile, or the others as a result of bailing out or zero-bail criteria," LAPD Chief Michel Moore said last week after 14 suspects allegedly linked to 11 robberies were arrested. Los Angeles County District Attorney George Gascon, who has supported ending cash bail for low-level, non-violent offenses, said his office will hold smash-and-grab participants accountable. Photo of security guard getting hit with bear spray in a Nov. 24 robbery by a gang of thieves in Los Angeles. Six suspects, including four minors, have been arrested in connection with other flash mob robbery incidents, the Los Angeles Police Department said Thursday. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "These brazen acts hurt all of us; retailers, employees and customers alike," Alex Bastian, special advisor to Gascon, told Fox News last week. "We will hold those responsible accountable."
Rutgers pierces No. 1 Purdue with stunning game-winning shot: Ron Harper Jr was barely over half court when he pulled the trigger on a tremendous shot. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Rutgers nearly blew the roof off their athletic center in Piscataway, N.J., on Thursday night as the Scarlet Knights pulled off a tremendous upset against No. 1-ranked Purdue. The Boilermakers had the unranked Big Ten squad right where they wanted them. Trevion Williams got the ball in his hands with a few seconds left in the game and put Purdue up two points with 3.4 seconds. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Rutgers forward Ron Harper Jr.  hits the game winning shot against Purdue during an NCAA college basketball game in Piscataway, N.J., Thursday, Dec. 9, 2021. Rutgers won 70-68. Rutgers inbounded the ball to Ron Harper Jr., the son of former Chicago Bulls star Ron Harper, and he got the ball past half court and heaved up a shot near half court and drained the three-pointer. Rutgers won the game, 70-68, in one of the biggest upsets for Rutgers in recent memory. Fans immediately stormed the Rutgers Athletic Center. Fans gather on the court after Rutgers defeated Purdue 70-68 during an NCAA college basketball game in Piscataway, N.J., Thursday, Dec. 9, 2021. Harper finished the game with 30 points and 10 rebounds. He was 10-of-15 shooting from the field and 5-for-7 from three-point range, including the game-winner. NO. 11 ARIZONA OVERWHELMS WYOMING IN FIRST HALF OF 94-65 WIN Caleb McConnell had 12 points, five rebounds and five assists and Mawot Mag had 12 points and three rebounds for the Scarlet Knights. Clifford Omoruyi added 11 points and three rebounds. Purdue suffered their first loss of the 2021-22 season. Purdue guard Eric Hunter Jr.  during the first half of an NCAA college basketball game in Piscataway, N.J., Thursday, Dec. 9, 2021. Williams finished with 21 points and 11 rebounds. Jaden Ivey had 15 points and Zach Edey added 13 points. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Rutgers improved to 5-4 and if they’re looking to get back to the NCAA Tournament, a win over a No. 1 ranked team definitely helps their March Madness resume.
Sarah Silverman knocks liberal uproar she received for criticizing Joy Reid: You dare criticize your own party: 'That kind of black and white thinking... it feels very not liberal to me,' Silverman said. In media news today, The New York Times catches fire for a headline saying the Fox News Christmas tree 'catches fire,' social media has fun with Hillary Clinton's invitation to 'MasterClass' lesson, and USA Today gets mocked for asking if math is racist. Actress Sarah Silverman took a moment on her podcast to address the liberal backlash she received for criticizing a hyperbolic tweet from MSNBC host Joy Reid. Last week, Reid sounded the alarm while sharing a CNN report about a proposal introduced by Republican Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis to re-implement a civilian-military force in his state, something that 22 other states currently have including New York and California. "So… y’all know this is fascisty bananas, right…?" Reid tweeted. SARAH SILVERMAN SLAMS JOY REID AS MEDIA PANICS ABOUT DESANTIS' PROPOSED CIVILIAN MILITARY FORCE IN FLORIDA Silverman, an outspoken liberal herself, pushed back at the MSNBC star's inflammatory remark. "Please read the article before you post this stuff you’re a news outlet. The truth has to matter," Silverman told Reid. The MSNBC host replied to Silverman, encouraging her to tune in to "The ReidOut" that evening for a panel discussion tackling the subject, which only fueled the anti-DeSantis stance. Silverman kicked off her podcast Thursday addressing the dustup, clarifying she "enjoys" Reid and "follows" her on Twitter while expressing her dislike for DeSantis. "Didn't really think anything of it, put my phone down, checked Twitter a couple of hours later and had completely been co-opted by the right," Silverman chuckled, "because I challenged a tweet of someone on the left to I enjoy. And of course the outlets blow it up like, ‘Sarah Silverman rails against Joy-Ann Reid’ because, you know, it's show business. It's all show business." SARAH SILVERMAN SLAMS DEM ‘SQUAD’ FOR OPPOSING ISRAEL'S IRON DOME: ‘NONE OF THEM TALK ABOUT HAMAS!’ "But more than I like her and more than I don't like him, I care about what is true. And how it's presented by news outlets," Silverman said. "I just feel like the far-right is nuts… and I worry that anything beyond what's absolutely true dilutes the power of what is true."  The comedian complained how "we're so divided" that liberals like herself "can't even criticize the people [on] our own side." "We can’t even critique anyone in your own party without punishment," Silverman said. "One of the hosts of The View was like, ‘What hubris for Sarah Silverman to accuse a Black woman of not reading,' Oy! Jesus H. - What the f- I f---ing surrender! I cannot believe I need to say this, but I did not criticize Joy-Ann because she’s Black, but because she’s a Harvard-educated journalist with the responsibility ideally of showing the whole picture and not just a piece of a picture." Silverman went on to say Reid is not just a "political journalist" but a "political commentator" with opinions, leaving her to ask, "Where do I get just the plain old news?" CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "I need a news outlet that's just the facts, something that I can draw my own opinion. It's just facts, and then I draw my own opinion on it. That'd be so nice!" Silverman exclaimed. "I'd like to draw my own conclusions sometimes. I mean, I'm interested in other people's thoughts, but, um, it can't only be that." "And good grief! You dare criticize anything in your own party, you're the enemy. And that kind of black and white thinking on both sides… it's such a turn-off to me. That 'you're either with us or against us' kind of vibe with no room for questions or critique- it feels very not liberal to me. It feels like right-wingish," she added.
Brian Laundrie's parents file petition in Florida to access his estate: Brian Laundrie did not have a will when he committed suicide. Senior correspondent Laura Ingle reports on the Brian Laundrie autopsy results revealing the fiancé of Gabby Petito died by a self-inflicted gunshot wound. Chris and Roberta Laundrie filed a petition in Sarasota County, Florida, on Wednesday to gain access to the estate of their son, Brian Laundrie, who died by suicide in a nature reserve about five miles from their North Port home. Brian Laundrie was a person of interest in the disappearance and homicide of his former fiancée, Gabby Petito, who was reported missing on September 11 while the couple was on a cross-country road trip. Her remains were found near Grand Teton National Park on Sept. 19. Authorities found Brian's remains with the help of his parents in the Myakkahatchee Creek Environmental Park in Florida on Oct. 20, more than a month after he left their home. He died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head. Images obtained exclusively by Fox News show Chris and Roberta Laundrie in the Myakkahatchee Creek Environmental Park with at least one law enforcement officer in October.   The petition for summary administration that was filed in Sarasota County on Wednesday would allow Brian's parents to access his estate since he did not have a will, the family's attorney, Steven Bertolino, told Fox News Digital. A local Florida estate attorney listed in court records for the petition, William Galarza, did not respond to a request for comment on Thursday. Bertolino said that he is also still representing the family. BRIAN LAUNDRIE UPDATE: FAMILY SURRENDERED GUN TO LAW ENFORCEMENT ON SEPT. 17 – BUT ONE WAS MISSING Neama Rahmani, a former prosecutor who is not associated with the case, explained that a petition for summary administration is necessary when assets are less than $75,000. "The estate will consist of Brian’s assets and liabilities," Rahmani told Fox News Digital. "Any civil wrongful death lawsuit by Gabby’s parents would be filed against Brian’s estate." Brian Laundrie as seen in bodycam footage released by the Moab Police Department in Utah. Chris and Roberta Laundrie turned over all their firearms to the FBI when they reported their son missing in mid-September, but one was missing, a source familiar with the investigation told Fox News Digital. Law enforcement spent weeks searching in the Carlton Reserve and the Myakkahatchee Creek Environmental Park, a swampy area just miles from the Laundries' home. Laundrie's parents joined the search in mid-October and his remains were located along with some of his personal items on Oct. 20. A notebook that was found "may be salvageable," according to police. BRIAN LAUNDRIE AUTOPSY UPDATE: CAUSE OF DEATH WAS SUICIDE, SAYS FORENSIC ANTHROPOLIGST Petito and Laundrie originally departed North Port for a cross-country road trip in Petito's converted camper van in June. Gabby Petito's remains were found in September after she disappeared while on a road trip with her fiance.   They made it to Moab, Utah, by August, where they got into a domestic altercation. Moab police chalked the incident up to a "mental health break" and separated them for the night, despite how visibly shaken Petito appeared. Petito, whose death was ruled a homicide by strangulation, stopped responding to her family's messages in late August and Laundrie returned home to North Port in her van without her on Sept. 1. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP In the aftermath of Petito's death, her family created the Gabby Petito Foundation to assist survivors of domestic abuse and help parents locate missing children. Bertolino said last month that Brian's parents were grieving their son's death. "Chris and Robert are still mourning the loss of their son and are hopeful that these findings bring closure to both families," Bertolino said. Fox News' Michael Ruiz contributed to this report.
Jussie Smollett lawyer says they '100 percent' plan to appeal guilty verdicts, 'confident' on reversal: Smollett's defense team claimed the verdict is 'inconsistent' during a post-trial press conference. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Check out what clicked this week in entertainment. Jussie Smollett's defense attorney said they will be appealing the actor's guilty verdicts Thursday following the conclusion of the trial. A jury found Smollett guilty of five of the six charges of disorderly conduct against him following a nearly two-week trial. After the verdict was read, Nenye Uche told reporters Smollett was disappointed and that he is "100% innocent." He said Smollett’s team is confident "he’s going to be cleared of all, all accusations on all charges." "The verdict is inconsistent," he said during a press conference following the verdicts. "You can’t say Jussie is lying and say Jussie is not lying for the same exact incident." Actor Jussie Smollett, center, returns to the Leighton Criminal Courthouse, Thursday, Dec. 9, 2021, in Chicago. Smollett was convicted Thursday on five of six charges he staged an anti-gay, racist attack on himself nearly three years ago and then lied to Chicago police about it. JUSSIE SMOLLETT CONVICTED OF STAGING HATE CRIME, LYING TO COPS The defense attorney remained confident in the appellate system and the Illinois Supreme Court. "We are confident in our appellate system," Uche said. "We are confident in our Illinois Supreme Court, and we're confident that at the end of the day, what's out there in the news media and in the gossip forums are not going to stand a chance in court." Smollett's return came after the jury notified Cook County Judge James Linn that they have reached a verdict in Smollett's trial. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER The "Empire" actor was convicted Thursday on charges he staged an anti-gay, racist attack on himself nearly three years ago and then lied to Chicago police about it. In the courtroom as the verdict was read, Smollett stood and faced the jury, showing no visible reaction. The jury found the 39-year-old guilty on five counts of disorderly conduct — for each separate time he was charged with lying to police in the days immediately after the alleged attack. He was acquitted on a sixth count, of lying to a detective in mid-February, weeks after Smollett said he was attacked. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP In this courtroom sketch, special prosecutor Dan Webb, left, cross examines Smollett on Tuesday, Dec. 7, 2021, in Chicago. Judge Linn said he will order a pre-sentencing investigation and attorneys will meet via conference call to determine a date for pre-sentencing motions The judge also said the jury will not be speaking to the media today, if they ever choose to. He is also having deputies escort them to their cars. Fox News' Julius Young and the Associated Press contributed to this report.
No letup in Biden polling doldrums: New polls point to continued problems for Biden and the Democrats. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. President Biden's standing with Americans remains in negative territory heading into the final few weeks of 2021. The president stands at 43% approval and 51% disapproval in a NPR/Marist national survey released on Thursday. A day earlier, a national poll from Monmouth University indicated a 40% approval and a 50% disapproval. Both surveys were conducted in recent days. An average of all the most recent national polls compiled by Real Clear Politics puts Biden’s approval at 42% and his disapproval at 52%. The average included a large survey from The Wall Street Journal conducted last month that had the president well underwater, at 41%-57%. NEARLY HALF SAY BIDEN'S ACTIONS NEGATIVELY IMPACTING AMERICANS TOP CONCERNS While Biden’s numbers remain in the red, most surveys suggest that his domestic agenda is still popular. Many of the latest polls indicate majority support for the $1.2 trillion bipartisan infrastructure package the president signed into law last month, and for Biden’s nearly $2 trillion social and human infrastructure and climate change combating spending bill – which passed the House last month. President Biden signs the "Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act" during an event on the South Lawn of the White House, Monday, Nov. 15, 2021, in Washington. Lee Miringoff, Marist College Institute for Public Opinion director, told Fox News that Biden’s "not being connected to his polices" and he’s "not seen as leading the bully pulpit." And the latest surveys also indicate a growing number of Americans don’t see the efforts of the Biden administration and congressional Democrats as helping to combat the rise in inflation, which is climbing as a top public concern. "One of the political problems with Biden’s spending plans is that they don’t seem all that relevant to the vast majority of Americans," Monmouth University Polling Institute director Patrick Murray highlighted. BIDEN AND DEMOCRATS NOT GETTING ANY BOUNCE FROM INFRASTRUCTURE PACKAGE And Marist Poll director Barbara Carvalho noted that the Biden administration and congressional Democrats are "not connecting the dots between concern about inflation and what's happening in Washington, either with the infrastructure bill or Build Back Better." In this image made through a window, President Biden talks on the phone with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy from the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, Thursday, Dec. 9, 2021. Miringoff sees red flags for the White House and Democrats in the latest numbers. "He’s  got his work cut out for him," he emphasized. "Obviously these are not the kind of numbers Democrats are going to celebrate." Biden’s approval rating hovered in the low to mid 50s during his first six months in the White House. But the president’s numbers started sagging in August in the wake of Biden's much criticized handling of the turbulent U.S. exit from Afghanistan and following a surge in COVID-19 cases this summer among mainly unvaccinated people. Gas prices grow along with inflation as this sign at a gas station shows in San Diego, California, on Nov. 9, 2021. The plunge in the president’s approval was also fueled by the rise this summer and autumn in consumer prices, and to a lesser degree the surge this year of migrants trying to cross into the U.S. along the southern border with Mexico. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The presidential approval rating has long been a much-watched indicator ahead of the midterm elections, and Biden's flagging numbers could spell major trouble for the Democrats as they try to hold on to their razor-thin majorities in the House and Senate in the 2022 elections. Biden's current numbers are in worse shape than then-President Obama's approval ratings in 2009 and 2010, ahead of the Democrats' disastrous 2010 midterms. And they're nearly as negative as then President Trump's approvals in 2017 and 2018, ahead of the blue wave the Democrats rode in 2018 to convincingly win back the House in the 2018 midterms.
Defense bill provision seeks to hold Biden accountable on Afghanistan: Measure requires a threat assessment after radicals were released from two detention facilities in Afghanistan. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. The House version 2022 National Defense Authorization Act includes a provision designed to hold the Biden administration accountable for the chaotic U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan earlier this year. "President Biden’s reckless Afghanistan evacuation allowed the Taliban to release thousands of known terrorists from prisons in Afghanistan," Rep. August Pfluger, R-Texas, who introduced the amendment to the legislation, said in a statement. "As of now, we have no idea where they went and what risks they pose to American citizens. My resolution requires DHS to conduct a full terror threat assessment on each prisoner to protect the safety and security of our homeland. It is one step in holding President Biden and his administration accountable for their failures in Afghanistan." President Biden. REPUBLICANS LAMBASTE SCHUMER OVER LATE CONSIDERATION OF NDAA The amendment requires the Secretary of Defense, along with the Director of National Intelligence, and the Department of Homeland Security, to conduct a threat assessment posed to the United States by prisoners released from two detention facilities in Afghanistan that housed ISIS and al-Qaida fighters. The secretary of defense will have 60 days following the NDAA being signed into law to compile the report, which will then be due annually until 2026. Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin. The amendment also calls for an assessment of the "quantity and type" of American military equipment that was abandoned in Afghanistan and whether there is a plan in place to "leave, recover, or destroy" the equipment. The annual NDAA passed the House Tuesday, with the lower chamber's version of the bill authorizing $770 billion in funding for the Department of Defense. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Taliban soldiers stand guard in Panjshir province northeastern of Afghanistan, Wednesday, Sept. 8, 2021. The bill passed with bipartisan support on a final vote of 363-70, with 169 Democrats and 194 Republicans voting for it 51 Democrats and 19 Republicans voting no. The NDAA will now have to go to the Senate to be approved before going to President Biden's desk for a signature.
'The View' gushes over Hillary Clinton's would-be 2016 victory speech: 'She did win': The liberal co-hosts praised Clinton for her 'resilience' and 'strength'. In media news today, The New York Times catches fire for a headline saying the Fox News Christmas tree 'catches fire,' social media has fun with Hillary Clinton's invitation to 'MasterClass' lesson, and USA Today gets mocked for asking if math is racist. Hillary Clinton's recent reading of her would-be 2016 victory speech caused a stir on ABC's "The View" Thursday as the co-hosts gushed over what they referred to as the former presidential candidate's "resilience" and "strength." While praising the speech they also lamented that Clinton was defeated by former President Trump, with one co-host falsely declaring that she even won the election and that whoever actually did become the first female president would be standing on her shoulders. Hillary Clinton speaks during a press conference ahead of the screening of the documentary "Hillary" at the 70th International Berlinale film festival in Berlin, Germany. on Feb. 25, 2020. Clinton revealed the victory speech she was never able to deliver during a lesson on the video streaming series "MasterClass" earlier this week. In the speech she blamed misogyny, sexism, former FBI Director James Comey and a number of other factors for her election loss. Clinton has maintained that she never wrote a concession speech for the night she lost the election. HILLARY CLINTON REVEALS WOULD-BE 2016 VICTORY SPEECH AFTER BLAMING SEXISM, MISOGYNY FOR LOSS "I think it’s historical," co-host Ana Navarro declared, mentioning, however, that Clinton was being paid for reading the speech. "I hope this speech is available for little girls and little boys in schools, I hope it’s available in history books, I hope it’s available in the Smithsonian, because there will be a woman president, and that woman president is going to be standing on the shoulders of Hillary Clinton." "Yeah, no question," co-host Sunny Hostin said. Sunny Hostin on the set of ABC's "The View." HILLARY CLINTON GAVE ‘MASTERCLASS IN DELUSION’ WITH EMOTIONAL READING OF 2016 ‘VICTORY SPEECH’: DEVINE Co-host Joy Behar jumped in, claiming she still wasn't over Clinton's surprise election loss, noting that Clinton won the popular vote despite losing the Electoral College. "She won, yeah," Hostin said. "She did win," Behar said as Hostin laughed. Hostin later clarified that Clinton "won the popular vote." "It makes me sick. I'm furious. I’m angry with the Supreme Court, I'm angry with Trumpers, I'm angry with non-vaxxers, I’m furious with everybody this week. Merry Christmas!" Behar said, without going into specifics about the items she claimed were upsetting her. Joy Behar on the set of ABC's "The View." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Co-host Sara Haines said it "was a sign of strength" for Clinton to read the speech, and that the speech itself was "powerful." "She was so brave. I thought she was so brave," Hostin said, before comparing Trump's victory speech to an "apocalypse." Co-host Whoopi Goldberg ended the segment by describing Clinton's reading as "about resilience," and praised her as an example for people to look to if they were having trouble getting over something challenging. Fox News' Cortney O'Brien contributed to this report.
Alec Baldwin steps out for first public event since fatal 'Rust' shooting: The actor emceed the 2021 Ripple of Hope Award Gala in New York City. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Check out what clicked this week in entertainment. Alec Baldwin and his wife, Hilaria, stepped out together to attend their first public event since the fatal "Rust" movie shooting. The couple was invited to the 2021 Ripple of Hope Award Gala in New York City on Thursday night where Alec was the master of ceremonies. The event was hosted by the Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights nonprofit. "Thank you for all coming out tonight. It's great to be together in person. It's great to be with everyone. My wife and I have six kids, anything to get out of the house for 30 minutes," said the 63-year-old, per People magazine. Alec spoke briefly about the activism of the late Bobby Kennedy and then introduced his daughter Kerry Kennedy, with whom he's longtime friends. ALEC BALDWIN DELETES TWITTER ACCOUNT FOLLOWING TELL-ALL INTERVIEW ABOUT FATAL 'RUST' SHOOTING The actor emceed the 2021 Ripple of Hope Award Gala in New York City. "Celebrate the extraordinary honorees, and we commit ourselves to… to peace, justice and compassion for those who suffer. That's what the United States should stand for," Alec continued. He also revealed that he and Hilaria made a private donation to the nonprofit. Kennedy thanked her friend for being there. "First of all, I want to begin by saying how really, really touched I am that Alec Baldwin came here to be with us," she said, per the outlet. ALEC BALDWIN 'RUST' SHOOTING INTERVIEW: FIVE MOST SHOCKING REVELATIONS "Alec and I met at a cocktail party in New York in the 1980s and a few weeks later I called him and asked him to attend a tournament. He said yes," she gushed. "He's been saying yes ever since. He's there. He's there in good times and bad, in your good times and bad and his good times and bad, he always shows up. I'm so proud." Earlier on Thursday, Hilaria claimed on social media that her husband has been suffering from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder  for years. Hilaria and Alec Baldwin were invited to the 2021 Ripple of Hope Award Gala in New York City on Thursday night where Alec was the master of ceremonies. The event was hosted by the Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights nonprofit. The mother-of-six spoke candidly on her Instagram Stories about social media trolls, tabloids, paparazzi, and how she's trying to speak her truth. "We oftentimes have people creating news stories about us. My husband is suffering from PTSD right now. It's not from what just happened recently, but he's been suffering from this for a very very very long time," she said on her Stories. DISTRICT ATTORNEY REACTS TO ALEC BALDWIN AFTER HE CLAIMS IT'S ‘UNLIKELY’ HE'LL BE CHARGED IN ‘RUST’ SHOOTING "These people know this and they want to poke at him. They want to upset him. I'm at a place where I'm tired of not talking," she added. The post comes a week after Alec sat down for a tell-all interview regarding the shooting on the New Mexico set of his film "Rust." Earlier on Thursday, Hilaria claimed on social media that her husband has been suffering from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder  for years. The Oscar nominee was holding a revolver that was discharged. A projectile from the gun hit and killed cinematographer Halyna Hutchins while director Joel Souza is recovering from injuries obtained by the projectile. In the interview, Alec made the shocking claim that he "didn't pull the trigger." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Instead, the "30 Rock" alum said that he pulled the hammer back slightly while rehearsing a scene. When he let go of the hammer, the gun was discharged, he said. Alec also said during the interview with ABC's George Stephanopoulos that if he believed he was responsible for the shooting and therefore Hutchins' death, he may have taken his own life. Authorities have said Alec was told the gun was safe to handle but continue to investigate how a live round ended up in the weapon. Investigators have described "some complacency" in how weapons were handled on the "Rust" set. They have said it is too soon to determine whether charges will be filed, amid independent civil lawsuits concerning liability in the fatal shooting. The Associated Press contributed to this report
CNBC's Jim Cramer gushes over economy as 'strongest... I have ever seen':  'A marvel to behold': The CNBC star recently declared the economy a 'juggernaut'. In media news today, The New York Times catches fire for a headline saying the Fox News Christmas tree 'catches fire,' social media has fun with Hillary Clinton's invitation to 'MasterClass' lesson, and USA Today gets mocked for asking if math is racist. CNBC host Jim Cramer offered a full-throated endorsement of the current state of the economy, predicting a sunny outlook for 2022. "To me, we have the strongest economy perhaps I have ever seen," Cramer told viewers on Thursday during his Investment Club Talk. "Did you see that number this morning, that unemployment number? It's the best in 60 years! Best since 69!" CNN GUSHES OVER GAS PRICES FALLING TO $3:35 A GALLON: ‘A BIG ECONOMIC RELIEF FOR MILLIONS’ "We have all spotted the ‘Help Wanted’ signs, the housing and apartment shortages, the tremendous demand for goods and services- a marvel to behold," Cramer said. "Oh, people are confident about their jobs. I say fantastic. And the ability [they] can get better ones if they want to. They're spending more than I've ever seen but they're doing it with cash, not with credit. They're doing so in a Roaring Twenty's style!" Cramer went on to defend Federal Reserves Chair Jerome Powell for raising interest rates to make sure "we have some but not too much inflation" and knocked "the media and money managers" for spinning a "fear-based narrative every time Powell talks." "We’re still looking at rising costs associated with port delays, truck driver shortages, and, of course, COVID-related illnesses. The fact that we only have one kind of inflation, though, is tremendous news, and it will make Powell’s job easier and should space out the rate hikes so that they’re palatable, so that they don’t hurt our portfolio," Cramer told viewers. NYT CONTRIBUTOR SAYS INFLATION PANIC IS ‘DRIVEN BY RICH PEOPLE FLIPPING THEIR S---’ OVER DEVALUED ASSETS He also suggested to viewers that they should come to "expect" multi-day market dips whenever a new COVID variant emerges as "acceptable risk." "I trust in science, the science of our great pharma companies, and they haven’t let us down at all. They won’t in the future, not in their DNA," Cramer added. NEW YORK, NY - AUGUST 03:  Jim Cramer visits the New York Stock Exchange opening bell at New York Stock Exchange on August 3, 2016 in New York City. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP On Wednesday's installment of "Squawk Box," Cramer similarly gave the economy a strong clean bill of health, "The economy is a juggernaut now," the CNBC star said, later adding "I just keep coming back to one word: Boom," and how the boom can be as historic as the one following the Spanish Flu.
Titleist blocks customers from personalizing golf balls with 'Let's Go Brandon': Several other controversial phrases were allowed. ‘Gutfeld!’ host and panel discuss Southwest Airlines drama after pilot broadcasts anti-Biden chant. Customers attempting to print the popular anti-Biden chant "Let’s Go Brandon" on Titleist golf balls were given an error message and told their orders could not be completed. "So @Titleist has now banned the phrase ‘Let's Go Brandon!’ on their golf balls," social media strategist Caleb Hull tweeted Thursday, adding that he had been able to print the phrase on golf balls in the past. Rep. Lauren Boebert, R-Colo,, and President Trump at Mar-a-Lago. Boebert wore a "Let's go Brandon" dress by Andre Soriano. A report from PJ Media also stated that "Lets Go Brandon" was not allowed on the golf balls. PELOTON ACCUSED OF BLOCKING USERS FROM USING #LETSGOBRANDON HASHTAG: REPORT When Fox News Digital attempted to personalize a Titleist Pro V1 ball on the company’s website with the phrase "Let’s Go Brandon", an error message said, "Sorry, one or more of the words you have chosen cannot be used. Please see our Terms and Conditions to learn more about what we will imprint." On the website, part of those Terms and Conditions reads, "Acushnet Company reserves the right to reject orders for imprints on our products that may, in our sole discretion, be inconsistent with our company values or brand identity, including, but not limited to logos, designs and/or personalizations that are negative in nature, advocate violence or illegal activity, or are slurs, hateful, threatening, libelous, defamatory, vulgar, obscene or pornographic." KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI - MAY 21: A Titleist bag is seen during the second round of the AdventHealth Championship at Blue Hills Country Club on May 21, 2021 in Kansas City, Missouri. It is unclear which of those categories the phrase "Let’s Go Brandon" violated. HOW 'LET'S GO BRANDON!' BECAME A NATIONAL SOCIAL MEDIA SENSATION Acushnet, the parent company of Titleist, did not immediately respond to a request for comment from Fox News. Certain political and vulgar messages that Fox News Digital tested on the website did not receive the same error message including "F Trump", "ACAB", "Antifa", "Kill Cops", "Impeach Trump" and "Kill Trump." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The three word phrase became a social media sensation in October after an NBC Sports reporter claimed during an interview that the crowd in the background was cheering "Let’s Go Brandon" in support of NASCAR Xfinity Series driver Brandon Brown after he captured his first race victory at Alabama’s Talladega Superspeedway. In reality, the fans were clearly chanting "F*** Joe Biden" which had become a trend at large sporting events over the past several months. A protestor holds a 'Let's Go Brandon!' sign in Grand Park at a ‘March for Freedom’ rally demonstrating against the L.A. City Council’s COVID-19 vaccine mandate for city employees and contractors on November 8, 2021 in Los Angeles, California. Memes, jokes, and comments immediately began to spread across the internet posted by Trump supporters, Biden critics, and those mocking NBC’s coverage during the interview. The phrase has popped up on billboards, in boat parades, apparel, a Republican congresswoman's dress, plane banners, and was even mentioned by former President Trump, although he said he prefers the profane version of the chant.
Biden presidency 'weakened' by progressive wing of Democratic Party: Washington Post's David Ignatius: Biden has been pulled left by progressives in the Democratic Party, columnist says. Washington Post columnist discusses Biden's Russia strategy on 'The Brian Kilmeade Show.' Washington Post columnist David Ignatius joined "The Brian Kilmeade Show" Thursday to discuss the "genuine recklessness" of Vladimir Putin, the potential isolation of China and how the Biden presidency has been destabilized by far-left policies. DAVID IGNATIUS: "I hope you're not dreaming" – you said it just right. That's kind of exactly the way I look at this. My hope was that Joe Biden was getting elected as a centrist – that's the way he campaigned, certainly in the Democratic Party. He was the most centrist of them. He has a record of having good relations across the aisle with Republicans in the Senate. I think he's been pulled left by the progressive wing of the Democratic Party more than he should have been. I think it's weakened his presidency. I hope he realizes that. And you know, it goes back to being the person the country elected. But, you know, I think that the right space – a winning space for the country – is that space in the broad middle where most people are. Most people are not on the extreme wings, they just aren't. You know that, I know that. Somehow we have to have leadership that reflects that. And once we have really good leaders that speak to the whole country, a lot of our problems are just going to be alleviated. WATCH THE FULL INTERVIEW HERE:
Philadelphia DA walks back comments saying city has no crime crisis after former mayor calls him out: The district attorney fell short of apologizing for his remarks. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. The Philadelphia District Attorney is walking back comments made earlier in the week when he claimed that the city does not have a crime problem despite homicides reaching a record number in 2021. Larry Krasner, the district attorney, denied that there has been a rise in violent crime during a Monday press conference and said residents should not be concerned with rising crime. "We don’t have a crisis of lawlessness, we don’t have a crisis of crime, we don’t have a crisis of violence," the district attorney told reporters at a Monday press conference. "It’s important that we don’t let this become mushy and bleed into the notion that there is some kind of big spike in crime. There isn't. There is not a big spike in crime. … There is not a big spike in violent crime. Neither one of these things is true." In 2021 so far, the Philadelphia Police Department has reported 521 homicides, which is a 13% increase compared to 2020 and the city's highest number of killings since at least 2007. Incidents involving a shooting have also increased by 4.4%, and the number of people who are victims of a shooting has risen by almost 3% over the past year. PHILADELPHIA DA KRASNER SAYS CITY DOES NOT 'HAVE A CRISIS OF CRIME' DESPITE RECORD HOMICIDES Philadelphia District Attorney Larry Krasner addresses the media after a press conference announcing Danielle Outlaw as the new police commissioner Dec. 30, 2019 in Philadelphia. However, the rate of total violent offenses in Philadelphia is down by almost 3% since 2020, with armed robberies being the only violent crime that has gone up in 2021 — by 27% since 2020. Violent crimes such as rape, unarmed robberies and aggravated assaults have all declined since 2020. "I know that some inarticulate things I said earlier this week have offended people. The message conveyed through media sound bites is not at all what I meant," Krasner said in a statement released Thursday. Krasner then went on to say that he will be more careful in the future but fell short of making an apology or changing his remarks from the Monday press conference. "Complete answers based on data aimed at solutions to gun violence will be edited down to sound bites. It’s my job to make sure even those sound bites are careful. As someone whose strong support is owed in part to the fact that I don’t communicate or make decisions like a career politician, it is my obligation to do better," Krasner said. SUSPECT IN SHOOTING DEATH OF TEMPLE UNIVERSITY STUDENT ARRESTED FOR CARJACKING IN JULY THEN RELEASED  On Wednesday, former Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter blasted Krasner's remarks in a Philadelphia Inquirer opinion piece and labeled them as some of the worst comments he's heard by an official. "District Attorney Larry Krasner’s recent remarks about whether we are experiencing a crime crisis are some of the worst, most ignorant and most insulting comments I have ever heard spoken by an elected official," Nutter said. Nutter also said that Krasner's comments reek of "white privilege" and "white wokeness." "It takes a certain audacity of ignorance and white privilege to say that right now," Nutter said. "I have to wonder what kind of messed up world of white wokeness Krasner is living in to have so little regard for human lives lost, many of them Black and brown, while he advances his own national profile as a progressive district attorney." Downtown Skyline of Philadelphia The former mayor also presented a question to Krasner: "How many more Black and brown people, and others, would have to be gunned down in our streets daily to meet your definition of a ‘crisis’?" CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Words matter. Words impact and trigger and hurt. Words mean something from elected officials. Krasner should publicly apologize to the 521 families of dead victims and the thousands of those maimed by gun wounds this year. He has ignored the pain of the living and insulted the memory of the dead," Nutter wrote. Fox News' Audrey Conklin and Andrew Mark Miller contributed to this report.
Meadows talking to National Archives about failure to turn over records: Meadows also faces potential criminal contempt charges for not cooperating with the House Jan. 6 panel. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. The National Archives and Records Administration  is in talks with counsel for Mark Meadows regarding records that he did not properly transfer to his official government account from his personal phone and email. "NARA is working with counsel to Mark Meadows to obtain any presidential records that were not properly copied or forwarded into his official account," according to an NARA statement first reported by Politico. A source close to Meadows told Politico that the former White House chief of staff is "not worried about it at all" and that "all necessary and appropriate steps either were or are being taken." Former White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows speaks with reporters at the White House, Thursday, Sept. 17, 2020, in Washington. Under the Presidential Records Act, all White House staff must copy or forward any presidential records created on non-official electronic messaging accounts to their official electronic messaging account within 20 days. According to a 2017 memorandum issued by the White House counsel's office under the Trump administration, "any employee who intentionally fails to take these actions may be subject to administrative or even criminal penalties." The NARA endeavors to recover such records when it determines that former presidential records are outside its physical control. Former White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows speaks to reporters following a television interview outside the White House in Washington, Oct. 21, 2020. Meadows faces potential criminal contempt charges for not cooperating with the House Select Committee investigating the Jan. 6 Capitol riots. JAN. 6 COMMITTEE RESPONDS TO MEADOWS LAWSUIT, SAYS IT WILL REFER HIM TO DOJ PROSECUTION On Wednesday, the Jan. 6 committee responded to a lawsuit from Meadows by calling it flawed and said it plans on referring him to the Justice Department for prosecution. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Mr. Meadows’ flawed lawsuit won’t succeed at slowing down the Select Committee’s investigation or stopping us from getting the information we’re seeking," the committee said in a statement. "The Select Committee will meet next week to advance a report recommending that the House cite Mr. Meadows for contempt of Congress and refer him to the Department of Justice for prosecution."
Texas dads arrested after getting vocal at school board meetings say superintendent aims to 'silence' them: Fathers arrested in September but still don't have court dates. Round Rock ISD police remove Jeremy Story from a school board meeting on Aug. 16. On Sept. 14, Round Rock ISD police remove Dustin Clark from a school board meeting. Both were later arrested and claim the school district is trying to silence them. Credit: Round Rock ISD and Shauna Kinningham Two Texas fathers who got arrested for allegedly disturbing meetings of the Round Rock Independent School District school board told Fox News they ultimately blame the school board and Superintendent Hafedh Azaiez for the arrests. The fathers characterized the actions as an effort to "intimidate" them into silence. The school board president disputed their claims. "I believe I was arrested on 9/17/21 to intimidate me and other parents and community members from continuing to speak out against the superintendent and five of the school board members," Dustin Clark, a father of four children in public schools who began speaking out at school board meetings virtually in April, told Fox News. "We believe we were intentionally targeted for arrest to silence our voices because we were speaking out against the school district for illegal activity," Jeremy Story, a father of seven homeschooled children and a resident whose tax dollars go to support the school district, told Fox News. "We believe we were intentionally targeted for arrest to silence our voices because we were speaking out against the school district for illegal activity." FORT WORTH SCHOOL BOARD RACIAL EQUITY COMMITTEE CO-CHAIR OWNS UP TO ATTACKS ON PARENTS The Williamson County Sheriff's Office arrested Clark and Story simultaneously around 5 p.m. Sept. 17, according to the fathers. Ryan Deck, the fathers' defense attorney, told Fox News that while the sheriff's office carried out the arrest, the school district's separate police department filled out the probable-cause affidavit leading to the arrest. Jeremy Story getting escorted out of a Round Rock ISD school board meeting. Both Clark and Story face a misdemeanor charge of "Hinder Proceedings by Disorderly Conduct," but the charges name different dates. The charge against Story traces back to an Aug. 16 board meeting while the charge against Clark traces to Sept. 14. Amy Weir, president of the Round Rock ISD school board, told Fox News that "there has never been an attempt to silence Mr. Story." She also noted that Clark has "spoken at nearly every board meeting since that September meeting without incident and without interruption." Jenny LaCoste-Caputo, a spokeswoman for the school district, told Fox News, "At no time were speakers not allowed to speak in accordance with state law and board policy at a Round Rock ISD board meeting." While Clark initially started speaking at board meetings to oppose mask mandates in schools, both he and Story expressed concerns about Hafedh Azaiez, a candidate the school board was considering for superintendent. Despite their concerns and those of two members of the school board, the five other school board members voted to hire Azaiez rather than wait to investigate him. FAIRFAX COUNTY PARENTS DEMAND SCHOOL BOARD RESIGN AFTER ‘DOUBLING DOWN’ ON ‘PORN IN SCHOOLS’ "We uncovered a video where he had used the police in his former district to silence a 68-year-old grandmother," Story told Fox News, referring to a June 14 video of police officers delivering a trespass warning to Raquel Gonzales Martinez, an order barring her from setting foot on school grounds for two years. "At no time were speakers not allowed to speak in accordance with state law and board policy at a Round Rock ISD board meeting." When asked about the trespass warning, Martinez told Fox News she "caught an employee meeting with the board president and a board member," a meeting she described as corrupt. The Donna ISD and LaCoste-Caputo declined to comment on the incident. Story also cited an ongoing domestic case involving Azaiez. While LaCoste-Caputo said Azaiez does not currently face criminal charges, the Travis County Sheriff's Office has confirmed it has an active investigation into Azaiez for alleged assault. Hafedh Azaiez was hired by Round Rock ISD for the job of schools superintendent. Azaiez "has not been contacted by the Travis County Sheriff's Department regarding any investigation," LaCoste-Caputo told Fox News. FORT WORTH SCHOOL BOARD RACIAL EQUITY COMMITTEE MEMBER DOXXED PARENTS WHO SUED TO STOP MASK MANDATE According to publicly available footage of the board meeting, when Weir invited Story to the podium to speak, she began by warning him not to talk about "something other than D1 or D2," the resolutions on the agenda for that special called meeting. Story responded: "I will show you how what I'm about to comment on is related to that." She twice interrupted him, at one point saying, "No, I do not want you to demonstrate …" However, she agreed to let him speak after he asked, "Are you saying you don't want to hear me?" Weir allowed Story to speak, but as soon as he said, "Our superintendent has a protective order…" she nodded to Round Rock ISD police, who escorted Story out of the building. "Mr. Story was escorted out when he attempted to speak to an issue that was not on the agenda for a called board meeting." Weir said Story had submitted a request to speak about "2 or something else – unlike the Board, citizens are not required to speak on items only on the agenda." Story admitted sending the note, but he insisted that he did not refuse to address the meeting topics. "Mr. Story was escorted out when he attempted to speak to an issue that was not on the agenda for a called board meeting," Weir told Fox News in a statement. "He was informed several times by the board president and refused to comply with the rules, which is why he was eventually escorted out." In the Sept. 14 school board meeting, two members of the school board – Weston and Bone – claimed the school district violated the Texas Open Meetings Act by severely restricting available seating. According to photos that Jeremy Story provided to Fox News, the school district set up only 18 seats in the meeting. Round Rock ISD reportedly stationed police officers at the doors to prevent members of the public from entering. Round Rock ISD school board seating. "The Texas Open Meetings Act states that the public must have full access to board meetings," Weston told Fox News. "I peacefully left the 14 Sep 2021 RRISD board meeting because the school police were used to prevent members of the public from entering our meeting." She noted that the district allowed only 18 members of the public in, although the room "accommodates 300." "Let us in!," the crowd outside the meeting shouted, after Weston and Bone walked out in protest. At that point, Dustin Clark raised objections. CRT DEFENDER TELLS PARENTS HE'S GOT 1,000 SOLDIERS ‘LOCKED AND LOADED,’ SOME SEE IT AS THREAT "Why won't you let the public in?" Clark asked. "There are all these chairs in here, you're not letting the public in. Why?" Board members gave Clark a warning, then continued with the meeting, discussing an increase in the tax rate. At this point, Clark objected again. "You're making a decision without the public's knowledge," he said. Weir directed Assistant Chief of Police Jim Williby to remove Clark. "Communists! Let the public in!" Clark shouted, as Williby escorted him out. "The superintendent was using school district police to keep community members out of the meeting while talking about raising their property taxes," Clark told Fox News regarding the incident. "I asked the board to stop the meeting and let the people in. My arrest seems to be a clear tactic to silence me and other community members." "The superintendent was using school district police to keep community members out of the meeting while talking about raising their property taxes." "Mr. Clark came into the board room after seating capacity limits had been met, and was escorted out after he continued to shout at board members and other attendees, interrupting the board’s discussion and a public speaker whose turn it was to address the board," Weir told Fox News regarding the incident. LaCoste-Caputo noted that the district had an overflow room from which members of the public could watch the proceedings on a screen. The board president claimed that both Story and Clark "violated the Texas penal code related to meetings of elected government officials." From left: Texas Land Commissioner candidate Weston Martinez, Jeremy Story, Dustin Clark, gubernatorial candidate Don Huffines. Story, meanwhile, had attempted to get into the Sept. 14 meeting, trying to skirt the officers at the doors. According to Story, the officers pinned him against the door jamb, and he suffered a bleeding abrasion on his back. He reported the incident to Round Rock City Police, and he said police were en route when the school board abruptly concluded the meeting. Round Rock Police Chief Allen Banks confirmed to Fox News that Story filed a police report that evening. On Sept. 17, after Story had filed his report, a Round Rock ISD police officer filed the probable-cause affidavit leading to the arrests of both Clark and Story. "Our understanding is the RRISD Police Department contacted the Williamson County Attorney’s Office and submitted an affidavit to a judge," Rebecca Rodriguez, a spokeswoman for the Williamson County Sheriff's Office, told Fox News. "A judge issued a valid arrest warrant for both individuals. The Sheriff’s Office was notified that the individuals would most likely return to the next meeting causing a similar disruption hindering the proceeding. Williamson County Sheriff’s deputies were notified of the warrants, located the individuals, took them into custody and booked them into jail." Rodriguez confirmed that the fathers were booked in jail on Sept. 17. ARIZONA AG URGES DOJ TO INVESTIGATE SCHOOL BOARD PRESIDENT WHO KEPT ‘DOSSIER’ OF PARENTS Both fathers were released the following morning and the sheriff's office did not detain them before or after any subsequent school board meetings. Story and Clark told Fox News that despite the arrest in September, they have yet to receive a court date in the case. Deck told Fox News that the county attorney's office has not yet decided whether to keep pursuing the charges. The crowd at a fundraiser for Jeremy Story and Dustin Clark. The county attorney's office declined to comment for this story. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Story and Clark told Fox News they're planning a civil rights lawsuit against the school district and members of the school board. They held a fundraiser for that effort this past Saturday, drawing more than 250 people. The event featured Weston Martinez, a candidate for Texas land commissioner, and three Texas gubernatorial candidates: Dan Huffines, Allen West and Chad Prather. According to the online fundraiser, Story and Clark had raised $31,000 toward an $80,000 goal as of Wednesday morning.
Josh Duggar guilty verdict: Jim Bob, Michelle Duggar and family react to conviction in child pornography trial: Josh's wife Anna Duggar has not publicly commented on verdict, but was seen exiting courtroom emotionless. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Check out what clicked this week in entertainment. Multiple members of the Duggar family reacted after Josh Duggar was convicted on two counts of receiving and possessing child pornography Thursday. Josh was immediately taken into custody Thursday after his guilty verdict. The former reality TV star faces up to 20 years and up to $250,000 fines for each count. Among those to speak out were Duggar's parents, Jim Bob and Michelle, who posted their statement on their website. "This entire ordeal has been very grievous," they said. "Today, God's grace, through the love and prayers of so many, have sustained us. Our hearts and prayers are with anyone who has ever been harmed through CSAM [Child Sexual Abuse Material]." "In the days ahead, we will do all we can to surround our daughter-in-law [Josh's wife] Anna and their children with love and support," the duo continued. "As parents, we will never stop praying for Joshua, and loving him, as we do all of our children. In each of life’s circumstances, we place our trust in God. He is our source of strength and refuge. Thank you for your prayers." JOSH DUGGAR SEEN SMILING IN MUGSHOT PHOTO AFTER RECEIVING GUILTY VERDICT IN CHILD PORNOGRAPHY TRIAL Josh's cousin Amy King tweeted that "justice has been served" following the verdict announcement. Josh Duggar faces up to 20 years and up to $250,000 fines for each count. "May the juror’s and Judge Brooks seek healing / counseling from all that was exposed to them," her statement on Twitter began. "May the children grow up with real Godly men as father figures who will guide and protect them. May the people who were once in disbelief have their eyes opened for the first time." "May the daughters who were abused feel validated," she continued. "You are truly beautiful and worthy of love. May there be intense counseling / healing. May there be wisdom for all those involved on how to move forward. Thank you Jesus. Justice has been served." Amy King's mom, Deanna Duggar, also reacted. "JUSTICE WAS SERVED!!! Praying for all involved in the case!!!" she wrote on her Instagram Story along with several praying hand emojis. JOSH DUGGAR'S WIFE ANNA LEAVES COURT EMOTIONLESS AFTER FORMER TV STAR CONVICTED OF CHILD PORN POSSESSION Josh's brother-in-law Derick Dillard spoke to People magazine on his way out of the courtroom. "We just wanted to, among other things, see the facts for ourselves," Dillard, whose wife Jill Duggar Dillard did not attend the trial, said before adding, "America is the best country to get justice." Multiple members of the Duggar family reacted after Josh Duggar was convicted on two counts of receiving and possessing child pornography Thursday. Derick and Jill later shared a lengthy statement on their family website. "Today was difficult for our family," the statement began. "Our hearts go out to the victims of child abuse or any kind of exploitation. We are thankful for the hard work of law enforcement, including investigators, forensic analysts, prosecutors, and all others involved who save kids and hold accountable those responsible for their abuse." "Josh’s actions have rippled far beyond the epicenter of the offense itself," the statement later added. "Children have scars, but his family is also suffering the fallout of his actions. Our hearts are sensitive to the pains Josh’s wife, Anna, and their seven children have already endured and will continue to process in the future. This trial has felt more like a funeral than anything else. Josh’s family has a long road ahead. We stand with them, we are praying for them, and we will seek to support them however we can during this dark time." CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Josh's wife Anna Duggar was seen leaving the courtroom emotionless. Anna wore a black peacoat over a matching black dress. Following the verdict, Duggar's defense attorney said the team respects the jury's verdict but does plan to appeal. "We appreciate the jury’s lengthy deliberations, we respect the jury’s verdict, and we intend to appeal," defense attorneys Justin Gelfand, Ian Murphy and Travis Story said. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Duggar's attorney said the team plans to appeal the guilty verdict. The Duggar family rose to fame after appearing on TLC's "19 Kids and Counting." The show was pulled from the network in 2015 after allegations Josh had sexually abused four of his sisters and a babysitter became public knowledge. Multiple members of the Duggar family attended the trial, including Josh's father Jim Bob Duggar. He was seen interacting with other family members during breaks of the trial, according to reports.
Kim Potter trial: Experts sound off on mistaking handgun for stun gun: Former Brooklyn Center Police Officer Kim Potter is charged with first- and second-degree manslaughter for shooting, killing Daunte Wright.  MINNEAPOLIS – Witness testimony is underway in the manslaughter trial of former Brooklyn Center, Minnesota, police Officer Kim Potter in the death of Minneapolis 20-year-old Daunte Wright, renewing attention over the debate of police use of force and raising questions about how an officer could mistake a handgun for a stun gun. "Every Taser course I know of emphasizes making sure you don’t inadvertently pull one when you need the other," said David Katz, a former senior special agent with the Drug Enforcement Administration and the founder and CEO of Global Security Group. "That is why most departments use the Taser in a cross-draw position, which is separate from the strong-side holster for the regular firearm." KIM POTTER TRIAL: DEFENSE TELLS JURORS OFFICER MADE A MISTAKE: LIVE UPDATES Betsy Brantner Smith, a retired sergeant and spokeswoman for the National Police Association, said the cross-draw position is meant to reduce risks, but mistakes still happen. This image provided by the prosecution shows Officer Kim Potter's duty belt as the state delivers its opening statement before Hennepin County Judge Regina Chu Wednesday, Dec. 8, 2021. Potter, a former Brooklyn Center Police officer, is on trial in the April 11, 2021, death of Daunte Wright. "This type of error happens," she said. "She’s not the first one and likely will not be the last to have these errors occur. They are few and far between, but they occur." Katz questioned the usefulness of having a stun gun shaped like a handgun to begin with and suggested altering future products to make them easily differentiated. One possibility would be building them with thumb triggers, he said. "The tactile sense would be made completely unique," he said. KIM POTTER TRIAL: DAUNTE WRIGHT VICTIM'S MOM FAULTS VIOLENT OFFENDER, MPD IN SHOOTING THAT LEFT SON DISABLED Brantner Smith said that any alterations in the design of stun guns for law enforcement use would have to consider a few factors. The pistol grip is useful, she said, because it allows officers to retain a stun gun in their hand if someone tries to disarm them. They also need a stun gun that they can quickly get in and out of a holster. Wright died on April 11 after a traffic stop in Brooklyn Center, outside Minneapolis. Potter, a field training officer at the time, attempted to stop Wright from fleeing after body camera video shows he broke free from Officer Anthony Luckey, a trainee, during an arrest attempt and got into the driver’s seat of his vehicle. She shouted "Taser" multiple times but drew a handgun and fired it into Wright’s body from a few inches away. The car crashed a short distance up the road, and Wright died from his injuries. "Taser" is a brand name referring to a type of stun gun. KIM POTTER TRIAL: JURY HEARS TESTIMONY FROM DAUNTE WRIGHT'S MOTHER, OFFICER WHO POTTER WAS TRAINING Potter’s defense team is arguing that the shooting was an accident, and harrowing body camera video shows the shooting and its aftermath, in which Potter appears distraught after realizing what happened. In this screen grab from police video, prosecutor Erin Eldridge shows evidence from the traffic stop of Daunte Wright as she delivers the state's opening statement in the trial of former Brooklyn Center Police Officer Kim Potter. "It’s her rookie, her recruit, that is making that initial arrest, and he’s doing it wrong," Brantner Smith said of the initial encounter. "So, she's got a process that she watches that makes sure that the rookie doesn't get hurt." That could have been mentally taxing, Brantner Smith said, noting Potter only had a few seconds to act. "The role of being a field training officer — and I did it for many, many years — is an extremely stressful one," Brantner Smith said. "Because you're not only paying attention to yourself and your own activities, but you are constantly evaluating and watching that recruit that you are training." With Wright struggling, Luckey and another officer, Sgt. Mychal Johnson, were leaning into the vehicle trying to stop him. In this image taken from police video played during the trial of former Brooklyn Center Police Officer Kim Potter, Potter, on ground, reacts after the traffic stop of Daunte Wright April 11, 2021. In this image taken from police video played during the trial of former Brooklyn Center police Officer Kim Potter, Potter, right, is seen after the traffic stop of Daunte Wright April 11, 2021. Potter shouted a warning to Wright. "I’m going to tase you," she twice says in the video. But instead, she shoots him once. "I grabbed the wrong f------ gun," she then says, followed by, "Holy s---, I just shot him." Experts estimated to The Associated Press that instances in which officers mistake their handgun for a stun gun happen less than once per year.  According to an article in Americans for Effective Law Enforcement, there have been nine documented instances since 2001. Posters stand on the south lawn Tuesday, Nov. 30, 2021, at the Hennepin County Government Center in Minneapolis before the trial of former suburban Minneapolis Police Officer Kim Potter. A similar incident happened in St. Louis in 2019. And in Tulsa, Oklahoma, in 2015, a sheriff’s deputy named Robert Bates said he mistook his firearm for his stun gun and fatally shot Eric Harris, a Black man who was not armed. Bates was sentenced to four years behind bars for a second-degree manslaughter conviction but was released after 1.5 years, Tulsa World reported. KIM POTTER TRIAL: MINNEAPOLIS ON EDGE AS DAUNTE WRIGHT'S NAME POSTED AROUND TOWN And roughly six years earlier, transit cop Johannes Mehserle was responding to a report of a fight inside an Oakland, California, train station early New Year's Day 2009, when he shot and killed Oscar Grant, 22, while the unarmed man was lying on the floor. A demonstrator holds a sign in front of a moving police line in Oakland, California, after a guilty verdict for Johannes Mehserle. The former San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit police officer was found guilty in Los Angeles for shooting unarmed black man Oscar Grant on New Year's Day 2009 at a BART station in Oakland. Mehserle said he had meant to grab his stun gun. He was ultimately found guilty of involuntary slaughter. The police department ultimately paid Grant's family $2.8 million. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP As for the 2021 shooting death of Daunte Wright, Potter is facing charges of first- and second-degree manslaughter. She could be sentenced to up to 15 years in prison if convicted of the most serious count. Prosecutors have already indicated their plans to try for a longer sentence.
Scott Peterson's lawyer claims new evidence will exonerate convicted killer: Peterson was resentenced to life in prison without parole Wednesday. Laura Ingle reports on the Scott Peterson case, a California man convicted of murdering his pregnant wife and unborn son, on 'America Reports' Attorney Pat Harris, who is representing Scott Peterson — a California man convicted in 2004 of murdering his wife, Laci Peterson, and their unborn son on Dec. 24, 2002 — claimed on Thursday that new evidence will exonerate his client. Harris' comments came after Peterson was resentenced to life in prison without parole Wednesday after the Supreme Court overruled his death sentence in August 2020 amid allegations of juror misconduct. Scott Peterson listens to Stanislaus County Deputy District attorney Dave Harris speak during a hearing at the San Mateo County Superior Court in Redwood City, Calif., Dec. 8, 2021. Peterson's defenders have theorized that Laci caught burglars across the street from her Modesto home before her Dec. 24 disappearance, and that she was kidnaped and killed for being witness to the act. Peterson's sister-in-law previously alleged in an interview with CBS News' "48 Hours" that neighbors saw Laci the morning she disappeared after her husband had already left their home for a fishing trip. SCOTT PETERSON'S SISTER-IN-LAW SAYS SHE HAS EVIDENCE THAT PROVES THERE'S ‘NO SCENARIO OF GUILT’ "We now know that the burglary that occurred across the street, which the Modesto police originally stated occurred on December 26," Harris told the TODAY Show on Thursday. "We now can present evidence that it actually occurred at the time Laci disappeared. The Modesto police initially, and when they were questioned in court, stated that the burglars told them that it happened on the 26th. The problem with that is…by the 26th, the entire street was covered with media who were covering Laci Peterson's disappearance." Journalists at the scene said there was "no way" the burglary could have occurred amid the media's large presence in the neighborhood at that time, Harris explained. SCOTT PETERSON RESENTENCED: LACI PETERSON'S FAMILY BERATES CONVICTED KILLER FOR FIRST TIME IN 17 YEARS "In the last 17 years, we've gathered a lot more evidence. We can prove that that burglary occurred on the 24th," the California-based attorney said. "…And we believe we have evidence that the people who were actually involved are people who have very violent, criminal history. And we believe we can prove that that is much more likely as to what happened…rather than Scott having killed his wife." Harris also said his client was not allowed to speak Wednesday, but if he had been allowed to do so, he would have stated that he is "not a monster," as some have implied, and he "did not commit this crime." Scott Peterson is led into Stanislaus County Superior Court for arraignment in the deaths of his wife Laci Peterson and unborn son, Conner, April 21, 2003 in Modesto, California. . REUTERS/POOL/Ted Benson TB/gn/ME "I think it's been difficult for him because his lawyers, myself included, have asked him [to] just let the process play out, and eventually, you'll have your opportunity, and I believe it's been frustrating for him," he explained. "He's been sitting in a jail cell now for 18 years, and he wants the opportunity for people to know that he is innocent and that he never would have hurt Laci and [their son] Conner." A new trial in Peterson's case has been scheduled for February to address allegations of juror misconduct. Prosecutors say Scott Peterson, 49, murdered Laci and dumped her body in the San Francisco Bay from his fishing boat on Christmas Eve. Her body washed ashore in April 2003. In his 2004 trial, prosecutors also pointed to Scott Peterson's affair with massage therapist Amber Frey, who testified she did not know he was married.
Fox News' Lawrence Jones on Christmas: 'The best time of year': Enterprise reporter at 'Fox & Friends' reveals profound truths about this holiday season — and what his parents taught him. Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy preview the ‘heartwarming stories’ in their new book ‘All American Christmas.’ Lawrence Jones, enterprise reporter at "Fox & Friends," makes a few things abundantly clear in his engaging contribution to the new book, All American Christmas by Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy. Jones reveals that sometimes the most beautiful Christmas isn't always the most dazzling or the most perfectly planned. Sometimes the beauty of this time of year is simply about being together with family and loved ones, and knowing you're deeply cherished. That can be a profound gift all its own. The joy that we feel at this time of year about celebrating the birth of Christ helps us break through the difficulties, the challenges, the stresses and the strains that all of us experience from time to time — maybe a lot of the time. Christmas has a way of doing that, year after year. A young Lawrence Jones. This adorable photo and many others, along with essays, recipes, playlists, and more, are featured in the book ‘All American Christmas’ by Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy. Here, in the following excerpt from a much longer essay, Jones shares the story of how hard his thoughtful young parents worked to help their three children experience the blessed joy of the Christmas season, no matter what it took to make that happen. He also shares how he himself, as an adult, aspires to bring Christmas joy to others as he moves through his own life. "I know one thing," Jones says of his future. "I'll do what my mama and daddy did for my siblings and me, and be sure to teach my family about being charitable and having reasonable expectations." Lawrence Jones in All American Christmas: In my family, Christmas was the best time of year. No matter what had been going on during the previous twelve months with extended family members, that was always the time when, if need be, differences were set aside and everyone came together. That meant that Mama and Daddy did their best to make sure we enjoyed Christmas and its true meaning as well as getting a few fun things to enjoy. In my immediate family, I’m the oldest of three kids, and we kicked off the season on Thanksgiving. After the Thanksgiving dinner had been eaten, we gathered together and put up and decorated the Christmas tree. It was artificial, but the sense of togetherness wasn’t. "Bit by bit we'd get the tree up and decorated," says Lawrence Jones about his family's Christmas tree. "It was artificial, but the sense of togetherness wasn't." My mama had me when she was seventeen, so my parents were young parents, but there was always a traditional vibe to that night and to the rest of the Christmas holiday as well. My daddy really got into the typical Christmas-card scene even though I grew up in Garland, Texas. He’d get a fire going in the fireplace before tree trimming started, Mama would make hot chocolate, and bit by bit we’d get the tree up and decorated. Nat King Cole would be singing about chestnuts roasting, but instead of going for a sleigh ride, we’d all get in the car and drive the thirty or so minutes to see the decorations that homeowners had put up in and around Dallas. "Those drives gave me a sense of what was possible if I worked hard at school and had a vision for my future." — Lawrence Jones in All American Christmas One of our favorite spots was a wealthy area where Jerry Jones, the owner of the Dallas Cowboys, and a few of the players lived at the time. Highland Park had wide streets that wound through the impressive homes. Lights were strung up in the trees, they framed the houses, and various still-life or animated figures stood on the enormous lawns. We were somewhat impoverished, and going to Highland Park felt like we were in a dream world. Every weekend between Thanksgiving and Christmas, we'd drive to a different area to admire how other people had decorated their places. TRUE MEANING OF CHRISTMAS AND THE JOY OF FAITH: HOW TO REACH OUT TO OTHERS I guess I could have looked at those houses and been resentful that those people had something that we didn't. That wasn't what happened. Instead, the trip was aspirational. I would say to myself, "Someday I'm going to build a house like that." Those drives gave me a sense of what was possible if I worked hard at school and had a vision for my future. My daddy played into shaping that view of what I could achieve. Many times, even when I was in primary school, he'd have me rewrite my book reports, and he always urged us to read, read, read. My mama worked as a nanny for a time, and my daddy was a computer operator. They were both employed and worked hard. But raising three kids even on two salaries can be a challenge. "Being together as a large family was more than worth the time, effort, and money," says Jones about his Christmases as a child. That was especially true when, while I was in the eighth grade, Mama developed lupus and eventually had to go on disability. At that point, I assumed the cooking duties, including at Christmas. In addition to becoming pretty good with the tools of the kitchen, I got comfortable using a glue gun early on in life. We were kind of a make-do family … Thankfully my mama was an expert coupon clipper. We were just getting by, and that big meal [on Christmas Day] was something my mama and daddy wanted to do and had to be resourceful for in order to make it all happen. GET THE FOX NEWS APP HERE Being together as a large family was more than worth the time, effort, and money. To this day, simple pleasures still mean the most to the two of them. Excerpted from the book All American Christmas by Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy. To purchase a copy, click here.
California opens probe into LA-area officers over racist texts, hundreds of cases now jeopardized: Hundreds of cases spanning more than a decade could be jeopardized. Omni Private Security Services CEO Joseph Farag and CFO Andrew Dimian discuss increased demand for their services amid organized retail theft in California. A Los Angeles-area police department facing allegations that some officers traded racist and homophobic text messages and joked about beatings, slavery and police shootings is facing a probe from the California Department of Justice, Attorney General Rob Bonta said Wednesday. As of Thursday, 15 officers with the Torrance Police Department have been put on administrative leave pending local investigations, police spokesman Sgt. Mark Ponegalek told Fox News. The fallout came after an investigation by the Los Angeles Times revealed a history of offensive text messages exchanged by current and former Torrance police officers and recruits. "Our communities deserve to know they can get equal justice under the law," Bonta said in a statement announcing the state probe. "Police departments are on the front lines of that fight every day as they work to protect the people of our state. However, where there is evidence of potentially pervasive bias or discrimination, it can undermine the trust that is critical for public safety and our justice system." GOP, BUSINESSES SLAM AOC FOR DOUBTING EXISTENCE OF SMASH-AND-GRAB ROBBERIES: ‘TONE-DEAF AND OFFENSIVE' Torrance police officers investigate a shooting at the Gable House Bowl in Torrance on Jan. 5, 2019. Early reports are that three people have been killed and four others injured in the shooting that followed a fight at the bowling alley. The shooting happened One of the hateful messages included a photo of several Black men being lynched with the caption "hanging with the homies," according to the news report. Officers reportedly called Black men "savages" and variations of the N-word, the Times said. In addition, the group of officers who allegedly traded the messages were involved in at least seven serious use-of-force incidents since 2013 in Torrance and Long Beach. Three ended with the deaths of Black and Hispanic men, according to records examined by the Times. Other messages reviewed by the newspaper showed officers talking about lying to investigators about police shootings and about using violence. The Times story was published Wednesday and an internal probe by the Torrance Police Department was launched hours later. The state-level investigation was launched at the request of Torrance police Chief Jeremiah Hart. "As Police Chief of the Torrance Police Department, I am committed to accountability, and I will not tolerate any form of bigotry, racism, hate, or misconduct," Hart said in a statement. The revelation has put hundreds of cases in jeopardy as 13 of the officers were listed as possible witnesses in 1,800 cases, including cases involving minors, spanning more than a decade, the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office told Fox News. As of Thursday, 40 cases have been dismissed, DA spokesman Greg Risling said. "Our office has already reviewed hundreds of cases involving officers who have been implicated, prioritizing pending cases as well as post-conviction cases where people remain in custody," he said. "Additionally, prosecutors are reviewing criminal allegations of unreasonable force that have been presented to our office." Los Angeles District Attorney George Gascon is facing a second recall attempt as criticism over his progressive policies intensifies. On Wednesday, he defended his policies while speaking with reporters. District Attorney George Gascon said he was notified about the messages in July when two former Torrance police officers allegedly spray-painted a swastika on a vehicle being impounded. "There is no place for racism or homophobic behavior by members of government, and especially law enforcement," he said during a Wednesday news conference to review his first year in office. "If you harbor those feelings, become something else but not a police officer." At the city level, the Torrance city attorney has dismissed 50 misdemeanor cases, Panegalek said. He added that the loss of 15 officers on leave has not impacted daily operations. "Some detectives are rotating through patrol shifts and we're covering everything," he said. The state investigation will help identify and "correct potential systemic failures in the department’s policies and practices," Bonta said. "Now is a time for swift action to identify the facts, take corrective measures where appropriate, and work toward community healing," he said. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP None of the officers involved face criminal charges over the messages.
Chicago man charged with murdering 71-year-old in Chinatown: The nearby elementary school went into lockdown during the shooting. Former DOJ prosecutor discusses crime wave hitting America as well as vaccine mandates with former FBI special agent John Iannarelli on 'Fox News @ Night' A Chicago resident has been charged after allegedly fatally shooting a 71-year-old man from his car on Tuesday afternoon. A spokesperson for the Chicago Police Department confirmed that Alphonso Joyner, 23, was charged with first-degree murder in relation to the fatal shooting of Woom Sing Tse, 71. The incident occurred at 12:30 pm on Tuesday when Sing Tse was shot multiple times while he was walking on the sidewalk, according to police. Joyner allegedly shot Sing Tse from a silver 2-door vehicle, and then left his vehicle to shoot the victim more before fleeing the scene. CHICAGO MAN SHOT DEAD IN SUSPECTED RANDOM ATTACK OUTSIDE CHINATOWN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL IN BROAD DAYLIGHT Picture of Alphonso Joyner Sing Tse was transported to a nearby hospital where he was pronounced dead. Joyner was also charged with aggravated unlawful use of a weapon and possession of a revoked firearm owner's identification card. According to FOX 32 Chicago, nearby Haines Elementary School went into lockdown when the shooting happened, which lasted all afternoon. Сhicago, USA - July 11, 2012: Chicago police patch on the arm of an officer at the Taste of Chicago. CHICAGO WOMEN PUNCHED, SHOVED IN STRING OF ROBBERIES OVER 25-MINUTE PERIOD, POLICE SAID One fourth-grade student told FOX 32 that she was at recess when the shooting happened. "I was actually at recess, I was by the gate of the shooting, and my teacher told me her dad got shot," said Malyaiya White, a 4th-grade student. Upon hearing the 13 shots fired, according to White, everyone ran inside the school screaming and crying.  CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Another student, 8th grader Demiyah Johnson, said that students and teachers were terrified at what had just happened outside. "It was really dark, and my friend was crying and panicking. Others were on their phones. The teacher was terrified as well — she was just sitting there she wasn't saying a thing, Johnson said.
Texas high school football player brutally beaten by his own teammates, family says: The alleged victim's brother said the attack was possibly over a girl. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A Houston-area high school football player is recovering from his injuries after he was allegedly beaten by three teenagers, including at least one teammate. The alleged victim was taken off a ventilator and took a few steps on his own, his brother wrote on a Monday Facebook post. The 16-year-old suffered multiple injuries, including multiple skull fractures and a broken clavicle after he was lured out and beaten, Fox affiliate KRIV-TV reported. SCOTT PETERSON'S LAWYER CLAIMS NEW EVIDENCE WILL EXONERATE CONVICTED KILLER Three suspects charged in the Dec. 3 incident were on the same Brazoswood High School football team as the alleged victim, his family members told the news outlet. They were identified by the Lake Jackson Police Department as two 17-year-olds, and 18-year-old Logan Huber. They all face aggravated assault charges. "It’s unimaginable really," the alleged victim's brother told the news station. "Allegedly there were two that lured him outside that were supposed to be his friends. I know a couple of the kids involved he actually went to prom with this year." Logan Huber Court documents obtained by KTRK-TV said one of the 17-year-old's punched the alleged victim in the face after he was lured by the two teens. He was allegedly slammed into concrete and hit several times. The alleged attack occurred after a party in Lake Jackson, possibly over a girl, the alleged victim's brother said. "These guys think they own these girls after they break up; they get to tell her who she can and can’t date after that, and they get mad about it," he told the news outlet. The alleged victim was taken to Memorial Herman Hospital in Houston where he is recovering. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Fox News has reached out to the victim's family and the Brazosport Independent School District.
Wisconsin teen robbed, sexually assaulted 87-year-old woman outside public library, police say: A middle school was put on lockdown during a brief foot pursuit, police said. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A 14-year-old boy armed with a knife sexually assaulted an 87-year-old woman and stole her car in Waukesha last month, according to police. The assault and robbery happened just after 1:30 p.m. outside the Waukesha Public Library on Nov. 30, Waukesha police said. Waukesha Public Library Officers were able to locate her vehicle a short time later. Police said the officers spotted a person of interest who matched the description of the victim. The person ran away from them, police said. TEXAS NANNY SENTENCED TO 30 YEARS FOR CHILD MOLESTATION During a foot pursuit, Les Paul Middle School was temporarily placed on lockdown. The officers were able to take the person into custody and the lockdown was lifted within minutes. Les Paul Middle School in Waukesha Fox News has reached out to the Waukesha School District for comment and will update this story accordingly. Police said the juvenile has been in a detention facility since the arrest. The case has been referred to the District Attorney’s Office and a referral is being made for it to be waived to adult court. LAS VEGAS POLICE SOLVE COLD CASE RAPE, MURDER OF 16-YEAR-OLD Milwaukee Common Council President and Mayoral Candidate Cavalier Johnson revealed that the suspect is a member of his extended family. U.S. Sen. Ron Johnson, middle, takes part in a candle light vigil in downtown Waukesha, Wis., Monday, Nov. 22, 2021 after an SUV plowed into a Sunday Christmas parade killing multiple people and injuring dozens. "First and foremost, my heartfelt prayers go out to the victim and her family. No one should ever have to deal with what she is going through. I hope and pray for her full healing and recovery," Johnson said in a statement sent to Fox News. "If what is alleged is found to be true, the accused should absolutely be held accountable for these actions." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Waukesha gained national attention Nov. 21 after a man drove his vehicle through a Christmas parade, killing six people – including a child – and injuring more than 60 people.
Delphi murders: Indiana police investigating fake model profile that contacted teen girls: The real model seen in the account is not a person of interest, police said. Indiana State police renew calls for tips as the fourth anniversary of 2 teenagers being killed in Delphi, Indiana approaches. Mother of Libby German, Carrie Timmons on keeping the hunt alive for her daughter's killer. Indiana police are investigating a fake social media account they say was linked to the unsolved murder of Abby Williams and Libby German in 2017. Detectives with the Carroll County Sheriff’s Office and Indiana State police say they have uncovered an online profile named anthony_shots, which was used from 2016 to 2017 on social media apps like Snapchat and Instagram. The individual seen in photos from the account is not a person of interest in the case. This fake account used images of a real male model and portrayed himself as being extremely wealthy, Indiana State Police said in a press release. He would use this information to solicit underage girls for nude photos and to get their addresses and would attempt to meet them. Photos used in the account and shared by police show an array of luxury items the account owner supposedly purchased, including Gucci attire and a sports car.       DELPHI MURDERS: FAMILY OF JAMES CHADWELL SAYS HE IS ‘ABSOLUTELY CAPABLE’ OF KILLING 2 TEENS Williams, 13, and German, 14, were reported missing Feb. 13, 2017, after they were dropped off at the Delphi Historic Trails in Indiana for a hike – then failed to return hours later. A search for the pair ended in tragedy the following day when their bodies were found by a volunteer about a half-mile off the trail. Abigail Joyce "Abby" Williams, left, and Liberty Rose Lynn "Libby" German. Police have released numerous audio and visual materials from German’s phone of a man they believe is behind the killings. He was seen walking on the abandoned Monon High Bridge around the time of the girl’s disappearance. Two different composite sketches and a grainy image of the murder suspect. A man named Kegan Anthony Kline, 27, who is allegedly connected to social media accounts named anthony_shots has been charged in a separate child exploitation case, FOX 59 reported. ISP and FBI investigators executed a search warrant linked to the accounts nearly two weeks after the girls' bodies were discovered, according to court documents obtained by the station. Kline reportedly admitted to investigators that he exchanged messages with and received pictures from more than a dozen underage girls. He was charged in August 2020 with 30 felonies, including possession of child pornography, child exploitation, obstruction of justice, child solicitation and synthetic identity deception, FOX 59 reported. GHISLAINE MAXWELL TRIAL: JEFFREY EPSTEIN HAD NUDE PHOTOS, PAINTINGS OF YOUNG WOMEN INSIDE PALM BEACH HOME Still, Kline has not been named as a suspect in the Delphi murders. ISP told WTHR it does not "confirm or deny anyone who is or is not a suspect in any ongoing investigation." "At this time we are looking for any information about the ‘anthony_shots’ profile and anyone who may have had contact with that profile," ISP said. Kegan Anthony Kline On Monday, police shared photos used by the fake account anthony_shots. They said they have identified the man in the photos. He is not a person of interest. Investigators are seeking information about the person behind the phony account. MISSING INDIANA WOMAN LAST SEEN IN SAN DIEGO NEARLY A MONTH AGO FOUND SAFE The man whose photos were used in the fake social media account told WTHR Monday he didn't know his picture was being used until he saw Indiana State Police's press release Monday. According to WTHR, he is a model and police officer. He told the station that ISP did not reach out to let him know about the photos. "It wasn't until I saw their press release on their page to where I finally realized what had happened. I reached out to them after finding out and am in contact attempting to help in any way possible," he said. The man, whose identity has not been released, said he has seen his pictures being used on social media and dating apps before. "It's frustrating as a police officer knowing that my photo was used for so many heinous crimes, and continues to be used as such," he said. "I feel incredibly helpless. I'd love to be there when they find  this guy so I can throw the cuffs on him myself." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Police are asking anyone who interacted with the account anthony_shots to contact law enforcement at either abbyandlibbytip@cacoshrf.com or 765-822-3535. Fox News’ Greg Norman and Travis Fedschun contributed to this report.
Oklahoma inmate Bigler Stouffer II defiantly 'joked' and 'laughed' in moments before execution: Bigler Stouffer II, 79, was sentenced to death for the 1985 murder of beloved school teacher Linda Reaves. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A defiant Oklahoma inmate executed Thursday for the 1985 shooting death of a school teacher to try to score a $2 million life insurance payout "joked" and "laughed" in his final moments. Bigler Stouffer II, 79, received the lethal injection at 10 a.m. at Oklahoma State Penitentiary in McAlester accompanied in the death chamber by his pastor Howard Potts, as a reporter watched from the witness room 15 feet away. FILE - This undated photo provided by the Oklahoma Department of Corrections shows Bigler Jobe Stouffer II. Bigler Stouffer II received a three-drug lethal injection at 10 a.m. Thursday, Dec. 9, 2021, at the Oklahoma State Penitentiary in McAlester, for the 1985 slaying of an Oklahoma City-area teacher. "This is the last moment of your life on earth and it’s going to be a real shot in the arm," Potts quipped to Stouffer, according to FOX25. "When that sunk in he began to smile and laugh. We were cutting up the whole time." MISSISSIPPI EXECUTES INMATE WHO SHOT WIFE, SEXUALLY ASSAULTED STEPDAUGHTER WHILE SHE LAY DYING Potts added, "We joked. We talked about things he had been through." The microphone in the death chamber wasn’t on, but the reporter observed Stouffer laughing and smiling, according to FOX25. In Stouffer’s final public statement shortly before the injection he expressed no remorse. "My request is that my father forgive them. Thank you," he said cryptically. After receiving the three-drug cocktail, Stouffer’s breathing grew increasingly shallow, and he was declared dead at 10:16 a.m. Stouffer was convicted and sentenced to death in 2003 for the shooting that left Reaves dead and her boyfriend, Doug Ivens, seriously injured. Prosecutors argued at trial that Stouffer showed up at Ivens’ home purportedly to borrow a gun. OKLAHOMA MAN ALLEGEDLY KILLED THEN BURIED EMPLOYEE UNDER CUSTOMER'S SEPTIC TANK, AUTHORITIES SAY Instead, he opened fire on Reaves and shot Ivens three times with a .38-caliber pistol, striking him once in the face. Ivens, who died in 2016, testified against Stouffer. At the time Stouffer was dating Ivens’ ex-wife, who was the beneficiary of his $2 million life insurance policy. Prosecutors argued that Stouffer plotted the murder to get his hands on the massive payout. Stouffer has maintained his innocence, and his final appeal with the U.S. Supreme Court was denied two hours before he was put to death. At a parole board hearing last month, Stouffer said Ivens was shot as the pair fought over the gun, and that Reaves was already dead when he arrived. A police officer patrols in front of of the U.S. Supreme Court in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday, Oct. 12, 2021. Photographer: Emily Elconin/Bloomberg via Getty Images "I am totally innocent of the murder of Linda Reaves and my heart goes out to the family of Linda Reaves that have suffered as a result of her murder," he told the board during the video appearance from prison. The board recommended that Republican Gov. Kevin Stitt commute Stouffer’s death sentence. The governor rejected the request. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Today we witnessed the law of the land carried out," Rodney Thomson, Reaves’ cousin, told reporters after Stouffer’s death. "Although long in coming, justice has prevailed." Oklahoma has a troubled history with executions — including a botched lethal injection in April 2014 in which inmate Clayton Lockett struggled on gurney for 43 minutes before dying. Kevin Stitt, governor of Oklahoma, speaks during a meeting with U.S. President Donald Trump and governors in the State Dining Room of the White House in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Thursday, June 18, 2020. Photographer: Chris Kleponis/Polaris/Bloomberg via Getty Images The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Treasure hunter who refused to disclose location of shipwreck’s 500 coins marks 6th year in jail: Tommy Thompson, 69, still won't cooperate with authorities. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A former deep-sea treasure hunter is preparing to mark his sixth year in jail for refusing to disclose the whereabouts of 500 missing coins made from gold found in an historic shipwreck. Research scientist Tommy Thompson has been held in contempt of court since Dec. 15, 2015, for that refusal. He is also incurring a daily fine of $1,000. Thompson's case dates to his discovery of the S.S. Central America, known as the Ship of Gold, in 1988. The gold rush-era ship sank in a hurricane off South Carolina in 1857 with thousands of pounds of gold aboard, contributing to an economic panic. ALLEGED FOX CHRISTMAS TREE ARSONIST REVEALS THOUGHTS BEFORE SETTING IT ABLAZE: ‘ALL DAY LONG’ This undated file photo provided by the Delaware County Sheriff's Office in Delaware, Ohio, shows Tommy Thompson. Despite an investors lawsuit and a federal court order, Thompson, 69, still won't cooperate with authorities trying to find those coins, according to court records, federal prosecutors and the judge who found Thompson in contempt. Thompson says he’s already said everything he knows about the coins. Thompson pleaded guilty in April 2015 for his failure to appear for a 2012 hearing and was sentenced to two years in prison and a $250,000 fine. But Thompson’s criminal sentence has been delayed until the issue of the gold coins is resolved. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Federal law generally limits jail time for contempt of court to 18 months. But a federal appeals court in 2019 rejected Thompson’s argument that that law applies to him, saying his refusal violates conditions of a plea agreement. After technology problems cancelled Thompson's latest virtual hearing last week, federal Judge Algenon Marbley scheduled a new hearing for Jan. 7.
Alleged Fox Christmas tree arsonist reveals thoughts before setting it on fire: 'All day long': Man accused of torching the Fox News' All-American Christmas tree was freed Wednesday night without bail. Craig Tamanaha was arraigned for setting Fox's 50-foot Christmas tree ablaze. The man accused of torching a Christmas tree outside the New York City headquarters of Fox News was freed Wednesday night without bail — shortly after prosecutors reduced the number of charges against him from seven to three. SUSPECTED FOX NEWS ALL-AMERICAN CHRISTMAS TREE ARSONIST COULD BE BACK ON STREETS IN A MATTER OF HOURS: EXPERT "I have been thinking about lighting the tree on fire all day long," Craig Tamanaha allegedly told Detective Matthew Demaio after he set ablaze the artificial tree decorated in red, white and blue, according to court papers. Craig Tamanaha mug shot Tamanaha, 49, was arraigned on one count each of felony second-degree criminal mischief, misdemeanor second-degree reckless endangerment and misdemeanor fifth-degree arson. New York criminal justice reforms enacted in January 2020 bar judges from setting bail on these charges. Criminal defense lawyer Mark Bederow told Fox News that Tamanaha would have had to be charged with third-degree arson as a hate crime for the case to be bail eligible. FOX SQUARE ALL-AMERICAN CHRISTMAS TREE ARSON SUSPECT FREE ON NO BAIL "I didn’t do it," the defendant told reporters as he exited the courtroom before hurling obscenities at them, according to video taken by the New York Post. Rebuilding Fox Square's All-American Christmas Tree "The moms that want to rape their f—-king daughter’s — they set it on fire," Tamanaha shouted before asking reporters for a cigarette. Tamanaha allegedly sneaked into the enclosure around the 50-foot tree outside Fox News headquarters in Midtown Manhattan at about 12:10 a.m. and allegedly lit it on fire, causing $500,000 in damage, according to the complaint. FOX SQUARE'S ALL-AMERICAN CHRISTMAS TREE BURNED IN FIRE, SUSPECT ARRESTED Police charged Tamanaha with seven counts — including criminal nuisance, criminal trespass, criminal tampering and disorderly conduct, which are also not bail eligible crimes. The Christmas tree at the center of Fox Square caught fire early Tuesday. Police said they arrested a man running from the scene. The Manhattan District Attorney’s Office didn’t immediately return a request for comment on why they declined to hit Tamanaha with the seven charges for which he was arrested. Freelance photographer Jeenah Moon told Fox News that Tamanaha had exposed himself Nov. 29 outside the Ghislaine Maxwell trial. "He was acting weird and pulled down his pants," she said. The shutterbug snapped a pic of him as NYPD officers escorted him away. He was not arrested for the alleged indecent exposure. FOX NEWS' ALL-AMERICAN CHRISTMAS TREE TO BE REBUILT, TREE-LIGHTING CEREMONY WILL AIR DURING ‘THE FIVE’ Meanwhile, Fox News plans to unveil a new All-American Christmas tree in Fox Square at 48th Street and Sixth Avenue during "The Five." "We have planned for a new tree to be rebuilt and installed by Thursday afternoon as a sign of resilience and hope in the face of a horrible act," Fox News CEO Suzanne Scott wrote in an internal company email. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Cardinal Dolan, Reverend Jacques DeGraff, Rabbi Joseph Ptasnik and members of the FDNY and NYPD as well as Christmas carolers will be present for the tree lighting, Scott said. Tamanaha, who is homeless, faces a maximum of two to seven years in prison if convicted of the top count. He's due back in court Jan. 4.
Penn trans swimmer’s teammate speaks out as Lia Thomas smashes more records: Lia Thomas is smashing NCAA swimming records. Outkick founder Clay Travis joined 'Fox & Friends,' arguing the issue 'threatens to destroy all of women's sports.' EXCLUSIVE: While University of Pennsylvania transgender swimmer Lia Thomas, who spent three years at the Ivy League school swimming as a male, has been busy smashing female pool records, friction has been building within the team, according to a Penn female swimmer who said she feared for her ability to find employment after graduating from college for sharing her honest opinion about a transgender teammate. For that reason, OutKick is granting her anonymity to speak out. Thomas’ latest round of swimming record destruction came at a three-day meet in Akron, Ohio, where numerous pool, meet and program records weren’t just destroyed but lowered to a point where they may never be broken. Friday, the Ivy League 500 freestyle record was broken. Saturday, Thomas set the nation’s best time in the 200 freestyle, which also destroyed pool, meet, and Penn program records. In the 1650 freestyle final, Thomas didn’t just win and set new program, pool, and meet records. It was total annihilation. Penn’s Anna Kalandadze finished in second place — 38 seconds behind Thomas. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Lia Thomas notched a winning time of 4:34.06 in one of her meets. "Pretty much everyone individually has spoken to our coaches about not liking this. Our coach [Mike Schnur] just really likes winning. He’s like most coaches. I think secretly everyone just knows it’s the wrong thing to do," the female Penn swimmer said during a phone interview. "When the whole team is together, we have to be like, ‘Oh my gosh, go Lia, that’s great, you’re amazing.’ It’s very fake," she added. Needless to say, 2021 has been a huge change for the Penn women’s swimming team compared to where the program was in 2019 and the early part of 2020 before COVID caused the shutdown of the program for the 2020 season. Members of the team were first alerted to the forthcoming change in 2019 when Thomas, who was second-team All-Ivy League as a male during the 2018-19 season, announced that he would be going through the transition that would allow him to compete as a woman under the NCAA’s transgender policy. The NCAA’s policy on transgender athletes states: A trans female treated with testosterone suppression medication may continue to compete on a men’s team but may not compete on a women’s team without changing it to a mixed team status until completing one year of testosterone suppression treatment. A trans male who has received a medical exemption for treatment with testosterone is no longer eligible to compete on a women’s team without changing that team status to a mixed team. Fast forward to the fall of 2021. Penn is five meets and an invitational into the season and the school now has a legitimate contender for NCAA titles in the prestigious freestyle category. Olympic heroes Missy Franklin and Katie Ledecky hold NCAA records that Thomas could own by the end of the 2021-22 season. "The Ivy League is not a fast league for swimming, so that’s why it’s particularly ridiculous that we could potentially have an NCAA champion. That’s unheard of coming from the Ivy League," Thomas’ teammate explained. PENNSYLVANIA TRANSGENDER COLLEGE SWIMMER DOMINATES COMPETITION, SETS NUMEROUS RECORDS "On paper, if Lia Thomas gets back down to Will Thomas’ best times, those numbers are female world records. Faster than all the times Katie Ledecky went in college. Faster than any other Olympian you can think of. His times in three events are [female] world records." Thomas’ current best times racing for the women’s team: 200 free: 1:41.93 500 free: 4:34:06 1650 free: 15:59.71 Thomas’ best times racing as a male the first three years at Penn: 200 Free … 1:39.31 500 Free … 4:18.72 1,650 Free … 14:54.76 NCAA women’s swimming records: 200 free: 1:39:10 500 free: 4:24:06 1650 free: 15:03:31 Can Lia Thomas duplicate the times put up by Will Thomas after at least a year of testosterone suppression? The teammate who spoke to OutKick doesn’t think it’s out of the question, based on what she saw from Thomas in November and early December. "One year doesn’t mean anything. What about the years of puberty as a male, the male growth you went through as a man?" the teammate asked. Thomas attends UPenn. In a study published in the December 2020 edition of the British Journal of Sports Medicine, researchers found that the one-year waiting period used by the NCAA and other athletic organizations is inadequate. "For the Olympic level, the elite level, I’d say probably two years is more realistic than one year," lead author Dr. Timothy Roberts, from Children’s Mercy Hospital in Kansas City, Missouri, told NBC News. "At one year, the trans women on average still have an advantage over the cis women." Roberts gathered the data while studying the athletic performance of men and women in the Air Force who were required to go through physical readiness tests. Researchers reviewed test results and medical records of 29 trans men and 46 trans women. "We compared pre-and post-hormone fitness test results of the trans women and trans men with the average performance of all women and men under the age of 30 in the Air Force between 2004 and 2014. We also measured the rate of hormone-associated changes in body composition and athletic performance," the authors stated. The average age of participants was 26.2 years old. LAUREL HUBBARD 'GRATEFUL' FOR OLYMPICS OPPORTUNITY AFTER MAKING HISTORY "Prior to gender affirming hormones, trans women performed 31% more push-ups and 15% more sit-ups in 1 min and ran 1.5 miles 21% faster than their female counterparts. After 2 years of taking feminizing hormones, the push-up and sit-up differences disappeared but trans women were still 12% faster," the study states. So if Thomas has such an advantage in the pool, as suggested by the 2020 study, why don’t Penn swimmers organize some sort of protest and scream from the rooftops that this is unfair? "There are a bunch of comments on the Internet about how, ‘Oh, these girls are just letting this happen. They should just boycott or protest.’ At the end of the day, it’s an individual sport. If we protest it, we’re only hurting ourselves because we’re going to miss out on all that we’ve been working for," Thomas’ female teammate said, but she added that something needs to be done to protect biological women who’ve fought for an equal playing field in collegiate athletics. One person who has been fighting to find a solution to a transgender vs. biological woman playing field is Donna de Varona, who made the 1960 U.S. swim team as a 13-year-old and went on to become a gold medalist at the 1964 Games before going to work as an advocate for women in sports. She has spent her adult life fighting for and defending Title IX. In June, she explained to Fox News’ Chris Wallace that there needs to be a middle ground without banning transgender athletes from competing. "We need clear thinking and policies so we don’t demonize women athletes who want to protect their space or transgender athletes who want a home and get the values from competing on the field of play," de Varona told Wallace. "I’m not in favor of the bans and legislation sweeping the country to ban transgender individuals in sports altogether, but I think we need policies. We’re in an emerging environment where we have to think carefully and not rush to judgment too quickly." The NCAA has rules regarding transgender athletes. While the sports policymakers are busy figuring out what those future rules look like to protect the space that biological women have fought for, members of the Penn women’s swim team are left trying to make sense of what is becoming of their sport in 2021 and what the future might look like. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "When I have kids, I kinda hope they’re all boys because if I have any girls that want to play sports in college, good luck. [Their opponents] are all going to be biological men saying that they’re women," Thomas’ teammate told OutKick. "Right now we have one, but what if we had three on the team? There’d be three less girls competing."
Luke Evans shows off ripped abs on the beach in Miami: The 'Nine Perfect Strangers' star has been upping his training. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Check out what clicked this week in entertainment. Luke Evans sent pulses racing as he enjoyed a beach day while on vacation in Miami, Florida. The Welsh actor, 42, proudly showed off his impressive abs and ripped arms while walking out of the water in teeny-tiny swim briefs. Evans started his transformative fitness journey in 2020. He documented his new physique on Instagram back in March writing, "8 months of work but I got there. June 2020 - February 2021." He added, "I won't bother putting statistics as the judges will only judge." Evans started working out at home during lockdown but now is back in a professional gym. COLIN FARRELL LEAVES LITTLE TO THE IMAGINATION WHILE RUNNING SHIRTLESS "When I'm training hard the diet is miserable," the "Nine Perfect Strangers" star revealed during a 2014 interview with Men's Health U.K. Luke Evans was spotted vacationing in Miami, Florida this week. "I love my food and I like wine and it's really tough," he admitted. "What I miss most is alcohol. When everyone is having a drink and you can't it stops you going out as much. Booze is a nightmare for empty calories and you can't train the day after. Socializing and enjoying a night out — not doing that is the hard bit." CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Evans has a new project in the works called "Echo 3." In the action TV series, he plays a man whose sister is abducted in South America. Evan's character and her husband, both of whom have military backgrounds, attempt to rescue her. The Welsh actor showed off his ripped abs and arms after swimming in the ocean. Evans posted a photo of himself working out with a Colombian army trainer. "Got to train on base with a Colombian army trainer yesterday," Evans captioned the post. "It was great! And if 5 could jump to 9 on every set from now on, I would be very happy. Muchas gracias mi amigo!" In 2018, Evans opened up about how much he values his free time when not filming because it really helps him decompress. Luke Evans said therapy has helped his mental health. "I have therapy, and have done for years. It helps me decompress and download many things. My personal time is so precious – I get very little of it. I work a lot, and I like working, but work sometimes doesn’t allow you to process things going on in your own life," "The Alienist" star described to Square Mile. "I found having a therapist helped me offload things I hadn’t even had time to think about." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Evans said, "I think mental health is a very common problem. And it doesn’t get easier, it doesn’t get better, doesn’t matter what age you are – it can affect everybody. And it’s not something I’m ashamed of – if I say, ‘yeah, I’m super stressed out today’. I get that. You feel like that world is on your shoulders and you can’t move on. I get it. I found a way to vent that through therapy, and I’ve found it’s really helped me."
NCAA champ Kelsey Turnbow wraps up collegiate career, excited for NWSL 'dream': The Santa Clara forward helped the Broncos to a national championship. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Santa Clara soccer star Kelsey Turnbow helped put the Broncos back in the national spotlight when she led the team to a national championship during the coronavirus pandemic-impacted 2020-21 season. Turnbow then wrapped up her collegiate career by nearly making it back to the championship only to lose in heartbreaking fashion to BYU earlier this month in penalty kicks. The future National Women’s Soccer League pro reflected on an incredible collegiate career with the Broncos in an interview with Fox News Thursday. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Kelsey Turnbow  of the Santa Clara Broncos reacts after scoring a goal against the Florida State Seminoles during the Division I Women's Soccer Championship at Sahlens Stadium at Wakemed Soccer Park on May 17, 2021 in Cary, N.C. "It’s just been such an honor to play for such an incredible program. There’s so much history in the program and so much success. And our goal was to bring the program back to the College Cup and hopefully win a championship," Turnbow said. "I’m really proud that we were able to do that this past year, within the past two seasons in 2021. "Something I love so much about our program is that we are not only growing as soccer players but as overall people as well. I think that’s truly special and original. I couldn’t be more blessed for the past five years." Turnbow and the Broncos played two seasons in one year. The 2020-21 season was played between February and May, while the 2021-22 season was played from August to December. CHELSEA STAR SAM KERR ROUGHS UP PITCH INVADER, MANAGER CALLS FOR INCREASED SECURITY In the first half of the year, Turnbow scored an equalizing goal in the national championship to eventually force the game into penalty shots, and Santa Clara defeated No. 1-seeded Florida State. The win brought Santa Clara its first women’s soccer national title since 2001. The team finished 15-5-3 overall in the second half of the year and lost to BYU in the College Cup semifinal. Kelsey Turnbow  of the Florida State Seminoles for the ball during the Division I Women's Soccer Championship at Sahlens Stadium at Wakemed Soccer Park May 17, 2021 in Cary, North Carolina. Over the course of the calendar year, she scored 21 goals and added 16 assists along with nine game-winners. Turnbow, who spoke to Fox News on behalf of ChiliSleep, a company for which she became a brand ambassador earlier this year, said winning the College Cup and being able to play the final match of her career in what amounted to a home game in Santa Clara were some of the top moments in her career. Turnbow became a brand ambassador for ChiliSleep during the 2021-22 season. "I have two actually and both are within in the College Cup," she said. "Obviously the national championship, you can’t beat that. That was so special, especially during COVID. We overcame so much adversity during that season and for us to come away with a national championship under our belt it was absolutely huge. NCAA CHAMP KELSEY TURNBOW TURNS RESTFUL SLEEP INTO SUCCESSFUL FALL SEASON THANKS TO BED-COOLING PRODUCT "My second moment would be just the final four the other day playing against BYU in our home stadium. We felt so much love and support from our Bronco community, and we were playing in front of like 8,000 people, and it was basically a home game. It was a neutral site but basically a home game, and it made me feel just so proud to be a Santa Clara Bronco." The star forward will now turn her attention to preparing for her first National Women’s Soccer League season. She was initially selected by the Chicago Red Stars in the 2021 NWSL Draft but was traded to the expansion San Diego Wave FC earlier this month along with Katie Johnson and Makenzy Doniak. Kelsey Turnbow  of the Santa Clara Broncos is introduced before their game against the Florida State Seminoles during the Division I Women's Soccer Championship held at Sahlens Stadium at Wakemed Soccer Park May 17, 2021, in Cary, North Carolina. She told Fox News she was ready for the next level. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "I could not be more excited to play pro soccer," she said. "It’s been a dream of mine ever since I was a little girl. Becoming a college athlete and experiencing that, and now I’m making the next step of playing professional soccer in one of the best leagues in the entire world is just such a privilege. And it takes a village and I couldn’t have gotten to this position alone – my family, my coaches, my mentors, teammates, friends, you name it — have all played such a huge role in this journey. I think my experiences have prepared me well for this next step. It’s going to be very challenging but very rewarding at the same time."
