Lloyd Austin says increased China activity near Taiwan 'looks like rehearsal': China's recent military maneuvers in the region looks like them exploring 'their true capabilities,' said Austin. Defense secretary tells Fox News' Bret Baier that 'we're going to do everything in our power to prevent conflict' Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin said Saturday that China's increased military activity near Taiwan seemingly indicates a "rehearsal" of the country's future intentions. Austin made his comment during a keynote discussion with Fox News anchor Bret Baier at the Reagan National Defense Forum in Simi Valley, California. Pointing out how China has been launching multiple air operations near Taiwan in recent months, Baier asked Austin, "Do you think that these are training flights for future operations?" Austin noted that he didn't want to speculate, but said, "Certainly, it looks like them exploring what their true capabilities [are], and sure, it looks like rehearsal." LLOYD AUSTIN REACTS WITH AWKWARD SILENCE WHEN ASKED IF HE HAS REGRETS ABOUT AFGHANISTAN WITHDRAWAL FILE: In this undated file photo released by the Taiwan Ministry of Defense, a Chinese PLA J-16 fighter jet flies in an undisclosed location Austin also affirmed U.S. dominance in the Pacific, telling Baier, "China is not 10 feet tall." LLOYD AUSTIN SAYS HE HAS ‘CONFIDENCE’ IN GEN. MILLEY AMID CHINA CONTROVERSY "America is a Pacific power," Austin said. "The Indo-Pacific is a region of great opportunity and real challenges. One of those challenges is the emergence of an increasingly assertive and autocratic China." Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin holds a briefing in Tbilisi on Oct. 18, 2021. The Reagan Forum, which comes as China and Russia continue to build up aggressive defenses not seen since World War II, included remarks by foreign policy experts and lawmakers from both sides of the aisle who argue that the Biden administration's foreign policy has diminished U.S. standing on the world stage. "We’re facing a formidable challenge," the defense chief said. "In war and in peace we are always stronger when we work together with our friends." Explaining that the U.S. will not force nations to choose between ties with the U.S. or China, he said the Biden administration is looking to bolster deterrence against Chinese aggression over Taiwan, not change the status quo in the region. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Tensions between the U.S. and China have continued to escalate in the Indo-Pacific as the Chinese Communist Party  moves to "reunify" Taiwan with its mainland. Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin listens to a question during a media briefing at the Pentagon, Wednesday, Aug. 18, 2021, in Washington. Top experts warned at the Reagan Forum that the standing of the U.S. as the "partner of choice" among global allies has waned since the chaotic withdrawal from Afghanistan. Fox News' Caitlin McFall contributed to this report.
CNN terminates Chris Cuomo 'effective immediately': Cuomo's termination comes after CNN 'retained a respected law firm' to review the case. CNN issued a statement on termination of Chris Cuomo after conducting review of anchor aiding brother's defense CNN anchor Chris Cuomo was fired from the network "effective immediately" following the internal review of "a respected law firm," the company announced Saturday. "Chris Cuomo was suspended earlier this week pending further evaluation of new information that came to light about his involvement with his brother's defense," CNN said in a statement. "We retained a respected law firm to conduct the review, and have terminated him, effective immediately. "While in the process of that review, additional information has come to light. Despite the termination, we will investigate as appropriate," the statement added. Cuomo responded to his termination, saying in a statement, "This is not how I want my time at CNN to end but I have already told you why and how I helped my brother. "So let me now say as disappointing as this is, I could not be more proud of the team at Cuomo Prime Time and the work we did as CNN's #1 show in the most competitive time slot. I owe them all and will miss that group of special people who did really important work." Cuomo's firing came after CNN suspended him last week, pending evaluation of his conduct following revelations from the New York attorney general's investigation into his brother, ousted Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo. CNN’s Chris Cuomo performed prop comedy with his brother New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo during a widely panned segment in 2020. Transcripts from his interview with state investigators revealed CNN star admitting he would reach out to media sources to find out about new accusers who had yet to come forward publicly. CNN'S CHRIS CUOMO TURNED TO MEDIA SOURCES FOR INFO ON BROTHER'S ACCUSERS: ‘I HAVE A LEAD ON THE WEDDING GIRL’ "When asked, I would reach out to sources, other journalists, to see if they had heard of anybody else coming out," Cuomo told investigators. New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo speaks during the daily media briefing at the Office of the Governor of the State of New York on June 12, 2020 in New York City. "The New York Attorney General's office released transcripts and exhibits Monday that shed new light on Chris Cuomo's involvement in his brother's defense," CNN said in a Tuesday statement announcing Cuomo's suspension. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "The documents, which we were not privy to before their public release, raise serious questions. When Chris admitted to us he had offered advice to his brother's staff, he broke our rules and we acknowledged that publicly. But we also appreciated the unique position he was in and understood his need to put family first and job second," the statement added. "However, these documents point to a greater level of involvement in his brother's efforts than we previously knew. As a result, we have suspended Chris indefinitely, pending further evaluation," CNN added. Fox News' Joseph A. Wulfsohn contributed to this report.
CNN's Brian Stelter on Chris Cuomo firing: He caused 'so many headaches' for CNN, staffers were 'very unhappy': The 'Reliable Sources' host previously claimed Cuomo upheld journalistic 'boundaries' with his brother. CNN issued a statement on termination of Chris Cuomo after conducting review of anchor aiding brother's defense CNN's media correspondent Brian Stelter addressed the firing of its primetime anchor Chris Cuomo. The liberal network issued a statement Saturday evening announcing it had terminated Cuomo "effective immediately," coming just days after he was suspended pending a review of the damning revelations from the New York Attorney General's office about his involvement in protecting his scandal-plagued brother, ousted Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo. CNN TERMINATES CHRIS CUOMO ‘EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY’ "While in the process of that review, additional information has come to light. Despite the termination, we will investigate as appropriate," CNN stated. Stelter, who had previously refrained from offering any criticism of his colleague, offered a more blunt assessment about the fired anchor. Reliable Sources CNN "Chris Cuomo, one of the most popular anchors at CNN, one of the best-known names in television news, violated journalistic ethics and norms not once or twice, but many times and that’s ultimately what is the result of today’s news, Jim," Stelter told CNN weekend anchor Jim Acosta. "What we didn’t know until tonight, Jim, is that an outside law firm came in and went through the thousands of pages of text messages and sworn testimony that was released back on Monday. So there was clearly something in those documents that was found to be a serious breach of standards and practices." FLASHBACK: CNN'S BRIAN STELTER CLAIMED CHRIS CUOMO UPHELD JOURNALISTIC ‘BOUNDARIES’ DURING COLBERT INTERVIEW The "Reliable Sources" host dinged Cuomo for "acting like an unpaid staffer" for his brother based on the documents released by the AG despite how "it was known months ago" that the anchor was helping the governor. UltraViolet, a leading national gender-justice organization, called for CNN to immediately fire Chris Cuomo. Stelter told Acosta he has "no answers" as to the "additional information" CNN had learned as part of its investigation and when it would ever be made public. "I think this may be a situation where it was death by a thousand cuts, where there were just so many headaches time and time again involving Chris Cuomo that even though many viewers loved ‘Cuomo Prime Time,’ looked forward to his show, he was causing so many headaches for the network and for CNN staffers that ultimately this decision was reached," Stelter said. "I do think, you know, this is a moment where journalistic ethics are at play. I know there were many CNN staffers very unhappy with the situation, very frustrated by Chris Cuomo. At the same time, Jim, I was hearing from some fans of Chris, some viewers who said we understood he was looking out for his family." CNN'S CHRIS CUOMO TURNED TO MEDIA SOURCES FOR INFO ON BROTHER'S ACCUSERS: ‘I HAVE A LEAD ON THE WEDDING GIRL’ "This was always a very complicated situation. But I think the text messages and the documents this week, showing very deeply involved, very cozy with the governor's office, very improperly working with the aides, that was ultimately why this was announced tonight," Stelter added. BEVERLY HILLS, CALIFORNIA - OCTOBER 22: Brian Stelter, Chief Media Correspondent for CNN speaks onstage during 'Discovery Gets Cooking' at Vanity Fair's 6th Annual New Establishment Summit at Wallis Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts on October 22, 2019 in Beverly Hills, California. This marked a sharply different tone from CNN's media correspondent, who previously defended Cuomo and downplayed the journalistic ethics violations. In August, Stelter argued to "Late Show" host Stephen Colbert that Cuomo upheld journalistic "boundaries" with the governor and insisted "if we open up the journalism ethics book, there's no page for this" despite it being a textbook definition of a conflict of interest. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Stelter also previously suggested Cuomo's public scolding by CNN in May calling his communications with the governor's team "inappropriate" was enough of a reprimand. "Telling a well-off host to hang out by the pool for a couple of weeks is not a real punishment," Stelter told viewers in August as Cuomo began his "long-planned vacation" at the time. "Scolding a host in public, saying what they did was 'inappropriate,' that is an actual punishment."
Oregon Health Authority moves to implement 'permanent' indoor mask mandate: The medical director for the Oregon Health Authority said 'permanent...doesn’t necessarily mean permanent'. Infectious disease expert Dr. Amish Adalja on health officials pushing vaccination and boosters amid rise of omicron variant. The Oregon Health Authority  earlier this week to address a permanent indoor mask mandate in the state. Oregon is one of a few states that still retain one nearly two years into the pandemic. The committee included several community stakeholders, including representatives from the hospitality industry, the business sector, and faith communities, according to local ABC affiliate KATU. Dr. Paul Cieslak, the medical director for communicable diseases and immunizations with OHA, explained to KATU that OHA's potential "permanent" indoor mask mandate is not necessarily permanent because it can be repealed. "Permanent means indefinite. It doesn’t necessarily mean permanent," Cieslak said. "We can repeal it as well, but we are only allowed to have a temporary rule for 180 days, and anything that goes beyond 180 days, we cannot extend it." FOREVER MASKING? MANY GOVERNMENTS WITH MASK MANDATES DON'T HAVE A PLAN TO LIFT THEIR COVID-19 RULES The RAC reportedly met with OHA for approximately two hours. TUCKER CARLSON SLAMS OREGON GOVERNOR OVER ‘NONSENSICAL’ MASK MANDATES The public will be permitted to offer comment when OHA proposes the indoor mask rule formally, the date of which has yet to be announced. Protesters hold a rally outside the Oregon State Capitol in Salem, Ore. on Monday, Dec. 21, 2020, as legislators meet for a special session to discuss COVID-19 relief measures. Gov. Kate Brown, D-Ore., reinstated an outdoor mask mandate in the state amid the surge of the delta variant in August. The OHA repealed the outdoor mask mandate in November, but kept it in place indoors. "We continue to see a concerning pattern of COVID-19 spread throughout the state, with the heaviest concentrations found in counties with lagging vaccination rates," OHA Director Pat Allen said at the time. Other health experts, such as Johns Hopkins Professor Marty Makary, have spoken against indefinite mask mandates. Fox News contributor Dr. Martin Makary "We may have a baseline rate of COVID cases hovering around where they are now in the Southeast forever," Makary said in a November interview. "We are entering an endemic phase and the question we need to ask as a society is, do we want a perpetual society with people masked?" CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Makary added: "And the marginal benefit of masking is diminishing as the prevalence declines. Also, in many instances we're requiring masks of people at the absolute lowest risk and by insisting on throwing the kitchen sink at virus transmission we will have to pay the piper somehow. That may come in the form of a loss of human connection, more increased mental health problems, and in children a series of problems including issues in development and speech development and other downsides." Fox News' Tyler Olson contributed to this report.
Norway Christmas party may have sparked largest omicron variant outbreak outside of South Africa: She added the outbreak suggests the current COVID-19 vaccines are not preventing infections, but may prevent severe disease. Infectious disease expert Dr. Amish Adalja on health officials pushing vaccination and boosters amid rise of omicron variant. A recent Norwegian omicron outbreak at a Christmas party provides early anecdotal evidence on how the variants spreads between vaccinated people and the severity of its symptoms, according to a recent report. A renewable energy company in Norway made sure all necessary safety precautions were implemented before hosting their annual holiday party, including only inviting vaccinated employees and requiring rapid testing the day prior the party, according to Stian Tvede Karlsen, a company spokesman. CONTACT TRACING REVS UP IN SOME STATES AS OMICRON REACHES U.S. The party was held at an upscale Oslo restaurant for approximately 120 people, including several who recently traveled to South Africa, where the company has a solar panel business. A health worker takes a swab sample of a passenger entering the city to test for COVID-19 at a railway station in Ahmedabad, India, Friday, Dec. 3, 2021. India on Thursday confirmed its first cases of the omicron coronavirus variant in two people and officials said one arrived from South Africa and the other had no travel history. A top medical expert urged people to get vaccinated. Over 50% tested positive for COVID-19, with 13 confirmed to have the omicron variant, but none of the people have severe symptoms, according to the Wall Street Journal. OMICRON VARIANT OF COVID-19 FOUND IN MULTIPLE US STATES The outbreak, which appears to be the world’s biggest omicron outbreak outside of South Africa, is noteworthy because it occurred among vaccinated people in a country where more than 80% adults are fully vaccinated, the Journal added. People lineup to get vaccinated at a shopping mall in Johannesburg, South Africa, Friday Nov. 26, 2021. A new coronavirus variant has been detected in South Africa that scientists say is a concern because of its high number of mutations and rapid spread among young people in Gauteng, the country’s most populous province. Even though the outbreak spread rapidly, the conditions of the party itself may have contributed, where guests were talking and mingling in an insulated setting for hours, which are ideal conditions for a superspreader event, said Alexandra Phelan, an assistant professor of global and public health law and ethics at Georgetown University. A man uses his hand to cover his nose as he walks along a downtown street Johannesburg, South Africa, Monday, March 16, 2020. She added the outbreak suggests the current COVID-19 vaccines are not preventing infections, but may prevent severe disease. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "If they were of working age and young enough to be partying into the night, they were already probably at a low risk," Phelan said. "The big question that this is starting to add data to, at least anecdotal data, is immune evasion."
Crumbley parents charges 'absolutely warranted,' each could face 15 years, former US attorney says: The former Assistant United States Attorney said while the charges are rare, they're 'absolutely warranted'. Deputy Aaron Garcia, of the U.S. Marshals Detroit Fugitive Apprehension Team, details arrests of parents of suspected Michigan school shooter. A former Assistant United States Attorney told Fox News that the charges brought against Ethan Crumbley's parents are "absolutely warranted" and that each one could each face 10-15 years in prison if convicted. Former U.S. attorney Neama Rahmani said that while it's "very rare" for prosecutors to charge the parents of a suspect in a school shooting, the prosecution has a strong case. "What's more dangerous than buying a gun for your kid and knowing that, you know, he's making, you know, drawing these violent pictures and school officials are concerned and doing nothing about it. In my book, that's certainly creating a situation where the risk of death was very high," Rahmani said. James and Jennifer Crumbley both pleaded not guilty to four counts of involuntary manslaughter after Ethan Crumbley, their son, was accused of killing four students at Oxford High school earlier this week during a school shooting. MICHIGAN SHOOTING SUSPECT ETHAN CRUMBLEY'S PARENTS PLEAD NOT GUILTY TO INVOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER CHARGES James and Jennifer Crumbley Oakland County prosecutor Karen McDonald said that James Crumbley bought the weapon found at the scene of the shooting at a local firearms store on Black Friday. McDonald said during a press conference on Friday that the Sig Sauer 9mm handgun that James Crumbley purchased was held in an unlocked drawer in the parents bedroom. Attorneys Mariell Lehman and Shannon Smith, who represent James and Jennifer Crumbley, however, deny that the gun was in an unlocked drawer. The Crumbley parents were apprehended early Saturday morning by police officers after failing to appear for their arraignment Friday. Michael McCabe, undersheriff for the Oakland County Sheriff’s Office, told Fox News that the office spoke with the Crumbley’s attorney on Friday at 4 p.m. to set up a place for the couple to turn themselves in, and did not get a response as of 6 p.m. that day. Rahmani believes that based on what he has seen so far, the Crumbley parents will be convicted and could face a 10-15 year concurrent sentence in prison. People attend a vigil downtown to honor those killed and wounded during the recent shooting at Oxford High School on December 03, 2021 in Oxford, Michigan. The former U.S. Attorney also said that if the Crumbleys were running from law enforcement on Friday night, it could strengthen the prosecution's case against them: "Whenever a criminal defendant flees, prosecutors can introduce that flight and argue to the jurors that that shows a guilty mind or consciousness of guilt. So it's helpful evidence for the manslaughter charges as well." MICHIGAN SCHOOL SHOOTING: CRUMBLEY LAWYER SAYS GUN WAS LOCKED UP, ACCUSES PROSECUTOR OF CREATING MEDIA CIRCUS However, George Washington University law professor Jonathan Turley believes there will be "ample challenges" to the involuntary manslaughter charges. "There are ample challenges that can be made to the involuntary manslaughter charges. Absent some new evidence that the police were relying upon, as a general matter, parents are not criminally liable for the actions of their children in these types of cases," Turley said. This image from 52-1 District Court shows a Zoom arraignment for Jennifer and James Crumbley in Oakland Co., Mich., on Saturday, Dec. 4, 2021. Turley also said while he's not surprised to see charges brought against the shooter at a fast pace, the charges brought against the parents are a different story. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "I mean, it's not surprising to see the charges against the shooter. The evidence there is abundantly clear. But the charges against the parents would require a considerable level of detail as to their knowledge and actions leading up to this shooting," Turley said. Audrey Conkln, Michael Ruiz, and Brie Stimson contributed to this report.
Brian Kelly's daughter, Grace, still at Notre Dame trying to graduate: 'Ready to get booed': Brian Kelly left Notre Dame for LSU earlier this week. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Grace Kelly, daughter of new LSU football coach Brian Kelly, may be excited for her father as he left for greener pastures, but she is still trying to graduate from Notre Dame. Grace Kelly wrote on TikTok she was "ready to get booed on my way to class every morning" after her dad bolted the Fighting Irish to lead the 2019 national champions. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM "When you still have to graduate from Notre Dame in 5 months but your dad already left for LSU," she added. LSU hired Kelly as its next head coach after agreeing to part ways with Ed Orgeron. Kelly, 60, coached at Central Michigan and Cincinnati before leaving the Bearcats for the Notre Dame opening. Kelly replaced Charlie Weis before the start of the 2010 season and helped get Notre Dame back to prominence. NORTHERN ILLINOIS GOES FROM WINLESS TO MAC CHAMPS New LSU football coach Brian Kelly steps off a plane after arriving at Baton Rouge Metropolitan Airport, Tuesday, Nov. 30, 2021. Kelly, formerly of Notre Dame, is said to have agreed to a 10-year contract with LSU worth $95 million, plus incentives. In 2012, Notre Dame reached the BCS Championship only to lose to Alabama 42-14. Kelly and Notre Dame reached the College Football Playoff twice but failed to win both times. Notre Dame was also hit with NCAA penalties under Kelly's watch. In 2014, the school discovered an athletic trainer was providing impermissible benefits. The school reported the violation, and the NCAA ordered the school to vacate its 2012 and 2013 victories. New LSU football coach Brian Kelly gestures to fans after his arrival at Baton Rouge Metropolitan Airport, Tuesday, Nov. 30, 2021. Kelly led the Irish to nine bowl games during his tenure. The team failed to qualify for a bowl in only one of Kelly's seasons — 2016, when it finished with a 4-8 record. The team is 11-1 in 2021 and preparing for a major bowl game. Kelly was introduced as LSU's head coach on Tuesday. Sam Kohler  of the Notre Dame Fighting Irish sing the alma mater following a loss to the Michigan State Spartans Sept. 17, 2016 in South Bend, Ind. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "I could not be more excited to join a program with the commitment to excellence, rich traditions and unrivaled pride and passion of LSU Football," Kelly said in a statement. "I am fully committed to recruiting, developing and graduating elite student-athletes, winning championships and working together with our administration to make Louisiana proud. Our potential is unlimited, and I cannot wait to call Baton Rouge home."
Women’s group says 'good riddance' to Chris Cuomo after CNN firing: 'Perpetuating rape culture': 'Chris Cuomo used his position at CNN to orchestrate attacks on the brave survivors,' UltraViolet said in a statement. CNN issued a statement on termination of Chris Cuomo after conducting review of anchor aiding brother's defense UltraViolet, described as a national gender justice organization, ripped now former CNN anchor Chris Cuomo for his ethically questionable conduct that had been exposed little by little throughout the past year. CNN fired Cuomo on Saturday a few days after announcing an "indefinite suspension" following the release of transcripts from New York state attorney general Letitia James that revealed the extent to which he helped his brother, ex-Gov. Andrew Cuomo, handle the string of sexual harassment allegations against him. Cuomo had used his media influence to dig up dirt on his brother's accusers, the documents found. CNN'S CHRIS CUOMO TURNED TO MEDIA SOURCES FOR INFO ON BROTHER'S ACCUSERS: ‘I HAVE A LEAD ON THE WEDDING GIRL’ "Good riddance," UltraViolet communications director Bridget Todd said in a statement. "Chris Cuomo used his position at CNN to orchestrate attacks on the brave survivors who came forward to share how they had suffered sexual harassment and abuse at the hands of his brother, former Governor Andrew Cuomo." "This is a severe breach of journalistic and professional ethics - and a clearly fireable offense," the group continued. "CNN made the right decision to sever ties with Chris Cuomo. Make no mistake - when people in position of power use that power to influence coverage of, and help cover up sexual abuse - they are perpetuating rape culture. It doesn’t matter if it is your brother, your friend, or your political allies - all survivors deserve to have their stories heard, investigated, and taken seriously." UltraViolet, a leading national gender-justice organization, called for CNN to immediately fire Chris Cuomo. James's office concluded in August that Gov. Cuomo had harassed 11 women from 2013 to 2020. The findings quickly resulted in Cuomo resigning in disgrace. Lindsay Boylan, the first woman to publicly accuse the governor of misconduct, similarly took CNN's Cuomo to task after he fielded his own sexual harassment scandal in September. Veteran TV producer Shelley Ross claimed Cuomo squeezed her buttock at an event in 2005 when the two of them worked at ABC News. "@Chris Cuomo will you hold yourself accountable?" Boylan tweeted at the time. Last week she fueled some of her ire at the anchor's colleagues for being complicit in Cuomo's "abuses of power." WOMEN'S GROUP ULTRAVIOLET CALLS ON CNN TO SUSPEND CHRIS CUOMO, INVESTIGATE NETWORK'S COVERAGE OF NY GOVERNOR Sexual assault survivors and activists from UltraViolet, a leading national women’s organization, organized a rally and press conference on October 23, 2019 outside of NBC News Headquarters in New York City and deliver more than 18,500 signatures on petitions calling on the network to take immediate action to address abuses of power at the network. CNN TERMINATES CHRIS CUOMO, 'EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY' Critics have often noted how CNN did not discipline Cuomo following the initial reports he had acted as an unofficial adviser to his brother. It wasn't until mulling over last week's revelatory transcripts the network finally cut ties with him. UltraViolet had previously called for CNN to be investigated for its coverage of the ex-New York governor. "Chris Cuomo was suspended earlier this week pending further evaluation of new information that came to light about his involvement with his brother's defense," CNN said in a statement Saturday. "We retained a respected law firm to conduct the review, and have terminated him, effective immediately." "While in the process of that review, additional information has come to light. Despite the termination, we will investigate as appropriate," the statement added. CNN has said it would review the newly-released testimony. "This is not how I want my time at CNN to end but I have already told you why and how I helped my brother," Cuomo said in response. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Waukesha parade aftermath: Hundreds mourn victims Virginia 'Ginny' Sorenson and Jane Kulich: Jane D. Kulich and Virginia "Ginny" Sorenson were among the six people killed when Darrell Brooks Jr. drove his SUV through a parade crowd in Waukesha..  Hundreds paid their respects for Jane Kulich and Virginia "Ginny" Sorenson, two of the six victims tragically killed in the Christmas parade tragedy, as their memorial services were held Saturday. Bridge Church hosted a celebration of life service for Kulich, 52, followed by a memorial gathering. Kulich's loved ones spoke to a crowded and tearful Bridge Church room, with flowers lining the front. Photos of Kulich played on a slideshow to her favorite worship songs. The celebration of life ended with the room singing along to Kulich's favorite Christmas song, Silent Night, as the words played across the screen. Kulich was a beloved wife, loving mother, cherished grandmother, dear sister, and adored aunt, further survived by other loved relatives and many friends, according to an obituary posted online. A Mass card distributed at Saturday's memorial service for Jane D. Kulich WAUKESHA PARADE AFTERMATH: COMMUNITY COMES TOGETHER THROUGH FUNDRAISERS, SIGNS AND BLUE LIGHTS Gov. Tony Evers ordered flags be flown at half-staff on Dec. 4 in honor of the two victims. Gov. Tony Evers ordered flags be flown at half-staff on Dec. 4 in honor of two of the victims killed in Waukesha Christmas parade tragedy At Hales Corners Lutheran Church, a crowd streamed in for Sorenson's memorial gathering. Sorenson was a loving wife, beloved mother, proud ‘Grammy,' and dear sister, according to an obituary shared online. Three tables were filled with photos of Sorenson, alongside flowers, as well as seed packets guests could take to plant as Sorenson had a passion for gardening. A Mass card distributed at Saturday's memorial service for Virginia "Ginny" Sorenson CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP She worked in the healthcare field and "her greatest joy was dancing, especially with her best friends in the Dancing Grannies." At the memorial gathering, some came dressed in their Milwaukee Dancing Grannies sweaters that said "In loving memory of Ginny, Lee, Tamara, and Bill…Keep on dancing" on the back. "Family was everything" to Sorenson, and she also "adored carrying for furry friends." In lieu of flowers, contributions were appreciated for Operation Bring Animals Home. The four other victims have been identified as Tamara Durand, 52; LeAnna Owen, 71; Wilhelm Hospel, 81; and Jackson Sparks, 8. Another 62 people were injured.
Reagan National Defense Forum: Experts say Afghanistan withdrawal damaged US reliability with global partners: Officials warn US leaders need to better inform the American public on the importance of global ties. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Top experts warned Saturday at the Reagan National Defense Forum that the standing of the U.S. as the "partner of choice" amongst global allies has waned following the chaotic withdrawal from Afghanistan. Iowa Republican Sen. Joni Ernst joined top officials at the Regan National Defense Forum in Simi Valley, California, Saturday and stated during a panel that U.S. credibility was "jeopardized in the last year with the hasty and haphazard withdrawal of Afghanistan." Experts are concerned that a global power shift could be at play if other world leaders are skeptical about the reliability of the U.S. to act as a strong partner. SEN. JONI ERNST: CRISIS IN AFGHANISTAN – BIDEN MUST BE CLEAR ABOUT THREAT, NEVER FORGET US TROOPS' SACRIFICES The Biden administration received swift backlash at home and abroad after the Taliban swiftly took over Kabul as the U.S. concluded the 20-year war in Afghanistan over the summer. Ernst said that during the Halifax International Security Forum last month "many of our traditional allies and partners" pulled her aside and questioned what happened in August. "They are not turning to us and seeing leadership at this moment in time," she said. "We can’t just continue to promise to be the partner of choice. "We have to have action in this area and show the rest of the world that we are the partner of choice," Ernst added. WASHINGTON, DC - SEPTEMBER 28: Sen. Joni Ernst The Iowa senator was not alone in her concerns. Former Deputy Chief of Staff to President George W. Bush, Karl Rove, said during the panel Saturday that the last two administrations failed to inform the public on the U.S. mission in Afghanistan. "There’s a bias on the American public to trust their leaders," Rove said pointing to a Regan National Defense Forum poll that found 1 in every 5 Americans were not sure the U.S. should have left Afghanistan. BIDEN REAFFIRMS US COMMITMENT TO NATO, CITES 'NEW CHALLENGES' WITH RUSSIA, CHINA "What would have happened if we had had a description over the last several years of what actually our mission was – that we’d ended the combat mission, that we were providing intelligence and air support and training?" he questioned. Rove argued that had the American public known why the U.S. was still in Afghanistan there would have likely been more public support to keep a military presence in the region. "This is a reflection of less on where the American people are and more on the failure of their leadership to be heard on these important questions, like saying we need allies, we need to be engaged in the world," he added. BEVERLY HILLS, CALIFORNIA - APRIL 29: Karl Rove participates in a panel discussion during the annual Milken Institute Global Conference at The Beverly Hilton Hotel  on April 29, 2019 in Beverly Hills, California. Ernst, who served in the military, agreed with Rove’s argument and said, "It should always be America first but not America only." The panelists' sentiments show a stark break by the Biden administration from the Trump administration’s centrist policies that cut international ties and focused solely on U.S. interests. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "We have to do a better job at explaining why America needs to engage globally," Ernst said. "And we haven’t seen that for maybe a few decades now." "I think if the public knew and we had more transparency on why we are in certain areas of the world they would be a lot more supportive," she added.
Florida police shoot, kill armed Florida Tech student who 'lunged' at officers: Authorities say the student, Alhaji Sow, lunged at officers with an 'edged weapon'. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Florida police shot and killed a knife-wielding suspect on the Florida Tech campus Friday night after he chased a number of students into dorms. Melbourne police responded at around 10:50 p.m. to a report of a male armed with a knife assaulting students at the Florida Institute of Technology campus. Campus security cornered the suspect in a building and confronted him before police arrived. Florida Tech warned students via Facebook to steer clear of the Residence Quad during the incident. MICHIGAN SCHOOL SHOOTING: TIPSTER LED DETROIT POLICE TO PARENT OF SUSPECT WITH $10K REWARD ON OFFER Police attempted to arrest the suspect, but he lunged at an officer. The officer and a campus security officer both fired their weapons, hitting the suspect. Police wait outside Florida Tech dorms as the investigation into an incident involving a knife-wielding student continues. Officers attempted life-saving measures, but the suspect died at the scene. TEXAS POLICE OFFICER KILLED IN SHOOTOUT WITH SUSPECT Authorities identified the suspect as Alhaji Sow, an 18-year-old student and tutor at the university, Florida Tech spokesperson Wes Sumner told Fox News. Sow had entered his sophomore year and studied aeronautical science.  Florida Tech President T. Dwayne McCay told students in an email sent out Saturday that "The safest university campuses are the ones where students, staff, faculty and others look out for one another." "I want every member of this university community to know that we will get through this, together," McCay wrote, saying he mourned "any loss of life" while thanking the "men and women who invest their lives in protecting us." "Counseling and support services will continue to be available for the entire campus community in the coming days. We will learn from this, together. And we will be the stronger for it." RYAN ROGERS MURDER: SUSPECTED KILLER'S APPARENT YOUTUBE PAGE REVEALS TROUBLED PAST A student told Spectrum News 13 he was "very surprised" by the incident. "Sometimes I’m out late at night doing stuff, like playing basketball or walking around, skateboarding," Matthew Hanvey said. "I never thought of an issue where I’d ever get injured." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Saturday's "Test Fest" was canceled to "accommodate that support," Sumner added. An investigation is ongoing.
Martha Stewart confirms she is dating someone, but won't say who: 'I'm not going to tell': Stewart has only been single since 1990, when she and her first husband divorced. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Check out what clicked this week in entertainment. Martha Stewart confirmed she has a new love interest in her life. Stewart, 80, was asked about her love life by host Andy Cohen during a recent episode of "Watch What Happens Live with Andy Cohen" . When asked if she was seeing anyone, Stewart answered "no." However, she quickly clarified saying, "I shouldn't say no. I mean yes, but I'm not going to tell you." Martha Stewart revealed she is dating someone new. Stewart's admission came after the two talked about her infamous thirst trap photo the celebrity chef shared in the summer of 2020. Stewart revealed she got "quite a few" men in her direct messages following that post. However, she didn't take any of them up on their offers. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER However, the celebrity chef decided to keep the identity of the mystery man a secret. Stewart previously said she had to "ignore all of them" because she is a "busy person." "I got so many proposals and so many propositions," she said. "But I had to ignore all of them. I'm a very busy person." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Martha Stewart has been single since she and her first husband divorced in 1990. Late last year, Stewart said that the sultry snap was an accident. "I took a pool selfie photo by mistake," she explained in an interview with People magazine. "I was trying to take a picture of the beautiful turquoise planter at the end of the pool, but the camera was on me, so I just snapped it. It looked so good, so I posted it." In the now-iconic photo, Stewart could be seen lounging by the pool wearing frosty pink lipstick, shimmery eyeshadow and mascara, with slightly puckered lips and her head cocked back.
Chris Cuomo firing from CNN prompts swift reaction: 'So glad we will never see this again': Fox News' Janice Dean said she's 'so glad' there will never be another interview with Chris and Andrew Cuomo on CNN. CNN issued a statement on termination of Chris Cuomo after conducting review of anchor aiding brother's defense After CNN anchor Chris Cuomo was fired from the scandal-plagued liberal network on Saturday night, many on Twitter were quick to give their reaction. Cuomo was fired after "a respected law firm" conducted an internal review of his involvement in helping his brother, disgraced former New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, in his defense regarding sexual harassment allegations. CNN's announcement noted that during the internal review "additional information" was found. Reaction poured in moments after the announcement was made. "So glad we will never see this again," Fox News' Janice Dean, whose in-laws died following Andrew Cuomo's COVID nursing home scandal in 2020, tweeted following the announcement. Conservative political strategist Caleb Hull tweeted that Cuomo should have been fired "a long time ago." "Chris Cuomo should have been fired a long time ago when he tested positive for COVID, left his house anyway, got into a fight with a cyclist, and then making a spectacle of him leaving quarantine for the ‘first time' when we all knew the truth," Hull said. Washington Examiner reporter Jerry Dunleavy said on Twitter that Cuomo used the statement to "brag" about his ratings on the show. CNN TERMINATES CHRIS CUOMO 'EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY' CNN suspended Chris Cuomo "indefinitely, pending further evaluation" after newly released documents shed new light on his role in former Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s sexual misconduct scandal. Siraj Hashmi, a former staffer for the Washington Examiner, responded to Cuomo's statement by sending it to the infamous "List," where bad tweets are highlighted. Ken Klippenstein, investigative reporter at The Intercept, responded to Cuomo's statement, saying that he might want to change his Twitter biography. "Can’t wait for the eventual ABC special ‘The Cuomo Brothers: One Year Later’ and the eventual Netflix docuseries simply titled ‘Cuomo,' Business Insider Reporter Grace Panetta tweeted. CNN's Chris Cuomo during a televised townhall with Democratic 2020 U.S. presidential candidate Senator Elizabeth Warren  dedicated to LGBTQ issues in Los Angeles, California, U.S. October 10, 2019. CNN'S BRIAN STELTER ON CHRIS CUOMO FIRING: HE CAUSED 'SO MANY HEADACHES' FOR CNN, STAFFERS WERE 'VERY UNHAPPY' Krystal Ball, host of the "Breaking Points" podcast pointed out that Cuomo's statement responding to the CNN announcement contained no apology. Chris Cuomo on CNN. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The Daily Wire's Michael Knowles said that "The House of Cuomo is no more."
Indonesia’s volcano spews ash, gas; 1 dead, dozens hurt: Indonesia is prone to earthquakes and volcanic activity because it sits along the Pacific 'Ring of Fire'. The home improvement and lifestyle expert provides his tips and tricks on day 4 of his ‘Always Be Prepared’ series The highest volcano on Indonesia’s most densely populated island of Java spewed thick columns of ash, searing gas and lava down its slopes in a sudden eruption triggered by heavy rains on Saturday. At least one villager died from burns and dozens were hospitalized. Mount Semeru’s eruption in Lumajang district in East Java province left several villages blanketed with falling ash. GIRL DROWNS AFTER HER LIFE JACKET TRAPS HER IN CAPSIZED BOAT A thunderstorm and days of rain, which had eroded and finally collapsed the lava dome atop the 3,676-meter  Semeru, triggered an eruption, said Eko Budi Lelono, who heads the geological survey center. Ash covers the street in the Lumajang District in Indonesia, on Saturday, Dec. 4, 2021 after Mount Semeru’s eruption.   Indonesia's highest volcano on Java island has spewed thick columns of ash, searing gas and lava down its slopes in a sudden eruption triggered by heavy rains. An injured man, covered in ash, is placed on a small truck to be taken to the hospital in the Lumajang District in Indonesia, on Saturday, Dec. 4, 2021 after Mount Semeru’s eruption.   Indonesia's highest volcano on Java island has spewed thick columns of ash, searing gas and lava down its slopes in a sudden eruption triggered by heavy rains. He said flows of searing gas and lava traveled up to 800 meters  from the crater’s mouth, the agency said. "Thick columns of ash have turned several villages to darkness," said Lumajang district head Thoriqul Haq. Several hundred people were moved to temporary shelters or left for other safe areas, he said, adding that power blackout hampered the evacuation. WILDFIRES TORCHED UP TO A FIFTH OF ALL GIANT SEQUOIA TREES The debris and lava mixed with the rainfall formed thick mud that destroyed the main bridge connecting Lumajang and the neighboring district of Malang, as well as a smaller bridge, Haq said. Remains of a bridge in a slope, destroyed by the flowing lava, is shown in the Lumajang District in Indonesia, on Saturday, Dec. 4, 2021 after Mount Semeru’s eruption.   Indonesia's highest volcano on Java island has spewed thick columns of ash, searing gas and lava down its slopes in a sudden eruption triggered by heavy rains. A house covered by ash is shown in the Lumajang District in Indonesia, on Saturday, Dec. 4, 2021 after Mount Semeru’s eruption.   Indonesia's highest volcano on Java island has spewed thick columns of ash, searing gas and lava down its slopes in a sudden eruption triggered by heavy rains. Despite an increase in activity since Wednesday, Semeru’s alert status has remained at the third highest of four levels since it began erupting last year, and Indonesia’s Volcanology Center for Geological Hazard Mitigation did not raise it this week, Lelono said. Villagers rest at a temporary shelter after evacuating their homes following the eruption of Mount Semeru in Lumajang, East Java, Indonesia, Saturday, Dec 4, 2021. The highest volcano on Indonesia's most densely populated island of Java spewed thick columns of ash high into the sky on Saturday, triggering panic among people living nearby. There were no immediate reports of casualties. One man died from severe burns, and 41 others were hospitalized with burn injuries, said Indah Masdar, the deputy district head. She said two villagers were reported missing, and several sand miners were trapped in isolated areas along the village river. Entire houses in Curah Kobokan village were damaged by volcanic debris, Masdar said. Villagers rest at a temporary shelter after evacuating their homes following the eruption of Mount Semeru , in Sumberwuluh village, Lumajang, East Java, Indonesia, Saturday, Dec.  4, 2021. The highest volcano on Indonesia’s most densely populated island of Java has spewed thick columns of ash high into the sky, triggering panic among people living nearby. There were no immediate reports of casualties. Television reports showed people screaming and running under a huge ash cloud, their faces wet from rain mixed with volcanic dust. The last time Semeru erupted in January, there were no casualties. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Indonesia, an archipelago of more than 270 million people, is prone to earthquakes and volcanic activity because it sits along the Pacific "Ring of Fire," a horseshoe-shaped series of fault lines.
Democratic lawmakers renew calls to add seats to the Supreme Court after abortion oral arguments: In light of the arguments in Dobbs this week, Democratic lawmakers are renewing calls to expand the court and add more liberal justices. Fox News correspondent Gillian Turner reports on startling observations of Roe v. Wade decision on ‘Special Report’. The growing push by some Democrats to reshape the Supreme Court reignited this week as the court heard oral arguments in the Mississippi 15-week abortion ban case that has the potential to limit abortion access across the U.S. The court heard arguments in Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization on Wednesday, and legal analysts have suggested the conservative majority will strike down decades of precedent following Roe v. Wade, the landmark ruling that limited government restrictions on abortion. If it does, it would open the door for state legislatures to pass laws banning abortions prior to fetal viability. IF ROE V. WADE IS OVERTURNED, HERE'S WHAT HAPPENS Former President Trump appointed three justices who were confirmed to the high court, shifting the makeup to six GOP-appointed justices and three Democrat-appointed justices. As a result, Democratic lawmakers have called to remove the Senate filibuster requiring 60 votes to pass legislation to add more seats to the court. An anti-abortion activist holds a baby doll during a protest outside the Supreme Court building ahead of arguments in the Mississippi abortion rights case Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health, in Washington Dec. 1, 2021. Republicans have characterized efforts to expand the Supreme Court as "court-packing" and a political power play by Democrats. In light of the arguments in Dobbs this week, Democratic lawmakers are renewing calls to expand the court and add more liberal justices to offset what they see as partisan gains by the GOP. "A ‘conservative’ court would uphold precedent. But a ‘partisan’ court may not — and this may be the most partisan court in history," Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., said in reference to Democratic demands to expand the Supreme Court. "We must protect a woman’s right to choose." SUPREME COURT HEARING ORAL ARGUMENTS IN CASE THAT COULD OVERTURN ROE V. WADE Sen. Tina Smith, D-Minn., tweeted on the day of the Supreme Court oral arguments in support of expanding the court over the abortion case. Rep. Judy Chu, D-Calif., urged Congress to pass the Judiciary Act, introduced in the spring, to expand the number of seats on the court. She claimed in a tweet on Friday that the court has been "manipulated to protect GOP political goals," despite the fact that every justice confirmed under Trump went through the proper constitutional process. Sen. Edward J. Markey, D-Mass., tweeted Wednesday after oral arguments, "9 is not a magic number … We have to talk about expanding the Court now. #ExpandTheCourt" In April, Markey and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Rep. Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y., introduced The Judiciary Act of 2021 to expand the number of Supreme Court justices to 13. "This bill would restore balance to the nation’s highest court after four years of norm-breaking actions by Republicans led to its current composition and greatly damaged the Court’s standing in the eyes of the American people," the Democratic lawmakers reasoned. "In order for the Court to fulfill its duty to deliver equal justice under the law and protect the rights and well-being of millions of Americans, the legislation expands the Court to restore balance, integrity and independence to it." Sen. Ed Markey, D-Mass., talks about his legislation to expand the Supreme Court on April 15, 2021. Other Democratic senators have not committed to backing the expansion of the court, with Sen. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va., saying he will not vote to pack the court or to end the Senate filibuster. Similarly, Sen. Krysten Sinema, D-Ariz., poured cold water on her colleagues' court-packing push, saying through a spokesperson in October that she opposes an expansion. THE POLITICS OF COURT-PACKING At the start of his presidency, Biden created a commission to study potential changes to the Supreme Court. But, in a blow to progressives, the preliminary report on the future of the court released in November declared that expanding the size and scope wouldn’t attain balance. The 203-page draft said "the risks of Court expansion are considerable." The report suggested concepts such as term limits for the Supreme Court, perhaps staggered, 18-year terms on the court. The panel argued that the idea "would advance our Constitution’s commitments to checks and balances and popular sovereignty." According to a poll conducted from Oct. 15-18 by the New York Times and Siena College, the majority of Americans oppose a court-packing push by Democrats. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Among likely voters, 58% said Democrats should not look to increase the size of the Supreme Court. Just 31% said they were in favor of court-packing, while 11% of responders were undecided. "The public is overwhelmingly against court-packing. President Biden called this a boneheaded idea," George Washington University law professor Jonathan Turley previously said. Abortion rights activist Alicia Hurt holds a placard during a protest outside the Supreme Court building ahead of arguments in the Mississippi abortion rights case Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health, in Washington, Dec. 1, 2021. REUTERS/Evelyn Hockstein "It hasn't changed. It’s still a boneheaded idea. But what is really fascinating to watch is the number of members of Congress and law professors who are saying that we have to pack the court because it's not reading the Constitution the way we read the Constitution," said Turley. "Packing the court and tearing down the institutions that protect our rights is fundamentally wrong," Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, previously said. Fox News' Chad Pergram and Sam Dorman contributed to this report.
Harris faces staff exodus as questions on her leadership style emerge: 'This is a sinking ship': White House officials maintain that the departures of several staffers does not signal that Harris is a bad boss. Fox News contributor Joe Concha reacts to aides resigning from Vice President Kamala Harris’ office. Reports of a toxic work environment have plagued Vice President Kamala Harris since she took up the post less than a year ago and the recently announced exodus of her chief spokesperson has only prompted more questions. The White House said this week that senior adviser to the vice president and chief spokesperson Symone Sanders will be departing the vice president's office by year's end. Vice President Kamala Harris speaks to members of the press as her press secretary Symone Sanders looks on at Greenville-Spartanburg International Airport before she boards Air Force Two to return to Washington, D.C., June 14, 2021 in Greer, South Carolina. KAMALA HARRIS' STAFFERS LEAVING WHITE HOUSE IN PART BECAUSE THEY FEAR BEING LABELED 'HARRIS PERSON': REPORT "I love Symone, and I can't wait to see what she will do next, and I know that it's been a, you know, it's been three years of a lot of jumping on and off planes and going around the country, and she works very hard, and I can't wait to see what she'll do next, and I mean that sincerely," Harris told reporters this week. But the vice president declined to comment when she was pressed on whether Sander’s departure was a part of a great internal shakeup. "Well, I've told you how I feel about Symone. Next question," Harris said. Fox News contributor Joe Concha on Saturday called Harris' office a "sinking ship" during commentary on Sanders' departure. "I guess when your boss' approval ratings are at 28% and she's polling even lower on her number one job, the U.S. southern border where migrants continue to flow over, two million passing over this year. I guess I would leave too, because this is a sinking ship," said Concha. Sanders' decision to leave the vice president’s office not only raised eyebrows because she is the second high-level staffer to announce her bid farewell in less than a month, but because the spokesperson was previously harsh on vice president dropouts. PSAKI DEFENDS HARRIS' OFFICE AMID DEPARTURES, CITING 'GRUELING' WORK Following reports of low morale in Harris’ office this summer, Sanders defended the reportedly toxic workplace and called individuals who anonymously spoke to the press "cowards." NEW YORK, NY - SEPTEMBER 23:  Symone Sanders speaks onstage during Global Citizen Week: At What Cost? at The Apollo Theater on September 23, 2018 in New York City. "People are cowards to do this, this way," she told Politico in July. "We are not making rainbows and bunnies all day. What I hear is that people have hard jobs, and I’m like, ‘welcome to the club,’" Sanders said. "We have created a culture where people, if there is anything anyone would like to raise, there are avenues for them to do so," she added. News that Ashley Etienne, Harris' communications director, had resigned was also announced just one week before Thanksgiving. In addition, reports have surfaced this week that two other communications staffers – Peter Velz and Vince Evans – are also leaving Harris’ team, but those reports have not been confirmed by the White House. Vice President Kamala Harris waves as she departs after speaking at the Tribal Nations Summit in the South Court Auditorium on the White House campus, Tuesday, Nov. 16, 2021, in Washington. White House officials maintain that the departures of several staffers does not signal that Harris is a bad boss. Press secretary Jen Psaki said the White House has a history of seeing departures by high-level staffers and described the work as "grueling" when she was pressed by reporters on the work environment in the vice president's office. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Working on a presidential campaign…and working in the first year of a White House is exciting and rewarding, but it is also grueling and exhausting," Psaki told reporters this week. "It’s all of those things at once." Fox News could not immediately reach the White House for comment.
Model Gisele Bundchen saves trapped sea turtle in new video: 'I felt relieved': Bundchen has been a public advocate of the environment since 2009, when she joined the United Nations as a goodwill ambassador. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Check out what clicked this week in entertainment. Model Gisele Bundchen shared a video of herself saving a sea turtle trapped in a fishing net Saturday on Instagram. Bundchen, who is married to football star Tom Brady, can be seen in the video untangling the turtle from a green net. The model was wearing a workout outfit along with tennis shoes. Model Gisele Buendchen shared a video of herself saving a sea turtle from a fishing net with fans on social media. She revealed she had come across the turtle while on a walk with her dog. "Early this morning I was walking on the beach and Onyx started barking at a pile of ocean trash that had washed during high tide," Bunchen explained. "When I came closer I saw this beautiful turtle turned upside down with a look of hopelessness and exhaustion in her eyes, her body knotted and entangled in a fishing net." TOM BRADY PRAISES WIFE GISELE BUNDCHEN ON HER BIRTHDAY, SAYS LOVE FOR HER HAS ONLY GROWN OVER TIME "I immediately started to free her from the net that was strangling her, but even after we got her untied, she was too tired to make her way back to the ocean," the model added. "I didn’t think twice, I just picked her up and carry her to the water. I felt relieved and so happy to see her swim away freely, grateful that I was there and able to help." Bundchen emphasized the need to protect all animals in her post. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER The model went on to encourage her followers to remember that an "opportunity to change begins with a single act." "Today I was reminded that we must become more aware of our ways as a species and help protect all animals, it's our choice," she said. "I pray that we can all rise and remember that the opportunity to change begins with a single act." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Bundchen became a goodwill ambassador for the United Nations in 2009. Bundchen has been a public advocate for the environment. In 2009, the model joined the United Nations as a goodwill ambassador. "We must act now, so future generations have the same opportunity," she said at the time . "Mother Earth is our fundamental life-support system, and by becoming aware and responsible now, we can assist in preserving the planet."
Michigan school shooting: Crumbley lawyer says gun was locked up, accuses prosecutor of creating media circus: The defendants' attorneys said they did not hear back from the prosecutor's office on Friday. Jennifer and James Crumbley made their first court appearance on charges of involuntary manslaughter. Attorneys Mariell Lehman and Shannon Smith, representing the parents of Michigan high school shooting suspect Ethan Crumbley, said Saturday the gun that the 15 year old allegedly used was "locked" before Tuesday's tragedy. James Crumbley, 45, purchased the weapon recovered following the shooting – a 9mm Sig Sauer pistol – at a local firearms store on Nov. 26, Oakland County prosecutor Karen McDonald said earlier this week, adding that Ethan Crumbley had access to the gun at home before he allegedly brought it to Oxford High School. "That gun was actually locked, so when the prosecution is stating that this child had free access to a gun, that is...absolutely not true," Lehman said Saturday morning during the couple's arraignment. Crumbley arraignment on Dec. 4, 2021. The attorneys defending James and Jennifer Crumbley, 43, also accused McDonald of creating a media "spectacle" on Friday after authorities issued a "be on the lookout"  alert for the pair, who did not show up to an arraignment apparently scheduled for Friday. McDonald charged them with four counts of involuntary manslaughter each during a Friday press conference. MICHIGAN PROSECUTOR HIGHLIGHTS TEXTS FROM SCHOOL SHOOTING SUSPECT'S PARENTS SENT TO SON BEFORE TRAGEDY Local authorities, with assistance from the U.S. Marshals Service, eventually located them in a commercial building in Detroit early Saturday morning. "Unlike the prosecution, we weren't attempting to make this a media ... spectacle. This case is absolutely the saddest, most tragic, worst case imaginable," Lehman said Saturday. "There is absolutely no doubt. But our clients were absolutely going to turn themselves in. It was just a matter of logistics, and all the prosecution had to do was communicate with me about it." James and Jennifer Crumbley. Lehman and Smith, who previously represented convicted child molester Larry Nassar, argued that they were going to "make arrangements" to have their clients turn themselves in on Friday and tried to contact the prosecutor's office multiple times on Friday "but never got a call back." MICHIGAN SHOOTING SUSPECT PARENTS PLEAD NOT GUILTY TO INVOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER CHARGES: LIVE UPDATES "The prosecutor's office, instead of getting back to us in any way, decided to have a press conference, and as Miss McDonald admitted, try to find a way to act to surprise our clients and catch them off guard when it was so unnecessary," Lehman said. "And last night and throughout the day, we were in contact with our clients. They were scared. They were terrified. They were not at home. They were figuring out what to do. Getting finances in order." McDonald refuted the defense lawyers' claim, saying the Crumbleys "didn't turn themselves in" on Friday. "We were told they were out of town, except that yesterday morning they withdrew $4,000 from an ATM in Rochester Hills," she said. People attend a vigil downtown to honor those killed and wounded during the recent shooting at Oxford High School on December 03, 2021 in Oxford, Michigan. She added later: "The whole country knew that these charges were coming. And lastly, to suggest that this anyone is somehow using this incident to create press — there's a lot of attention here because four children were murdered, and seven others were injured, and that that is on the mind of every single person in this country." MICHIGAN SCHOOL SHOOTING: ETHAN CRUMBLEY'S PARENTS FACING INVOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER CHARGES James and Jennifer Crumbley, parents of the 15-year-old suspect, pleaded not guilty to four counts of involuntary manslaughter Saturday. Ahead of the arraignment, Smith and Lehman issued the following statement: "We understand that our clients were apprehended last night, although we fully intended to turn them in first thing this morning for arraignment, contrary to the misinformation that has been rampant in the media." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP They continued: "While it’s human nature to want to find someone to blame or something to point to or something that gives us answers, the charges in this case are intended to make an example and send a message. The prosecution has very much cherry-picked and slanted specific facts to further their narrative to do that. We intend to fight this case in the courtroom and not in the court of public opinion. We know that in the end the entire story and truth will prevail." The four students who died in the shooting are 16-year-old Tate Myre, 14-year-old Hana St. Juliana, 17-year-old Madisyn Baldwin and 15-year-old Justin Shilling. Fox News' Greg Norman and Paul Best contributed to this report.
Brian Kelly has already fired someone at LSU: Kelly bolted Notre Dame for LSU earlier in the week. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. It seems new LSU head football coach Brian Kelly is getting straight to work. The Athletic‘s Bruce Feldman reports Kelly let go of LSU’s longtime strength and conditioning coach Tommy Moffitt — his tenure began in 2000 and Feldman reports that he is the first LSU staffer who has been informed he’s out. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM New LSU football coach Brian Kelly gestures to fans after his arrival at Baton Rouge Metropolitan Airport, Tuesday, Nov. 30, 2021, in Baton Rouge, La. Kelly, formerly of Notre Dame, is said to have agreed to a 10-year contract with LSU worth $95 million plus incentives. Larry Brown Sports’ Dan Benton reports that after spending the past 21 years at LSU, Moffitt is beloved by players and coaches and helped lead LSU to three national championships. DEION SANDERS BRINGS MODEL BRITTANY RENNER TO OFFER WISDOM TO JACKSON STATE TEAM Moffitt, who was originally hired by Nick Saban, survived three different staff changes. New LSU football coach Brian Kelly gestures to fans after his arrival at Baton Rouge Metropolitan Airport, Tuesday, Nov. 30, 2021, in Baton Rouge, La. Kelly, formerly of Notre Dame, is said to have agreed to a 10-year contract with LSU worth $95 million plus incentives. He was named College Strength and Conditioning Coach of the Year by America Football Monthly in 2003 and was given the College Coach’s Choice Award by Strength Performance in 2011, per LBS. While turnover is common when a new head coach is brought in, Kelly wasted no time showing the first individual the door. BATON ROUGE, LOUISIANA - DECEMBER 01: Brian Kelly speaks after being introduced as the head football coach of the LSU Tigers during a news conference at Tiger Stadium on December 01, 2021 in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. But Kelly’s departure from South Bend and arrival in Baton Rouge hasn’t been without criticism. Former Notre Dame quarterback Brady Quinn blasted Kelly hours after word spread that he was leaving sixth-ranked Notre Dame for a Bayou-sized paycheck, and his newly developed southern accent became a trending topic. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP If you haven’t already read, here are five things to know about Kelly, who decided to leave his job as Notre Dame’s coach Monday night for $95 million over 10 years.
Austin targets China in security forum address: 'China is not 10 feet tall': Austin says 'America is a Pacific power'.  Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin targeted China in his address Saturday at the Reagan National Defense Forum, telling Fox News’ Bret Baier, "China is not 10 feet tall." "America is a Pacific power," Austin said. "The Indo-Pacific is a region of great opportunity and real challenges. One of those challenges is the emergence of an increasingly assertive and autocratic China." REAGAN NATIONAL DEFENSE FORUM: EXPERTS SAY AFGHANISTAN WITHDRAWAL DAMAGED US RELIABILITY WITH GLOBAL PARTNERS Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin holds a briefing in Tbilisi on Oct. 18, 2021. Austin joined other top leaders in the defense industry Saturday to express the importance of strengthening ties between the U.S. and allied nations, not only in the Pacific but globally. Experts have been sounding the alarm on the threat that China and Russia pose as both nations continue to build up aggressive defenses not seen since World War II. "We’re facing a formidable challenge," the defense chief said.  "In war and in peace we are always stronger when we work together with our friends." Austin said the U.S. will not force nations to choose between ties with the U.S. or China. The Biden administration is looking to bolster deterrence against Chinese aggression over Taiwan, not change the status quo in the region, the defense secretary said. Tensions between the U.S. and China have continued to escalate in the Indo-Pacific as the Chinese Communist Party  moves to "reunify" Taiwan with its mainland. CHINA COULD WIN 'TRUMP CARD' OVER GLOBAL ECONOMY BY TAKING OVER TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING Chinese naval fleet passes through naval mine threat area during the China-Russia 'Joint Sea-2021' military drill near the Peter the Great Gulf on October 15, 2021 in Russia. Taiwan identifies as a sovereign nation, but it is officially recognized by China, the United Nations and the U.S. as part of the "one-China" policy under the Taiwan Relations Act, the three Joint Communiques, and the Six Assurances. Officials repeatedly said Saturday that the U.S. is continuing to adhere to the one-China policy while remaining devoted to backing Taiwanese defenses. "We’re clear-eyed about the challenge China presents," Austin told Fox News. "But China’s not 10 feet tall – this is America." China’s defense ambitions have spread outside its expansion into the Indo-Pacific. The CCP has continued its efforts to expand their nuclear program and ballistic missile testing – prompting greater cause for concern amongst security officials regarding U.S. defense capabilities. Freshmen take part in a military training at Southeast University on October 22, 2021 in Nanjing, Jiangsu Province of China. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "We have the greatest innovators in the world, and we’re going to do what’s necessary to create the capabilities that help us maintain the competitive edge going forward," he added. "We’re in competition with China, but we don’t have to be in a conflict," Austin said.
Football Hall of Famer Claude Humphrey dies as age 77: . Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Pro Football Hall of Famer Claude Humphrey, one of the NFL's most fearsome pass rushers during the 1970s with the Atlanta Falcons but long overlooked on mostly losing teams, has died at the age of 77. Humphrey, who also reached the Super Bowl with the Philadelphia Eagles, died unexpectedly Friday night in his hometown of Memphis, Tennessee, according to the Hall of Fame, which was informed of his death by his daughter. No cause was given. Humphrey was the No. 3 overall pick by the Falcons out of Tennessee State in 1968 and went on to play 11 years with the team, earning the last of six Pro Bowl appearances as a member of the famed "Grits Blitz" defense in 1977. He moved to the Eagles in 1979 and served as a designated pass rusher on the 1980 team that reached the Super Bowl. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Humphrey retired after the 1981 season, before sacks became an official stat, but he was credited with 130 sacks over 13 seasons . Humphrey was inducted in the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 2014. "The entire Pro Football Hall of Fame family mourns the passing of Claude Humphrey," Hall of Fame President Jim Porter said. "Known as a hard worker and a reliable teammate, Humphrey was always willing to help the team out wherever needed and knew success was achieved collectively. His humble spirit guided him on and off the field." The Hall of Fame flag outside the museum in Canton, Ohio, will be flown at half-staff in Humphrey's honor, Porter added. Humphrey played on losing teams during much of his career in Atlanta, which likely contributed to the 33-year wait before he was finally selected for the Hall of Fame. The Falcons honored Humphrey in 2008 by placing him in their Ring of Honor. He also is a member of the Tennessee Sports Hall of Fame. "We are saddened by the passing of Claude Humphrey and send our prayers out for his family and friends in this difficult time," Falcons owner Arthur Blank said in a statement. "Claude made an indelible impression on so many from Memphis to the Falcons and across the NFL with his leadership and tenacious approach on the field. His Falcons legacy was cemented as a forever memory with induction into our Ring of Honor and he will be greatly missed." Humphrey was drafted by the Falcons after leading Tennessee State to a 35-3-1 record from 1965-67. He put up hall-worthy numbers in Atlanta, terrorizing opposing quarterbacks as a dynamic edge rusher. Humphrey had double-figure sacks nine times in his career, along with two interceptions, a fumble recovery for a touchdown and two safeties. The NFL defensive rookie of the year in 1968, he earned first-team All-Pro honors five times. In 1977, Humphrey was a key player on a defense that allowed just 129 points — the NFL’s fewest ever in a 14-game season. But the team struggled offensively and finished just 7-7, missing the playoffs. "He was a great athlete," said longtime Falcons linebacker Greg Brezina, who joined the team the same year as Humphrey. "One of the best things about him was his winning attitude. He was a team player and, of course, he’s probably one of the best defensive ends that there was out there. It’s just a shame he played so long with a team that didn’t win much. He didn’t get the recognition." Humphrey, who was just the second Falcons players after Deion Sanders to be elected to the Hall of Fame, insisted that he had even more sacks than he was given credit for. "Before they started keeping records of sacks, man, I was getting sacks left and right," he said. "The thing about me, I didn’t care so much about getting the sack. A sack was just a tackle back then. Tackling the quarterback or tackling the ball carrier on a running play was all the same." Humphrey temporarily retired after four games in 1978 — missing his only chance at the playoffs with the Falcons. He returned the next season with the Eagles and finally reached the Super Bowl in the 1980 season, when he had 14 1/2 sacks. The favored Eagles lost to the Raiders 27-10, but Humphrey got his long-awaited chance to play in the biggest game after so many losing seasons in Atlanta. "It was the most exciting thing that could have ever happened to me," he said in a 2014 interview. "I went to Philadelphia to try to get on a winning team and experience what I experienced in college at Tennessee State. We were  national champions two years in a row." The Falcons had only two winning seasons before Humphrey stepped away ahead of their first playoff appearance. "In Atlanta, I never got used to losing," Humphrey said. "It made me play harder. I used to say to myself: ‘Well, if we lose the game, the guy who lined up in front of me won’t have anything to be excited about. When he looks at the film, he’s not going to like what he sees of himself. I’m going to go out there and try to wear him down.’ That was the only thing that kept me motivated." Humphrey was a finalist for the Hall of Fame in 2003, 2005 and 2006, but he failed to get in each time. He finally was elected as a senior candidate in February 2014. "I’m not glad that it took so long," he said before the induction ceremony, "but I’m glad I got in when I can smell the flowers."
Joel Osteen’s Houston church had $600K inside wall from 2014 robbery, plumber claims: A caller told a Houston radio station that he found 500 envelopes full of cash and checks behind a toilet in the church. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A Texas plumber was stunned when he found nearly 500 envelopes full of cash inside Lakewood Church in Houston, where Joel Osteen is the pastor. The plumber told the story Thursday when he called in to Houston radio station KILT-FM, according to the city's KPRC-TV. "Morning Bullpen" host George Lindsey told the TV station he was shocked by the caller's account. "There was a loose toilet in the wall, and we removed the tile. Went to go remove the toilet and I moved some insulation away and about 500 envelopes fell out of the wall," the caller said. "I was like ‘Oh wow.’ I got my flashlight, shined up in there." CALIFORNIA’S ZERO-BAIL POLICY SETS FREE 14 SMASH-GRAB ROBBERY SUSPECTS, LAPD CHIEF SAYS Lakewood Church pastor Joel Osteen is seen at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles. The envelopes were filled with cash and checks, according to the caller. Afterward, the plumber said he reported the find to the maintenance supervisor. "I went ahead and contacted the maintenance supervisor that was there, and I turned it all in," the caller said. In March 2014, Lakewood Church reported that $200,000 in cash and $400,000 in checks had been stolen, in addition to some credit card information. Lakewood Church in Houston. At the time, the church said the missing money had been insured. Since then, no arrests have been made in relation to the theft. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Lakewood Church said in a statement that cash and checks were discovered recently during work being done on the church, but did not add how much money was found and did not directly confirm what the plumber said. "Lakewood immediately notified the Houston Police Department and is assisting them with their investigation. Lakewood has no further comment at this time," the church said in a statement. Pastor Joel Osteen. Houston police said in a statement Friday that officers were dispatched to the church after the discovery was made. Police claim that the recovered checks suggest that the money found in envelopes is related to the 2014 theft. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Maryland homeowner accidentally burns house down in effort to fight snake infestation: Fire resulted in estimated $1 million in damages. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A Maryland homeowner accidentally burned down a house in November while attempting to use smoke to get rid of a snake infestation. Pete Pringer, Montgomery County Fire and Rescue Service's public information officer, and other first responders were at the property Thursday to investigate.  WILDFIRES TORCHED UP TO A FIFTH OF ALL GIANT SEQUOIA TREES "The homeowner was using smoke to manage a snake infestation. It is believed that the heat source was too close to the combustible that caused the fire in the walls and ceiling area, unbeknownst to the homeowner at the time," Pringer said in Friday's recorded voice note of the incident. The fire began in the basement. By the time firefighters extinguished the flames at the large single-family home, an estimated $1 million in damage had been done.  CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Pringer said an investigation into the fire continues, adding no injuries were reported.
Eight Georgia college students arrested after hazing incident: The students have since resumed class, according to the university. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Eight people have been arrested on various criminal charges after they were allegedly involved in a hazing incident at a fraternity at Georgia College and State University, officials said. One college student was hospitalized for alcohol-related sickness after the Nov. 10 incident at the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity house in Milledgeville, according to The Union-Recorder. KYLE RITTENHOUSE FOCUSING ON ‘MOVING ON WITH MY LIFE.’ ATTENDING ASU The student has since resumed classes, Georgia College President Cathy Cox said. The Milledgeville Police Department said in a statement that the college asked the department to take over the investigation into alleged underaged drinking and hazing. "During the course of the investigation, over 10 people were interviewed and provided information into the events," the statement said. OREGON UNIVERSITY STUDENT GOVERNMENT WANTS CRITICAL RACE THEORY GRADUATION ‘REQUIREMENT' It said eight people were arrested and charged with supplying alcohol to minors, and one was charged with hazing. Both crimes are misdemeanors. Cox wrote in an email to students and faculty that the national Sigma Alpha Epsilon organization and Georgia College have both suspended the chapter and that students have been ordered to cease chapter activity until the issue is resolved. "There is no time and no place at which hazing activity is acceptable or tolerable on or around the GCSU campus or involving GCSU students," Cox wrote. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP She said the school is also considering internal discipline against students and said counselors have offered aid to new members of the fraternity. Cox said the college will expand anti-hazing efforts.
Blink-182 bassist Mark Hoppus' cancer diagnosis announcement was actually an accident: Hoppus has been cancer-free since September. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Check out what clicked this week in entertainment. Blink-182 bassist Mark Hoppus' public announcement about his cancer treatment was actually an accident. Hoppus took the internet by surprise when he posted a photo of him receiving chemotherapy to his Instagram story in June. The musician told GQ magazine that the post was actually an accident, and he had meant to only share it using the "close friends" feature on Instagram. Mark Hoppus revealed his original cancer diagnosis announcement was actually an accident. "Throughout the day as I'm getting chemotherapy and more bags of chemicals are being dripped into my body, other people are reaching out, and they're like, ‘Dude, what's going on?’" Hoppus said during an interview with the outlet. Hoppus was quickly contacted by his manager asking if the musician had meant to post the news. Shortly after, Hoppus began receiving messages from friends and family he hadn't told yet. However, he couldn't respond to the messages due to the chemotherapy. BLINK-182 BASSIST MARK HOPPUS SAYS HE'S ‘CANCER FREE’ Hoppus had shared a photo of himself preparing for a round of chemotherapy to his Instagram story instead of to just his "close friends" list on the app. "Chemo is like being on the worst international, overnight flight where you can't sleep or get comfortable," he told GQ. Later that day, Hoppus wrote out a formal statement that he shared on social media. "For the past three months I've been undergoing chemotherapy for cancer," he wrote at the time. "I have cancer. It sucks, and I'm scared, and at the same time I'm blessed with incredible doctors and family and friends to get me through this." CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Hoppus had been diagnosed with an aggressive blood cancer, stage 4 diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. Hoppus revealed he went through a dark time after finding out about his diagnosis. The musician used therapy to help get through the first weeks after finding out the news. "I had a really dark time after finding out," he told GQ. Hoppus announced he is cancer-free in September. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "I went through this whole period of like, not why me, but of course me. Why wouldn't it be me? We've had so much good luck and good fortune, and things have kind of fallen into place for me specifically for so long, that of course I was due. I was due for something tragic." Hoppus is now cancer-free. "Just saw my oncologist, and I’m cancer free!!" the Blink-182 rocker wrote in an Instagram post in September. "Thank you, God and universe and friends and family and everyone who sent support and kindness and love."
Former football coach fired for removing Black Lives Matter poster alleges First Amendment rights violated: Suit alleges coach was fired because 'he did not toe the party line' regarding BLM. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A former Illinois State University  assistant football coach has sued the team's head coach and the school's former athletic director, alleging his First Amendment rights were violated after he removed a Black Lives Matter poster from his door and replaced it with a different one. The suit, according to the Chicago Tribune, claims Kurt Beathard, the former offensive coordinator for ISU, was dismissed by head coach Brock Spack and terminated by former athletic director Larry Lyons in September 2020.  BLACK LIVES MATTER CALLS FOR MONTH-LONG BOYCOTT OF ‘WHITE COMPANIES’ The Tribune also reports the suit, filed earlier this week in U.S. District Court, alleges First Amendment retaliation and viewpoint discrimination against Beathard and claims he was fired because "he did not toe the party line regarding Black Lives Matter." A protester waves a Black Lives Matter flag during a demonstration. According to Beathard, a Black Lives Matter poster was placed on his door while he was on leave following the death of his wife, who had breast cancer. Once he returned to work, Beathard replaced the poster with a new one that said, "All Lives Matter to Our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ," according to the suit. The poster remained on Beathard's door for two weeks. The poster was removed before he was fired and after Spack asked Beathard to remove it, the suit claims. The lawsuit also alleges that Spack once referred to the Black Lives Matter movement as "freaking nuts," and that Lyons held a Zoom meeting to encourage unity during which he said, "All Redbirds Lives Matter." The school's mascot is a redbird.  CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The suit noted that Lyons was forced to issue an apology for his statement and that he retired from the university roughly a month later in October 2020. Fox News reached out to ISU about the claims made in the suit but did not receive an immediate response.
Lincoln Riley interview drowned out by SEC chants from Georgia-Alabama fans: Oklahoma will join the SEC in a few years. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. New USC football coach Lincoln Riley was trying to talk about recruiting in one of his first interviews since joining the Trojans, but fans gearing up for the SEC Championship wouldn’t have it. While Georgia and Alabama fans are likely to be yelling at each other during the conference title game later Saturday, the two sides agreed to troll Riley who departed Oklahoma for USC last weekend, years before the Sooners will join the SEC. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM New USC football coach Lincoln Riley  during a news conference in the 1923 Club at the Los Angeles Coliseum Nov. 29, 2021. The fans chanted "SEC! SEC! SEC!" and drowned out Riley’s interview with ESPN’s Rece Davis on "College Gameday." Riley’s move to USC came at a peculiar time. The team announced its move to the SEC months before Riley’s decision, and he had just emphatically denied being tied to the LSU gig after losing in Oklahoma’s rivalry game against Oklahoma State. GEORGIA NOT WORRIED ABOUT THE PAST, AS KIRBY SMART LOOKS TO FINALLY BEAT THE ALABAMA BUG A large billboard at the Los Angeles Coliseum displays a photo of new USC football coach Lincoln Riley with downtown Los Angeles as a backdrop. Riley was officially introduced as USC coach Monday. "When [the USC brass] first came to me with interest on this position, the first thing that I noticed is they were about what they felt what USC football could be, what they felt like that we needed to do to make up the gap, and they were totally united on doing anything and everything possible to help get us to that point," Riley said at his introductory press conference. "As a football coach — to have that support behind you from some of the most influential people in this university, from your bosses, from people [that are] going to make big decisions — it said everything that I needed to hear. Thank you all for this opportunity. It means the world to me. New USC football head coach Lincoln Riley speaks at a news conference in the 1923 Club at the Los Angeles Coliseum Nov. 29, 2021. "We're going to put out a football team that hopefully you're proud of on the field, but you're proud of what they do in the classroom, you're proud of what they do in the community and that we represent you well and then we work incredibly well together. I cannot wait to meet all of you and be a part of your family." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Riley has already flipped some 2023 recruits who committed to Oklahoma to go to USC.
Christmas and what it really means: Tips for keeping us rooted in faith: In 'All American Christmas,' Fox News personalities share the real focus of the joyous holiday season. Fox News’ Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy debut their holiday book on ‘Fox News Live.’ Christmas decorations have been up for weeks and holiday tunes can be heard everywhere. Yet as the new book "All American Christmas" makes clear, as important as secular traditions are to so many of us all over the country — and as much as they keep us connected with our loved ones — we need to remind ourselves why we're really celebrating this month. We are wise to focus on "the role that religion plays" in the "celebrations of the Savior’s birth" during the Christmas season, as Fox News Channel's Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy note in the introduction to their new book. "In our secular culture, it's easy to forget that Jesus is the reason for the season," says Campos-Duffy. CHARLES PAYNE ON CHRISTMAS JOY: ‘ALWAYS SOMETHING YOU CAN DO’ FOR OTHERS Check out more of this important inspiration related to Christmas, all drawn from the stories, traditions, and memories that are featured throughout "All American Christmas." There is, in fact, a blessed and profound reason that Christians all over the world celebrate Christmas. That clear focus — the emphasis on God's great gift — can calm us, cheer us, encourage us, and help us stay rooted in what really matters. "Sean and I share a real passion for Christmas, and we fully embrace the whole holiday season from Advent  all the way through to Epiphany, or Three Kings’ Day, which is on January 6, when we celebrate and open gifts again. On January 6, our children put their shoes under our family altar table in the living room. Instead of leaving cookies and milk like they did for Santa, they fill their shoes with sugar for the camels. In the morning, the Three Wise Men have left each of them three gifts, just as they brought the baby Jesus three gifts — frankincense, gold, and myrrh."—Rachel Campos-Duffy, cohost of "Fox and Friends Weekend," host of "Moms" on Fox Nation, and co-author of the new book Some of the Duffy children are shown honoring the true meaning of the Christmas season. This sweet photo and many others appear in ‘All American Christmas.’ "Christmas plays a large part in our lives. It is the day Jesus was born, and our family enjoys celebrating that very necessary and important holiday. He was born on Christmas and rose from the dead on Easter. His birth, death, and resurrection are the ultimate gift, and God the ultimate giver. We have only to receive with grateful hearts … The way in which we celebrate may be different, but the spirit of Christmas endures forever."—Ainsley Earhardt, cohost of "Fox & Friends" GIFTS MEANT TO BE PASSED DOWN THROUGH THE GENERATIONS "My parents instilled in us the idea that even if you don’t have much, you can still give. Among the meals we prepared at Christmas, many were reserved to help feed the homeless in our church community. My mama became a minister, and for her, one of the most important things you could give, something that didn’t cost you a thing but time, was a prayer or a kind word … The lesson was clear: just get out there and be of service to those in need."—Lawrence Jones, enterprise reporter at "Fox & Friends" This beautiful Christmas manger scene shows figurines representing Jesus, Mary, Joseph, the Three Wise Men and more. "God gave us the gift of His son to show us the way toward salvation. That’s why we celebrate Christmas, that’s why we go home to be with family, that’s why we go to God’s house to celebrate with Him. And there, in our homes and in our churches, we lift up our voices in song to Him who is our Savior, our Redeemer."—Lauren Green, Fox News Channel's chief religion correspondent based in New York "As a child I would say ‘Merry Christmas’ to everyone, everywhere I went. I liked saying it and I liked seeing people’s reactions. I still do. But as I got older, and as I grew more firm in my Roman Catholic beliefs, it became more and more important to me to try to remember each step of the way what it’s really all about. It’s like Linus says in ‘A Charlie Brown Christmas’: ‘I can tell you what Christmas is all about.’ He asks someone to turn on a spotlight. He then launches into Luke’s Gospel of the Nativity story. ‘The angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid …’ Now he’s got all his unruly friends’ attention, and they listen, rapt, to the true meaning of Christmas. Keeping that true meaning the focus is important."—Martha MacCallum, anchor and executive editor of "The Story with Martha MacCallum" ‘All American Christmas’ by Rachel Campos-Duffy and her husband, Fox News contributor Sean Duffy, is available now. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Excerpted from the new book All American Christmas by Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy. To purchase your copy, click here.
‘Little House on the Prairie’ star Karen Grassle gets candid on sobriety, making peace with Michael Landon: Actress details her friendship with Michael Landon, battle with alcoholism in new memoir. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Karen Grassle, who famously played Caroline "Ma" Ingalls on "Little House on the Prairie," is getting candid about her journey to sobriety. The actress recently wrote a memoir titled "Bright Lights, Prairie Dust: Reflections on Life, Loss, and Love from Little House’s Ma." where she detailed her upbringing and struggles with alcoholism as well as the alleged troubled relationship she had on set with her former co-star and boss Michael Landon. He played her on-screen husband, Charles Ingalls. Former co-stars didn’t immediately respond to Fox News’ request for comment regarding the allegations made in Grassle's book about Landon. Despite their ups and downs, Grassle insisted she made peace with the actor before he passed away in 1991 at age 54 from pancreatic cancer. 'LITTLE HOUSE ON THE PRAIRIE' STAR CHARLOTTE STEWART RECALLS DAYS WITH JIM MORRISON, ELVIS AND BILL MURRAY Karen Grassle has written a book titled "Bright Lights, Prairie Dust: Reflections on Life, Loss, and Love from Little House’s Ma." Grassle, 79, spoke to Fox News about writing her book now, and what it was like bringing the beloved series to life, as well as the moment she realized it was time to get sober. Fox News: What inspired you to write this memoir now?Karen Grassle: This book has taken years and years. I started after I moved here to the Bay Area. I was semiretired and I didn’t have as many friends as I did in Los Angeles. All of these memories began to surface. So I started writing them down. I thought that maybe one day, my son would be interested to read them. And I just kept writing. And the truth is, I had to let my guard down. I’m quite a private person. So I had to be willing to share a lot of my vulnerabilities about my family, my alcoholism, the trials that I went through doing "Little House." A lot of things that I’ve never really discussed publicly. But it felt freeing. And I’m glad that I did it. Karen Grassle  with her mom backstage during a theatrical performance. Fox News: It’s been said that you got the role of Caroline Ingalls at a very crucial point in your life. Is that true?Grassle: Very. I was so broke and so discouraged about my career. I was thinking, "I better go back to school and learn to do something else." And I couldn’t figure out how in the world I was going to pay to go back to school. I had friends in Los Angeles who were doing television. I saw what they were getting paid. So I thought, "I’ll try to get some TV work." I thought it could help me pay my way to go back to school. So my agency started sending me on auditions. And I think it was two or three months later when I got the call about this new series called "Little House on the Prairie." CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Fox News: But you initially weren’t a fan of your character?Grassle: Oh sure. When I first read the script, I thought, "Oh, she’s kind of a downer. She’s prudish." I hadn’t read the books, so I had a lot of catching up to do. And there wasn’t the same kind of research about the Ingalls that we have today. So I got the work. But as I started doing the role and interacting with the children, I gained a new perspective for my character. She’s a woman who’s so brave and loyal heading into the wilderness with her little girls. She wanted to create a better life for them. I began to experience the nobility of the character and what she truly represented. Fox News: Michael Landon, to this day, is still viewed as a beloved father figure. Grassle: And he earned that image. He was one of the favorites on television and had one of the longest careers. He created this show and we’re still talking about it today, nearly 50 years later. He deserves a tremendous amount of credit for that. Karen Grassle said she initially wasn't impressed by the role of Ma. Fox News: But you also witnessed a completely different side to him.Grassle: We all worked really hard. I didn’t think it was all that tough because we were all worker bees. There was nobody on that set who was slacking around. Where it really got tough for me was when it was time for the second season. If you were on a hit series, it was common to renegotiate your contract based on its popularity. Michael did not want to give me a raise. He began to diminish my part, my value. I was a professional. I had just done a year of Shakespeare in England. I had been on Broadway. I really liked the children and I built a good relationship with them. You don’t get that with everybody. So I felt that I had some value. And I stuck to my guns. This went on for months and months. I think it went on over a year where I didn’t say, "I’m sick and I can’t come in to work." I made the decision that I would show up to work and do my job every day. But it was tough because people knew he was annoyed with me. And he showed it in many ways. So I had to go through that. But I also didn’t want to give up on myself. I worked hard to become the actress I was. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Fox News: Why do you think Michael Landon was so hesitant to give you a raise?Grassle: I don’t know. And to my dying day, I will never really understand why he dug his heels and refused as he did. After a year and a half or so, I did get an excellent contract that was appropriate for the time. It meant a lot to me, but I paid a heavy price for it. I just wanted a fair wage. Karen Grassle alleged that Michael Landon didn't want to give her a raise despite the show's success. Fox News: How did that impact your relationship with him on set?Grassle: It was so hard to go to work and know he was annoyed with you. You could cut the tension with a knife. And you felt he was probably saying things about you behind your back. He had a sense of humor and if he wanted to make fun of you, boy, you were skewered. He was very clever. I didn’t know what was going to happen. But I kept going to work. Fox News: You worked on stages and sets before the #MeToo era. What was your experience like with sexism in the workplace?Grassle: I was very lucky in a way because by the time I got to New York, I had already trained in England. I was already a professional. A lot of young women arrived in New York or Los Angeles with very little experience. They became very, very vulnerable. But I did not have a problem with anyone ever assaulting me or anything like that. If somebody made an inappropriate pass, I learned long before how to pretend that I didn’t notice that they were doing it or to laugh it off. What happened at the "Little House" set was… Mike decided to humiliate me while we were doing the scenes in the bed. This was so awful for me. This was so unbearable and I just tried to get through it. You know, he made these terrible jokes about the female anatomy, made a woman’s body parts sound so disgusting. I just sat there with all these men standing around laughing at his jokes and I couldn’t do anything. We didn’t even have a word for sexual harassment. 'KUNG FU' STAR RADAMES PERA EXPLAINS WHY THE SERIES ENDED, WHAT 'LITTLE HOUSE ON THE PRAIRIE' WAS LIKE Karen Grassle was candid about her battle with alcoholism. Fox News: You were also very candid about your struggles with alcoholism. When did you first realize that you needed to get help?Grassle: I resisted help for a long time. I tried to keep everything under control for a long time. I did not realize the extent to which my alcohol problem was playing a negative part in my life, but this is very common… The one thing [alcoholics] don’t want to do is not drink. We think of many rationalizations for why things are going bad in our lives. But we don’t want to look at the key item. That seems to be how the disease works. My friend Toni, who I’ve known since we were 7 years old, confronted me and told me I needed help. There was no way for me to wriggle out of it. She knew me… I couldn’t fight the truth of what she was saying. After our conversation, it just took one more bad night where I fought with a friend – a very dear friend of mine. Karen Grassle said her friend Toni helped her realize that she needed to get clean. I went home sobbing full of self-pity. I felt everything in my life was wrong and everyone was turning against me. The next morning, I woke up and said, "I must never take another drink, no matter what happens." I did think that my life would fall apart. I thought I might lose my job. I definitely might lose my boyfriend. I thought I was never going to go to a nice restaurant again. How can you go to a nice restaurant and not drink? How can you go get Mexican food and not have a beer? I thought my life was over. But it was such a blessing. Fox News: It seems like you were a high-functioning alcoholic. Grassle: Oh yes. I’m glad you brought that up. My dad was the same too. He went to work every day. He worked hard. He paid his bills. And alcoholism killed him. ‘LITTLE HOUSE ON THE PRAIRIE’ STAR ALISON ARNGRIM SHARES MEMORIES OF CO-STARS STEVE TRACY, MICHAEL LANDON For me, I got up every day with a terrible hangover. I went to work, I pulled myself together, I worked hard and I concentrated all day long. And when they said, "That’s a wrap," I either took a drink from the prop table or had one when I got home and started again. I thought I was under control because I was working. I hadn’t lost my job. It gave me even more rationale for continuing the way I was. Karen Grassle said she got sober in 1977. Fox News: When did you get sober?Grassle: It was 1977 in June. It’s so meaningful because everything changes from that day. I looked at life in an entirely new way. I was able to truly discover who I was and what I wanted in life. And boy, it was a lot of work. And it was all worth it. Fox News: Do you remember the last time you spoke to Michael Landon?Grassle: Oh yes, very well. I wrote him a letter just to say hello and catch him up with what was going on in my life. He wrote me back the nicest note. I remember he said, "Give me a call so we can discuss the old times before we forget them." So I did give him a call. He told me about his family. We had a nice chat about some of the people we worked with. But we mended fences. And I just felt there was a lot of forgiveness from both sides. We were remembering the better parts of our relationship. And I was so grateful for that because it was a very short time after that Mike was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer. ‘LITTLE HOUSE ON THE PRAIRIE’ ACTRESS WENDI LOU LEE SAYS SHE RELIED ON GOD TO HELP HER FACE BRAIN TUMOR Karen Grassle said she made peace with Michael Landon before his death. Fox News: It’s good to hear that the both of you made peace before he passed away.Grassle: You know, we established a very nice working relationship in the first year. And after the contract got settled, we had a lot of good days, too. Lots of laughs. Lots of scenes where we played together and enjoyed each other’s talents… He was perhaps more human. He was very complicated and came from a difficult childhood. So I think for a person who comes to the table with a lot of issues and somehow be able to turn that into a creation that serves other people deserves a lot of credit. Fox News: Today you’re recognized as one of TV’s most beloved moms. How do you feel about that title?Grassle: I feel honored. I based the character mostly on my mother. And I didn’t realize until later how much people truly love this character. I initially didn’t understand the depths of people’s affections for her. But people still reach out to me and express how much they love her. It’s been very gratifying. And I’m awfully lucky.
Christmas gift idea: This coffee company helps veterans, first responders, and more: On "Fox & Friends Weekend," the CEO and founder of Got Your Six Coffee Co. shared a delicious tip for holiday shopping this year. Fisher Space Pen's Joshua Skidmore, Popilicious Popcorn co-founders Maria Bailey and Madison Bailey Mengueme, and Got Your Six Coffee founder Eric Hadley showcase the best gifts for this holiday's shopping season During an appearance on "Fox & Friends Weekend" on Saturday morning, a number of leaders of American-based companies that are producing American-made products shared their wares just in time for Christmas shopping this year — and all of these products are noteworthy. And guess what? You may have just discovered the answer to the age-old holiday dilemma around this time of year, which goes something like this: "I have no idea what to buy for [Mom, Dad, my sister, my brother, my aunt, my best friend, my neighbor, my grandparents] for Christmas!" So help is here. And as a bonus, you'd be helping others as well. Got Your Six Coffee, out of Springfield, Missouri, is dedicated to assisting our veterans and many others who put their lives on the line day in and day out to serve and protect their fellow Americans.  "Our mission," the company says, "is service to those who serve." It also explains, "Through the sale of freshly roasted, award-winning gourmet coffee and amazing relationships with incredible companies, sponsors, and partners, we can do just that." As CEO and veteran Eric Hadley of Got Your Six Coffee told "Fox & Friends Weekend" cohost Pete Hegseth on Saturday morning, "We use coffee as a catalyst to support nonprofit organizations that are helping first responders, veterans, health care professionals, and their families." Hadley said, "We're lending a hand out into the community." A US Army veteran in a wheelchair is shown in this image. Scores of veterans, first responders, and many others across our nation are helped through the good work of veteran-owned business Got Your Six Coffee Co. "It's about coffee but then again, it's not about coffee," added Hadley. "It's about so much more." Got Your Six Coffee products are sold both online and in retail establishments. CHRISTMAS AND WHAT IT REALLY MEANS: TIPS FOR KEEPING US ROOTED IN FAITH The company uses its net profits to support EMTs, law enforcement, firefighters, veterans, and their families "through various nonprofit organizations. We rely on great coffee and hard-used gear to make this a reality," it explains on its website. The term "Got your six" means "I've got your back" — tapping into the loyalty and dedication among our military members. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP By the way, if you're looking for a yummy dessert to serve up with this coffee , Fox News Digital is showcasing 25 days of Christmas desserts as we count down to Dec. 25. You can see all of them when you click here.
This 'weekend brisket' recipe is perfect for Hanukkah: Online spice, extract and sauces shop Savory Spice shared this recipe with Fox News. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. There's something about brisket during the winter holidays that just soothes the soul. This Hanukkah, make this satisfying brisket recipe crafted by the flavor connoisseurs at Savory Spice, an online spice, extract, and sauces shop. "A flavorful rub, a few hours in the oven, and a little patience are all it takes to make this easy braised brisket at home," says Michael Kimball, Savory Spice product and food media manager. "To make sure your brisket stays tender and juicy, don't skip the resting period after it comes out of the oven. Resting is essential for large cuts of meat to retain their moisture." Savory Spice’s Weekend Brisket COOKIE DOUGH-STUFFED SUFGANIYOT FOR HANUKKAH DESSERT: TRY THE RECIPE Makes 6 servings Prep time: 10 minutes Cook time: 4 hours Ingredients: 1 Tbsp. sea salt 1 Tbsp. black pepper 1 tsp. Onion & Garlic Tableside Sprinkle or onion and garlic seasoning of choice 1 Tbsp. Seasoning of choice, such as Flat Irons Prime Rib Rub, Native Texan BBQ Rub, Pikes Peak Butcher's Rub, Red Rocks Hickory Smoke Seasoning 2 Tbsp. honey 2 Tbsp. yellow mustard 1  trimmed brisket flat 1 Tbsp. vegetable oil 1 yellow onion, halved and thinly sliced 6 garlic cloves, chopped 1 cup beef broth CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR LIFESTYLE NEWSLETTER Directions: 1. Stir together salt, pepper, onion and garlic tableside sprinkle, seasoning of choice, honey, and mustard. 2. Rub mixture all over brisket. Set seasoned brisket in a large baking dish, fat side up, and let sit at room temperature for one hour. Meanwhile, preheat oven to 250 °F. 3. Heat oil in a large skillet. Add onion and cook until softened, about 5 min. 4. Add garlic and cook  for one more min. 5. Remove from heat and stir in broth. 6. Spoon onion-broth mixture over brisket. 7. Cover dish tightly with foil. Bake for four-to-five hours, or until the brisket reaches 195 °F and is fork tender. 8. Remove from oven, replace foil, and rest brisket for 50 to 60 min before slicing thinly across the grain. 9. Serve with onions and juice spooned over the top. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
