Covid: Austria introduces lockdown for unvaccinated. About two million people who have not been fully vaccinated against Covid-19 have been placed in lockdown in Austria as the country faces a surge in cases. "We are not taking this step lightly, but unfortunately it is necessary," Chancellor Alexander Schallenberg said. Unvaccinated people will only be permitted to leave home for limited reasons, like working or buying food. About 65% of Austria's population is fully vaccinated - one of the lowest rates in western Europe. Meanwhile, the seven-day infection rate is more than 800 cases per 100,000 people, which is one of the highest in Europe. Overall, Europe has again become the region most seriously-affected by the pandemic and several countries are introducing restrictions and warning of rising cases. However, the UK, which has one of the highest Covid infection rates, has yet to reintroduce restrictions, despite health leaders calling for rules like mandatory face coverings in crowded and enclosed spaces to be brought back to avoid a winter crisis. Covid passes set to stay as Europe heads for winterHow fast is vaccine progress around the world? The measures introduced in Austria on Monday, which come amid growing pressure on the nation's hospitals, will initially last for 10 days. Children under the age of 12 and people who have recently recovered from the virus will be exempt. Over the weekend, hundreds of people protested outside the chancellery in the capital, Vienna, waving banners that read: "Our bodies, our freedom to decide." The unvaccinated were already barred from visiting restaurants, hairdressers and cinemas, but will now be expected to stay at home. "In reality we have told one third of the population: you will not leave your [home] apart from for certain reasons," Mr Schallenberg said. "That is a massive reduction in contacts between the vaccinated and the unvaccinated." The government says police will carry out spot checks in public spaces to determine the vaccination status of individuals. But critics have questioned whether the move is constitutional. The far-right Freedom Party has said it will create a group of second-class citizens. In neighbouring Germany, where Health Minister Jens Spahn has warned of a pandemic of the unvaccinated, the federal government and state leaders are due to meet later this week to discus possible new restrictions. Germany's 67.3% vaccination rate is higher than in Austria, but not by much. Germany has designated Austria a high-risk area, meaning anyone arriving from the country must go into quarantine. In the Netherlands, "lockdown-lite" measures have been imposed to limit social contacts in response to a sharp increase in infections. The measures include early closing for restaurants and shops and barring spectators from sporting events. About 84% of Dutch adults have been fully vaccinated. Most patients in Dutch hospitals have not had their jab. Vaccination rates are significantly lower in some eastern European nations. Latvia, where 59% of the population are fully vaccinated, re-imposed lockdown last month and has banned lawmakers who refuse the vaccine from voting on laws and taking part in debates until the middle of next year. They will also see their pay docked. In Russia, only about 35% of the population has been fully vaccinated, according to Our World In Data. At the end of October, Moscow shut shops, restaurants and schools in a partial lockdown and workers were given nine days paid holiday to curb infections. Some other countries are also introducing measures applying only to the unvaccinated. In Australia, the state of Queensland will bar unvaccinated people from restaurants, pubs and sports events from 17 December. And Singapore has said that those who remain unvaccinated by choice will have to pay for their own medical bills from December.
Covid: Dutch accept life within 'lockdown-lite'. Twinkling fairy lights embellish the Linden trees around the Dutch parliament square. Flames warm friends huddled beneath heaters glowing amber against the autumnal dusk. While the anti-lockdown, anti-vax protesters and conspiracy propagators who hurled fireworks at riot police dominated the front pages, they represent a minority. Most people in the Netherlands reluctantly agree that sacrificing parts of their social lives can contribute to the greater good. The Dutch government has announced a lockdown-lite designed to limit social contacts, in response to a sharp increase in infections. A record 16,324 new cases were recorded in one day this week and they remain stubbornly high. "I do think it disproportionately affects young people," says Saskia Heyster, who is worried about her mental health. "My studies can be stressful, last lockdown I got overwhelmed with the stress of managing everything. I really relish having a coffee and not having it feel illegal. I hope to have time to focus on other activities that don't involve going out for drinks. Honestly though, I've been having a meltdown." "It's pretty gutting, pretty frustrating," says Neill Bo Finlayson, who has just finished his pint. "My experience is lockdown after lockdown. It's especially hard as we've just seen what life can be like, but public safety comes first and you've got to do what you've got to do. The rules aren't that draconian, and we're well conditioned to it now." "Mental health should be treated the same as physical health and we young people are affected most by these measures - physically and mentally," says Natasja, who confides she's afraid of loneliness if the measures drag on beyond the planned three weeks. The Netherlands has been criticised for taking a relatively relaxed approach in the past. This liberal, conservative nation was one of the last in the world to make face masks mandatory, and the slowest in Europe to roll out its vaccination programme. But with the intensive care units almost at capacity, operations cancelled, and struggling German hospitals warning they cannot accept patients from across the border, this initial short sharp shock is considered crucial to bring the record-breaking daily infection numbers under control. The new restrictions have widely been referred to as a "partial lockdown", and yet during the day life will remain largely unchanged. Bars, cafes and restaurants can keep serving (QR codes required for diners who want to stay rather than take-away) between 06:00-20:00. Sports matches can go ahead, but without spectators, and coronavirus entry passes and assigned seats are mandatory in food and drink venues. The mandatory closing time does not apply to artistic and cultural performances, for instance in cinemas, theatres and concert halls. Which has led many to sardonically ponder whether the Dutch government considers Covid only transmissible after dark. And the impact is already being felt. Supermarkets rammed with masked shoppers dodging each other in the aisles, stocking up on crates of beer and trolleys full of carbs. House parties are discouraged - maximum four visitors a day permitted, but everyone is aware this particular rule is virtually impossible to police. Just like the last time the bars and restaurants closed, our neighbours in The Hague are already booming beats and welcoming friends to ensure they are not deprived. There is a risk these measures will increase the spread of the virus at home, which according to government statistics is already responsible for the largest percentage of new infections. Bas Swillens, manager at Cafe Leopold on the cobbled square outside parliament, notes the irony. "We do everything to keep people safe, we check QR codes, people are sitting down... we are very careful. At home, no one is checking anything, yet again we are being blamed and penalised." Entrepreneurs in at least four Dutch cities have vowed to ignore the early last orders rules. The question is, what happens when - or if - councils decide to enforce them. Clubs and restaurants across the border in Belgium and Germany are reporting "red hot" booking lines with Dutch nationals keen to ensure they have alternative places to party. Considerable frustration and consternation exist among people who diligently wore their masks, kept their distances, and turned up for their jabs too. The widely held expectation was that this obedience would be sufficient to ward off a fourth wave, or at least protect them from the consequences. About 84% of Dutch adults have been fully vaccinated. Most patients in Dutch hospitals have not had their jab. One mum dropping her son at ballet today did not possess the mandatory QR code Covid pass to enter. She explained, "Ik doe niet mee" ('I'm not participating'), popped her five-year-old inside and left the building. The week before we'd shared crackers and chats while our children practised their pliés. The rules are carving divisions. Plans to create the 2G Covid passes - which will only give those who've been immunised or recently recovered from the virus a QR code - will further polarise. A few hours before the restrictions kicked in, families in fancy dress came out to catch a glimpse of the traditional Sinterklaas arrival parade. Floats and festivities weaved through the crowd-lined streets between the harbour and the centre of The Hague. Overall, the Dutch are displaying a determination to live, within the limitations. But many are increasingly asking, when and how will this end?
Germany coronavirus: Record rise prompts warning of 100,000 deaths. One of Germany's top virologists has warned that a further 100,000 people will die from Covid if nothing's done to halt an aggressive fourth wave. Case numbers have soared and Germany on Wednesday registered its highest rate of infection since the pandemic began, with almost 40,000 cases in a day. "We have to act right now," said Christian Drosten, who described a real emergency situation. Doctors in the intensive care Covid ward at Leipzig University Hospital warn this fourth wave could be the worst yet. One patient here, a woman in her 20s, has just given birth. Her baby is fine, but staff say they don't know whether she'll survive. This state of Saxony has the highest seven-day infection rate in Germany at 459 cases per 100,000 people. The national rate is 232. It also has the lowest take-up of vaccine: 57% of the population here have been vaccinated. There are 18 patients on the Covid ward. Just four were vaccinated. "It's very difficult to get staff motivated to treat patients now in this fourth wave," says Prof Sebastian Stehr, who heads the department. "A large part of the population still underestimates the problem." By now, Prof Sehr says, most people will know someone who's had Covid and should, therefore, be aware of the risk of infection. "Nevertheless," he adds, "we are still seeing so many patients who are not vaccinated." Germany's health minister has publicly blamed those people for the soaring cases, describing the current situation as a "pandemic of the unvaccinated". At the start of this week, Saxony banned unvaccinated people from bars, restaurants, public events and sport and leisure facilities. At least several other states are expected to follow suit. Germany's anti-vaxxers are furious. Several thousand protested last weekend in Leipzig. "This is discrimination, and we want to express vehemently that we do not accept this in our society," said Leif Hansen, who represents anti-vax "Bewegung Leipzig" (Leipzig Movement). He doesn't trust the companies that made the vaccine or the authorities who approved it. "They say the vaccination is ok, that I should give it to my children? Never!" he told me. "I have a feeling that it should never go into my body, and I will fight all I can to prevent it coming into my body." Sixteen million Germans over the age of 12 have not been fully vaccinated. The German government has admitted it's unlikely to persuade many of those people now, and politicians worry that social divisions might deepen. What many fear is another lockdown. Nadine Herzog's bar in Leipzig barely survived the last one. She deftly prepares cocktails as she tells us that even before the authorities required it she and her co-owner banned unvaccinated drinkers. "My business is dying. My dreams came true and now they suffer from people who don't do logical things to prevent others from getting ill or dying and I'm so angry," she told the BBC. A long queue formed outside a vaccine centre in the city earlier in the week. Evidence, perhaps, that some have changed their minds. But Germany is also now rolling out booster jabs amid concerns about waning protection in those who have been vaccinated. On the intensive care Covid unit they fear the damage is done. Operations have already been cancelled, procedures postponed to make way for Covid patients. Doctors here told us that nearly half of the people who end up here will die. For Germany, which invented one of the world's first Covid vaccines, that is a source of great shame.
Liverpool explosion: Three arrested under Terrorism Act after car blast at hospital. Three men have been arrested under the Terrorism Act after a man was killed in a car explosion outside Liverpool Women's Hospital. A taxi carrying one passenger pulled up just before 11:00 GMT - as a national two minutes' silence for Remembrance Sunday was due to begin - and exploded. The passenger was declared dead at the scene and is yet to be formally identified. The male driver was injured and is in hospital in a stable condition. Detectives from Counter Terrorism Police North West said three men - aged 29, 26 and 21 - were detained in the Kensington area of the city. They said they were continuing to keep an open mind about the cause of the blast and were working with Merseyside Police as the investigation continued "at pace". The security service, MI5, is also assisting. Armed officers have carried out raids on properties in Rutland Avenue near Sefton Park, and Boaler Street in Kensington. Specialist officers remain outside the property in Rutland Avenue, in an operation police say is linked to the explosion. Police negotiators are on the scene, a fire crew is on standby, and a number of residents have been evacuated. A large cordon, guarded by uniformed officers, is in place with six marked police vans and four cars stationed at the ends. Carl Bessant, whose partner had just had a baby, was inside the hospital at the time of the blast. "My partner is really shook up to be honest," he said. "We were so close and she was feeding the baby when it happened. We heard a loud bang and looked out of the window. "We saw the car on fire and someone jump out... screaming, and there was someone inside the car. "The hospital shut down, no-one in or out, so they said, but people were using the back entrance." Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Twitter: "My thoughts are with all those affected by the awful incident in Liverpool today. "I want to thank the emergency services for their quick response and professionalism, and the police for their ongoing work on the investigation." Home Secretary Priti Patel also tweeted she was "being kept regularly updated on the awful incident". By Jim Clarke, BBC North West Tonight deputy editor The first raid happened at about 13:00 GMT on Rutland Avenue in the Sefton Park area of the city. It's about 0.75 miles from the hospital. It's an area of the city with large Victorian houses. The house that was raided had been split up into flats. Local residents said they had not seen anybody coming or going from the property for some weeks - they thought it was unoccupied. The street remains cordoned off and some residents have been evacuated. Police were also seen at Boaler Street in the Kensington area of the city. It's about a mile away from the hospital. Eyewitnesses on the street said armed police arrived at about 14:00 GMT and raided a house. They said they saw two men being arrested and handcuffed. They were led by armed officers into a car. That street also remains cordoned off. Chief Constable Serena Kennedy, of Merseyside Police, sought to reassure the public, saying events of this nature were very rare and that there would be an increased and visible police presence on the streets in the coming days. A bomb disposal unit and fire engines attended the scene earlier, which remains cordoned off. Road closures are also in place. Police were called at 10:59 GMT to reports of a car explosion. Phil Garrigan, chief fire officer of Merseyside Fire and Rescue Service, said the car fire had been "fully developed" when crews arrived shortly after 11:00 GMT. "The operational crews extinguished the fire rapidly but... there was one fatality," he said. "Another individual had left the vehicle prior to the fire developing to the extent that it did. Our thoughts are with them and the families of those involved." Liverpool Women's Hospital said visiting access had been restricted until further notice and patients had been diverted to other hospitals where possible. "We are reviewing our patient activity for the next 24-48 hours and patients should wait to be contacted for updates about any planned appointments or other attendance at the hospital," chief executive Kathryn Thomson said. Liverpool Women's Hospital receives about 50,000 patients annually and is the largest hospital in its specialism in Europe. Did you witness what happened? Email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Or Upload your pictures/video hereTweet: @BBC_HaveYourSayPlease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission.
COP26: Climate deal sounds the death knell for coal power - PM. The Glasgow climate deal is a "game-changing agreement" which sounds "the death knell for coal power", Boris Johnson says. Although countries only agreed to "phase down" rather than "phase out" coal, the prime minister said this was a fantastic achievement. The wording change was made after a late intervention by China and India. But it remains the first time plans to reduce coal have been mentioned in such a climate deal. The agreement was reached after the two-week Glasgow COP26 summit went into overtime on Saturday. Critics have said the deal does not go far enough and will not meet the key summit goal of limiting global warming to 1.5C by the end of the century. Scientists say this would limit the worst impacts of climate change. During a Downing Street news conference, Mr Johnson said: "We can lobby, we can cajole, we can encourage, but we cannot force sovereign nations to do what they do not wish to do""For all our disagreements, the world is undeniably heading in the right direction"The "tipping point has been reached in people's attitudes" - with leaders "galvanised and propelled by their electorates"But "the fatal mistake now would be to think that we in any way cracked this thing" Mr Johnson said that despite the achievements of the summit, his reaction was "tinged with disappointment". He said there had been a high level of ambition - especially from countries where climate change was already "a matter of life and death". And "while many of us were willing to go there, that wasn't true of everybody", he admitted. But he added the UK could not compel nations to act. "It's ultimately their decision to make and they must stand by it." New global climate deal struck in GlasgowWhat's been agreed at COP26?Is the UK on track to meet its climate targets? Mr Johnson also said he thought the watered-down language on coal did not "make that much of a difference", adding that the direction of travel was "pretty much the same". He said most of Western Europe and North America had been persuaded to pull the plug on financial support for overseas fossil fuel projects by this time next year. "And when you add all that together, it is beyond question, Glasgow has sounded the death knell for coal power," he said. Speaking alongside the PM, COP26 president Alok Sharma revealed that at one point during the final negotiations, he had feared the agreement was in jeopardy. "There was an hour where really we weren't going to get a deal," he said. Mr Sharma, who fought back tears as he closed the summit following the late intervention, said: "I can tell you there was one really tense hour where I did feel the weight of the world on my shoulders... this deal was absolutely in jeopardy. We got it over the line." Earlier he said that "China and India will have to explain themselves" to climate-vulnerable nations. One of the main goals set out by COP26 was to ensure global warming does not go above 1.5C by 2100 - but a report by the Climate Action Tracker group has calculated that at the current rate, the world is heading for 2.4C warming by that date. As part of the agreement struck in Glasgow, countries will meet next year to pledge further major carbon cuts with the aim of reaching the 1.5C goal. Under the Glasgow climate pact: Countries were asked to republish their climate action plans by the end of next year, with more ambitious emissions reduction targets for 2030There is an emphasis on the need for developed countries to increase the money they give to those already suffering the effects of climate change - beyond the current $100bn annual targetThe language about coal has been included for the first time ever in a global climate dealA pledge in a previous draft to "phase out" coal was instead watered down to a commitment to "phase down" coal The UN's climate change chief Patricia Espinosa described the mention of fossil fuels as a "huge step forward" but added there was a need to "balance out the social consequences" for people of cutting coal power - particularly in poor countries. She said that the 1.5C target was "definitely alive" but, earlier, Labour's shadow business and energy secretary Ed Miliband said the goal was "in intensive care". Simple guide to climate changeWhat will climate change look like for you?How extreme weather is linked to climate change Climate stripes visualisation courtesy of Prof Ed Hawkins and University of Reading.
Joe Biden and Xi Jinping: What they want from talks. US President Joe Biden and Chinese President Xi Jinping will hold a virtual summit on Monday as tensions between the countries deepen. The competing superpowers surprised many last week by issuing a joint declaration to address climate change, at talks in Glasgow, Scotland. But growing concerns of a military confrontation over Taiwan have thrown their differences into sharp relief. The pair's third meeting will address several thorny topics. Cybersecurity, trade and nuclear non-proliferation are subjects on the table, sources familiar with the negotiations told US media. In a statement released on Friday, the White House said "the two leaders will discuss ways to responsibly manage the competition between the United States and the PRC, as well as ways to work together where our interests align". China and US in surprise joint climate agreement Could China’s hypersonic missile spark a new arms race? The duo have spoken twice since Mr Biden took office in January, but both have acknowledged bumps in the relationship. Writing to the National Committee on US-China Relations non-profit last week, Mr Xi said his country was ready to work with the US to get relations back on track. He added that cooperation was "the only right choice". Our correspondents in Washington and Beijing assess how it might play out. Zhaoyin Feng, BBC News, Washington The expectation is low, but the fact the meeting happens at all will be a major outcome in itself.  Both sides intend to repair the US-China relationship, which has taken a nosedive in the past few years. Taiwan is likely to top the agenda. Biden wants Xi to pledge to maintain peace across the Taiwan Strait, as Beijing has shown growing willingness to intensify military pressure on the island. In return, the US leader will have to reassure his Chinese counterpart that America takes no position on Taiwan's sovereignty. The meeting will also be Biden's chance to convince Xi that the US administration's China strategy could be a stable framework for the bilateral relationship. Biden's China doctrine was previously summed up by his Secretary of State Antony Blinken - "competitive when it should be, collaborative when it can be, and adversarial when it must be". But Beijing has made it clear that issues of cooperation, such as climate action, cannot be divorced from points of contention in the diplomatic relations. "If the oasis is all surrounded by deserts, then sooner or later, the 'oasis' will be desertified," said the Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi in September. Will the talks bring water to the "deserts" and put out the fires? Robin Brant, BBC News, Shanghai Taiwan and talking - two words sum up the key concerns of China as Xi Jinping prepares to sit down and Zoom his US counterpart. The island off the east coast of China, with its own democratically elected president, seems like an obscure issue for many outside Asia. But for Beijing, Taiwan is the renegade province that it has always wanted to fully reunite with the "motherland". Xi Jinping talks about it as an inevitability. He knows canonisation awaits if he is the man to do it. What is the 'One China' policy?What do young Americans most admire about China? But just a few weeks ago Joe Biden pledged to defend Taiwan if China attacked. America's commitment to what to regards as a beacon of its values seems clear. Xi Jinping will want clarification. (In the meantime we know from satellite images in recent media reports that the Chinese military is using structures shaped like US aircraft carriers for target practice.) The prospect of a war is why "talking" is up the top of the "virtual summit" wish list too. Relations are in a bad place - a White House ordered report from the US intelligence agencies has twice now re-iterated China's lack of openness on the investigation in to the origins of Covid-19. Just last week President Biden agreed further restrictions on trade with a Chinese telecom company. He's been successful too in starting to rebuild alliances to challenge China's influence and power in the Asia-Pacific region. Beijing will have noted, as we all did, that the last line of an official readout after the two men spoke by phone last September warned both sides had a responsibility to ensure "competition didn't veer in to conflict". Re-establishing multi-level mechanisms to meet, negotiate and talk could ensure that happens.
Jair Bolsonaro, guns and rising violence in Brazil. Gun culture was a key part of Jair Bolsonaro's winning campaign to become Brazil's president. Three years later, what impact has he had on the nation's relationship with firearms and how much has US politics played a part? Rice and beans hold an important place in the heart of most Brazilians. In this deeply divided country, where almost everything is politicised, at least the famous "feijao" is a food loved by everyone. That is, until recently - when Jair Bolsonaro tried to put a political spin on the humble bean. "The left says that people don't eat guns, they eat beans," he joked. He had a few weeks earlier attacked his critics for saying that buying food was more important for Brazilians than buying firearms. "So when someone attacks your house, shoot beans at them," he said ironically. It is yet another example of Bolsonaro sticking two fingers up at his critics.  And they're well-used fingers. Throughout his campaign trail in 2018, he used them in a pistol hand gesture as a clear message to his supporters - even in a country with one of the world's highest rates of gun deaths, easing firearms laws was a top priority. And on 15 January 2019, just two weeks after taking power, he made good on his promise. The Brazilian president signed a decree making it easier for Brazilians to keep weapons at home and at the same time, increasing the validity of gun licences from five years to 10. It was, according to Bolsonaro, a step that would enable "upstanding citizens to have peace inside their homes". And he's not stopped since. The president has now made more than 32 changes to the country's gun laws - they include increasing the number of guns you're allowed to own, looser restrictions on ammunition and the ability to buy more powerful weapons. For Akira Ando, who owns a gun club in the town of Atibaia in Sao Paulo state, the past few years have seen a boom in business. "The telephone just rang off the hook," says Akira of the response following the decree. "People who never even imagined they could have a firearm at home or for sport were calling up." He's had to triple the number of people he employs on the administrative side - and he's got more than 2,500 members now. Until four years ago, it was closer to a thousand. "The profile of person who comes to the club has changed in the past few years," says Ando. "Our strength is shooting as a sport but people come here to get the paperwork to own a gun, to be able to keep one at home or at work, to protect their family." Business owner Elias Paulo Kury is one such member. A relative newcomer to shooting, he enjoys the club's atmosphere but is clear about one of his main motivations to pick up a gun. "All the baddies are armed, why shouldn't we have the right to defend ourselves in our own homes? It doesn't make any sense," he says. "Nowadays, we're victims of everything that is happening around us," he says, adding that unemployment and poverty are propelling violence in the country. Times have changed in Brazil. In 2003, a Disarmament Statute was signed into law, tightening rules on weapons.  The following year, there was a National Disarmament Campaign, which saw the handing in of more than half a million weapons. Why could Brazil's president face criminal charges? But in 2005, a referendum was held asking people's views on an outright ban on gun sales. Even with guns a leading cause of death, Brazil's gun lobby campaigned hard, importing the US concept of a right to bear arms - in the end, the public voted NO to such a ban. "We are seeing the NRA discourse being imported for Brazilian context and it's completely different," says Melina Risso, a public security expert and director at Igarapé Institute in Rio de Janeiro. "Here in Brazil, it's not a right to carry a gun, it's a concession by the state and they have strict rules. But since 2005, the gun lobby has tried to change the mindset of Brazilians in general. It didn't start with Bolsonaro." But there's no doubt Bolsonaro has made the debate his own since taking power. In fact, according to the Brazilian Forum of Public Security, as of 2020, the number of guns registered with the Federal Police has doubled since 2017. And in 2020 alone, 186,071 new weapons were registered - an increase of 97% in a year. Samurai Caçador (Samurai Hunter in English) is a beneficiary of this new wave. A hunting fanatic and social media influencer, he regularly goes online to talk about guns, their merits and the challenges for regular gun-users. "I was never into arms," he says, explaining that he came from a family where weapons were thought to go against family safety and life. "I wanted to know more about this world, I took the initiative to question it." Samurai hunts wild boar - the only animal that can be legally hunted in Brazil and even then, only as a way to control numbers in the wild as opposed to a sport. But, like all aspects of guns here in Brazil, it's become increasingly popular. Between 2019 and 2020, there was a rise of nearly 30% in the number of hunting and collecting licences issued. "I was transformed by this world so I want to use my experience to explain that weapons aren't a seven-headed beast," he says. "It's about freedom. It's a choice to be armed or not. It's a right that we will defend. Our president has always defended it. It's sacred." But this, say experts, doesn't truly represent Brazil - a poor country of more than 200 million that saw over 50,000 deaths from firearms last year. Indeed, recent polls suggest two-thirds of people disagree with gun ownership. "There is a part of Brazil for whom this US style gun culture makes some sense, but not for the majority of Brazilians," says Brian Winter, editor-in-chief of Americas Quarterly. "Where most of Brazilians live - in the south-east and north-east along the coasts, these are big cities where this kind of assault-rifle toting culture makes no sense at all." So why the US-style gun strategy then? "I don't think there is a strategy, I think it's a reflection of the reality which is so much of Bolsonarismo being modelled after Trump," says Winter. "They clearly looked at the gun culture issue and said maybe we've got something here." Bolsonaro has always openly admired Trump and US culture and it's telling that several influential thinkers allied to the Bolsonaro government, such as Olavo de Carvalho and Rodrigo Constantino, live in the US. But as with the Trumps, it's very much a family affair with the Bolsonaros. Son Eduardo is an influential member of the dynasty, forging relationships with the likes of strategist Steve Bannon.  And the parallels between Eduardo Bolsonaro and Don Trump Jr posing with guns is not lost on Brazil watchers either. America's gun culture in charts "What you get is mostly the imagery and the macho posing with the AR15s," says Winter. "The visuals that are meant to project strength, I feel like [they are] often one or two degrees separated from Taliban imagery." But where now? Trump is no longer in power, and Jair Bolsonaro is yet to announce whether he will run for another term in next year's elections. The pandemic has certainly hit his popularity but a year is a long time in Brazilian politics. No matter what politics you believe in, he's made an impact. "When we look at the data, every serious study that has been conducted has shown if you have more guns, you have more violence especially in a country like Brazil," says Melissa Risso. "The damage is really huge in Brazil in terms of all the regulation they made, the weakening of the laws and how many guns are already in the population's hands. We will have a lot of consequences for many years."
Japan's former princess Mako arrives in New York after giving up title. Japan's former princess Mako has arrived in the US with her new "commoner" husband, Kei Komuro, after leaving the royal family. There was minimal pageantry as the college sweethearts, who wed last month, left from Tokyo airport on Sunday morning. They will rent an apartment in New York where Mr Komuro works at a law firm. Under Japanese law, female imperial family members forfeit their status upon marriage to a "commoner". The pair were heavily guarded by police and airport security as they strolled through the departure terminal. They passed about 100 journalists who were there to witness them leave, but did not respond to questions. Footage broadcast in Japan showed the couple arriving in New York and walking through the airport with security guards, before getting into a waiting vehicle. Their move to New York had long been rumoured and Mako, who took her husband's name when they got married, is reportedly expected to find a job in the city. However, the couple faced a set-back to their plans last month when Japanese media reported that Mr Komuro had failed the New York state bar exam. Prospective lawyers have to pass the tests to practise law in the state. Mr Komuro is currently working as a legal clerk. The move to the US has drawn comparisons with British royals Meghan Markle and Prince Harry, earning the newlyweds the nickname "Japan's Harry and Meghan". The couple faced significant opposition when they first announced their engagement four years ago and their relationship has been subject to tabloid gossip and controversy over claims that Mr Komuro's mother had reportedly taken a loan from her ex-fiancé and not paid him back. PROFILE: The woman who gave up royal status to marry The coverage led to the then-princess developing post-traumatic stress disorder, according to the Imperial Household. When the couple married last month they skipped the usual rites of a royal wedding and turned down a payment offered to royal women upon their departure from the family. Former princess Mako, who is the niece of Emperor Naruhito, is the first female member of the royal family to decline both.
Macron switches to using navy blue on France's flag - reports. President Emmanuel Macron has switched to using a darker navy blue on the official French flag, replacing the previous brighter shade, officials have told local media. The move saw flags in the new hue hoisted on the presidential palace last year without any accompanying fanfare. Mr Macron wanted to bring back the navy blue flag, a symbol of the French Revolution, Europe 1 said. However, both the darker and lighter flags have been in use for decades. France's navy and many official buildings around the country have always used the navy blue shade. But in 1976 under President Giscard d'Estaing, the French state introduced a brighter blue on the tricolour to match the blue on the flag of Europe. That decision was partly an aesthetic one, Europe 1 reports, because the French and European flags flew next to each other in so many locations. The Élysée Palace has not publicly announced its change in flags, and no orders have been given for other institutions to do the same. There was reportedly some disagreement over Mr Macron's change back to navy blue, with some arguing the new shade was ugly and would clash with the EU flag, and others nostalgic for the pre-1976 version. However, all concerned insist that the colour change should not be interpreted as an anti-EU gesture, Europe 1 reports. France is due to take on the rotating EU presidency in January. Mr Macron also faces a presidential election in April next year.
Saif al-Islam Gaddafi: Son of Libya ex-ruler runs for president. The son of Libya's late leader Muammar al-Gaddafi has registered as a candidate in the country's first direct presidential election next month. Saif al-Islam Gaddafi was once the heir apparent to his father, but his support for a brutal crackdown on protesters 10 years ago tarnished his image. Since that 2011 uprising, Libya has been riven by conflict. Rights groups have raised fears the vote, scheduled for 24 December, will not be free and fair. World powers and the UN secretary-general have warned that anyone who tries to obstruct it or falsify the outcome will face sanctions. Photos and video circulating online show Saif al-Islam Gaddafi sitting in front of a poster for the upcoming poll, signing electoral papers. Bearded and wearing traditional Libyan clothing, he addressed the camera and cited a verse from the Koran that translates as, "judge between us and our people in truth". "God always prevails in his purpose," he also said, citing another chapter of the Muslim holy book, and adding from another section - "even if the unbelievers hate it". It is a very different image from the one he presented before the uprising that brought down his father in 2011. In the aftermath of Muammar Gaddafi's brutal end, Saif al-Islam Gaddafi was himself captured by a militia. He was held for six years, receiving a death sentence that was later overturned. Mr Gaddafi is still wanted on war crimes charges by the International Criminal Court, but has gradually re-emerged onto the public stage, including via an interview to the New York Times from his villa in Zintan earlier this year [paywall]. Mr Gaddafi's comeback has sharply divided opinion in Libya, says BBC Monitoring's Amira Fathalla. Yet there is little surprise at his leadership bid, as he has been repeatedly touted as a contender for years. Memories in Libya are likely still too raw for him to win the presidency, says the BBC's Middle East editor Sebastian Usher, and his candidacy will further complicate the already fragile electoral process. After years of civil war and rival powers operating in the east and west of the country, Libya is currently led by an interim government but remains politically unstable. Disagreement between Libya's political bodies and opposing factions about the election rules and the schedule have threatened to derail the presidential vote. Other candidates in the running are the warlord Khalifa Haftar - who previously led an insurgency from his eastern base against the UN-backed government in Tripoli, plus Prime Minister Abdulhamid al-Dbeibah and parliament speaker Aguila Saleh. Who is Saif al-Islam Gaddafi?The Gaddafi family treeA quick guide to Libya
US defends air strikes that killed civilians in Syria. The US military has defended as "legitimate" an air strike attack which killed dozens of people in Syria in 2019. The attack on so-called Islamic State fighters killed 80 people, as the group made their last stand. The US identified 16 of the dead as militants, and four as civilians. But officials could not conclude on more than 60, and a spokesperson told the BBC it was "highly likely" more civilians were killed. An independent investigation into the strike was never conducted, according to a New York Times report which accused the military of a cover-up. The air strikes occurred on 18 March 2019 in the town of Baghuz in eastern Syria - then the last stronghold of the so-called IS caliphate. Three bombs were dropped by US jets on a large group of people, despite drone footage showing the presence of civilians, according to the New York Times. Commanders ignored alarm expressed in the immediate aftermath and a subsequent investigation into the incident by the defence department's inspector general was "stripped" of any mention of the strike, the newspaper reported. It added that no thorough independent investigation had ever happened. "Leadership just seemed so set on burying this. No-one wanted anything to do with it," Gene Tate, an official who worked on the case and said he was forced out of his job, told the newspaper. US Central Command rejected the accusations. In a statement to the BBC, spokesman Cpt Bill Urban said US troops had been assured there were no civilians in the area at the time of the attack. Only afterwards, he went on, did the US become aware of high-resolution video from a drone operated by an unidentified US ally suggesting civilians had been present. And footage from that drone enabled the US to conclude their bombs had killed 16 fighters and four civilians - but could not "conclusively characterise the status of more than 60 other casualties". "The reason for this uncertainty is that multiple armed women and at least one armed child were observed in the video, and the exact mixture of armed and unarmed personnel could not be conclusively determined. Likely, a majority of those killed were also combatants at the time of the strike, however, it is also highly likely that there were additional civilians killed by these two strikes." An investigation concluded that "these two strikes were legitimate self-defence strikes" and "no disciplinary actions were warranted", Cpt Urban continued. He did not address the New York Times accusation that there had been a cover-up in the investigation conducted by the inspector-general's office. Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) - allied to the US - started the final ground attack on Baghuz at the start of March 2019. The alliance was forced to slow its offensive after it emerged that a large number of civilians were also there, sheltering in buildings, tents and tunnels. Many IS fighters stayed in their midst, putting up fierce resistance, deploying suicide bombers and car bombs. The fall of Baghuz was a major moment in the fight against IS. The extremist Islamist group came to international prominence in 2014 when it seized large parts of Syria and Iraq. IS imposed its brutal rule on almost eight million people, carried out countless atrocities, destroyed cultural heritage, and generated billions of dollars in revenue from oil, extortion, robbery and kidnapping. The rise and fall of the Islamic State group After five years of fierce and bloody battles, local forces, backed by world powers, have driven IS out of all the territory it once controlled. Last year, however, IS claimed to have carried out nearly 600 attacks in Syria and more than 1,400 in neighbouring Iraq.
Queen misses Remembrance Sunday service after back sprain. The Queen has missed the Remembrance Sunday service at the Cenotaph in London as she has sprained her back. Buckingham Palace said the monarch, 95, was "disappointed" not to attend the event. The palace previously said it was the Queen's "firm intention" to attend the service, after taking time away from her duties for health reasons. She made the decision to miss the event "with great regret" this morning, a statement said. Nation falls silent for Remembrance SundayWhat is Remembrance Sunday?Who gives the Queen medical advice? As in previous years, a wreath was laid on her behalf by the Prince of Wales. The Duchess of Cornwall, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, the Earl and Countess of Wessex and The Princess Royal also still attended as planned. At his Downing Street news conference on the COP climate deal, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he had an audience with Her Majesty last week and "she is very well". This is a blow. A blow to those gathered here on Whitehall on a grey November morning, a blow to the many who had hoped to see the Queen after a fortnight of rest, and without doubt a blow to the Queen herself - Remembrance Sunday is when she, who has devoted her life to service, pays her tribute to those who served. It is, as one palace official puts it, "incredibly unfortunate timing". When the palace announced that the Queen would cancel her official engagements for two weeks it went out of its way to say that it was her "firm intention" to attend the National Service of Remembrance. It's understood that the Queen will not need hospital treatment. It looks as if a car ride from Windsor and a period of standing in the cold watching the ceremony were just impossible given her back sprain. In previous years, she may have weathered the pain. But there is no getting round the fact that she is 95 years old. For a period, at least, quieter times beckon. The Queen's back sprain is unrelated to her doctor's recent advice to rest, news agency PA Media reported. Doctors had advised the monarch to rest until mid-November after she spent a night in hospital on 20 October for checks - her first overnight hospital stay in eight years. However, she did undertake some light duties during that time, including meeting ambassadors via video link from Windsor Castle. She also recorded a video message for the COP26 climate summit in Glasgow, after pulling out of attending the event in person. And she missed the Festival of Remembrance at London's Royal Albert Hall on Saturday, which was attended by Prince Charles, Camilla, Prince William and Catherine. The Remembrance Sunday service would have been her first duty in public after her hospital stay last month. Buckingham Palace said in a statement: "The Queen, having sprained her back, has decided this morning with great regret that she will not be able to attend today's Remembrance Sunday service at the Cenotaph. "Her Majesty is disappointed that she will miss the service." The Queen will be continuing light duties at Windsor. The monarch, who lived through World War Two as a teenager, is head of the armed forces. She has only missed six other Cenotaph ceremonies during her reign - on four occasions when she was on overseas visits and in 1959 and 1963, when she was pregnant with her two youngest children. The Queen had maintained a typically busy schedule in October before being admitted to hospital, but was recently seen using a walking stick at a Westminster Abbey service, the first time she has done so at a major event. On Tuesday, she returned to Windsor Castle following a long-planned weekend away at her Sandringham home in Norfolk. Last week, she was spotted driving her car near Windsor Castle, in an area where she is known to take her Corgi dogs out for walks.
Bart Simpson graffiti appears following Kidderminster speed camera 'moon'. Graffiti depicting a 'mooning' Bart Simpson has appeared near the home of a man arrested after baring his behind to a speed camera van. Terminally ill Darrell Meekcom, exposed himself at the van in Kidderminster, Worcestershire as part of a list of things he wanted to do before he died. The street art appeared in a subway in the town on Saturday. Mr Meekcom, who thinks the work is by Banksy, said he thought the piece was "fantastic". Mr Meekcom, who uses a wheelchair and has heart disease, Parkinson's disease and kidney failure, said because of his illnesses he came up with a so-called bucket list of things he wanted to do before he died. He targeted a speed camera van in his home town after he had been "caught by them a couple of times". He said about six officers arrived at his home a short time later and after he refused to let them in, his garden gate was kicked in and the officers got him to the ground to cuff him. West Mercia Police confirmed a a 55-year-old was arrested on suspicion of indecent exposure and dangerous driving Mr Meekcom said he received anonymous messages from someone who told him they "represented an international street artist" who wanted to do a piece based on his experience. He believes the piece is a work by Banksy, but it has not been confirmed by the secretive street artist. "It is fantastic," Mr Meekcom said. "It is so well thought out...it is basically descriptive, it is clever." Mr Meekcom said he hopes the artwork can be protected. Follow BBC West Midlands on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk
US bank robber identified after decades-long hunt. The fugitive behind one of America's most notorious bank robberies has been identified after a 52-year search, law enforcement officials have announced. Ted Conrad was working as a teller at the Society National Bank in Cleveland, Ohio when he robbed his employer in July 1969. He disappeared with $215,000, worth $1.7m (£1.2m) today. Investigators from the US Marshals Service said he subsequently lived a quiet and unassuming life. Conrad, who died in May from lung cancer, was just 20 years old when he pulled off the heist. He reportedly took advantage of the bank's lacklustre security, walking out with the money stuffed into a brown paper bag as the branch closed on a Friday evening. By the time other bank employees realised the money was gone two days later, Conrad had disappeared. He sparked a manhunt that would last for more than half a century, and went on to feature on television shows like America's Most Wanted and Unsolved Mysteries. According to the Marshal Service, Conrad had allegedly told friends of his plans to rob the bank and boasted about how easy it would be to do. He was reportedly obsessed with the 1968 Steve McQueen heist film, The Thomas Crown Affair, and watched it more than a dozen times during his preparation for the robbery. Marshals say that after his disappearance Conrad changed his name to Thomas Randele and fled to Washington DC and Los Angeles, before eventually settling in a Boston suburb around 1000km (621 miles) away from the scene of the crime. Investigators say he subsequently lived a quiet and unassuming life, and the New York Times reported that he had spent the past 40 years working as a golf professional and at a used-car dealership. The case remained cold for decades before investigators, alerted by the appearance of Randele's obituary in a newspaper, were able to match papers he had filed during the 1960s with documents "Randele" had completed more recently. Ironically, this included papers from Randele's bankruptcy case in a Boston court in 2014. Marshal Peter Elliott was one of the lead investigators on the case. He inherited it from his father John, who had been obsessed with finding out what became of the daring thief. "My father never stopped searching for Conrad and always wanted closure up until his death in 2020," Mr Elliott said. "I hope my father is resting a little easier today knowing his investigation and his United States Marshals Service brought closure to this decades-long mystery."
Two Ugandan soldiers sentenced to death in Somalia. Five Ugandan soldiers serving with African Union troops in Somalia have been found guilty of killing seven civilians there in August. Two of the soldiers have been sentenced to death, while three others have been given 39-year prison sentences. The three will be repatriated to Uganda to serve their sentences there. The civilians were unlawfully killed during a gun battle in Golweyn between its troops and al-Shabab militants, the AU says. The AU's Amisom force has been in Somalia for 14 years. It has been fighting the al-Shabab Islamists who retain a stronghold on parts of the country. Almost a third of Amisom's 20,000 troops are from Uganda - making it the biggest national contingent. Saturday's court martial ruling by Uganda comes a month after the AU announced it wanted to expand its military operation in Somalia, pending approval from the UN and the Somali government. "Our mission in Somalia is to degrade al-Shabab and other armed groups. In doing so, we absolutely have every responsibility to protect the civilian population", said commander of the Ugandan contingent commander Brig Gen Don Nabasa in a statement on Saturday. VOA reports that some of the victims' families attended the court hearings organised by Uganda in the Somali capital, Mogadishu. "We are very happy with the court decision and expect compensation to be awarded to the families of those killed," Hussein Osman Wasuge - a spokesman for the bereaved relatives - is quoted as saying. He told local media that one of the bereaved and six Ugandan soldiers were allowed to testify. A quick guide to Somalia Somali concern as US troop withdrawalAl-Shabab 'collects more revenue than government' - reportWho are al-Shabab?
US anger at Russian anti-satellite missile test debris. The US has condemned Russia for conducting a "dangerous and irresponsible" missile test that it says endangered the crew aboard the International Space Station (ISS). The test blew up one of Russia's own satellites, creating debris that forced the ISS crew to shelter in capsules. The station currently has seven crew members on board - four Americans, a German and two Russians. The space station orbits at an altitude of about 420km (260 miles). What's it like to live on the ISS? "Earlier today, the Russian Federation recklessly conducted a destructive satellite test of a direct ascent anti-satellite missile against one of its own satellites," US state department spokesman Ned Price said at a briefing. "The test has so far generated over 1,500 pieces of trackable orbital debris and hundreds of thousands of pieces of smaller orbital debris that now threaten the interests of all nations." Russian space agency Roscosmos downplayed the incident. "The orbit of the object, which forced the crew today to move into spacecraft according to standard procedures, has moved away from the ISS orbit. The station is in the green zone," the agency tweeted. The wayward material passed by without incident, but its origin is now under the spotlight. It appears to have come from a broken-up Russian satellite, Kosmos-1408. A spy satellite launched in 1982, it weighed over a tonne and had ceased working many years ago. LeoLabs, a space debris-tracking company, said its radar facility in New Zealand had picked up multiple objects where the long-defunct spacecraft should have been. But Mr Price said the danger was far from over. "This test will significantly increase the risk to astronauts and cosmonauts on the International Space Station, as well as to other human spaceflight activities," he said. "Russia's dangerous and irresponsible behaviour jeopardises the long-term sustainability of outer space and clearly demonstrate that Russia's claims of opposing weaponisation of space are disingenuous and hypocritical. "The US will work with our partners and allies to respond to their irresponsible act." It's difficult not to view anti-satellite missile tests as a form of madness. It's impossible to control the debris field that results from a high-velocity impact. Thousands of fragments are produced. Some will be propelled downwards towards Earth and out of harm's way, but many will also head to higher altitudes where they will harass operational missions for years into the future - including those of the nation state that carried out the test. What must the Russian cosmonauts on the space station have been thinking when they took shelter in their Soyuz capsule early on Monday because of the risk debris from this test might intersect with their orbital home? Space junk is a rapidly worsening situation. Sixty-four years of activity above our heads means there are now roughly a million objects running around up there uncontrolled in the size range of 1cm (0.4in) to 10cm. An impact from any one of these could be mission-ending for a vital weather or telecommunications satellite. Nations need to be clearing up the space environment, not polluting it still further. A number of countries have the ability to take out satellites from the ground, including the US, Russia, China and India. Testing of such missiles is rare, but always draws widespread condemnation whenever it occurs, because it pollutes the space environment for everyone. When China destroyed one of its retired weather satellites in 2007, it created more than 2,000 pieces of trackable debris. This material posed an ongoing hazard to operational space missions, not least those of China itself. Brian Weeden, an expert in space situational awareness, earlier said that if it was confirmed Russia had conducted a test that endangered the ISS, the conduct would have been "beyond irresponsible". The space station occupies an orbital shell that other operators try to keep clear of hardware, either working or retired. However, the astronauts are increasingly having to take precautionary measures when fragments from old satellites and rockets come uncomfortably close. The velocities at which this material moves means it could easily puncture the walls of the station's modules. Precautionary measures usually involve closing hatches between the modules, and, as happened on Monday, climbing into the capsules that took the astronauts up to the station. These vehicles stay attached to the ISS throughout the crews' tours of duty in case there is a need for a rapid "lifeboat" escape.
Space debris: Smart solutions sought to make orbital traffic safer. The UK Space Agency (UKSA) wants to hear from anyone with novel ideas for how to track all the pieces of debris now moving in orbit. UKSA has £1m to dispense in grants for smart new solutions. There are about 900,000 redundant objects larger than 1cm circling overhead. Even the smallest items are capable of doing immense damage to, or even destroying, an operational satellite in a collision. The funding is designed to seed further entrants to the UK's burgeoning space start-up sector. Europe's new space budget to enable CO2 mappingRemoveDebris: UK satellite tracks 'space junk' "We're looking to support new companies that want to use artificial intelligence and machine learning to better exploit the data that's already out there," explained Jacob Geer, the UKSA's head of space surveillance and tracking (SST). "But the second theme is around new ways to sense and track space objects - in low-Earth orbit (LEO) in particular, because it's in LEO that a lot of the new missions will be going," he told BBC News. Britain has a long history in SST. RAF Fylingdales in North Yorkshire, for example, has been using radar to track space objects for more than 50 years. But as the amount of traffic overhead - especially commercial traffic - increases, ever more sophistication is needed to monitor and understand what's going on. Today, satellite operators will sometimes receive a warning that their hardware is at risk of a collision with another object. But this notification can often be either so imprecise in its detail or arrive so close to the moment of possible intersection that it's next to useless. With thousands of new satellites, large and small, to be launched in the coming decade, SST is a field that's ripe for new thinking. Under the UKSA funding stream to be announced on Tuesday, companies will be able to bid for a maximum grant award of £250,000. The international market for space surveillance and tracking has the potential to reach over £100m by 2035, analysts believe. The UKSA hopes that if British businesses are well represented in this sector, it will also give new satellite operators the confidence to choose this country as a base as well. "What's exciting here is that if we can get this right; if we can get some assurance about operating safely, it will enable companies to push the boundaries of innovation even further in the types of new missions they intend to launch. If we're able to give them that support, they'll want to come to, and work from, the UK," said Dr Alice Bunn, the UKSA's international director. Britain made space safety a priority for itself at the recent European Space Agency Ministerial Council, by pledging more money to the policy area than any other member state. This included a substantial contribution to the ADRIOS (Active Debris Removal/In orbit servicing) programme, which is backing the Swiss-led ClearSpace-1 mission to grab some old rocket hardware and pull it out of the sky. Britain is also involved in another debris-capture demonstration called ELSA-d organised by the Japanese start-up Astroscale. Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Space debris removal demonstration launches. A Soyuz rocket has launched from the Baikonur cosmodrome in Kazakhstan to put 38 different satellites in orbit. Among the payloads was a 500kg Earth imager developed by the South Korean space agency; and a pair of spacecraft from the Tokyo-headquartered Astroscale company which will give a demonstration of how to clean up orbital debris. Astroscale's showcase will be run from an operations centre in the UK. The Soyuz flight lasted nearly five hours following a 06:07 GMT lift-off. The long duration was a consequence of having to put so many different satellites in three different orbits roughly 500km to 550km above the Earth. A lot of interest ahead of launch had focussed on the Astroscale mission. With the space environment becoming increasingly cluttered, there is heightened awareness that something needs to be done to sweep away spaceflight's legacy of discarded hardware. This debris - of which there is roughly 9,000 tonnes up there - is a potential collision risk to the operational systems that deliver much-needed services, such as weather forecasting and telecommunications. Smart solutions sought to make orbital traffic saferRemoveDebris: UK satellite tracks 'space junk'Mega-constellation satellites will need 'rapid disposal' Astroscale launched what it calls Elsa-D (End-of-Life Service by Astroscale demonstration). The demonstration mission consists of two spacecraft: a 175kg "servicer" and a 17kg "client". On the Soyuz, the duo were connected, but in the coming weeks they will be commanded to separate to begin a repeating game of cat and mouse. The servicer will use its sensors to find and chase down the client, latching on to it using a magnetic docking plate, before then releasing "the mouse" for another capture experiment. The task will become increasingly complex, with the most difficult rendezvous requiring the servicer to grab the client as it's tumbling. Ultimately, the pair will be commanded to come out of orbit to burn up in the atmosphere. "The mission simulates a scenario where we would rendezvous with, and dock with, and capture a piece of debris that is free-floating in space," explained Astroscale chief technical officer Mike Lindsay. "We would then lower the debris, such that it re-enters Earth's atmosphere and stays out of the way of other spacecraft and operations," he told BBC News. There is a burgeoning waste problem in the volume of space just above the Earth - a few hundred to a few thousand km in altitude. Can space exploration be environmentally friendly? The accumulated junk ranges in nature from big rocket segments through to tiny shards of metal that have been created in accidental explosions and collisions. All move with high velocity and are therefore capable of destroying, or at least badly damaging an active satellite, of which there are currently over 3,000. Precise tracking is possible on debris objects larger than 10cm. There are about 30,000 of these in the catalogue, but there may be one million items out there nearer to 1cm in size that are extremely difficult to monitor. Spacecraft owners are asked to adhere to guidelines that would see all their retired missions brought out of the sky within 25 years of the end of operations. But compliance is poor, and experts agree we now need to start fetching the bigger pieces of junk and bringing them down - if we want near-Earth orbits to remain useable. Astroscale wants to offer this as a commercial service. "In the same way that you call up a breakdown service when your car breaks down on the motorway, the idea is that we can do the exact same thing for space - a space sweeping service which can clean up as we go," said Harriet Brettle, the head of business analysis at Astroscale. On the design board for future commercial missions is an Elsa-M mission, where the M stands for "multi-client'. In this scenario, the servicer would capture in turn three clients and pull them down into lower orbits where they could more easily re-enter the atmosphere and burn up. The client spacecraft, or mouse, for this Astroscale demo was manufactured by Surrey Satellite Technology Limited (SSTL) of Guildford. Two other British-made satellites joined the ride to orbit, both manufactured by Open Cosmos on the Harwell science campus in Oxfordshire - the same location as for Astroscale's mission operations centre. One of the Open Cosmos platforms is to be used by Lacuna Space, again based at the Harwell Hub. Lacuna is developing an "Internet of Things" (IoT) constellation of small satellites that can link dispersed connected objects on the ground - everything from shipping containers to migrating animals.
Astronaut Scott Kelly: How to survive a year in space. Astronaut Scott Kelly tells the BBC how he managed to live for a year on the International Space Station and why, four years into his retirement from Nasa, he would go back if someone asked. It's 16 July 2015, and all three occupants of the International Space Station are squeezing into the Russian Soyuz spacecraft that acts as their lifeboat in the event of an emergency. The crew members have been told by mission control that a large, defunct satellite is hurtling their way at 14km per second. Controllers know it will come close, but they can't track the object precisely enough to know if it will skim by or score a devastating bullseye. US astronaut Scott Kelly and Russians Gennady Padalka and Mikhail "Misha" Kornienko hunker down in the cramped capsule, waiting for the speeding hunk of metal to close in, following the procedures drawn up for such an eventuality by preparing to detach from the station at a moment's notice and return to Earth. Astronaut Capt Scott Kelly's year in spaceISS crew members end year in space It's hardly the first time Captain Kelly, a former military pilot, has been in a life-threatening situation. But the experience caused him to ponder their collective powerlessness; had the satellite hit, there would have been no time to get away. "Misha, Gennady and I would have gone from grumbling to one another in our cold Soyuz to being blasted in a million directions as diffused atoms, all in the space of a millisecond," he recalls in his memoir Endurance. Crew rotations on the ISS come with many of the mundane features of everyday life on Earth: video calls, cleaning and bad days at work. But every now and then - as on this occasion - astronauts get a stark reminder of the hostile environment beyond the comforting walls of their vessel. Since 2007, Kelly has made three separate visits to the orbiting outpost. But it was on his last flight between 2015 and 2016 that he gained worldwide recognition. Along with Misha Kornienko, he was tasked with spending a whole year on the space station - twice the length of a regular stay. In doing so, he smashed the previous long duration spaceflight record for an American - set by astronaut Michael López-Alegría - by more than 100 days. But Kelly is just as well known for having an identical twin brother - Mark - who was also a Nasa astronaut. Mark, who is older by about six minutes, was elected as a senator for the state of Arizona in the 2020 US election. Speaking to me by video call from his home in Colorado, Scott Kelly says there was never a moment he felt like coming home early. "My goal was always to get to the end of the flight with as much energy and enthusiasm as I had at the beginning - and I think I did that. "I could have stayed up there longer, if there had been a good reason. So I never really doubted my ability to do that." Despite the fact that astronauts and cosmonauts are screened for their psychological ability to cope, he says: "I know that other people have had hard times with it. I've seen that myself in person - some folks having a challenge being isolated like that. It's hard, but it's not so hard you can't do it." He explains: "I don't know if it's necessarily an introvert/extravert thing, but you definitely have to be comfortable being your own entertainment," adding: "It's not for everybody." The toughest things, he says, are not being able to go outside and experience nature, as well as the formidable daily schedule of space station tasks. Another challenge, he says, was sharing a relatively small place with the same people for so long - "even though all those people are great". It was a challenge successfully navigated, however, as the close quarters confinement helped forge long-standing friendships: "I was just exchanging emails with (Nasa's) Kjell Lindgren. My wife and I did a video conference the other day with (Italian European Space Agency astronaut) Samantha Cristoforetti. I talk to Misha Kornienko and Gennady Padalka," he explains. The US is committed to four more years of funding for the ISS, but uncertainties remain about support for the orbiting lab after that. The space station was born in the 1990s, during an era of political détente between the US and Russia. "The space station programme has been a great example of international co-operation in a peaceful way," he tells me, "My experience with the cosmonauts on the station has always been one of professionalism, of respect, reliance on each other. "My hope is that, whenever we do decide to put the space station in the Pacific Ocean, there is something there to replace it. For the last 20 years, all humans have not been on Earth at the same time. I would like to see that continue." Kelly wasn't consumed by work for the whole of his year in orbit; he also managed to find time for much-needed fun and games. In what would become a viral video, he chased British astronaut Tim Peake through part of the space station dressed in a gorilla suit. Peake, it has to be said, does a good job of projecting alarm - if he is indeed acting. The suit - vacuum-packed and sent up on a supply flight - was a birthday present from Mark, and I ask Scott whether it was some sort of in-joke between the brothers. "My brother said: 'Hey, I'm sending you a gorilla suit.' And I said: 'Why are you sending me a gorilla suit?' He said: 'Why not?'" Kelly says, with a wry smile. "That's about as much thought as was put into that." The siblings were raised in suburban New Jersey by parents who were both cops. Their mother was the first female officer in the township of West Orange where they grew up, and Scott cites the determination she showed as an inspiration in his efforts to become an astronaut. Mark and Scott showed similar, early propensities for risk-taking that led to frequent injuries, including hospitalisations. But there was a point at school where Mark surged ahead in his studies, while Scott was prone to being easily distracted in class. At college, it was the party scene competing for Scott's attention. He credits a phone conversation with Mark - who told him to lay off the socialising and knuckle down - with turning his academic fortunes around. After training as a Navy pilot, Scott was assigned to a strike squadron called the World Famous Pukin' Dogs. He flew the F-14 Tomcat - the plane featured in Top Gun - during the 1990s, and carried out combat missions during the first Gulf War. However, Kelly was eager to become part of an even more elite group - those who have flown the space shuttle. Following his selection as a Nasa astronaut in the class of 1996, along with Mark, Scott served as a pilot on one shuttle mission before commanding another in 2007. On the shuttle, it's the commander that actually pilots the vehicle, and it's on the dizzyingly difficult landing that these skills come into their own. "I only flew it once. It's kind of crazy to consider how much time and effort you put into doing this one piloting task and then you get to do it once, or twice," says Kelly. "You've got one chance to land this. If you don't, it's not like you're adding power and coming around again. You recognise not only your colleagues are watching but a large part of the rest of the world." The shuttle was a magnificent, if flawed, vehicle. And the world was reminded of the huge risks of space travel when, in 2003, the space shuttle Columbia broke up while returning to Earth - killing seven astronauts. Nasa's safety culture was criticised by investigations in the wake of both the Challenger and Columbia disasters. Kelly lost friends on Columbia and, when I interview him, he is preparing to address the virtual SafetyCulture Summit, alongside Charles "Sully" Sullenberger - who landed a stricken US Airways flight on the Hudson River - and environmental campaigner Erin Brockovich. "The stuff that we do is so extraordinarily risky," he tells me. "Safety has to be everyone's responsibility… everyone needs to know that they are empowered to speak up if there's an issue." When it was originally proposed that an identical twin would be sent into orbit for a year-long stay on the ISS, one group of scientists eyed a unique opportunity to study the effects of extended periods in space on the human body. By using an Earth-bound Mark as a genetically identical "control", scientists would have greater confidence that any changes they were seeing in Scott were caused by the space environment. Both twins were subjected to a battery of tests measuring potential shifts in their physiology, cognitive abilities, immunity and DNA. Among other things, the results revealed genetic changes that suggested Scott's DNA was repairing itself due to damage from cosmic radiation. Scientists also saw unexpected changes in "caps" on the ends of Scott's chromosomes, called telomeres, as well as shifts in his blood chemistry, body mass and gut flora. But the vast majority of these reversed themselves once he was back on Earth. Four years on, he says: "I don't have any symptoms of anything that I can definitively point to as caused by that amount of time in space, but I do have some structural and physiological changes to my eyes - though it doesn't affect my vision." Scientists know that some people are affected more by ocular changes in space than others. And there has been work on the genetics underlying these differences. I ask Kelly if, as we learn more about how different people respond to the space environment, these biological markers could play a bigger role in astronaut selection - perhaps even at the expense of more traditional qualities. "I think that's not just an issue for Nasa but our society in general… it goes deeply into insurance and pre-existing conditions - whether genetic susceptibility could be considered a pre-existing condition. That is definitely an ethical conversation to be had," he says. The findings of the twins study were reassuring in light of space agencies' plans to send humans on a round trip to the Red Planet, which lies 34 million miles from Earth and could take nine months each way. But astronauts will be exposed to around 10 times the radiation dose they would get in Earth orbit - putting them at long-term risk of cancers and other illnesses. "You'll either have to find a way to shield or get to Mars quicker," Kelly says. "The other option is you just accept the risk." It's a dilemma you suspect Kelly himself would have considered carefully. He retired from Nasa in 2016, and has since been writing and speaking about his experiences. With his wife, he has since moved from Houston - the hub for Nasa's human spaceflight programme - to Denver. In the four years since he left, new opportunities have opened up for travel into space, and skillsets like his are in demand. The astronaut whose long duration spaceflight record Kelly surpassed - Michael López-Alegría - is now set to return from retirement to command a privately-funded flight to the ISS aboard Elon Musk's Crew Dragon vehicle. Despite having achieved so much, it's clear that Kelly's fascination with spaceflight remains undiminished. "If someone asked me: 'Hey do you want to fly in space?' I'd say: 'Sure, absolutely.' Depending on what I'd be launching on: I wouldn't get into a cannon and launch myself like a cannonball," Kelly says. "It would have to be something that made sense, that was safe. But I wouldn't rule it out. "If you know anyone out there who has a rocket ship they need piloting…" Follow Paul on Twitter. Captain Scott Kelly recently participated in the virtual SafetyCulture summit, sharing his tips for how businesses can succeed in 2021 despite the challenges of the pandemic.
Joe Biden and Xi Jinping: What they want from talks. US President Joe Biden and Chinese President Xi Jinping will hold a virtual summit on Monday as tensions between the countries deepen. The competing superpowers surprised many last week by issuing a joint declaration to address climate change, at talks in Glasgow, Scotland. But growing concerns of a military confrontation over Taiwan have thrown their differences into sharp relief. The pair's third meeting will address several thorny topics. Cybersecurity, trade and nuclear non-proliferation are subjects on the table, sources familiar with the negotiations told US media. In a statement released on Friday, the White House said "the two leaders will discuss ways to responsibly manage the competition between the United States and the PRC, as well as ways to work together where our interests align". China and US in surprise joint climate agreement Could China’s hypersonic missile spark a new arms race? The duo have spoken twice since Mr Biden took office in January, but both have acknowledged bumps in the relationship. Writing to the National Committee on US-China Relations non-profit last week, Mr Xi said his country was ready to work with the US to get relations back on track. He added that cooperation was "the only right choice". Our correspondents in Washington and Beijing assess how it might play out. Zhaoyin Feng, BBC News, Washington The expectation is low, but the fact the meeting happens at all will be a major outcome in itself.  Both sides intend to repair the US-China relationship, which has taken a nosedive in the past few years. Taiwan is likely to top the agenda. Biden wants Xi to pledge to maintain peace across the Taiwan Strait, as Beijing has shown growing willingness to intensify military pressure on the island. In return, the US leader will have to reassure his Chinese counterpart that America takes no position on Taiwan's sovereignty. The meeting will also be Biden's chance to convince Xi that the US administration's China strategy could be a stable framework for the bilateral relationship. Biden's China doctrine was previously summed up by his Secretary of State Antony Blinken - "competitive when it should be, collaborative when it can be, and adversarial when it must be". But Beijing has made it clear that issues of cooperation, such as climate action, cannot be divorced from points of contention in the diplomatic relations. "If the oasis is all surrounded by deserts, then sooner or later, the 'oasis' will be desertified," said the Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi in September. Will the talks bring water to the "deserts" and put out the fires? Robin Brant, BBC News, Shanghai Taiwan and talking - two words sum up the key concerns of China as Xi Jinping prepares to sit down and Zoom his US counterpart. The island off the east coast of China, with its own democratically elected president, seems like an obscure issue for many outside Asia. But for Beijing, Taiwan is the renegade province that it has always wanted to fully reunite with the "motherland". Xi Jinping talks about it as an inevitability. He knows canonisation awaits if he is the man to do it. What is the 'One China' policy?What do young Americans most admire about China? But just a few weeks ago Joe Biden pledged to defend Taiwan if China attacked. America's commitment to what to regards as a beacon of its values seems clear. Xi Jinping will want clarification. (In the meantime we know from satellite images in recent media reports that the Chinese military is using structures shaped like US aircraft carriers for target practice.) The prospect of a war is why "talking" is up the top of the "virtual summit" wish list too. Relations are in a bad place - a White House ordered report from the US intelligence agencies has twice now re-iterated China's lack of openness on the investigation in to the origins of Covid-19. Just last week President Biden agreed further restrictions on trade with a Chinese telecom company. He's been successful too in starting to rebuild alliances to challenge China's influence and power in the Asia-Pacific region. Beijing will have noted, as we all did, that the last line of an official readout after the two men spoke by phone last September warned both sides had a responsibility to ensure "competition didn't veer in to conflict". Re-establishing multi-level mechanisms to meet, negotiate and talk could ensure that happens.
Kyle Rittenhouse: Weapons charge against accused US teen dropped. Tensions are high in a Wisconsin city where closing arguments have begun in the trial of a US teen who shot three people during civil unrest last August. Prosecutors alleged Kyle Rittenhouse "provoked everything" when he shot two men dead and wounded another in Kenosha. Defence attorneys for Mr Rittenhouse, who has pleaded not guilty to five felony counts, are next set to speak. Earlier, the judge dismissed a misdemeanour weapons charge against the teen. Ahead of the verdict, 500 National Guard troops were placed on standby in Wisconsin. The case has become politically divisive and its result will be closely watched across the nation. In a statement, Governor Tony Evers urged people to "respect the community by reconsidering any plans to travel there" in response to the verdict. If Mr Rittenhouse is convicted on the most serious charges, he could face life in prison. In August of last year, riots had erupted on the streets of Kenosha after police shot Jacob Blake, a black man. Mr Rittenhouse had travelled to the city from his home in Illinois and, with a semi-automatic rifle in tow, he said he sought to help protect property from unrest on the streets. Defence attorneys for the young gunman have said he acted in self-defence on the night of 25 August 2020, but prosecutors allege he came looking for trouble that night and behaved like a vigilante. "You cannot claim self-defence against a danger that you create," lead prosecutor Thomas Binger told the court on Monday in his closing statement. "Consider whether or not it's reasonable for a criminal to be able to shoot himself out of a crime scene," he said. "If someone comes up to that person and tries to disarm them, do they forfeit their life?" Mr Binger - the assistant district attorney for Kenosha - questioned why Mr Rittenhouse broke curfew in a city he did not live in and "pretended to guard" people and property he was not familiar with. "He ran around with an AR-15 all night and lied about being an EMT [emergency responder]. Does that suggest to you that he is genuinely there to help?" asked the prosecutor. Mr Rittenhouse had worked as a first responder cadet prior to the shootings. He testified last week that he provided medical aid to people that day. Jurors were shown video, sometimes frame by frame, leading up to and after each shooting. Mr Binger assailed the teen for showing "no regard for human life" and then fleeing the scene "like he was some sort of hero in a western". Mr Rittenhouse was 17 years old when he fired the fatal shots that killed Joseph Rosenbaum, 36, and Anthony Huber, 26, while also wounding Gaige Grosskreutz, 27. On Monday, defence attorneys successfully argued that Wisconsin law could be interpreted to allow him to possess the firearm despite being under the age of 18. Judge Bruce Schroeder agreed to drop the weapons charge prior to closing arguments. The judge is yet to rule on a motion for mistrial brought up by Mr Rittenhouse's lawyers last week and has indicated he may do so later today. Five hours have been allotted for closing arguments before the jury enters into deliberations.
Liverpool Women's Hospital explosion: Police name suspect killed in blast. The man who died when a homemade bomb exploded outside Liverpool Women's Hospital has been named by police as Emad Al Swealmeen. The 32-year-old was a passenger in a taxi when his device blew up shortly before 11:00 GMT on Remembrance Sunday. The driver David Perry escaped before the car caught fire and has since been discharged from hospital. Four men have been arrested under the Terrorism Act and the UK terror threat level has been raised to "severe". Officers believe Al Swealmeen lived at a house in Sutcliffe Street in the Kensington area of Liverpool, where counter-terrorism police officers carried out raids earlier. Police said he had recently rented an address in Rutland Avenue, near Sefton Park in the city, which has also been searched by officers. "Our focus is the Rutland Avenue address where we have continued to recover significant items," said Det Ch Insp Andrew Meeks, from Counter Terrorism Police North West. "Any information that the public may have about Al Swealmeen no matter how small may be of great assistance to us." BBC News correspondent Ed Thomas said Al Swealmeen was a refugee from Syria who was befriended and supported by Malcolm and Elizabeth Hitchcott, who knew him as Enzo, when he arrived in the UK. Mrs Hitchcott said she and her husband were "just so sad" and were "very shocked" by his death. "We just loved him, he was a lovely guy," she added. Al Swealmeen is believed to have manufactured and brought the device into the taxi. Police said he was picked up from the Rutland Avenue area and asked to be taken to the hospital, about 10 minutes away, before the bomb exploded. He is not believed to have been known to MI5, according to BBC security correspondent Gordon Corera. He said he had come from the Middle East and gone into the the UK asylum system, but was also thought to have converted to Christianity and had mental health issues. "That I think explains why the police have been cautious about pronouncing judgement on his motivation today," our correspondent said. Terror threat level 'severe' after Liverpool blastLiverpool explosion: What we know so farTaxi driver 'lucky to be alive' after explosion Four men have been arrested under terrorism laws in the Kensington area of Liverpool - three aged 21, 26 and 29, who were held on Sunday, and a 20-year-old man who was detained on Monday. People detained under the Terrorism Act can be held without charge for up to 14 days. Police said the arrested men were believed to be "associates" of Al Swealmeen. Investigators are being cautious about drawing conclusions about the motivation of Emad Al Swealmeen. He is believed to have originally come from the Middle East and went into the asylum system. But in recent years he may have converted to Christianity and also suffered from mental health issues. The decision to declare this a terrorist incident looks less to be based on a clear understanding of his ideology and more on his methodology, with the use of an improvised explosive device. However, investigators will still be hoping to gain a better understanding of what exactly lay behind this incident. Earlier, police said Mr Perry had been released from hospital after being treated for his injuries. Posting on Facebook, the taxi driver's wife Rachel said he was "lucky to be alive". "The explosion happened whilst he was in the car and how he managed to escape is an utter miracle," she added. Police confirmed a controlled explosion had been carried out as a precaution in the Sefton Park area at about 16:00 GMT on Monday as part of the investigation. Home Secretary Priti Patel said the terror threat level had been raised from "substantial" to "severe", meaning an attack is "highly likely", because the explosion in Liverpool was the second incident in a month. The death of Conservative MP Sir David Amess, who was stabbed multiple times during a meeting with his constituents in Essex on 15 October, has been treated as a terrorist incident by police. Deputy Assistant Commissioner Matt Twist, one of Counter Terrorism Policing's senior national co-ordinators, said the change was a "precautionary measure and not based on any specific threat", adding that the public "should not be alarmed by this change". Patients have been told to attend appointments at Liverpool Women's Hospital as normal. The hospital's chief executive, Kathryn Thomson, paid tribute to "brave and dedicated" staff and emergency service workers but added the last two days had been "extremely upsetting and traumatising". Additional reporting by Doug Faulkner Did you witness what happened? Email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Or Upload your pictures/video hereTweet: @BBC_HaveYourSayPlease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission.
Biden signs 'once-in-a-generation' $1tn infrastructure bill into law. US President Joe Biden has signed into law a $1.2tn (£894bn) infrastructure spending bill, marking a legislative achievement for his administration. "Today, we are finally getting this done," the Democrat told lawmakers from both major parties in a bill signing ceremony at the White House on Monday. The bill had caused a major rift in Mr Biden's party that was blamed for a Democratic election loss this month. Another massive social spending bill is currently being considered in Congress. "My message to the American people is America is moving again. And your life is going to change for the better," Mr Biden said in a speech before signing the law. Billed as a "once-in-a-generation" spending measure, the bipartisan infrastructure legislation pledges $550bn in new federal expenditure over the next eight years to upgrade highways, roads and bridges, and to modernise city transit systems and passenger rail networks. It also sets aside funding for clean drinking water, high speed internet, and a nationwide network of electric vehicle charging points. It is the largest federal investment in the country's infrastructure for decades. The law will be financed in several ways, including unspent emergency relief funds from the Covid pandemic, new taxes on cryptocurrency and other smaller sources. An infrastructure bill to fix more than US bridgesBiden sees rebuilt roads as route to rout racismFive huge challenges for Joe Biden The other bill, known as the Build Back Better Act, still faces an uncertain future in Congress. Progressive Democrats had hoped to pass that bill alongside the infrastructure package, but faced resistance from moderates who asked that the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) first release a forecast of how much it will add to the national debt. The CBO data is expected to be released later on Monday. Earlier this month, Mr Biden denied that the Democrats' shock loss in the gubernatorial race in Virginia was a verdict on his presidency, but acknowledged that it would have been helpful for Congress to have passed the infrastructure and spending bills ahead of the vote. His explanation came amid rising discontent among voters over the party's struggle to pass major legislation, despite narrowly controlling both chambers of Congress.
Steve Bannon surrenders to face contempt charges. Trump ally Steve Bannon has surrendered to authorities to face contempt of Congress charges after refusing to give evidence about the Capitol riot. Mr Bannon defied a summons to testify on what he knew about plans for the protest that ended with Trump supporters storming Congress. On Friday, the Justice department formally charged Mr Bannon, a former Trump White House strategist. He now faces up to a year in prison and a $100,000 (£74,429) fine. Mr Bannon, 67, surrendered to officials at the FBI's Washington DC field office on Monday morning. Supporters of former president Donald Trump stormed the US Congress building on 6 January as results of the 2020 election were being certified inside. Mr Trump, a Republican, has refused to acknowledge losing the election to Democratic President Joe Biden last year, making claims - without evidence - of mass voter fraud. Mr Bannon was indicted on one count of refusing to appear for a deposition and one count of refusing to provide subpoenaed documents to a committee investigating the riot. Appearing outside the court Monday afternoon, he said he believed the charges were politically motivated and vowed to fight them. "We're tired of playing defence. We're going to go on the offense on this," he said. As part of restrictions set by the court, Mr Bannon will be required to check-in weekly, remain at his listed address and notify authorities of any plans for international travel. The court has possession of Mr Bannon's passport. No plea has yet been entered, and a virtual hearing for has been scheduled for Thursday morning. According to subpoena documents, Mr Bannon - who currently hosts the right-wing War Room podcast - said on the eve of the riot that "all hell is going to break loose tomorrow". His lawyers have argued that his communications involving the former president are protected. Mr Bannon's is the first such indictment to come out of the House of Representatives Select Committee's inquiry of the 6 January event. Mr Trump has urged former aides to reject deposition requests, arguing that they are covered by executive privilege - a legal principle that protects many White House communications. Another Trump official, former White House chief of staff Mark Meadows, may also face consequences for defying a similar subpoena to appear before the committee. Mr Meadow's decision "to defy the law" may force the committee to pursue contempt proceedings like those applied to Mr Bannon, the investigating committee's chairman has said. Dozens of subpoenas were issued last week, calling on former Trump officials to hand over documents and testify about the riot. On Sunday, Mr Trump defended his former aide - whom he fired in 2017, saying: "This country has perhaps never done to anyone what they have done to Steve Bannon".
Danny Fenster: US journalist freed from Myanmar jail. US journalist Danny Fenster has been released from prison in Myanmar after he was sentenced to 11 years in jail by a military court three days ago. He was "pardoned" before being freed on "humanitarian grounds", the military government said. The release was secured after negotiations between the junta and former US ambassador to the UN, Bill Richardson. Fenster's employer, Frontier Myanmar, said he was on a flight out of Myanmar. Fenster, who was managing editor of the English-language news site, had been convicted of breaching immigration law, unlawful association and encouraging dissent against the military. He was set to stand trial on further charges of sedition and terrorism on Tuesday, which carry a possible life term in prison. Fenster was first detained in May as he was about to fly back to the US, and spent 176 days in prison. He is one of dozens of journalists, and thousands of people overall, to be held since Myanmar's military took power in a coup in February. Myanmar coup: What is happening and why? US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Fenster had been "wrongfully detained for almost six months", and welcomed his release. "We are glad that Danny will soon be reunited with his family, as we continue to call for the release of others who remain unjustly imprisoned" in Myanmar, Mr Blinken said. Mr Richardson said he had negotiated Fenster's release in face-to-face meetings with Gen Min Aung Hlaing, the army general who seized power. Mr Richardson said Fenster would be flying home to the US via Qatar. "This is the day that you hope will come when you do this work," he said. Speaking to the BBC on Monday, Maj-Gen Zaw Min Tun, Myanmar's deputy minister of information, said the country "already had the intention to release" Fenster and was doing so for "humanitarian reasons". He denied that the US had promised anything in return for the release, saying it was Myanmar's policy to "keep good relations with other countries". According to Frontier, Fenster had previously worked for Myanmar Now, an independent news site that has been critical of the military. "The charges were all based on the allegation that he was working for banned media outlet Myanmar Now. Danny had resigned from Myanmar Now in July 2020 and joined Frontier the following month, so at the time of his arrest in May 2021 he had been working with Frontier for more than nine months," the news site said previously. Fenster's brother, Bryan, said his family could not wait to have him home again. "We are overjoyed that Danny has been released and is on his way home - we cannot wait to hold him in our arms. "We are tremendously grateful to all the people who have helped secure his release, especially Ambassador Richardson, as well as our friends and the public who have expressed their support and stood by our sides as we endured these long and difficult months." It is always difficult to guess the motives of Myanmar's reclusive military rulers; never more so than in their treatment of Danny Fenster. He was arrested when about to board a flight back to the US in May, although he had committed no obvious crime. He was charged with offences relating to a news organisation he had left almost a year before, an apparent error pointed out by his lawyers in court. He was excluded from an amnesty of more than 5,000 prisoners last month, and last week he was not only convicted and given an 11-year jail sentence, but had two more serious charges filed against him. His sudden release follows months of quiet pressure by the Biden administration, and a recent visit to Myanmar by Bill Richardson. It is unclear, though, whether the US made any concessions to win Fenster's release. The sanctions targeting members of the military junta and their associates are still in place. Dozens of local journalists remain in custody, along with thousands of other political prisoners. There is no suggestion yet that they too might be freed. Myanmar's military leaders seized power in February after suffering a massive election defeat at the hands of the ruling National League of Democracy. They said they had been forced into the move by widespread vote fraud, although the country's election commission said there was no evidence to support such claims. Mass civilian protests rose up across the country, and were brutally suppressed by the military. Since then, at least 1,265 people have been killed and 7,291 are under detention in a crackdown on dissent, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP).
Apple digital ID scheme comes with conditions and costs. Apple's much promoted digital driver's licence feature comes at a cost to the taxpayer, according to reports. Announced in September, it will allow residents in eight US states to store state IDs and driver's licences inside the Apple Wallet app on their iPhone. Apple has "sole control" of several aspects of the rollout, CNBC reports. But Arizona, Connecticut, Georgia, Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, Oklahoma, and Utah "bear the burden of maintaining [the feature], at taxpayer expense". US states to accept driver's licence on iPhones Apple's original computer fetches $400,000 Using public-record requests and other means, CNBC acquired details of the agreements between some of those states and Apple: Apple retains control over when the feature is launched and what devices are compatible -  but state agencies are responsible for maintaining the relevant computer systems and legal compliance and Apple stipulates how they report on its "performance"State bodies must employ or allocate people and resources to support the project "on a timeline to be determined by Apple" and, if Apple requests, "designate" project managers to answer Apple's questionsThe contract requires states to market the new feature - but Apple has review and approval power of those marketing materialsThe digital ID must be "proactively" offered to every new licence holder or renewal at no extra cost to the person applyingStates must promote it to agencies such as local law enforcement or anyone else who regularly checks IDs "The end result is that states bear the burden of maintaining technology systems at taxpayer expense, a move that ultimately benefits Apple and its shareholders by making its devices even more essential than they already are," CNBC's report says. Jason Mikula, a financial technology writer who also obtained the Apple records, wrote the states "have ceded a shocking degree of control to Apple". "Beyond giving Apple near total control over the programme, states also agree to terms that make it nearly impossible to terminate the programme in the future," he said. According to two memoranda of understanding, "the state agencies that have entered into them can only terminate them with Apple's consent or for cause - if Apple breaches the terms of the agreement and doesn't remedy within 30 days". Apple did not respond to a request for comment. Who needs a Covid passport and how do I get one?How Covid passports work around the world When Apple announced the first details of its ID scheme, it emphasised the encryption and other security features, stressing neither the company nor state officials could know "when or where" users showed IDs. During the coronavirus pandemic, there was significant public resistance in some countries - including the UK - to the idea of digital Covid passports or other ID, despite the NHS Covid-19 app eventually being widely adopted for that purpose in England. Civil-liberties concerns also led to the scrapping of a 2019 attempt to introduce a more general digital-ID system in the UK.
COP26: How might decisions at the climate summit change our lives?. Now that a deal has been agreed and signed at the climate summit in Glasgow, you might be left wondering what it will mean for you. Here are some ways in which the decisions made at COP26 could change your life. Switching to an electric car is among a number of lifestyle changes we're likely to be making. Experts predict that new electric vehicles could cost the same as new petrol or diesel cars within the next five years. It is also possible to lease an electric vehicle, and there's a growing second-hand market, where these vehicles are cheaper. Dozens of countries, regions and car companies have agreed to ramp up the use of electric vehicles and bring in new zero-emission buses and trucks. Meanwhile, others argue we need fewer cars on the road - walking and cycling more could also be among the changes we make. How can an average family afford an electric car? More than 40 countries have signed up to phasing out coal. A similar number have committed to ensuring that clean energy is the most reliable and affordable option for powering our homes and businesses. For countries like the UK, this will mean continuing the move towards renewable sources such as wind and solar energy - and possibly more reliance on nuclear energy. COP26 lacked a breakthrough announcement committing the world's biggest coal-users such as China and India to ending its use. However, it's hoped the announcements made at Glasgow will send a signal to the market that it is worth investing in renewable energy. Solar panels and heat pumps could become standard in our homes. We'll build new houses using low-carbon alternatives to cement and concrete - and try to re-fit old ones. How much do heat pumps cost and how do they work?Is the UK on track to meet its climate targets? There's also a focus on making sure our buildings, infrastructure and communities are able to withstand the current and future impact of climate change. Eva Hinkers, Arup Sustainable Development Director says: "We also need to make sure [buildings] are fit for more extreme scenarios." This could include improving green space in and around our homes to absorb extreme rainfall, installing "cool roofs" that reflect sunlight and prevent overheating, or introducing shutters so homes can withstand hurricane winds. Our lifestyles contribute to carbon emissions, whether we're shopping for imported food, or flying off on a foreign holiday. In future, we may see the cost of a product's carbon emissions being added to the price we pay - whether or not it's made in the UK. So if a business doesn't try and reduce the emissions of the goods it's selling, its prices may have to go up. It's hoped that will make consumers and businesses think again about how we consume and where we put our money. In response to this, some big household names like Amazon, Unilever and Ikea have now said they're looking to ensure the cargo ships they use to deliver goods will run on cleaner fuels. Amazon and Ikea in zero-carbon shipping pledge Nature's role in fighting climate change and the need to restore the natural world - from forests to peatland - was high on the agenda at Glasgow, and we may see the benefits in greener spaces around our towns and cities. "Nature can be helping us here if we looked to actually treat it with the respect it deserves," says Dr Emily Shukburgh of the University of Cambridge. The arguments to make space for nature are now clearer and louder than ever, ​says Craig Bennett, chief executive of The Wildlife Trusts.  "There is now renewed momentum about the need to... protect forests and other precious habitats and put nature in recovery." More than 100 countries signed up to the Glasgow Leaders Declaration on Forests, which aims to halt deforestation. This could see tougher action on cutting down forests in countries including Brazil and Indonesia to produce things such as soya, beef and palm oil which are then imported and consumed in richer, developed nations. This could end the era of cheap food. Deforestation link to Amazon soya and beef exportsWorld leaders promise to end deforestation by 2030 Experts say that a hard choice could be faced - deforestation will never be stopped if sustainability concerns are always out-competed by the price people pay for food: "Consumers will inevitably have to absorb some of these costs if we want to deliver on the COP 26 declaration - by paying more and consuming less," says Toby Gardner of the Stockholm Environment Institute. More than 400 financial institutions - controlling an estimated $130tn of private finance - agreed at COP26 to provide more money for green technology. It means that many major pension providers are going to be looking at investing your money in more environmentally friendly sectors. This might include "helping our customers identify ways to improve the energy efficiency of their homes… investing in companies developing new, sustainable ways of living and working," says Janet Pope of Lloyds Banking Group. We may also witness a shift in our way of thinking. Dr Stephanie Sodero of the University of Manchester says the goal of sticking to 1.5 degrees - above which scientists say climate impacts will become more dangerous and unpredictable - could galvanise community action. "On the ground, in UK communities and beyond, led by youth activists, I think there will be sustained and intense pressure to scrutinise all governance decisions - from local transport to national energy - through a climate lens," she says. Matthew Hannon from the University of Strathclyde says the drive to net zero is likely to yield benefits such as cleaner air, quieter streets and better mental and physical health. "Delivering a just, net zero transition should ultimately result in happier, healthier lifestyles," he says. "The question should therefore be less about what will I lose under net zero and more about what could I gain?"
Japan's former princess Mako arrives in New York after giving up title. Japan's former princess Mako has arrived in the US with her new "commoner" husband, Kei Komuro, after leaving the royal family. There was minimal pageantry as the college sweethearts, who wed last month, left from Tokyo airport on Sunday morning. They will rent an apartment in New York where Mr Komuro works at a law firm. Under Japanese law, female imperial family members forfeit their status upon marriage to a "commoner". The pair were heavily guarded by police and airport security as they strolled through the departure terminal. They passed about 100 journalists who were there to witness them leave, but did not respond to questions. Footage broadcast in Japan showed the couple arriving in New York and walking through the airport with security guards, before getting into a waiting vehicle. Their move to New York had long been rumoured and Mako, who took her husband's name when they got married, is reportedly expected to find a job in the city. However, the couple faced a set-back to their plans last month when Japanese media reported that Mr Komuro had failed the New York state bar exam. Prospective lawyers have to pass the tests to practise law in the state. Mr Komuro is currently working as a legal clerk. The move to the US has drawn comparisons with British royals Meghan Markle and Prince Harry, earning the newlyweds the nickname "Japan's Harry and Meghan". The couple faced significant opposition when they first announced their engagement four years ago and their relationship has been subject to tabloid gossip and controversy over claims that Mr Komuro's mother had reportedly taken a loan from her ex-fiancé and not paid him back. PROFILE: The woman who gave up royal status to marry The coverage led to the then-princess developing post-traumatic stress disorder, according to the Imperial Household. When the couple married last month they skipped the usual rites of a royal wedding and turned down a payment offered to royal women upon their departure from the family. Former princess Mako, who is the niece of Emperor Naruhito, is the first female member of the royal family to decline both.
Trump Organization selling Washington hotel for $375m, reports say. The Trump Organization has reportedly reached a deal to sell its prized Washington hotel for $375m (£279m). Under the planned sale, the Trump International will be renamed the Waldorf Astoria and managed by the Hilton group, according to reports. Last month, a US congressional probe found the hotel lost more than $70m during Donald Trump's presidency. The former US president's company opened the hotel to the public in September 2016. The Trump Organization, which bought a 60-year lease on the building, had been looking for buyers for the 263-room hotel since 2019. The deal with Miami-based investment firm CGI Merchant Group is expected to be finalised in the first quarter of next year, sources told The Wall Street Journal and Bloomberg. The 120-year-old building stands less than a mile away from the White House on Pennsylvania Avenue. The Trump Organization won approval to redevelop the historic Old Post Office building in 2012. It opened as a hotel four years later, just weeks after Mr Trump accepted the Republican Party's nomination to run for president. During Mr Trump's term as president, the hotel became popular amongst Republicans visiting the city. But it also attracted controversy. In 2018, religious leaders called for its liquor licence to be revoked, claiming its owner was "not a person of good character". More recently, a congressional investigation found that Mr Trump had "grossly exaggerated" the hotel's profits when he claimed it made $150m during his term. The congressional committee said the hotel had instead lost more than $70m while he was in office. The report also found Mr Trump seemed to have "concealed potential conflicts of interest" related to his ownership of the hotel and his roles as its lender and the guarantor of third-party loans. Documents showed that the hotel received $3.7m in payments from foreign governments - enough to cover 7,400 nights at the hotel on an average daily rate, according to the committee. The Trump Organization denied wrongdoing and called the report "misleading". The Trump Organization and CGI Merchant Group did not immediately respond to the BBC's requests for comment on the sale of the Trump International Hotel.
Poland border crisis: EU to widen Belarus sanctions as row intensifies. The European Union is to step up sanctions against Belarus in response to an escalating migrant crisis on the border with Poland. Top EU diplomat Josep Borrell confirmed the move, saying that vulnerable migrants were being exploited in a "hybrid war" that is "intensifying". Belarus is accused of pushing migrants towards its borders to undermine security, a charge it denies. On Monday, hundreds of migrants were blocked at a crossing by Polish troops. A video filmed at the border by the BBC showed migrants sitting down on a road in front of barbed wire and Polish forces in a tense stand-off. Those migrants came from a large makeshift camp at the Kuznica crossing, where thousands have settled in tents just inside Belarus. "Goodbye!" called out a smiling girl, flashing a peace sign as she, and hundreds more, streamed towards the border, hoping to get through. But they are trapped between Polish guards on one side and Belarusian guards on the other. The migrants cannot get into Poland, but are also being prevented from retreating back into Belarus, according to Polish authorities. "All these babies are crying for milk, for nappies," one man was filmed saying to the line of heavily armed Polish guards. "We... have nothing, please come and help these people," he pleaded, speaking through the barbed wire from the Belarusian side. The Polish border guard said it expected a forced attempt to breach the border, describing the presence of the Belarusian forces in the area as "worrying". Since August thousands of men, women and children have amassed at Belarus's western border with Poland. They are mostly from Iraq, Syria and Yemen, and are now enduring freezing conditions in the hope of crossing into the EU. The EU has accused Belarus of encouraging thousands of people to cross into Poland and other members states to spark a humanitarian crisis in the bloc. "It's like a football game. We are in the middle," one woman told the BBC's Steve Rosenberg. Hiding her identity with a scarf, she explained how Belarusian soldiers had helped some migrants cross illegally into Poland in the middle of the night by cutting the fence. But the migrants were founding hiding in a Polish forest, and sent back to Belarus. European officials have accused Belarus's authoritarian leader, Alexander Lukashenko, of orchestrating a scheme to entice migrants with the false promise of easy entry to the EU. Calling the accusations "absurd", Mr Lukashenko's government has repeatedly denied it is sending migrants over the border in revenge for existing EU sanctions that were imposed in June. EU-Belarus relations have been severely strained since Mr Lukashenko declared victory in a discredited presidential election last year and tried to silence dissent by cracking down on mass protests and arresting political opponents. VOICES: The lives entangled in the Poland-Belarus crisisREALITY CHECK: What routes do migrants use to reach Minsk?BEHIND THE SCENES: How social media posts fuelled the Belarus crisis On Monday, he spoke to German Chancellor Angela Merkel for about 50 minutes, Belta state news reports. It is the first conversation Mr Lukashenko has held with a Western leader since last year's election. The pair reportedly discussed providing humanitarian aid to the migrants at the border. At the same time, Russian President Vladimir Putin, a close ally of Mr Lukashenko, spoke to France's Emmanuel Macron for nearly two hours. While the leaders did not see eye-to-eye on how the crisis began, they agreed on the need for a de-escalation at the border, an adviser to Mr Macron said. Mr Putin has been accused of being the main orchestrator of the crisis. The White House has called on him to use his influence over Mr Lukashenko to "cease its callous exploitation and coercion of vulnerable people", spokeswoman Jen Psaki said. On Monday, EU foreign ministers held a meeting and agreed to move ahead with imposing more sanctions on Belarus - the fifth round of such restrictions. The exact details will by confirmed later this week, but the Belarusian airline Belavia will be affected, with the EU ending its leasing contract with the company. Travel agencies are also expected to be sanctioned if they helped to fly migrants from the Middle East and elsewhere to Minsk. On Monday, Mr Lukashenko threatened to retaliate against fresh sanctions. He claimed Belarusian authorities were trying to repatriate stranded migrants but many were refusing to go. Are you near the border? Share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Tweet: @BBC_HaveYourSayUpload pictures or videoPlease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission.
Peng Shuai: Doubt cast on email from Chinese tennis star. The head of the Women's Tennis Association (WTA) has cast doubt on an email released by Chinese state media attributed to tennis player Peng Shuai. Steve Simon, chairman of the WTA, said in a statement he had a "hard time believing" the email was written by Ms Peng or on her behalf. One of China's biggest sporting stars, she has not been heard from since she made sexual assault allegations against a top Chinese official. The email was shared on Wednesday. Broadcaster CGTN published the correspondence - allegedly written by Ms Peng - online. Written in her voice, it claims she was not missing or unsafe, adding: "I've just been resting at home and everything is fine." The email also said the sexual assault allegation attributed to her was false. Many responding on social media have cast doubt on the authenticity of the email - including pointing out that a typing cursor appears to be visible on the screenshot of the email published by CGTN. Ms Peng - a former number one-ranked tennis doubles player - had not been heard from since posting an allegation about former Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli on Chinese social media site Weibo in early November. She alleged she was "forced" into sexual relations with Mr Zhang - who served as the country's Vice Premier between 2013 and 2018 and was a close ally of China's leader Xi Jinping - in a post that was later taken down. She has not been seen or heard from publicly since. The WTA and leading voices from the world of tennis have increasingly spoken out about Ms Peng since. Naomi Osaka voices concern over Peng ShuaiTennis star accuses top Chinese official of abusePeng 'must be heard' on sex abuse claim Responding to the email published Wednesday, WTA chair Steve Simon said the email he received "only raises my concerns as to her safety and whereabouts". "I have a hard time believing that Peng Shuai actually wrote the email we received or believes what is being attributed to her," he said in a statement, adding: "The WTA and the rest of the world need independent and verifiable proof that she is safe." Mr Simon also reiterated that her sexual assault allegation must be investigated "with full transparency and without censorship". "The voices of women need to be heard and respected, not censored nor dictated to," he added. Ms Peng, 35, is a prominent figure in Chinese tennis. She has won two Grand Slams at Wimbledon in 2013 and the 2014 French Open, both alongside Taiwan's Hsieh Su-wei.
Naomi Osaka voices concern over Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai. World tennis champion Naomi Osaka has become the latest athlete to voice concerns over the whereabouts of Chinese tennis player Peng Shuai. One of China's biggest sporting stars, Ms Peng has not been heard from since she made sexual assault allegations against a top Chinese official. The Women's Tennis Association (WTA) said it had confirmed that she is "safe and not under any physical threat". However, they were not able to directly reach her. "I was recently informed of a fellow tennis player that has gone missing shortly after revealing that she has been sexually abused," Ms Osaka tweeted, using the hashtag #WhereisPengShuai. "I hope Peng Shuai and her family are safe and ok. I'm in shock of the current situation and I'm sending love and light her way." It comes as a number of tennis players have spoken up about Ms Peng. Earlier this week, world number one tennis player Novak Djokovic said he hoped she would okay, adding that he was shocked. French player Nicholas Mahut also weighed in, saying "we are all concerned". Tennis star accuses top Chinese official of abusePeng 'must be heard' on sex abuse claim Ms Peng - a former number one ranked tennis doubles player- had posted about the alleged assault against Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli on Chinese social media site Weibo in November. In the post, she said she was "forced" into a sexual relationship with Mr Zhang. Mr Zhang, 75, served as China's Vice Premier between 2013 and 2018 and was a close ally of Chinese President Xi Jinping. He has not responded to her claims. Her post was later taken down from the site and all mention of her on social media have been scrubbed. Ms Peng has also not been seen or heard of publicly since. Chief Executive of the WTA Steve Simon had earlier called on Chinese authorities to conduct "a full and transparent investigation" into Ms Peng's allegations involving sexual assault. "We commend Peng Shuai for her remarkable courage... women around the world are finding their voices so injustices can be corrected." Mr Simon said the WTA had received confirmation from several sources, including the Chinese Tennis Association that Ms Peng was safe, but added that he had not been able to reach her directly. "My understand is that she is in Beijing in China, but I can't confirm that because I haven't spoken directly with her," Mr Simon told news outlet The New York Times. Ms Peng's allegation is the highest profile case in China's #MeToo movement, which has mostly been going under the radar. You may also be interested in:
Peng Shuai: Chinese tennis star makes sexual assault claims. Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai has publicly accused a retired Communist official of sexual assault. In a post on Chinese social media site Weibo, Ms Peng said former Vice Premier, Zhang Gaoli, had "forced" her to have sexual relations with him. It is the first time such an allegation has been made against one of China's senior political leaders. Mr Zhang has not responded to her claims. The post has since been scrubbed from China's internet. Searches for Ms Peng - a former number one ranked tennis doubles player - also appear to have been restricted. Mr Zhang, 75, served as China's Vice Premier between 2013 and 2018 and was a close ally of Chinese President Xi Jinping. "I know that someone of your eminence, Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli, you'll say that you're not afraid", Ms Peng wrote in her post, "but even if it's just striking a stone with a pebble, or a moth attacking a flame and courting self destruction, I will tell the truth about you." She said he had first coerced her after she visited his home to play tennis. "That afternoon I didn't give my consent and couldn't stop crying," she wrote. "You brought me to your house and forced me and you to have relations". Ms Peng, 35, acknowledged that she would not be able to provide proof to back up her claims. "I have no evidence, and it has been impossible to leave any evidence... You were always afraid that I would bring something like a tape recorder, to record evidence or something... There is no audio record, no video record, only my distorted but very real experience." The #MeToo icon China is trying to silenceChinese court dismisses landmark #MeToo caseChina prosecutors drop Alibaba sexual assault case The tennis star's social media post is the latest development in a series of high profile MeToo cases in China. A popular TV host, Zhou Xiaoxuan, came forward with her claims against another TV personality, Zhu Jun in an online essay in 2018. The piece went viral and prompted many others to come forward with their own experiences of sexual harassment. Mr Zhu has denied all the claims. Though Ms Zhou launched legal action against Mr Zhu, the case was dismissed in September. Chinese courts rarely grant hearings to such cases, and the country only very recently passed legislation that clearly defined sexual harassment. In her tennis career, Ms Peng has won two Grand Slam women's doubles trophies, the first at Wimbledon in 2013 and the second at the Roland Garros tournament in 2014, both alongside Taiwan's Hsieh Su-wei. By Kerry Allen, China media analyst Peng Shuai is a big star, and a search of her on China's most popular search engine, Baidu, shows up more than seven million results. But there is evidence of a huge clampdown on the popular Sina Weibo microblog - China's equivalent of Facebook - to stop people talking about her. A search of her name shows only some 700 results and users see no results at all when they search for her account, despite her having more than half a million followers. ​ Weibo users are screened from seeing comments posted by ordinary social media users - search results on Weibo only show posts by verified government media accounts. The word "tennis" in Chinese similarly only shows verified results, and not posts by ordinary users. Search result restrictions are commonly imposed when a topic becomes sensitive, as historically, outright censoring sensitive words has made censorship appear much more obvious. The names of China's top leadership, past and present, have long been sensitive words on Sina Weibo. Users have been unable to search for ordinary comments left by users on China's Politburo, and have only seen posts by official media. However, social media users have long found creative workarounds to get their voices heard. Some users are talking about her by commenting on posts about another tennis player, Zhang Shuai. Historically, users have also used the words for "rice" and "rabbit" to talk about the Me Too movement, as the Chinese words for rice and rabbit are pronounced "me too".
Xianzi: The #MeToo icon China is trying to silence. Xianzi sounds exhausted. "Sorry. I've been crying the last half hour," she tells the BBC over the phone from Beijing. It is the day after a court ruled on the Chinese activist's landmark sexual harassment case against one of the country's biggest celebrities, which has made her the face of China's fledgling #MeToo movement. But three years on, her journey has hit a dead end. The court threw out her case saying there was insufficient evidence. Before our call, Xianzi had tried to contact a supporter through Weibo, the Twitter-like social media platform on which the 28-year-old has built a closely-knit following. But she'd been fully blocked on Weibo following the court hearing, and so was her supporter, apparently because she was publicly advocating for Xianzi. The realisation that she was now cut off from her online community had reduced Xianzi to tears. "People's accounts are constantly getting suspended. There is no way for me to contact them. I've lost the chance to say thanks to them. The past three years have been all about Chinese feminists being separated from each other." In 2018 as #MeToo caught on in China, Xianzi - her real name is Zhou Xiaoxuan, but she is better known by her pen name - was one of many women who began sharing accounts of sexual harassment. In a 3,000-word essay that later went viral, she accused Zhu Jun - a host with state broadcaster CCTV - of sexually harassing her in 2014 when she visited his dressing room hoping to do an interview with him. At the time she was a 21-year-old intern, while Mr Zhu was a household name in China, a familiar face to tens of millions for presenting the annual Spring Festival Gala television event. A subsequent essay laid out more details, accusing him of groping her repeatedly for about 50 minutes despite her attempts to block him, and forcibly kissing her. Their interaction was interrupted several times by staff briefly going in and out of the room, but she described being so frozen with fear and shame that she could not alert them. She said she only got out of the room when Mr Zhu was distracted while speaking with a crew member, which provided an opportunity for her to "slowly come to her senses". "I was scared that offending Zhu Jun would affect my studies, so I didn't dare to fight back," she wrote at the time. Mr Zhu has consistently denied all the allegations. He has said he is a victim of a smear campaign and he has endured "tremendous humiliation". The day after her encounter, Xianzi reported the incident to the police. But, according to her, she was told to keep it to herself as Mr Zhu was a national example of "positive energy" - a state campaign aimed at promoting good behaviour - and therefore someone whose reputation could not be sullied. So she kept quiet - until the #MeToo movement happened. The case gained even more notoriety after Mr Zhu sued her for defamation. She counter-sued him for "violation of personality rights", using a law that at the time was the closest thing to anti-sexual harassment discrimination. Since then, Xianzi's life has been upended. Born to a middle-class family in Wuhan, she moved to Beijing to study film directing when she was 18 and was working as a scriptwriter. She has since quit, and these past three years has been living off her savings and sporadic income from freelance writing gigs. Her lawyer is only charging her a small fee. Xianzi has been focused on fighting her legal battle and campaigning for sexual harassment victims - many of whom have approached her seeking advice - on her social media accounts where she has amassed more than 300,000 followers. At the same time, authorities' efforts to censor her have intensified, shutting down discussions and barring her from posting on Weibo. Even the phrase "rice bunny", a Chinese homonym for the #MeToo campaign, has been removed from Chinese social media. At first, she circumvented this by passing her essays to supporters who posted on their accounts on her behalf. But then their accounts were also suspended. Xianzi has also increasingly become a target of criticism, with some nationalistic bloggers accusing her of lying and alleging she was  "colluding with foreign forces" to stir up controversy.  This week a commentary on her case in the state-run Global Times claimed the #MeToo movement was being used by Western forces to "tear Chinese society apart". Then, there were the legal setbacks. According to Xianzi, the court rejected her request to label the case as a sexual harassment lawsuit after a new court rule kicked in. She also said that during the trial, the court gave her little opportunity to speak, and blocked her efforts to present what she describes as supporting evidence, such as video footage of the area outside the dressing room and a photo of her meeting Mr Zhu. In 2014, she turned in a piece of evidence, a dress that she had worn on the day of meeting Mr Zhu. The initial examination found no traces of his DNA. But when she later requested further examination, she said she was told in court that the dress was "nowhere to be found". She said she was also told by the court that it was "unnecessary" to compel Mr Zhu to testify. China law expert Darius Longarino tells the BBC he finds the court's reasoning to be "unconvincing". Some in China believe there were political motivations behind these court decisions. On top of all this, Xianzi still has to grapple with Mr Zhu's defamation suit against her, where he is demanding 650,000 RMB ($100,000,  £73,000) as compensation. The BBC has attempted to contact Mr Zhu and his lawyers, but has not received any reply. All of this has taken a toll on Xianzi. In a video shared by supporters last week, she appears despondent as she speaks to them shortly after leaving the courtroom in Beijing. "I was 21 when the incident took place. Now I'm 28, I'm so tired… I don't know if I can summon my courage to fight another three years," she says, while nervously wringing a copy of China's civil law. She tells the BBC that sometimes she gets anxious about if she can ever resume her career after such scrutiny. So she tries to distract herself - by watching a movie, or taking a nap. Her activist friends, family, and boyfriend have been vital in giving emotional support. But the most effective therapy for her has been to speak out through her essays and talking with her friends - "Talking is healing," she says - which is why the mounting censorship has been painful. "If you prohibit people from saying they are hurt, then you are really trying to destroy them," Xianzi says. "I don't understand what I did wrong. Why do they want to destroy me?" Xianzi's case was in fact, the second high profile case in recent weeks to have come to a halt. Earlier this month, prosecutors dropped charges against an employee of tech giant Alibaba who had been accused of raping a colleague on a work trip while she was drunk. This was even though police investigations found the man had "committed indecencies" with her. The man was eventually fired from Alibaba and detained for 15 days. Only very few cases of sexual harassment have made it to court in China. A high bar for evidence, which tends to demand video recordings or photographs of the actual incident, puts a heavy burden of proof on plaintiffs to prove their case, according to legal experts. Some end up publicising their accounts online, usually because their employer or institution has failed to take adequate steps. "These victims feel they have no choice but to reach out to the public, which reflects the failure of these institutions to address complaints. A victim should not need to publish their experience on Weibo for their employer to pay attention," says Aaron Halegua, research fellow at New York University Law School. But doing this then puts them at risk of getting sued for defamation by their alleged harassers  - and studies of such cases show that quite often they lose. In January a new civil code of law came into effect in China, containing Article 1,010 which clearly specifies that a person can sue another if he or she has been sexually harassed, and that institutions and organisations must take measures to prevent such behaviour and investigate cases. When it was first introduced last year it was heralded as a win. But with those making allegations of sexual harassment or assault facing a different reality on the ground, the legal system is sending a "mixed message", says Mr Longarino, a research scholar at the Yale Law School. "There are many more downsides than upsides in standing up, which creates a chilling effect," he adds. Mr Halegua says the law needs to be more explicit on what liabilities employers will face if they do not address sexual harassment, and also protect those who say they are victims from retaliation. The outcome of Xianzi's case has been an obvious setback for China's #MeToo movement, say activists. Some see it as a bitter illustration of the increasing difficulties that alleged victims face. Activist Liang Xiaowen tells the BBC that a 300-member feminist group on chat app Wechat was silenced shortly after Xianzi's trial.  The members could still post in the chat, but couldn't see messages from others. "You are isolated, but you are not even aware of it," Ms Liang says. Some are finding ways around the clampdown. After Xianzi's trial, her supporters found a way to communicate with her online by posting a song called Rose-coloured You. Part of its lyrics go: "You look exhausted but you never stop... I will remember what you did in this era. You were beyond yourself." The silver lining in Xianzi's case has thus been its legacy, that it has significantly raised awareness of women's rights within China. "#MeToo is important because of its rebelliousness... it is one of the last few meaningful voices that are still speaking out in China," says veteran feminist Lu Pin. "And it can't go away, because it stems from the true lived experiences of Chinese women." Xianzi says she sees her case as having made "progress" in the fight for justice, and she is currently preparing to launch an appeal. "Together we persist. It's already a victory to some extent," she says determinedly. "I have never thought it's not worth [all the effort]. Not for one second."
Alec Baldwin: Rust script didn't call for gun to be fired, lawsuit alleges. A lawsuit against Alec Baldwin alleges that a film script did not require him to fire a gun when he fatally shot cinematographer Halyna Hutchins. Script supervisor Mamie Mitchell - who called police after the shooting on the New Mexico film set - filed the suit. Her lawyer accused the actor of "playing Russian roulette" when he fired the gun without checking it. Mr Baldwin and the film's producers, who were also named in the lawsuit, have not yet commented. The Hollywood actor has previously shared comments from a crew member rejecting suggestions that the film set was unsafe. Authorities are still investigating the 21 October shooting that took place on the set of the Western film Rust. No criminal charges have been brought against anyone. Ms Mitchell's lawsuit claims that the script called for three tight camera shots - one of Mr Baldwin's eyes, another of a bloodstain on his shoulder and a third of his torso "as he reached his hand down to the holster and removed the gun". "There was nothing in the script about the gun being discharged by defendant Baldwin or by any other person," it says. EXPLAINER: What are the rules for guns on film sets? In a news conference on Wednesday, her lawyer Gloria Allred described the behaviour of Mr Baldwin and the film's producers as "reckless", as she accused them of failing to follow safety protocols. According to court records, Mr Baldwin was handed the weapon by the film's assistant director who did not know it contained live ammunition and indicated it was unloaded by shouting "cold gun". Ms Allred said Mr Baldwin "chose to play Russian roulette when he fired a gun without checking it and without having the armourer do so in his presence". She added that a range of safety failures meant that it was "a case where injury or death was much more than just a possibility — it was a likely result". Ms Mitchell was standing less than 4ft (1.2m) away from Mr Baldwin when the weapon was discharged, according to the lawsuit. "I relive the shooting and the sound of the explosion from the gun over and over again," she told reporters. Her lawsuit is claiming assault, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and deliberate infliction of harm, and is requesting unspecified damages. It is the second to be filed over the incident, after the set's head electrician began legal action earlier this month. The film's armourer, who was responsible for the guns and ammunition on set, has said she does not know how a live round came to be in the weapon.
Vancouver storm: A state of emergency has been declared in British Columbia. A state of emergency has been declared in the Canadian western province of British Columbia after a major storm cut road and rail links in the region. The Canadian Armed Forces are being deployed to help thousands of stranded residents who have been trapped since the storm hit overnight on Sunday. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau pledged assistance during a visit to Washington DC and said troops would help rebuild. One woman was killed in a landslide, and two people are missing. Thousands remain evacuated after an "atmospheric river" - a long strip of moisture in the air that transports water from tropical areas towards the poles - dumped the region's monthly rainfall average in 24 hours. Officials in the region have attributed the natural disaster to the effects of climate change. The impact of climate change on the frequency of storms is still unclear, but we know that increased sea surface temperatures warm the air above and make more energy available to drive hurricanes, cyclones and typhoons. As a result, they are likely to be more intense with more extreme rainfall. The world has already warmed by about 1.2C since the industrial era began and temperatures will keep rising unless governments around the world make steep cuts to emissions. British Columbia Premier John Horgan said the emergency order took effect at 12:00 local time (20:00GMT) in a news conference on Wednesday. He said that travel restrictions will keep people off flooded roads, and ensure that essential goods will "reach the communities that need them". "There's not a person that hasn't been affected or will not be affected by the events of this past weekend," he said, adding: "These events are increasing in frequency due to human caused climate change." Mr Horgan said British Columbia must "bring the seven billion other souls that live on this planet to understand that we need to act now… to protect us from these types of events that will happen in the future". University of British Columbia atmospheric scientist Rachel White told the BBC that the massive devastation caused by this storm can likely be attributed to a combination of human-caused factors. "As we warm up the climate, heavy rainfall events such as these are going to get more intense," she said. "As we warm up the atmosphere, as we warm up the oceans - more water is evaporated from the oceans. So then when we have these atmospheric river events, essentially the atmosphere can carry more water towards our mountains." This then condenses into rain. Logging and wildfires have also removed old-growth trees with deep roots, leading to a higher risk of landslides when it rains. Human development in flood plains, and the increase of non-absorbent asphalt also increases risks of flooding, Prof White said. The extreme weather in Canada comes days after world leaders met for the COP26 climate conference in Glasgow. The same region, British Columbia, suffered a record high heat wave in the summer that killed more than 500 people as well as wildfires, including one that destroyed the village of Lytton. FEATURE: The day a heatwave destroyed a villageWATCH: What are 'atmospheric rivers'? The rains and winds had largely finished by Tuesday afternoon, but several communities remain stranded. More rain is forecast later in the week, and officials have warned that the death toll is likely to rise. Helicopters on Wednesday dropped food supplies to stranded mountain communities after slides destroyed roads and floods submerged major highways. The town of Tulameen has about 400 people trapped there, according to Reuters news agency. Some communities at higher elevations have seen temperatures drop below freezing. Farmers and ranchers at lower elevations have struggled with widespread flooding and thousands of animals have died. Approximately 1,500 travellers became stranded in the town of Hope after roads closed, Grace Baptist Church Pastor Jeff Kuhn told BBC News in an email on Wednesday. The local school is currently housing about 700 people, and the church is hosting about 250 people and also feeding about 400 people per day. Around town, "many [are] sleeping in their cars at night", he added. He said that power was restored on Tuesday, which lifted spirits, but food supplies are running low despite an emergency air drop. "The community emergency services have organised some airlifted supplies that have allowed us to keep feeding people," he said. "But the situation with food will become worse if the roads do not open soon." Premier Horgan has called on residents to stay at home, and to not hoard items. "What you need your neighbours need as well," he said. Residents of some neighbourhoods in the city of Abbotsford were told on Tuesday to leave immediately as rising water levels posed "a significant risk to life". In a press conference on Wednesday, Mayor Henry Braun said water levels in the nearby Fraser River were dropping but warned: "We're not out of this yet. "If we have another weather event like we just went through, we're in deep doo-doo," he said. Rescue operations are still under way in the area, and aerial assessments of the damage are being conducted. The Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) confirmed on Tuesday that one woman was killed in a highway landslide near Lillooet, about 250km from Vancouver. Motorist Kathie Rennie told CBC News she saw the landslide come down on traffic that was already at a standstill. "I just turned around, and I'm just watching the whole side of the mountain coming down and taking out these cars... everything just being swept away. Just complete panic," she said.
Merkel: Germany hit by full force of Covid. Germany is in the grip of a "dramatic" fourth Covid wave, Chancellor Angela Merkel has said on the eve of a crisis meeting with regional leaders. Daily infections hit a new German record of 52,826 on Wednesday as European governments responded to a surge on much of the continent. Belgium announced a series of measures in an attempt to avoid a lockdown. "All the alarm signals are red," said Prime Minister Alexander De Croo, as he told people to limit personal contact. "Europe's map is quickly going red, and we are the same." Children in Belgium will have to wear masks from the age of 10, rather than the current age of 12. Working from home will become compulsory from Saturday for four days a week. Passes known as Covid Safe Tickets will be required in theatres, cinemas and museums. A third booster vaccination will be rolled out for all Belgians by the end of April 2022. Austria which imposed a lockdown on an estimated two million unvaccinated people on Monday, reported record daily infections on Wednesday. The Netherlands, which also reported record cases, has already brought in a partial lockdown. Sweden is introducing a Covid vaccination pass from 1 December for the first time for concerts and other indoor events involving more than 100 people. "You who are unvaccinated cannot just carry on as normal; your most important contribution is to get vaccinated," said Social Affairs Minister Lena Hallengren, who accepted the measure was tough but said Sweden was not isolated from the rest of the world. Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis said anyone who had not been vaccinated (or could show they had had recovered from Covid-19) would be banned from accessing public events or services. From Monday, negative tests would no longer be enough. Neighbouring Slovakia, where a record 8,342 cases were reported on Wednesday, is planning similar measures: workplaces and non-essential shops will be accessible only to vaccinated staff or to people who could prove they have recovered, says Prime Minister Eduard Heger. Vaccination rates vary across the continent. Slovak take-up is among the lowest in the EU at 44% while the Czech rate is 58%, in Austria it is 65% and in Germany 68%. Both Germany and Austria have reported queues at vaccination centres, but they have some of the lowest take-up rates in Western Europe. GERMAN SURGE: Warning of 100,000 deaths Austria also has a very high incidence rate of 971.5 cases per 100,000 people, far higher than Germany's 319.5. As well as its lockdown for the unvaccinated, some Austrian officials are calling for tighter restrictions for others too, such as a possible night-time curfew. Although Germany's overall death toll is far lower than that in the UK, 294 deaths have been recorded in 24 hours and Mrs Merkel spoke of an emergency with intensive care beds filling up in hospitals. The UK reported another 201 deaths within 28 days of testing positive for Covid on Wednesday, and a further 38,263 infections. Mrs Merkel called for a faster booster drive, adding: "It's not too late to decide to get a first vaccination." Many German regions are now only allowing vaccinated people access to most services, including bars, cafes, hairdressers and gyms. Politically the situation is complicated as the outgoing Merkel government is set to be replaced by a coalition of Social Democrats, Greens and pro-business liberals who aim to present planned Covid measures to parliament on Thursday. France is being hit by a fifth wave of Covid, according to government spokesperson Gabriel Attal, with more than 20,000 new cases reported on Wednesday for the first time since Augusts. But there are no plans beyond the current Covid passport as "we are coping better than previously thanks to the vaccines and the health pass". He said France was light years away from the situation a year ago, and anyone aged 50-64 could now make an appointment for a third Covid vaccination.
Young Dolph: Rapper fatally shot in Memphis cookie shop. US rapper Young Dolph has been killed in a drive by shooting in Memphis, officials have confirmed. The 36-year-old musician was shot dead at a cookie shop in his hometown of Memphis on Wednesday. Young Dolph, real name Adolph Robert Thornton, Jr, released his debut album in 2016 and racked up millions of video views on YouTube. Other artists including Megan Thee Stallion and Chance The Rapper have paid tribute to the star. News of Young Dolph's death was confirmed by Memphis Mayor Jim Strickland. "The tragic shooting death of rap artist Young Dolph serves as another reminder of the pain that violent crime brings with it," he said. Local media said the artist was fatally shot while visiting the Makeda's Homemade Butter Cookies store near the city's airport just before 13:00 local time (19:00 GMT) on Wednesday. His cousin told The Daily Memphian that the star had been visiting his sick aunt and was also set to hand out Thanksgiving turkeys, something he did every year. A representative for APA agency, which lists the rapper as a client, said in a statement that the company was "shocked and deeply saddened" at the star's death. "The world has lost an icon, a great man and beloved artist who has been taken too soon," the statement said. Young Dolph had been the target of shootings in the past. In February 2017, the rapper said his vehicle had been shot at multiple times in Charlotte. Then in September the same year, he was injured in a shooting in Los Angeles. A number of well-known figures in the US have paid tribute to Young Dolph including Rick Ross. Megan Thee Stallion described Young Dolph as a friend and "true legend". The pair released a song together in 2020.
US tourists fined for sneaking into Rome's Colosseum for a beer. If you've travelled to Rome, you may have been warned that drinks in popular tourist spots can be rather expensive. Well, earlier this week, two American travellers likely racked up one of the priciest drinks bills in the Italian capital's long history. The pair, both in their 20s, snuck into the Colosseum in the early hours of Monday morning to enjoy a beer. They were spotted sitting on the second ring of the ancient gladiator stadium at about 05:30 local time (04:30 GMT). However, entry to the almost 2,000-year-old landmark is prohibited overnight. And while the drinks and the scenic surroundings may have been enjoyable at the time, it is unlikely to be something they repeat. That's because the pair, who have not been named by police, were fined 800 euros ($905; £670) after they admitted illegally entering the Colosseum. That's a pretty expensive round. While the coronavirus pandemic has hurt tourism, the Colosseum remains one of Italy's most visited landmarks. It was the biggest amphitheatre in the Roman Empire, famous for hosting gladiatorial fights and other public spectacles in front of crowds of tens of thousands. The monument attracted about 7.6 million visitors in 2019. And if you're thinking of going yourself - make sure to visit during opening hours. You can always enjoy a drink at one of the city's many bars afterwards.
Poland border crisis: Belarus moves migrants stranded in camp. Belarus has said temporary shelter has been provided for about 1,000 migrants who had been camping on its border with Poland, trying to get into the EU. Poland confirmed that the large migrant camp on Belarus's side of the border was emptying on Wednesday. For months, thousands of men, women and children have been amassing at Belarus's western borders. Belarus has been accused of pushing migrants, mostly from the Middle East, to the border to destabilise the EU. Belarus's long-time authoritarian leader, Alexander Lukashenko, has repeatedly denied luring migrants to the border in revenge for EU sanctions. The border crisis reached boiling point on Tuesday after Polish forces used tear gas and water cannon to repel migrants trying to cross into the country. Some of the migrants attempted to breach a heavily fortified crossing and threw missiles at the Polish forces, leaving several with injuries. The migrants have been living in camps in freezing conditions and with little food or water just inside Belarus, stranded between Polish guards on one side and Belarusian guards on the other. But after more than a week of stalemate, Belarus said it had opened a temporary shelter for them in a transport and logistics centre near the Kuznica checkpoint, where in recent days, thousands have gathered, hoping for a way into Poland and the European Union. Belarusian state news agency Belta showed pictures of migrants lying on the floor of the facility with mattresses, blankets and food packages. Many in the group are Iraqi citizens, and the news agency said a lot of them still intended to enter the EU. "We will not return to Iraq. It's very bad there. For the sake of the future of our children, we want to go to Germany," one woman said. Earlier, Poland's deputy interior minister Maciej Wasik said Mr Lukashenko had, for the first time, sent buses to collect migrants on the border. "The camp near Kuznica is slowly emptying," Mr Wasik told Poland's TV Republika. Video footage from Poland's border guard agency appeared to show the migrants leaving the camp on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Iraqi Airways confirmed it would send a plane to Belarus on Thursday to take its citizens home. The EU has asked Middle Eastern countries to stop flights to Belarus and several have agreed. Poland, with EU backing, is determined not to let the migrants into the bloc and has warned that the border and humanitarian crisis may go on for months. "We have to prepare for the fact that the situation on the Polish-Belarusian border will not be resolved quickly," Polish Defence Minister Mariusz Blaszczak said. European officials have accused Mr Lukashenko of orchestrating a scheme to entice migrants to the border with the false promise of easy entry into the EU. Calling the accusations "absurd", Mr Lukashenko's government has criticised the EU for not taking in the migrants and pushing them back at the border. Poland has been accused of pushing people back across the border into Belarus, contrary to international rules of asylum. EU-Belarus relations have been severely strained since Mr Lukashenko declared victory in a discredited presidential election last year and tried to silence dissenting voices. VOICES: The lives entangled in the Poland-Belarus crisisREALITY CHECK: What routes do migrants use to reach Minsk?BEHIND THE SCENES: How social media posts fuelled the Belarus crisis Outgoing German Chancellor Angela Merkel has tried to defuse the border crisis by discussing the issue with him several times this week, stressing the need to let the United Nations provide aid to the stranded migrants. He has previously threatened to retaliate to a new round of EU sanctions, which European officials approved earlier this week. On Wednesday, the Belarusian government said it would stop supplying electricity to Ukraine - an EU ally - within the next 24 hours. In a statement, the Belarusian government cited "contractual relations" as the reason for terminating electricity supplies. But it was not immediately clear if this was part of any retaliatory act by Belarus.
US annual drug overdose deaths hit record levels. More than 100,000 Americans have died of drug overdoses over a year-long period during the Covid-19 pandemic. It is the highest yearly death toll from drugs ever recorded in the US. Data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shows that overdose deaths rose 28.5% in the 12 months ending this past April. Experts believe that overdoses likely spiked because of the psychological toll of the pandemic and more synthetic opioids like fentanyl in the supply. Overdoses rose in all but four of 50 US states. Using data from death certificates, the CDC estimates that 100,306 people between April 2020 and April 2021, compared to 78,056 deaths reported the year prior. Katherine Keyes, a drug abuse expert and associate professor of epidemiology at Columbia University, told the BBC that while overdose deaths have been rising "exponentially" over the last several years, the pandemic "added fuel to that fire". "The data that is available indicates that there were more people using drugs alone, which we know is a risk factor for overdose," she explained. "There was also a decrease in access to services that might support overdose prevention, harm reduction, treatment and recovery." The number of deaths from drugs has now surpassed those from guns, car crashes and the flu. The highest increase in overdose deaths was recorded in Vermont, where the number of fatalities rose 70% to 209. Vermont was followed by West Virginia (62%) and Kentucky (55%). The other public health crisis killing Canadians Ms Keyes said that the rise of synthetic opioids - particularly fentanyl - are "among the most central contributors" to the rise in overdose deaths. Users of other drugs, such as cocaine or methamphetamine, are increasingly testing positive for fentanyl. "It's kind of a moving epidemic that was really concentrated on people who primarily used opioids such as heroin, but now is kind of spreading out into people who are using other drugs as well," she added. "That really accelerates the overdose deaths that we're seeing to a broader range of drug users." Shannon Monnat, the director of the Lerner Center for Public Health Promotion at Syracuse University, said that the overdose deaths are "an American tragedy, and it is preventable". "Even after Covid is over, overdoses will likely continue to increase," she said. "We have to attack this crisis from multiple angles." Among the possible solutions, she said, are fentanyl test strips and supervised consumption sites where users can be monitored and connected to recovery and healthcare services. "But beyond this, we need to recognise that the increase in drug use disorders over the past 20 to 30 years is a symptom of much larger social and economic problems," Ms Monnat added. "Ultimately, solutions to combat our drug overdose crisis will only be effective if they address the long-term social and economic determinants that are at the foundation of the crisis."
Malcolm X's 1965 assassination: Convictions of two men to be quashed. A senior US prosecutor says two men convicted of the murder in 1965 of the US civil rights leader Malcolm X are to have their convictions quashed. Muhammad Aziz and Khalil Islam did not get the justice they deserved, the Manhattan District Attorney says. Prosecutor Cyrus Vance Jr told the New York Times that the FBI and police had withheld evidence that would have likely resulted in their acquittal. Malcolm X was shot dead at a New York City ballroom in front of his family. Aziz and Islam - along with a third man, Thomas Hagan - were convicted of the murder, and sentenced to life in prison. The three men - members of the Nation of Islam political and religious movement - have all since been paroled. Islam died in 2009. In an interview with the New York Times newspaper, Mr Vance apologised on behalf of the law enforcement agencies, saying they had failed Aziz's and Islam's families. "This points to the truth that law enforcement over history has often failed to live up to its responsibilities. "These men did not get the justice that they deserved." Mr Vance tweeted that more information would be given on Thursday. In 2020, the Manhattan District Attorney launched a review of the convictions after meeting representatives of the Innocence Project, a non-profit legal group campaigning for justice for individuals it said had been wrongly convicted. Earlier this year Malcolm X's daughters requested that the murder investigation be reopened in light of new evidence. They cited a deathbed letter from a man who was a policeman at the time of the 1965 killing, alleging New York police and the FBI conspired in the murder. Malcolm X's family seeks to reopen murder inquiry Malcolm X was a charismatic advocate for black empowerment. After years as the prominent spokesman for the Nation of Islam - which advocated separatism for black Americans - his views later became more moderate. He was 39 when he was killed.
Capitol riot: Steve Bannon pleads not guilty to contempt of Congress charge. Former Trump strategist Steve Bannon has filed a not guilty plea to contempt of Congress charges after he refused to give evidence about the Capitol riot. Mr Bannon surrendered to the FBI on Monday, two days after being charged by the Department of Justice. He has vowed to fight the charges. Lawmakers investigating the 6 January attack had summoned him to testify on what he knew about riot plans. He faces up to a year in prison and a $100,000 (£74,100) fine if convicted. Mr Bannon is accused of one count of refusing to appear for a deposition and one count of refusing to provide subpoenaed documents to a committee investigating the riot. He filed the not guilty plea on Wednesday. Mr Bannon was expected to issue the plea in court on Thursday, but his lawyers have requested the judge to waive the proceeding. His indictment is the first to come out of the House of Representatives Select Committee's inquiry into the Capitol riot. The 6 January riot saw supporters of former President Donald Trump storming Congress as results of the 2020 election were being certified inside. According to subpoena documents, Mr Bannon said on the eve of the riot that "all hell is going to break loose tomorrow". His lawyers have argued that his communications involving the former president are protected. On Monday, the right-wing podcast host lashed out at the Biden administration and vowed that "this is going to be the misdemeanour from hell". Mr Bannon told reporters he believes the charges are politically motivated and vowed to fight them. The court has mandated that Mr Bannon check in weekly, remain at his listed address and notify plans to leave the Washington area. He has also been forced to surrender his passport.
US Congress punishes lawmaker over violent clip. The US House of Representatives has voted to punish a Republican lawmaker who tweeted a cartoon depicting him attacking Democrats with swords. The Democratic-controlled Congress voted 223-207 to censure Arizona Congressman Paul Gosar and remove him from his committee roles. It came after he posted then deleted an anime video that Democrats say promoted violence against President Joe Biden and lawmaker Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. He has called it a "symbolic cartoon". It comes just 10 months after supporters of Republican President Donald Trump stormed Congress in an attempt to block the certification of Mr Biden's election victory. The vote largely fell along party lines, with only two Republicans voting to censure Mr Gosar. Ahead of the vote, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said that "this is about workplace harassment and violence against women." "Yet, the member has never apologised for his actions. 'It's a cartoon, relax,' he said. Really?," Pelosi said. Mr Gosar, for his part, said he rejects "the false narrative" that he espouses violence and said the video depicts "a policy battle". Earlier this year Democrats stripped another Republican lawmaker, Marjorie Taylor Greene, of committee assignments for past remarks that included support for violence against Democrats. Conservatives accused them of hypocrisy for taking no punitive action against a Democratic lawmaker, Ilhan Omar, who made remarks that were construed as anti-Semitic. US lawmaker defends 'offensive' Israel remark The House resolution, which was posted online on Tuesday, calls for Mr Gosar to be removed from the Committee on Oversight and the Natural Resources Committee. The 90-second video posted on 8 November featured an edited version of a Japanese anime cartoon interspersed with scenes from the US-Mexico border. In one portion, characters whose faces were replaced by Mr Gosar and other prominent conservative Republicans were shown fighting other characters. One character, who had been made to look like New York congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, was seen being hit in the neck with a sword. A character altered to look like Mr Biden was also seen being attacked. In response, top Democrat Nancy Pelosi tweeted that "threats of violence against Members of Congress and the President of the United States must not be tolerated". Mr Gosar has denied the video was inciting violence. In a statement, he said "the cartoon depicts the symbolic nature of a battle between lawful and unlawful policies and in no way intended to be a targeted attack against Representative Cortez or Mr Biden. "It is a symbolic cartoon. It is not real life." Paul Gosar: Siblings savage congressman in attack ad Twitter added a warning label to the tweet, after determining it had violated the company's rules on "hateful conduct". While attending the COP26 climate summit in Glasgow, Scotland, Ms Ocasio-Cortez called Mr Gosar "creepy" and described his tweet as a "fantasy video of him killing me". Mr Gosar has previously drawn scrutiny for spreading false information about the 2020 presidential election and appearing at a rally where a far-right activist spoke in favour of white nationalism.
Probe after British F-35 fighter crashes in Mediterranean. A British F-35 fighter jet has crashed into the sea during a routine operation in the Mediterranean, the Ministry of Defence has said. The pilot ejected and has safely returned to the Royal Navy aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth and an investigation has begun, the MoD added. The incident occurred at 10:00 GMT over international waters and no other aircraft were involved. The MoD said it would be inappropriate to comment during the investigation. Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said the jet came down soon after take off. He said: "We are pleased the pilot is safe and well and back on board." Mr Wallace added that operational and training flights onboard HMS Queen Elizabeth are continuing despite the incident. There are eight UK F-35Bs on the carrier and 10 from the US Marine Corps. They have conducted around 2,000 take-off and landings on board HMS Queen Elizabeth without any major incident over the past six months. The aircraft are Britain's most advanced and expensive jets. Costing almost £100m, they can land vertically, similar to the Harrier Jump Jet, and combine radar-evading stealth technology with supersonic speeds. With the pilot having ejected and now back on board, efforts now will be to recover the jet, each of which costs around £100m. The F-35 is packed with highly sensitive technology and data. The US-designed stealth jet - hard to detect on radar - is one of the most expensive defence projects undertaken by the American military. This is the first time a UK F-35 has crashed, but there have been several involving US jets. In 2018 the Pentagon briefly grounded its entire fleet of F-35s after the discovery of problems with the advanced fighter's fuel tubes. Those had been resolved. An investigation is already under way into why the British jet came down. With no other aircraft involved or hostile actions that investigation is likely to focus on a technical failure or potential human error. Jets from HMS Queen Elizabeth previously participated in strikes against the remnants of the so-called Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. The 65,000-tonne Royal Navy flagship is returning to the UK from its maiden deployment, which included exercises with the Indian military. It was part of the carrier strike group's deployment to the Indo-Pacific region amid heightened tensions with China. The F-35s are operated by the renowned 617 Squadron, known as the "Dambusters". Built by the US firm Lockheed Martin, the UK's F-35s are the B variant of the jet and are flown by pilots from the Royal Air Force and Royal Navy, based at RAF Marham in Norfolk. Foreign Secretary Liz Truss spent time on board the vessel last month on the final day of her two-day visit to India.
IBM claims advance in quantum computing. IBM has unveiled an advanced "quantum" processor that is part of an effort to build super-fast computers. These machines could revolutionise computing, harnessing the strange world of quantum physics to solve problems beyond reach for even the most advanced "classical" ones. But the hurdles in building practical, large-scale versions have kept quantum computers confined to the lab. The new chip has 127 "qubits", twice as many as the previous IBM processor. Qubits (quantum bits) are the most basic units of information in a quantum computer. The company called its new Eagle processor "a key milestone on the path towards practical quantum computation". But one quantum computing expert said more details were needed to assess whether it represented a significant advance. Google claims 'quantum supremacy' for computerQuantum computers 'one step closer'Quantum computer 'blueprint' drawn up Recent years have seen a surge of interest in the machines because of their potential to vastly improve computing power. They could be used to help develop new materials and medicines or improve aspects of artificial intelligence. Quantum computers tap into the strange way matter behaves at very small scales. In classical computers, the unit of information is called a "bit" and can have a value of either one or zero. But its equivalent in a quantum system - the qubit - can be both one and zero at the same time. This is the concept of superposition, where something can exist in multiple states at once. To harness their power, multiple qubits must be linked together, a process called entanglement. And with each additional qubit added, the computational power of the processor is effectively doubled. The Eagle processor follows the company's 65-qubit Hummingbird, unveiled in 2020, and the 27-qubit Falcon, in 2019. "The arrival of the Eagle processor is a major step towards the day when quantum computers can outperform classical computers for useful applications," senior vice-president and research director Dr Darío Gil said. "Quantum computing has the power to transform nearly every sector and help us tackle the biggest problems of our time." An important step is to demonstrate what has been loosely dubbed "quantum supremacy". In 2019, Google said its 53-qubit Sycamore quantum processor had surpassed the performance of a conventional computer - on a particular task - for the first time. Google researchers published the results in the prestigious academic journal Nature. At the time, scientists from IBM questioned some of Google's figures and its definition of quantum supremacy. Regarding the new Eagle chip, Prof Scott Aaronson, from the University of Texas at Austin, said: "I look forward to seeing the actual details." On his blog, the quantum computing expert added that information released so far by IBM lacked key parameters he used to assess quantum-computing progress. In 2016, IBM was the first company to put quantum computing on to the cloud, opening up access to the machines for more users. Follow Paul on Twitter.
India PM Narendra Modi repeals controversial farm laws. Indian PM Narendra Modi has announced the repeal of three controversial farm laws after a year of protests. Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since last November, protesting against the reforms. Farmers say the laws will allow the entry of private players in farming and that will hurt their income. Several rounds of talks with the government over the past few months failed as ministers insisted that laws were good for farmers. Farm unions will see this as a huge victory. But experts say the upcoming state elections in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh - which both have a huge base of farmers - may have forced the decision. The surprise announcement on Friday morning came on a day Sikhs - the dominant community is Punjab - are celebrating the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism. Mr Modi said the new farm laws were meant to strengthen the small farmers. "But despite several attempts to explain the benefits to the farmers, we have failed. On the occasion of Guru Purab, the government has decided to repeal the three farm laws," he added. Rakesh Tikait, one of the most prominent farmer leaders, said they would stop their protest movement only after the government repealed the laws in the parliament. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella group of some 40 farmers' unions, had refused to back down despite appeals from the government to end their protest. Farmers continued to block motorways to Delhi through harsh winter and summer months and even through deadly Covid waves. They called for strikes across the country and dozens of them even died due to cold, heat and Covid. The government initially engaged with them and offered to put the laws in abeyance for two years. But after farmers rejected their overtures, the authorities retreated, preferring to go with the wait-and-watch attitude. How PM Modi misread the mood of India's farmersThe defining image of farmers' protest in India But two things changed in the last few months. First, the son a federal minister allegedly drove his car into a group of protesting farmers in Lakhimpur in Uttar Pradesh in early October. He denied the allegation, but was arrested. The incident sparked outrage across the country and put the government on the back foot. Second, PM Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is up against strong regional parties in the upcoming elections in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand and the government knows that angry farmers would hurt the BJP's chances of winning the crucial polls.
How Narendra Modi misread the mood of India's angry farmers. After more than 45 days of protests and eight rounds of talks with the government, India's farmers have refused to budge. Nothing short of a repeal of three market-friendly farm laws - designed to loosen rules around the sale, pricing and storage of farm produce - will make the farmers retreat from protest sites ringing the capital, Delhi. On Tuesday, the Supreme Court, responding to a bunch of petitions, put the laws on hold. The uncertainty lingers. So why did Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government fail to anticipate the blowback to the laws and misread the public mood in the affected states of Punjab and Haryana? Were they lulled into complacency because a Punjab-based ally initially supported the laws? (The Akali Dal later reversed its stand and quit the government.) Did the government believe that the laws would not lead to any significant erosion of popular support? Mr Modi has built a reputation for tough talking and playing hardball with his critics and his party is widely believed to have its ears to the ground. Protests had been brewing in Punjab even before the laws were ratified in the parliament in the middle of the pandemic last September. Angry farmers had squatted on railway tracks in protest. In late September, the regional Akali Dal had walked out. So why was Mr Modi caught on the wrong foot by what has now grown into arguably the world's biggest protest? One reason, many believe, is that Mr Modi has not faced a mass movement against his regime. A protest by the influential Patel community in Gujarat in 2015 demanding quotas in government jobs lingered on for four years before a resolution. A months-long protest led mostly by Muslim women in a Delhi neighbourhood against the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) was cleared last March amid measures to curb the spread of coronavirus. But none were as large and intense as the ongoing protests, and did not challenge the government in the way the defiant farmers have. "I don't think Mr Modi misread the situation because he had no knowledge about the protests in Punjab. I think the overconfidence arose from his inexperience in dealing with mass protests," says Prof Parminder Singh, a civil rights activist. Second, the current protests are significantly different from similar agitations in India's history. In colonial India, peasant revolts against exploitative rulers often turned violent. Since Independence in 1947, farmers have staged demonstrations against falling crop prices, indebtedness and farm distress. But none have seen the staggering levels of cohesion and mobilisation - involving some 40 farmers' unions, more than half a million protesters, and large swathes of civil society - as the ongoing agitation. The protests have originated in Punjab, the relatively prosperous farming heartland of India. Along with its neighbour Haryana, the two states have benefited most from India's farm policies. These farmers are now frustrated over stagnant and falling farm incomes and fear that entry of private businesses will hurt their future. The protests have now widened to coalesce around a range of anxieties over farming in India - shrinking plots of land, diminished produce, volatility in crop prices, and centralisation of lawmaking in a country where farming matters are mainly entrusted with the states. "The protest is more than an arena of grievances," Pratap Bhanu Mehta, professor of political science at Ashoka University, told me. "It's also about a lack of trust in the government and an assertive articulation of federalism." At the protest sites, the mood is one of unbending resistance against the government. "People here are calling it a revolution for our rights," Surmeet Mavi, one of the editors of Trolley Times, a daily newsletter published from the protest site, told me. "It's a feeling of fearlessly taking on the powerful government." For decades, the dominant stereotype of the Indian farmer has been one of a semi-literate, struggling man, who tirelessly ploughs the land. The reality is that India's 150-odd million farmers are of different kinds - the big and small; the landed and the landless. So when it was reported that the protesters were having pizzas, there was some unkind social media chatter about whether these people really worked on the farms. It laid bare, again, how little urban Indians know about their rural brethren. What Mr Modi's government and many people have possibly failed to understand is that many of the protesting farmers have deep linkages with urbanity. Many of them have children in the army and police, speak English, use social media and have both travelled and have relatives abroad. The protest sites are well organised with clinics, ambulances, kitchens, facilities, libraries, and even its own newspaper. Like most urban protests, there's the risk of the media-fuelled spectacle overtaking the underlying complexities of the agitation. "This farmer movement speaks the language of middle-class India. They are saying they are patriotic, and fighting for the rights they hold dear," says historian Mahesh Rangarajan. This is also not a conventional protest against farm distress or drought, which most governments have been successful at managing. This agitation is ironically a consequence of Punjab's success in farming - the state is the biggest beneficiary of government-guaranteed prices of wheat and rice, and elaborate state-supported marketing structures. These have now become a millstone around Punjab's neck - a glut of two crops has led to overflowing stocks, stagnating incomes and depleting groundwater. "The challenge is that Punjab has been unable to transition from a largely well-to-do farming society to one where there is environmentally sustainable agriculture and industrialisation," says Prof Mehta. More than 85% of India's farmers are small and marginal, and they work on some 47% of the total farming land. Both the government and farmers agree that farming needs reform. But they cannot agree on specifics. "There are solutions. But the farmers don't trust the government," says Prof Mehta. And therein lies the real problem.
India farmers: The viral image that defines a protest. A photograph of a paramilitary policeman swinging his baton at an elderly Sikh man has become the defining image of the ongoing farmers' protest in India. The photograph, taken by Ravi Choudhary, a photojournalist with Press Trust of India (PTI), has gone viral on social media. It has also resulted in political wrangling - with opposition politicians using the image to criticise the way the protesters are being treated and Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) claiming - falsely - that the farmer was not hit. Hundreds of thousands of farmers have laid siege to Delhi for the past few days, choking almost all the entry points to the national capital. They are protesting against a recent law that they say is against their interests. The government says the reforms, which open the farming sector to private players, will not hurt farmers. Unconvinced, thousands of them have marched upon Delhi, where they were met by barricades at the border. As they arrived in a convoy of tractors and on foot, tens of thousands of police and paramilitary troops were deployed to halt their march, leading to clashes with the police. In several places, police fired tear gas shells and used water cannons to try to beat them back. The photograph of the Sikh farmer, with a flowing white beard, being threatened by a paramilitary policeman was taken last Friday at the Singhu border in north-west Delhi as farmers and protesters breached the barricades and entered the city. "There was stone pelting, barricades were broken and a bus was also damaged with violent clashes between the police and protesters," photojournalist Ravi Choudhary, who took the picture, told fact-check site Boomlive.com. He said the police started hitting the protesters and the old man in the photo was also hit. Are India's new reforms a 'death warrant' for farmers?India farmers block roads and trains to protest reforms The photograph went viral quickly, shared by tens of thousands of people on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. Many, including the photographer, tagged the image with "Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan" (or "Hail the Soldier, Hail the Farmer") - a slogan coined by former Indian PM Lal Bahadur Shastri in 1965 during the India-Pakistan war to stress the importance of soldiers and farmers in nation building. Rahul Gandhi, senior leader of the opposition Congress party, also tweeted the image. "It's a very sad photo. Our slogan was Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan, but today PM Modi's arrogance has pitted the soldier against the farmer. This is very dangerous," he wrote. Amit Malviya, head of the BJP's IT cell, questioned Mr Gandhi's claim - he shared a three-second video clip to claim that the farmer had not been hit and described it as propaganda. In the end though, it was his tweet that was called out for being propaganda - many pointed out that it was labelled "manipulated media" by Twitter. Mr Malviya's claims were also debunked by Boomlive which scoured longer versions of the video and also tracked down Sukhdev Singh, the farmer in the photograph, and interviewed him. It reported that the farmer was "targeted by not one but two security personnel… Mr Singh who is currently at the Haryana-Delhi border told us that he sustained injuries to his forearm, back and calf muscle". Images of thousands of elderly farmers from Punjab and Haryana - known as the "food bowl" of India - being tear-gassed and sprayed with water in the winter cold have won them tremendous public sympathy in India and also from the diaspora around the globe. On Monday, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau expressed concern over India's response to the demonstrations and said his country "will always be there to defend the right of peaceful protest". His comments drew a sharp response from India's foreign ministry which called it "ill-informed" and  "unwarranted. The farmers' cause, however, continues to gain support. The authorities invited them for talks - one round of talks with government ministers on Tuesday failed; a second round is scheduled for Thursday. The farmers have now set up massive camps at several locations on the city's border and say they will stay as long as it takes for the authorities to agree to repeal the "black law". They say they've come "prepared for a long battle" - with trolleys full of rice and grains, and pots and pans to cook their own food. It could be a long haul.
Brazil: Amazon sees worst deforestation levels in 15 years. Deforestation in Brazil's Amazon rainforest has hit its highest level in over 15 years, official data shows. A report by Brazil's space research agency (Inpe) found that deforestation increased by 22% in a year. Brazil was among a number of nations who promised to end and reverse deforestation by 2030 during the COP26 climate summit. The Amazon is home to about three million species of plants and animals, and one million indigenous people. It is a vital carbon store that slows down the pace of global warming. According to the latest data, some 13,235 sq km (5110 sq miles) was lost during the 2020-21 period, the highest amount since 2006. Environment Minister Joaquim Leite said the data represents a "challenge" and said "we have to be more forceful in relation to these crimes". He added that the data "does not exactly reflect the situation in the last few months". How your chicken burger is linked to deforestationIllegal miners fire on indigenous group in Amazon Deforestation of the Amazon has increased under President Jair Bolsonaro. who has encouraged agriculture and mining activities in the rainforest. He has also clashed with Inpe in the past over its deforestation, accusing the agency in 2019 of smearing Brazil's reputation. But at November's climate conference in Glasgow, Brazil was among a number of nations who signed a major deal to end and reverse the practice. The pledge included almost £14bn ($19.2bn) of public and private funds. Some of that will go to developing countries to restore damaged land, tackle wildfires and support indigenous communities. Just this week, Jair Bolsonaro, on tour in Dubai, told investors that attacks towards Brazil on deforestation were 'unfair'. 'We want people to know the real Brazil,' he said, adding that 90% of the forest is still preserved. Well, these latest figures reveal the real Brazil - a country whose government has from the very beginning talked up the opportunities in developing the Amazon and at the same time, belittled environmental concerns. Not only that, these figures were actually dated October 27 - it appears they were held until after COP26. Jair Bolsonaro didn't turn up to COP26 but his delegation wanted to go to Glasgow and convince the world that people were wrong about Brazil - it even said it would move forward its commitment to ending deforestation by 2028. But with numbers like these, who can believe Jair Bolsonaro now?
DR Congo data leak: Millions transferred to Joseph Kabila allies. Companies owned by family and friends of former Democratic Republic of Congo President Joseph Kabila had millions of dollars of public funds funnelled through their bank accounts, according to Africa's biggest data leak. The money was transferred to the companies' accounts at the Congolese arm of the BGFI bank. Millions of dollars in cash were then taken out of the accounts. Mr Kabila was president at the time of the bank transfers. He has declined to respond to our questions over the transfers. The leak included more than three million documents and information on millions of transactions from the BGFI (Banque Gabonaise et Française Internationale) bank, which works in several African countries and France. Online French investigative journal Mediapart and the NGO Platform to Protect Whistleblowers in Africa (PPLAAF) obtained the information. BBC Africa Eye had access to the evidence, as part of a consortium called Congo Hold-up, co-ordinated by the media network European Investigative Collaborations (EIC). The investigation raises questions about who benefitted from the money transfers and possible conflicts of interests. The managing director of BGFI's DR Congo subsidiary, BGFI Banque RDC, from 2012 to 2018 was Francis Selemani, Joseph Kabila's foster brother. Mr Kabila's sister, Gloria Mteyu, owned 40% of BGFI's DR Congo operation, which was set up in 2010. One privately owned company, Sud Oil, was shown to have received nearly $86m in public funds from November 2013 to August 2017. These include at least $46m from the DR Congo banking regulator, BCC, $15m from the state mining company Gécamines, and $1.3m from the country's electoral body, Ceni. The only information the BBC found from the leak concerning these payments was an invoice for just over $1m from Ceni to Sud Oil for petroleum products. The BBC found no evidence Sud Oil was trading in petroleum products at the time. Mr Selemani's wife, Aneth Lutale, owned 80% of Sud Oil and Mrs Mteyu owned the remaining 20% from 2013 to 2018. Millions of dollars were transferred out of Sud Oil's BGFI accounts to other private companies' BGFI accounts. Some of these were owned by relatives or business associates of Mr Kabila, who was president from 2001-2019. One of these companies, Kwanza Capital, was majority owned by Congolese businessman Pascal Kinduelo, with Sud Oil taking a minority stake. Mr Kinduelo was chair of BGFI Bank RDC at the time. Mr Kinduelo was also a former owner of Sud Oil, before transferring ownership. The investigation found the bank allowed many high-value cash withdrawals from Sud Oil accounts, including one for $6 million. By law a maximum of $10,000 is allowed to be withdrawn in cash per day. This limit can only be breached for specific, documented purposes, such as national emergency or defence reasons. BBC Africa Eye found no evidence in the leak that correct procedures were followed in these instances. These cash withdrawals from Sud Oil accounts totalled at least $50 million covering a four-year period. Once the money was withdrawn, it is believed to have become untraceable. Our investigation was only able to establish that Sud Oil, for the period 2013 to 2018, had one employee, managing director David Ezekiel, and a small office in the capital Kinshasa as its address. In October 2013 Sud Oil purchased a real estate complex in the capital for $12 million, basing the company there. It also had a contract with BGFI Banque RDC to provide new vehicles to several of its senior management, including Mr Selemani. It charged $70,000 to provide his four-wheel drive car. BBC Africa Eye found no evidence of any other business activities. The investigation had access to an internal BGFI audit, completed in July 2018, heavily criticising the DR Congo operation. The audit was never meant to be made public. It gave a score of "very high risk" for the DR Congo subsidiary. It also referenced a lack of integrity and transparency in the declaration of conflicts of interest and compliance in its operations with clients. The audit named Mr Selemani as having at least 16 declared conflicts of interest, including links to private companies holding accounts at the bank. It also highlighted several high-value transactions by Sud Oil. Two weeks after the report was complete, Mr Selemani was moved to a new role at BGFI's head office in Gabon. He reportedly received $1.4m on leaving BGFI Banque RDC. He is reported to have left BGFI in November 2018. Sud Oil changed ownership in 2018  and Kwanza Capital was closed down the same year. Mrs Mteyu is understood to have given up her 40% stake in BGFI Banque RDC. BBC Africa Eye contacted BGFI, Joseph Kabila, Francis Selemani, Aneth Lutale, David Ezekiel and Gloria Mteyu over the information contained in the leak. None responded to our questions. We also contacted Pascal Kinduelo, who declined to respond. Gecamines and BCC did not reply to the BBC's requests for a response. The head of Ceni at the time of its dealings with Sud Oil, Corneille Nangaa, declined to comment on the payment, citing parliamentary confidentiality rules. Mr Nangaaa added that a new management team was now in place at the electoral body. BBC Africa Eye's investigation will be available online to watch from 29 November. Inside the collapse of an African construction giantUnmasking the 'Pyramid Kings' scam
Meghan tells Ellen DeGeneres Prince Harry loves the California lifestyle. The Duchess of Sussex said Prince Harry loves the California lifestyle and weather during an interview with US chat show host Ellen DeGeneres. Reflecting on their move to the West Coast of the US as the pandemic began, Meghan said: "We've just been able to spend a lot of time at home." "We're just happy," she added. The duchess also took part in a prank on street vendors, which saw her carry out a series of instructions relayed to her by Ellen through an earpiece. Ellen instructed Meghan to hold a healing crystal to her forehead, eat food like an animal, drink from a baby's milk bottle and tell jokes without a punch line at a studio complex in Los Angeles. The "hidden camera" skit is a regular feature on Ellen's chat show, and has previously involved celebrities including Adele, Emma Watson and Jennifer Lopez. Profile: Duchess of SussexRoyal Family tree and line of succession How Meghan ‘tripped and fell’ into Harry’s life During her appearance, Meghan said her five-month-old daughter Lilibet had started teething, while son Archie, two, had taken to feeding chickens at their Montecito home. She reflected on the joy of being a parent alongside her husband, as she promoted a children's book she has written that features illustrations based on Harry and Archie. "Harry being a dad was the most beautiful thing to watch," she said. She told Ellen, who lives close to the Sussexes, Archie "loves being a big brother" to Lilibet. "Someone told [Harry] and I that when you have one kid it's a hobby, and two children is parenting," the duchess, 40, said. "Suddenly we realised, 'Oh right,' everyone talks about what it's like for the second child but no-one talks about the adjustment for the first child when the second one comes along. "I think they have that moment of, 'Oh, this is fun, oh, this is how it is now.'" On the theme of parenting, Meghan said she wanted to see changes to parental leave rights in the US, which she said was the only rich country not to have federally mandated leave rights for new parents. She said: "Everyone knows - especially if you've had a child and even if you haven't - you know how hard it is and how critical it is in those first few weeks, or even months, to be together as a family, and the fact that we don't offer that here is something that - now as a mom of two - I will do everything that I can to make sure that we implement that for people." Meghan's last television interview was with the US broadcaster Oprah Winfrey in March, when she said it was "liberating" to be able to speak freely, away from the institution of the Royal Family. The Sussexes announced they would "step back" as senior royals in January 2020. Meghan is currently involved in an ongoing legal battle with the publishers of the Mail on Sunday newspaper over the publication of a letter she sent to her estranged father. The duchess had successfully sued for the misuse of a "personal and private" letter and breach of copyright - but Associated Newspapers has appealed against the ruling. Meanwhile, in London, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge attended the Royal Variety Performance at the Royal Albert Hall in London. Comedian Alan Carr told Prince William he was "not hitting on his wife" after complimenting Catherine, as the couple attended the Royal Variety Performance. Greeting the royals at the 94th annual performance, Mr Carr said to the duchess: "You look absolutely beautiful." Addressing William, the comedian added: "Sir, I am sure you do not know who I am but I am not hitting on your wife." The royal couple enjoyed performances from Years & Years, James Blunt, Elvis Costello, Gregory Porter and Anne-Marie as well as the cast of the Royal Shakespeare Company's production of Matilda the Musical.
Instagram: US states investigate how platform targets children. A group of US states is investigating how Instagram targets children, despite it posing potential risks to them. The group - made up of both Democrat and Republican states - is investigating Instagram and Facebook's parent company Meta to determine if consumer protection laws were broken. It comes after a company whistleblower testified in the US that the company knew its products can harm children. A Meta spokesman on Thursday denied that their platforms are unhealthy. Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey, a Democrat who first announced the inquiry, tweeted: "Facebook, or Meta, has known Instagram is linked to depression, eating disorders & suicide among young people." "We will identify if any laws were broken and end the abuse for good." Nebraska Attorney General Doug Peterson, a Republican, said that the companies "treat our children as mere commodities to manipulate for longer screen time engagement and data extraction". "These social media platforms are extremely dangerous and have been proven to cause both physical and mental harm in young people," added New York Attorney General Letitia James. Facebook Files: 5 things leaked documents revealFacebook under fire over secret teen research Facebook, which owns Instagram and WhatsApp changed its name to Meta last month after a series of scandals. A Meta spokesman pushed back against the consortium's allegations. "These accusations are false and demonstrate a deep misunderstanding of the facts," a spokesman said in a statement. "While challenges in protecting young people online impact the entire industry, we've led the industry in combating bullying and supporting people struggling with suicidal thoughts, self-injury, and eating disorders," he added. The announcement comes after a series of explosive reports based on of documents leaked by former Facebook employee Frances Haugen. In testimony to lawmakers in the US, she said the company knowingly pushed its platforms to young children despite knowing that they could cause health issues. In September, the platform abandoned plans for a child-focused app after a group of over 40 state attorneys general wrote and urged them to cancel it. Instagram, like other platforms, requires users to be over 13, but the company has admitted that it knows some users are younger. When Meta's CEO Zuckerberg responded to Frances Haugen's leaks he said something intriguing. "If we attack organisations making an effort to study their impact on the world, we're effectively sending the message that it's safer not to look at all, in case you find something that could be held against you." What Zuckerberg was essentially saying is if companies get whacked for conducting research into the effects of their products - they won't conduct the research at all. It's important because Instagram is by no means the only social media platform that teens use. TikTok for example has an enormous teen following, as does Snapchat. How do they affect teen mental health? Well we don't know, because if they have conducted this research, they haven't released it. This is Meta' great grievance - that it is facing the consequences of bothering to understand the impact of their products. But that isn't quite right either. The nature of Instagram, its algorithmic push that promotes beauty, style, success - is different to other apps. It would be far better if Facebook gave its data to independent analysts to able to research harmful effects. But it would be far worse if the company simply stopped looking under the bonnet, in case it found something it didn't like.
Biden mulls US diplomatic boycott of Beijing Olympics. US President Joe Biden has said that he is weighing a US diplomatic boycott of the 2022 Winter Olympic games due to be held in Beijing, China. "That is something we are considering," he told reporters ahead of talks with the leaders of Mexico and Canada. A diplomatic boycott would mean that no US officials are sent to attend the games. The decision comes amid rising tension in the US-China relationship. On Monday, Mr Biden held his first direct talks with China's Xi Jinping. At the White House, Biden spokeswoman Jen Psaki said that the US and China leaders did not discuss the Olympics during their three-hour virtual meeting on Monday. Both Democratic and Republican lawmakers have called for a diplomatic boycott as a means to protest against Chinese human rights abuses. A diplomatic boycott would not affect athletes, but Ms Psaki said the US is still finalising "what our presence will be" at the games, which are due to begin on 4 February. The US has accused China of genocide towards the Uighurs - a Muslim minority group which lives mostly in the autonomous region of Xinjiang. Tensions have also risen over the way China has acted to repress political freedoms in Hong Kong. Mr Biden's comment came as he was hosting Mexico President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador and Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau for formal talks at the White House. The talks, dubbed the Three Amigos Summit, are expected to focus on border issues, tax subsidies for electric vehicles, Covid precautions and other issues. Human rights groups call for China Olympic boycottWhat Biden and Xi want from each other Last month, US senators proposed a draft amendment to a bill that would ban the US State Department from spending government funds to "support or facilitate" the attendance of US diplomats at the Games. Nancy Pelosi, the most senior Democrat in Congress, has called for a boycott, saying that US leaders who attend would lose their "moral authority". Republican Senator Tom Cotton said on Thursday that diplomatic boycott of the "genocide Olympics" would be "too little, too late" and called for a total boycott of all athletes, officials and US corporate sponsors. Nikki Haley, the former US representative to the UN under Donald Trump, has also called for a complete boycott.
Poland border crisis: Camp empty as migrants move to warehouse. Migrants camping on the border between Belarus and Poland have been moved to nearby warehouse, border guards have confirmed. About 1,000 people, mostly from the Middle East, have been living at the makeshift camp with the aim of entering the EU. The move marks a de-escalation of tensions between Belarus and the EU. Belarus has been accused of pushing migrants to the border as revenge for EU sanctions, a charge it denies. In another development on Thursday, more than 400 Iraqis were repatriated from Belarus on a flight arranged by the Iraqi government. One man who was on the flight, told the New York Times he had made eight attempts to cross into Poland. He was successful on one attempt, only to be dragged back by Polish guards. Those left at the border have been moved to a logistics depot several hundred metres away, according to Polish border guards. People started moving on Wednesday with more arriving at the site on Thursday. Images of the border camp show it completely deserted. It is hoped that the change of tack by Belarus could help calm down the situation. Earlier this week, the crisis reached boiling point with Polish forces using tear gas and a water cannon to repel migrants trying to cross into the country. Several Polish forces were injured after migrants attempted to breach the crossing and threw missiles. UK Defence Secretary Ben Wallace announced on Thursday that the UK will send about 150 British soldiers to help reinforce Poland's border with Belarus. For months, men, women and children have been amassing at Belarus's western borders. Many of those arrived by plane but airlines have been cutting down on the number of flights from the Middle East to Minsk. Poland has the EU's backing in not letting the migrants into the bloc. Belarus had called for EU members to take in 2,000 of the migrants but was rejected by Germany and the European Commission. EU-Belarus relations have been severely strained since Mr Lukashenko declared victory in a discredited presidential election last year and tried to silence dissenting voices.
Julius Jones: Oklahoma prisoner's execution halted at last minute. Oklahoma's governor has halted the execution of prisoner Julius Jones hours before he was due to be put to death. Kevin Stitt said he was commuting the sentence to life imprisonment without parole. Hundreds of students earlier walked out of school demanding clemency for Jones. Jones was sentenced to death in 2002 for killing Paul Howell during a carjacking three years earlier. He maintains his innocence. His case has attracted the support of celebrities including reality TV star Kim Kardashian and anti-death penalty activists. Jones' execution by lethal injection was scheduled for 16:00 local time (2200 GMT) at the state penitentiary in McAlester. But Gov Stitt, a Republican, said he intervened "after prayerful consideration and reviewing materials presented by all sides of this case". The state's Pardon and Parole Board earlier recommended in a 3-1 majority vote that Jones' sentence be commuted to life in prison with the possibility of parole. The case has attracted widespread attention in recent years, partly due to the 2018 ABC documentary series "The Last Defense". More than six million people have signed a Justice for Julius petition which states he was put on death row because of "fundamental breakdowns in the system tasked with deciding". Jones was found guilty of fatally shooting Mr Howell, an insurance executive, during a 1999 carjacking on his driveway. In October, he was among five people who won stays of execution from a three-judge panel of the 10th Circuit US Court of Appeal. "I did not kill Mr Howell," he wrote in a letter to the parole board in April, after exhausting his appeals. "I did not participate in any way in his murder; and the first time I saw him was on television when his death was reported." But Mr Howell's relatives have said Jones' calls for clemency have victimised them further.
HMAS Sydney: DNA reveals identity of Australia's famous 'unknown sailor'. Australia says it has identified the body of the only sailor recovered from a ship sunk during World War Two. Thomas Welsby Clark, 20, joined the HMAS Sydney just four months before it was ambushed by a German raider in the Indian Ocean in 1941. All 645 men on board the ship died - one of Australia's best-known wartime disasters. Three months after the sinking, a body washed up in a life raft on Australia's Christmas Island. Dressed in navy overalls that had been bleached white from the sun, he became known as the "unknown sailor". He was buried first on the island, a territory 1,500km (930 miles) off Western Australia. Decades later, he was reburied on the mainland with military rites. No other bodies were ever recovered, even after the ship's wreckage was discovered in 2008. On Friday, after years of DNA testing, Australia revealed the unknown sailor as Mr Clark. Historians said the able seaman had come from a wealthy grazing family and trained as an accountant. Both of his brothers had also served in the war. Remembering Australia's 'Pearl Harbor'World War One's forgotten Anzacs Tests from his teeth matched the genetic material of his surviving descendants. His family was informed of the news last week, officials said. "It's a testament to modern science and technology that we have been able to identify Tom, after all these decades," Veteran Affairs Minister Andrew McGee said. "Even after 80 years, we are still working so hard to identify and honour our servicemen and women." The Australian War Memorial in Canberra said it would dedicate its daily Last Post ceremony to Mr Clark on Friday. Some of his relatives would lay a wreath at a shrine, it said. His grave in Geraldton, Western Australia, will also get a new headstone. Currently the inscription reads: "A Serviceman of the 1939-1945 War HMAS Sydney."
Facebook tells LA police to stop spying on users with fake accounts. Facebook has written to the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD), demanding that it stop setting up fake profiles to conduct surveillance on users. This comes after the Guardian revealed that the US police department had been working with a tech firm, analysing user data to help solve crimes. Facebook expressly prohibits the creation and use of fake accounts. The intent, it said, was to "create a safe environment where people can trust and hold one another accountable". "Not only do LAPD instructional documents use Facebook as an explicit example in advising officers to set up fake social media accounts, but documents also indicate that LAPD policies simply allow officers to create fake accounts for 'online investigative activity'," wrote Facebook's vice president and deputy general counsel for civil rights Roy Austin in a letter outlining Facebook's policies. "While the legitimacy of such policies may be up to the LAPD, officers must abide by Facebook's policies when creating accounts on our services. The Police Department should cease all activities on Facebook that involve the use of fake accounts, impersonation of others, and collection of data for surveillance purposes." Documents obtained through public record requests made by non-profit organisation the Brennan Center of Justice showed that in 2019, the LAPD had been using Voyager Labs' social media surveillance software to collect data from suspects' social media networks, including their friends' accounts. Voyager Labs claims its software is able to analyse large amounts data to help solve crimes, including helping to discern users' motives and beliefs. The LAPD said in emails that the software had been particularly useful in investigating the activities of street gangs online and crucial in helping its robbery and homicide division collect evidence. Facebook argues that spying on users and impersonating legitimate users goes against its purpose, which is to enable people to "connect and share with real people using their authentic identities". However, Robert Potter, an Australian security expert specialising in lawful surveillance, thinks fake names can be justified in situations where human rights activists or journalists are seeking to protect their privacy online, or for users in countries where there is internet censorship. And he is surprised at the social network's strong stance against the LAPD, when it has been slow to take action in the past on issues like misleading political ads, online scams and social media's negative effects on teenagers. "It's genuinely interesting to see that Facebook has become the nexus for so many problematic communications, from child trafficking and terrorism communications to Covid disinformation," he told the BBC. "Yet they seem to care more about the LAPD misusing their platform than sometimes they do about China or Russia." Despite its claims regarding authenticity and accountability, in August the social network banned the accounts of US academics researching political ads on its platform. Facebook said the researchers' data-scraping browser extension tool undermined its security, while the academics argued that their work was vital in maintaining democracy and keeping the social network's practices transparent. "If you're not cracking down across the board on malicious actors using your platform, you don't have strong grounds to crack down on legitimate use of the platform," said Mr Potter, who built the Washington Post's cyber-security operations centre and has advised the Australian government on cyber-security. "You're not special if you run a social media platform. If there's not a rule saying you can't have an undercover cop in a church, why should a social media platform be any different?"
Crypto bid to buy US constitution copy at auction fails. A cryptocurrency group has lost in its efforts to buy a rare copy of the US constitution at auction. The group - ConstitutionDAO - said it planned "to put the constitution in the hands of the people". It had amassed more than $40m worth of donations through crowd-funding. But the document instead sold to another buyer for $43.2 million (£32m) at Sotheby's on Thursday, in what the auction house said was a record price for a historical document. The donors will now have all of their money returned, according to a statement from the group on Twitter. Published in 1787, there are 13 known copies to have survived from a run of 500 originally printed after the text was settled at the Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The copy is one of only two not held in the collection of an institution, according to Sotheby's. The auction house had estimated the copy to be worth $15m to $20m. The identity of the new buyer is not known. Proceeds of the auction will go to the Dorothy Tapper Goldman Foundation - a non-profit group that works to promote understanding of democracy.
Wisconsin: Police name victims after car ploughs into Waukesha Christmas parade. Wisconsin officials have identified five victims, aged between 52 and 81, who were killed by a speeding vehicle that ploughed into a Christmas parade. Police also named Darrell Edward Brooks Jr, 39, as the driver of the SUV that injured 48 people, including several young children, in Waukesha. Police are seeking to charge him with five counts of intentional homicide. They added that Sunday's incident was not an act of terrorism. Mr Brooks was reportedly fleeing another disturbance. Warning: This article contains upsetting content. The victims named on Monday were: Mr Wilhelm Hospel, 81Ms Virginia Sorenson, 79Ms LeAnna Owen, 71Ms Tamara Durand, 52Ms Jane Kulich, 52 They include members of the Milwaukee Dancing Grannies, who are a regular fixture in the city's parades. "Our group was doing what they loved, performing in front of crowds in a parade putting smiles on faces of all ages," the group wrote in a statement on Facebook. "Those who died were extremely passionate Grannies." Dozens of people remain in hospital. Police said the injured were taken to six area hospitals by first responders as well as other residents who were at the parade. Eighteen children were admitted after the incident, the Children's Wisconsin paediatric hospital told reporters on Monday. Care providers described the incident as one of the state's largest mass casualty events involving children in recent history. Physicians said some children sustained serious head injuries and broken bones. The injured range in age from three to 16 and include three sets of siblings, medical staff said. Ten children required treatment in the intensive care unit. The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Milwaukee said one of its priests, multiple parishioners and students at a local Catholic school were also among the injured. "The lone subject intentionally drove his maroon SUV through barricades and into a crowd of people that was celebrating," Waukesha police chief Dan Thompson told reporters at a news conference on Monday. He added that an officer had fired shots at the vehicle, but had to stop due to the number of people on the street. Police said they were responding to a domestic incident involving Mr Brooks when he fled the scene and mowed through the parade crowd. Earlier media reports suggested he was escaping a knife fight, but police have not yet confirmed those details. The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel newspaper reported Mr Brooks is currently facing at least five other criminal charges - including for domestic abuse and battery - and had been released from jail on bond just two days earlier. BBC News has also reviewed the records belonging to the suspect. In a statement on Monday, Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm said the bail recommendation in Mr Brooks' open court case was "inappropriately low in light of the nature of recent charges and the pending charges" against him. Mr Brooks is from the city of Milwaukee, about 24 km east of Waukesha. The parade in Waukesha - a community of about 72,000 located to the west of Milwaukee - is traditionally held every year on the Sunday before Thanksgiving, and includes fancy dress, floats, dancers and marching bands. This year's theme was "comfort and joy". Families lined the sides of the road to watch the event, which was returning after a year's absence due to the coronavirus pandemic. Local resident Angelito Tenorio told the Journal Sentinel he had just finished marching in the parade when the SUV "put the pedal to the metal and just [started] zooming full speed along the parade route" at about 16:40 (22:40 GMT) on Sunday. "Then we heard a loud bang, and just deafening cries and screams from people who are struck by the vehicle," he said. Corey Montiho, whose daughter's dance team was hit by the SUV, told the paper: "There were pom-poms and shoes and spilled hot chocolate everywhere. I had to go from one crumpled body to the other to find my daughter." Sarah Saldivar, who was at the parade with her two young children, told CBS News she saw "a red blur" and then saw "little girls flying through the air". One video shared on social media shows the car crashing at high speed through street barriers, while another shows the vehicle driving into what looks like a group of musicians. Police officers ran down the street during the incident, telling people to take shelter in shops. Mayor Shawn Reilly described the incident as a "horrible, senseless tragedy". "I am deeply saddened to know that so many in our community went to a parade but ended up dealing with injury and heartache," he said. President Joe Biden said he was praying for the community and "monitoring the situation very closely". Wisconsin Governor Tony Evers has ordered flags to be flown at half-staff across the state in honour of the victims. Waukesha's public schools will be closed on Monday, and counselling services have been made available to those affected. A community fund has been created to help victims of the incident. Were you at the parade? Did you witness what happened? Email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Or Upload your pictures/video hereTweet: @BBC_HaveYourSayPlease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission.
Germany Covid: Health minister's stark warning to get jabbed. Germany's health minister has issued his starkest warning yet on the importance of getting vaccinated. "By the end of this winter everyone in Germany will either be vaccinated, recovered or dead," Jens Spahn told a news conference in Berlin on Monday. Germany is in the grip of a fourth wave of coronavirus. Cases are rising rapidly and many hospitals are full. It has one of the lowest vaccination rates in Western Europe, with 68% of people fully vaccinated. Germany's infection rate is at its highest since the pandemic began, and health experts have warned this wave could be the worst yet. In the past 24 hours, there have been 30,643 new infections - 7,000 more than a week ago. This is among the highest rates in the world. Tighter restrictions are to be brought in which will see the unvaccinated excluded from certain venues, and some of Germany's famed Christmas markets have been cancelled. Mr Spahn said he was against making Covid vaccines compulsory, but that it was a "moral obligation" to get the jab because it impacts on other people. "Freedom means taking responsibility, and there is a duty to society to get vaccinated," he said. The minister said the highly contagious Delta variant is driving the latest wave and that "anyone who is not vaccinated will, over the next few months, become infected and lack protection". In the news conference on Monday, Mr Spahn also promoted the US-made Moderna shot, calling it the Rolls Royce of vaccines, as high demand for the German-produced Pfizer/BioNTech jabs risked depleting stocks. He warned that some 16 million Moderna doses could expire in the next few months if they are not used. WHO very worried about Covid rise in EuropeCovid map: Where are cases the highest? Covid vaccines: How fast is worldwide progress? The country expects the European Union to approve vaccines for children aged five to 11 by the end of the week. Since the start of the pandemic, more than 99,000 people in Germany have died, and more than 5.4 million have been infected with Covid-19.
Afghanistan: Taliban unveil new rules banning women in TV dramas. Women have been banned from appearing in television dramas in Afghanistan under new rules imposed by the Taliban government. Female journalists and presenters have also been ordered to wear headscarves on screen, although the guidelines do not say which type of covering to use. Reporters say some of the rules are vague and subject to interpretation. The Taliban seized power in Afghanistan in mid-August and many fear they are gradually imposing harsh restrictions. The militant Islamist group, which took control following the departure of US and allied forces, almost immediately instructed girls and young women to stay home from school. During their previous rule in the 1990s, women were barred from education and the workplace. How the Taliban takeover changed my lifeA new order begins under the Taliban rule'Women are imprisoned, while the criminals are free' The latest set of Taliban guidelines, which have been issued to Afghan television channels, features eight new rules. They include the banning of films considered against the principles of Sharia - or Islamic - law and Afghan values, while footage of men exposing intimate parts of the body is prohibited. Comedy and entertainment shows that insult religion or may be considered offensive to Afghans are also forbidden. The Taliban have insisted that foreign films promoting foreign cultural values should not be broadcast. Afghan television channels show mostly foreign dramas with lead female characters. A member of an organisation that represents journalists in Afghanistan, Hujjatullah Mujaddedi, said the announcement of new restrictions was unexpected. He told the BBC that some of the rules were not practical and that if implemented, broadcasters may be forced to close. The Taliban's earlier decision to order girls and young women to stay home from school made Afghanistan the only country in the world to bar half its population from getting an education. The mayor of the capital, Kabul, also told female municipal employees to stay home unless their jobs could not be filled by a man. The Taliban claim that their restrictions on women working and girls studying are "temporary" and only in place to ensure all workplaces and learning environments are "safe" for them.
Prince Harry: Private investigator apologises for targeting prince's ex-girlfriend. A private investigator has apologised for targeting the Duke of Sussex's ex-girlfriend Chelsy Davy for surveillance when they were dating. Gavin Burrows told the BBC the press had focused on Prince Harry in the 2000s as "the new Diana". Mr Burrows, a witness in ongoing legal cases against the News of the World and the Sun, said he and the press had been "ruthless". His claims are yet to be tested in court and are strongly disputed. Prince Harry is one of several people pursuing legal action against the publisher of the Sun and the News of the World, News Group Newspapers, as well as the owner of the Daily Mirror, over allegations of phone-hacking and other illegal newsgathering activity. The News of the World was Britain's biggest Sunday newspaper until 2011, when the owners shut it down after a series of damaging reports, including that the paper hacked the phone of murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler. News Group Newspapers accepts a limited amount of unlawful activity occurred at the News of the World. However, it denies there was any wrongdoing at the Sun and says it has not accepted liability in any of the phone-hacking cases brought against it. Prince Harry's legal battle with the mediaHarry sues Sun and Mirror owners in hacking claimPapers' phone-hacking bill 'could reach £1bn' The private investigator's claims feature in a BBC documentary that investigates the relationship between the younger princes and the media. Media editor Amol Rajan speaks to journalists about how they were briefed on stories, including claims about the behaviour of the Duchess of Sussex. Mr Burrows' account sheds new light on the background to an impending conflict over the conduct of the press. Prince Harry, who has sharply criticised the media and advocated for reform, has so far declined to settle his phone-hacking claim, raising the prospect of a trial. Former BBC royal correspondent Peter Hunt said the prince battling newspapers in court over allegations of unlawful activity - seemingly driven by "avenging" what he sees as unfair treatment of his mother - would be a "massive" moment in British public life. Mr Burrows told the programme there was much greater interest in Prince Harry than in Prince William when he began working for the News of the World in 2000. "As explained to me by a couple of editors, Harry had basically become the new Diana," he said. Editors had told him putting Prince Harry on the front page sold more copies of newspapers than Prince William, Mr Burrows said. The private investigator said when Prince Harry began dating Ms Davy in 2004, it opened a lucrative new avenue of business as her communications were targeted. "There was a lot of voicemail hacking going on, there was a lot of surveillance work on her phones, on her comms. Chelsy would brag to her friends when she was going to see him," he said. He said investigators were interested in her medical records, ex-boyfriends and details of her education. Mr Burrows apologised, saying he was "very sorry" and that he acted this way "because I was greedy, I was into my cocaine, and I was living in a fake state of grandeur". But he said there was a "ruthless" culture in parts of the media around that time: "They've got no morals - they absolutely have got no morals." He also said he regretted his treatment of Prince Harry. "I was basically part of a group of people who robbed him of his normal teenage years," Mr Burrows said. Mr Burrows was one of many private investigators employed by UK newspapers during what came to be known as the phone-hacking scandal. The exposure of unethical and sometimes illegal methods of getting information, including accessing voicemails, has prompted a wave of legal cases over the years. Solicitor Callum Galbraith, co-ordinating the current legal actions against News Group Newspapers, said the scale of the use of private investigators by the News of the World and other papers was "absolutely phenomenal", starting in the early 1990s and continuing to 2011, when police began a new investigation. A criminal trial in 2014 heard the News of the World's former royal editor Clive Goodman hacked the messages of Kate Middleton 155 times when she was dating Prince William. He also hacked the phones of both princes, the court heard. The princes felt "really violated" and both were initially "determined" to resolve their issues with the publisher, said Mr Hunt, the former BBC royal correspondent. He said: "It's now just one of them who is pursuing it, which is Harry." The Princes and the Press will be on BBC Two and BBC iPlayer from 21:00 GMT on Monday 22 November. For more on the story, please subscribe to the podcast Harry, Meghan and the Media. THE NEW LABOUR REVOLUTION: Two powerful personalities at the heart of a political phenomenonFROM TOM HANKS TO EMMA THOMPSON: Check out the great films on BBC iPlayer
Jerome Powell nominated to stay as US Federal Reserve chair. Jerome Powell has been nominated for a second term as chair of the US Federal Reserve by President Joe Biden. Mr Powell is set to stay in the role, which includes managing inflation and regulating the financial system, for a further four years. He was initially appointed by former President Donald Trump and started his first term in 2018. The 68-year-old Republican has been praised for his management of the economy during the pandemic. The other front-running candidate, Lael Brainard, was favoured by progressives on the left of President Biden's Democratic Party. They have criticised Mr Powell for not doing enough to tackle climate change and poverty and say he has weakened regulation of financial institutions. Ms Brainard, who has been on the board of governors of the Federal Reserve since 2014, has been nominated as vice chair. Announcing the nominations, President Biden said: "While there's still more to be done, we've made remarkable progress over the last 10 months in getting Americans back to work and getting our economy moving again. "That success is a testament to the economic agenda I've pursued and to the decisive action that the Federal Reserve has taken under Chair Powell and Dr Brainard to help steer us through the worst downturn in modern American history and put us on the path to recovery." The nominations need to be confirmed in the Senate, before Mr Powell and Ms Brainard take up their posts in February 2022. After months of speculation and weeks of apparent hesitation, Joe Biden has decided to stick with Jerome Powell for what is, arguably, the most powerful economic job in the world. He does this despite clear indications that this will anger the left in his party. Some liberals in the closely-divided Senate have already promised to oppose Powell, who was first selected by Donald Trump, when his nomination comes to a vote in the chamber. Biden may think that by also picking the more left-leaning Lael Brainard to be vice-chair he would assuage some of this dissatisfaction, but that seems unlikely for liberals who want the Federal Reserve to be more aggressive in addressing income inequality and banking power. Instead, Biden has opted for stability in the Federal Reserve at a time when rising interest rates and continued Covid-related challenges put the US economy in a precarious position. The president may consider Powell the safe choice, with some Republicans already offering their support. But if Senate Democrats fracture over the nomination, it may make it more difficult for them to stick together to pass Biden's Build Back Better social spending legislation - a development could have grave political consequences for their party. Mr Biden said he was confident that Mr Powell and Ms Brainard would focus on tackling inflation, but also shared his belief that urgent action was needed to tackle climate change and risks to the financial system. President Biden's government is coming under increasing pressure as prices continue to rise for every day goods, eating into ordinary Americans' spending power. US prices rising at fastest rate for three decadesUS Fed to trim pandemic stimulus from this monthLeft-wing Democrats want Fed chief replaced Last month, consumer price inflation reached 6.2%, defying predictions, including from Mr Powell, that it would come quickly back under control once the economy reopened. The Federal Reserve has primary responsibility for managing inflation but the issue is also affecting the president's own poll ratings, according to a poll for CBS published this weekend. US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said having an independent and experienced Federal reserve was "critically important to navigating this turbulent time". US stocks opened higher after the news, which was broadly in line with what investors had expected. The appointment of Mr Powell, a former private equity lawyer and Republican, appointed by a Democratic president, represents a return to the traditional, non-partisan approach to selecting the Fed chair, after a more politicised approach from President Trump. It also ensures continuity of policy at a time of considerable debate over interest rate strategy.
Eddie Redmayne says it was a mistake to play trans role in The Danish Girl. Actor Eddie Redmayne has said playing a transgender character in 2015 film The Danish Girl was "a mistake". The British star was nominated for an Oscar for his role as Lile Elbe, one of the first people in the world to have gender reassignment surgery. The film was praised by some at the time but others felt a trans actor should have been cast in the role. "No, I wouldn't take it on now. I made that film with the best intentions, but I think it was a mistake," he said. "The bigger discussion about the frustrations around casting is because many people don't have a chair at the table," Redmayne told The Sunday Times. "There must be a levelling, otherwise we are going to carry on having these debates." The Danish Girl was released months after Redmayne won the Oscar for best actor for playing Professor Stephen Hawking in The Theory of Everything. At the time, the star admitted there had been "years of cisgender success on the back of trans stories" and said he hoped more trans actors could play trans parts in the future. But he added that any actor "should be able to play any sort of part if one plays it with a sense of integrity and responsibility". Eddie Redmayne discusses his role in The Danish GirlRedmayne: Trans film privilege to makeEddie Redmayne criticises JK Rowling trans tweets The following year, after being criticised for appearing to suggest that The Danish Girl had helped bring trans issues to mainstream attention, he said it was "an honour to be part of this conversation in some small way" and that he was "an ally of the trans community". In response to his latest comments, a spokesperson for trans charity Gendered Intelligence said trans representation on screen had "come on leaps and bounds" since The Danish Girl was released and "a consensus is being reached that trans actors for trans roles should be de rigueur". They said: "Not only does this help abate the possibility of telling our stories in unnecessarily denigrating ways, but the authenticity of trans actors playing trans parts means stories are being told in a more meaningful way for actors and viewers alike. "We're increasingly hopeful that stories about and for trans people can be told by those actors themselves, with more diverse talent both on screen and behind the camera." Redmayne, who starred in Harry Potter spin-off Fantastic Beasts and Where To Find Them, also backed members of the trans community after author JK Rowling posted tweets taking issue with the phrase "people who menstruate". "I disagree with Jo's comments. Trans women are women, trans men are men and non-binary identities are valid," the actor said in a statement. He also later criticised the "vitriol" she faced and acknowledged the abuse aimed towards trans people online was "equally disgusting". Redmayne is currently starring alongside Jessie Buckley in a new production of Cabaret at London's Playhouse Theatre. The actor's casting as The Emcee, a role that has often been played by LGBTQ+ actors since it first premiered on Broadway in 1966, has also attracted criticism. "Of all the characters I've ever read, this one defies pigeonholing. I would ask people to come and see it before casting judgment," Redmayne told The Sunday Times.
Groveland Four: US judge clears men wrongly accused of rape after 72 years. Four black men who were wrongly accused of raping a white teenager in the US have been cleared of the charge more than 70 years later. They were accused of abducting and raping the girl in the central Florida town of Groveland in 1949. Charles Greenlee, Walter Irvin, Samuel Shepherd and Ernest Thomas - known as the Groveland Four - were pardoned by the state of Florida in January 2019. None of the accused men lived to see themselves exonerated. They were aged between 16 and 26 at the time. Thomas was hunted down by a posse of more than 1,000 men shortly after the alleged incident and was shot hundreds of times. The three others were beaten in custody, before being convicted by all-white juries. Samuel Shepherd was later shot and killed by a sheriff while travelling to a retrial. Irvin narrowly escaped execution in 1954 and his sentence was commuted to life with parole. One year after he was paroled, in 1969, he died. Greenlee, also sentenced to life, was paroled in 1962 and died in 2012. A judge in Florida dismissed the indictments of Ernest Thomas and Samuel Shepherd, and set aside the convictions and sentences of Charles Greenlee and Walter Irvin. Their families were emotional upon learning of the news, saying it might spark a re-examination of other similar convictions. "We are blessed. I hope that this is a start because lot of people didn't get this opportunity. A lot of families didn't get this opportunity. Maybe they will," said Aaron Newson, Thomas' nephew, who broke into tears as he spoke. "This country needs to come together." Carol Greenlee, the daughter of Charles Greenlee - who was 16 at the time and the youngest of the suspects - cried and fell into the arms of those next to her when she heard the decision. "If you know something is right, stand up for it," she said later. "Be persistent." The local state attorney, Republican Bill Gladson, initiated the move last month to have the men officially exonerated. "We followed the evidence to see where it led us and it led us to this moment," he said after the hearing, which took place in the same courthouse where the original trials were held. In 2017, Florida's state government issued a "heartfelt apology" to the families of the four men and recommended their posthumous pardons. The men's story was the subject of the book Devil in the Grove, which won a Pulitzer Prize in 2013.
Peng Shuai: WTA says concerns remain for Chinese tennis star after IOC call. The Women's Tennis Association has said that a call between Peng Shuai and the president of the International Olympic Committee does not address its concerns over the Chinese player's wellbeing. An IOC statement after the call said Peng appeared to be safe and well. Peng, 35, disappeared from the public eye for almost three weeks after she made sexual assault allegations against a senior Chinese minister. Her absence triggered widespread international concern. Sports stars and governments called on China to provide proof that she was safe. The outcry over the tennis star's apparent disappearance from the public eye prompted Chinese state media to release a series of photographs and videos that appeared to show all was well. Peng Shuai: What we know so far How China censored a tennis star On Sunday, the IOC released a statement after IOC President Thomas Bach held a video call with three-time Olympian. The IOC account said Peng had "thanked the IOC for its concern about her wellbeing". "She explained that she is safe and well, living at her home in Beijing, but would like to have her privacy respected at this time," it added. "She prefers to spend her time with friends and family right now," it said. "Nevertheless, she will continue to be involved in tennis." The IOC statement also included an image of the video call taking place, with Ms Peng seen smiling to the camera. But the WTA said the recent videos "don't alleviate or address the WTA's concern about her wellbeing and ability to communicate without censorship or coercion". "This video does not change our call for a full, fair and transparent investigation, without censorship, into her allegation of sexual assault, which is the issue that gave rise to our initial concern," it added. The sporting rights organisation, Global Athlete, criticised what it called the IOC's "nonchalant" approach to Peng's disappearance and accused it of displaying "an abhorrent indifference to sexual violence and the well-being of female athletes". "The release pretends that Peng never made sexual assault allegations and has not been missing for more than two weeks. The statements make the IOC complicit in the Chinese authority's malicious propaganda and lack of care for basic human rights and justice," it added. Naomi Osaka voices worry over China tennis starSerena Williams calls for investigation into Peng Shuai Lord Sebastian Coe, President of World Athletics told BBC's Today programme that the question of where Peng is and if she is ok had been "achieved by quiet diplomacy" by the IOC. "Nobody is suggesting that there aren't questions to be asked. Nobody is suggesting that there aren't challenges. Look we have to maintain international relationships across sport," he said, adding that Thomas Bach will be visiting Peng Shuai privately when he arrives in Beijing in January. On Sunday, a rally was staged by a group of Chinese feminists in New York in support of Peng Shuai. Event organiser Crystal Chen told the BBC that while the released videos and photos appear to show Peng "physically unharmed", she was "not truly free". "She can't say whatever she wants to say in a safe condition," alleges Ms Chen, who has chosen not to be identified by her real name. Participants of the rally also called for Peng to speak directly with the WTA and for her sexual assault allegations to be addressed. The former number one-ranked tennis doubles player had in early November posted an allegation about former Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli on Chinese social media site Weibo. She alleged she was forced into sexual relations with him. The post that was taken down minutes later. It is the first time such a claim has been made against one of China's senior political leaders and the most high profile case in China's #MeToo movement.
Brit Awards scrap male and female categories. Dua Lipa and J Hus will go down in history as the last stars to win best female and male at the Brit Awards. That's because, from next year, the two categories will be combined into a single prize for best British artist, organisers have said. Artists like Sam Smith and Will Young had previously called for the change, saying the current system excludes non-binary artists. Smith, who is non-binary, missed out on a nomination at this year's awards. Their album, Love Goes, reached number two in the UK chart, but they felt unable to enter the gender-based categories. Writing on Instagram at the time, the star called for awards shows to be more "reflective of the society we live in". Dua demands pay rise for nurses as she wins BritsThe best outfits from the Brit Awards red carpetFrom 2019: Brit Awards 'will review' male and female prizes "The Brits have been an important part of my career," Smith said in a now-deleted post. "Music for me has always been about unification not division. "I look forward to a time where awards shows can be reflective of the society we live in. Let's celebrate everybody, regardless of gender, race, age, ability, sexuality and class." The Brits have awarded prizes along gender lines since they began in 1977. Organisers promised to review the way the prizes in 2019, but kept the male and female categories intact until now. "If you were starting the awards from scratch today, you'd probably do it on these terms," said Gennaro Castaldo, a spokesperson for music industry body the BPI, which runs the awards. "Why shouldn't the likes of Adele and Ed Sheeran be able to go head to head and be judged as artists... assuming they're nominated?" The shift will also be reflected in the international category, where the best international male and female awards - won by The Weeknd and Billie Eilish this year - will be replaced by a single best international artist prize. Dua Lipa's manager, Ben Mawson, said he approved of the change. "It's good to see the Brits continuing to make progress to a more inclusive awards show that puts talent first," he told the BBC. "It's a step that we welcome." When the change was first suggested in 2019, there were concerns that it could marginalise female acts. But the experiences of other music awards suggest that should not happen. The MTV Video Music Awards replaced its best male and best female prizes with an overall best artist award in 2017 - since when the winners have been Ed Sheeran, Camila Cabello, Ariana Grande, Lady Gaga and Justin Bieber. The Grammys also merged the male and female categories for best pop vocal, country vocal and R&B vocal performances in 2012. In the 10 years since then, the prizes have been split exactly 50/50 between men and women. At the Brits, the gender-neutral prize for best album has been won by female solo artists 10 times, and by male solo artists on nine occasions. Bands have won best album 22 times, but only two of those have contained a female member - Fairground Attraction and Stereo MC's. Dua Lipa would probably have won a combined award if it had been in place this year, and Adele is likely to sweep the board next year. The singer's new album 30, which is on course to have the biggest opening sales week of 2021, will make her a prime contender for both album of the year and the best artist prize. Mr Castaldo said that if the new system does priorities male nominees, it would "shine a spotlight" on problems the industry needs to address. "As an industry, we have to acknowledge those issues and we have to act on them. Keeping the status quo won't change things in the long term. So to achieve real equality for women and artists of all backgrounds, [this] is a very positive thing." Reducing the number of artist awards has also allowed the Brits to reintroduce genre-based prizes for the first time since 2006. Covering pop, rock, dance and rap, the awards will be voted for by fans - a departure for The Brits, which typically distributes prizes based on votes from music industry insiders. When the prizes were last distributed 15 years ago, the winners included Kaiser Chiefs (best rock), Lemar (best urban act) and James Blunt (best pop). The best dance prize has been absent for even longer - with the last recipient being Basement Jaxx in 2004. The revamps come shortly before voting opens for the Brits, on 10 December. The next ceremony will take place on 8 February 2022 at London's O2 arena, hosted for the first time by comedian Mo Gilligan, who will take over from Jack Whitehall. Follow us on Facebook, or on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Cuba congratulates Venezuela on poll before result was out. Venezuela's ruling party has won 20 out of 23 state governorships in Sunday's regional elections, the first in four years in which the main opposition parties took part. Opposition candidates only won three governor's posts. In a move which reflected the predictable outcome, the Cuban president congratulated his Venezuelan counterpart before the electoral authorities had announced the results. Turnout was low at 41.8%. That is one of the lowest rates in the past 20 years. The election was the first in nearly four years which was not boycotted by Venezuela's main opposition parties. In previous elections, these parties had told their voters to refrain from casting their ballots arguing that it was not a fair contest. The election which saw Nicolás Maduro re-elected as president in 2018 was marred by vote-rigging claims and more than 50 countries refused to recognise him as Venezuela's legitimate leader. But with Mr Maduro still in the presidential palace and the European Union sending electoral observers, the main opposition parties decided to change strategy and take part in Sunday's polls. However, many opposition voters questioned this move, arguing that the Socialist party - which has been in power for the past 22 years - has developed such a tight grip over the electoral authorities and other institutions that free elections are not possible. Preliminary results suggest the opposition did not manage to dispel the distrust many Venezuelans had in the voting process. The opposition only won in the states of Zulia, Nueva Esparta and Cojedes, while government-allied candidates swept to power in the remaining 20, according to preliminary results. And while a government victory was widely anticipated in most states, many Venezuelans commented on a tweet by Cuban President Miguel Díaz-Canel, who congratulated his ally, Mr Maduro, on the "convincing victory" even before Venezuela's electoral authorities had announced the first results. Analysts said apathy also contributed to the low turnout with many voters worn down by Venezuela's deep economic crisis. Three out of four Venezuelans are living in extreme poverty, according to a national survey. Government-critical media reported that some voters had been intimidated by members of violent pro-government gangs, but the National Electoral Council said that there had only been "small and isolated problems". The European Union electoral observer mission is due to present its report on the election on Tuesday.
New mothers who died of herpes could have been infected by one surgeon. Two mothers who died of herpes after giving birth could have been infected by a single surgeon, the BBC has found. The doctor performed Caesareans on both the women in 2018. The families, who were told there were no connections between the deaths, are calling for inquests to be opened. The East Kent Hospitals Trust says it could not identify the source of the infection, and the surgeon had no history of the virus. Maternal deaths are rare. In more than 2.1 million births in the UK between 2017 and 2019 there were 191 deaths of mothers within six weeks of giving birth, according to official figures. Deaths caused by HSV-1 - one of two strains of the herpes simplex virus - are almost unheard of in healthy people. It is a common infection that can cause sores around the mouth or genitals. Yet, in May and July 2018, two young mothers died from an infection caused by the virus. The BBC has been investigating how these two deaths happened and why neither family was told there was a link between them. Kimberley Sampson, 29, a barber, lived with her three-year-old daughter at her mother's home in the seaside town of Whitstable in Kent. "She was fun, she was loving, and she had lots of friends," her mother Yvette Sampson tells the BBC. "She was a brilliant mummy and that's what she wanted to be." Kimberley's pregnancy progressed smoothly and on 3 May 2018, she went on to the labour ward of the Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother Hospital in Margate. "She thought everything was going to be fine," says Yvette. But things started to go wrong. Her labour was not progressing quickly, her mother says, and Kimberley kept saying the baby was stuck. Eventually, doctors decided to perform a Caesarean. Her son was delivered, but Kimberley needed a blood transfusion because she sustained injuries during the operation. After two days, she asked to be discharged with her baby. But she was in a lot of pain and despite being barely able to walk, she left the hospital with her mother. But the pain became worse. Even a gentle touch was enough for her to scream in agony, says Yvette. "She deteriorated day after day - she couldn't eat, she couldn't sleep." Her GP suggested they call 999 and Kimberley was taken back to hospital in an ambulance. Doctors thought she was suffering from bacterial sepsis - a potentially very serious condition. She was sent back to the maternity ward and given antibiotics. They didn't work and her condition worsened. A series of operations followed as doctors struggled to identify and treat the infection. Eight days after she had been readmitted to hospital a consultant microbiologist suggested trying the antiviral drug Aciclovir - which is used to treat herpes infections. Kimberley was transferred to Kings College Hospital in London, where she was diagnosed with a catastrophic herpes infection. While she was in intensive care, Yvette says she was told her daughter only had "hours or days". On 22 May, Kimberley died. One death from herpes is rare enough, but just six weeks later, Samantha Mulcahy would die of the same condition. The 32-year-old nursery nurse lived with her husband, Ryan, 20 miles (32km) from Kimberley. The couple had been together since they were teenagers. Ryan had first spotted her when working a part-time job at his local Tesco, but it took him months to get up the nerve to ask her out. Samantha's mother, Nicola Foster, says her daughter was excited about being pregnant with her first child. "I think she was already talking about having more children." But what should have been a joyous time for them turned into a tragedy. Samantha went into labour four weeks before her due date, and in July 2018 went into the William Harvey Hospital in Ashford - which is run by the same Trust as the hospital where Kimberley's baby had been delivered. After 17 hours of contractions and pushing, she was exhausted and in pain. After some worrying blood test results, she was taken for a Caesarean section. Her daughter was born healthy, but  because doctors were concerned about signs of the blood pressure condition pre-eclampsia, they decided to keep Samantha in for observation. After three days her condition began to deteriorate - despite no longer showing signs of pre-eclampsia. Her stomach became swollen, she had a temperature, and her blood pressure was raised. Samantha became so swollen that her mother said it looked like she had "elephant's legs". Like Kimberley, doctors thought Samantha was suffering from bacterial sepsis. She was also given antibiotics, but they didn't work. As her condition worsened rapidly, her organs began to shut down. She was taken to intensive care where she stayed for four days. At one stage, a doctor suggested she be treated with antiviral medication, but they were advised by the microbiology department to continue with antibiotics instead. Doctors called for support from a hospital in London, and surgeons took her into the operating theatre to try to stabilise her. "They told us that unfortunately they couldn't save her," says Nicola. "That she'd gone. Passed away." The post-mortem investigation found Samantha had died from multi-organ failure following a "disseminated herpes simplex type 1 infection". In other words, an overwhelming infection caused by the HSV-1 virus. Neither woman's baby was found to have been infected with the virus. Both women had what is known as a primary infection - meaning that this was the first time they had been infected by herpes. Hospital analysis of the women's medical history indicates they'd not previously had herpes, so they would have had no antibodies - or natural protection - against the virus. This, combined with the fact that women in late stages of pregnancy have reduced protection from their immune system, would have made them more vulnerable to a serious HSV infection. Herpes viruses are generally passed on by skin-to-skin contact with someone with the virus Herpes infections are common with almost 70% of adults having one of the two types of the virus by the time they are 25 Some people will develop cold sores or genital herpes, but about two-thirds will have no, or mild, symptoms Source: Herpes Viruses Association More than a year after the women's deaths, the families each received a letter from the coroner, Katrina Hepburn, saying there would be no inquests in these cases. The letters acknowledged there had been a similar case but said there was "no connection" between the two deaths. They also set out the belief of the pathologist who investigated both deaths, that the women had been infected with herpes "prior to hospital admission". BBC News began investigating the East Kent Hospitals Trust's maternity department in 2019, ahead of the inquest of baby Harry Richford, whose death was determined to be "wholly avoidable" by a coroner. We found further cases of preventable baby deaths at the Trust, and a government-ordered review of maternity services is under way. BBC News became aware of the deaths of Kimberley Sampson and Samantha Mulcahy at the same Trust in the spring of 2021, and has worked closely with the families to try to find out what happened to them. While reviewing documents sent to the families, we noticed that Public Health England (PHE) had looked into the possible source of the herpes viruses. But no detail had been provided. The family of Kimberley Sampson subsequently made a request to PHE for access to that investigation. It reveals documents which cast new light on the two deaths and show, for the first time, the significant link between the two cases. Among them are two email chains between staff at PHE, the East Kent Hospitals Trust, some NHS bodies and a private lab called Micropathology. They show the efforts that went into trying to establish how the women became sick, whether the two viruses were genetically identical, and whether they could have come from a common source. The emails were partly redacted by Public Health England to hide the names of those involved. In one of them, someone from the Trust reveals that the same two clinicians had taken part in the deliveries of both Kimberley's and Samatha's babies - a midwife and the surgeon who carried out their Caesarean sections. This apparent connection - and possible source of infection - caused concern among the people on the email chain. The private lab Micropathology was brought in to try to sequence the genome of the two viruses - to see if they were the same. In an email sent a fortnight after Samantha died, someone working for the lab says both cases "look like surgical contamination" and asks the Trust to provide "a mouth swab/lesion swab from the suspect surgeon in O&G". We know the Trust did not provide these samples, and none of this information was passed to either of the families at the time. The emails also show that the parts of the virus that were tested were identical. In an email sent in October 2018, a Micropathology worker says "it seems the most likely explanation [is] that these strains are probably the same… which also adds weight to the idea that these two women were infected with the same virus." An email from a member of staff from Public Health England just over a year later says the type of virus was "rare" compared with the previous 10 years of herpes virus samples collected at its lab in north London. This shows the investigation was continuing after the families received the letter from the coroner denying them inquests. The BBC asked Peter Greenhouse, who has worked as a consultant in sexual health in the UK for almost 30 years and has a particular interest in the herpes viruses, to review the cases. He describes them as "very unusual - very rare indeed". He says "you can never be 100% certain what happened in these cases", but "from all the evidence that we have it's very unlikely that they acquired [the virus] before they got into hospital" - contradicting the position of the pathologist. "It is more likely that they picked it up in the hospital and less likely that they picked it up in the community, or sexually, because there were no facial or genital lesions - obvious or even hidden signs - whatsoever." After reviewing the documentation uncovered by the BBC, Mr Greenhouse has developed a theory for what might have happened. He believes it is most likely that the infection may have been given to the two women accidentally by the surgeon during the Caesarean section. "The only common source here, in a hospital-based scenario, would be the surgeon who performed the operations," he says. He says it is possible the surgeon may have had a herpetic whitlow - a herpes infection on the finger - which could have "directly seeded the herpes into the abdomen of the women". This, he says, would have allowed it to spread throughout the abdomen quickly and explains why the women had no external lesions, which you would normally expect to see with a herpes infection. According to the NHS website, the symptoms of a whitlow can vary from a small bump to open lesions - meaning they can go undetected. "Many of these will occur without any obvious signs, or they'll be so miniscule that you can't identify them," says Mr Greenhouse. All surgeons wear gloves during surgery, but Mr Greenhouse says it might have been possible that they split during the operations allowing the virus to spread. A small study in 1990 suggested as many as 54% of gloves used in Caesarean sections had holes in them when they were tested with water after the operations. Further experiments following other forms of surgery produced similar results. "It's a very rare but a very biologically plausible method of transmission," Mr Greenhouse explains. Four other experts in sexual health and virology have backed up Mr Greenhouse's theory. In a statement, the East Kent Hospitals Trust says the surgeon underwent a verbal Occupational Health check where he said he had no history of herpes infection and had no hand lesions, although he was not tested for the virus at the time of the operations. Referring to the email stating that the type of virus was "rare", compared with other samples collected at PHE's lab, Mr Greenhouse says this makes the likelihood that the women were infected by a common source in the hospital more likely - and much less likely they were infected in the community. The East Kent Hospitals Trust points out that PHE's report says although there was a "high probability they are epidemiologically linked" for HSV "this finding does not mean that the viral isolates have an immediate common source or are part of a transmission chain". The families of the two women have been calling on the coroner to open inquests into the deaths. Yvette Sampson says it's important for the children who've been left without their mother - "when they're a bit older they're going to need to know why their mummy died". In a statement Dr Rebecca Martin, Chief Medical Officer for East Kent Hospitals, said: "Our deepest sympathies are with the families and friends of Kimberley and Samantha. "East Kent Hospitals sought specialist support from Public Health England (PHE) following the tragic deaths of Kimberley and Samantha in 2018. The investigations led by the Trust and the Healthcare Safety Investigation Branch took advice from a number of experts and concluded that it was not possible to identify the source of either infection. "The surgeon who performed both Caesarean sections did not have any hand lesions that could have caused infection, or any history of the virus. "Kimberley and Samantha's treatment was based on the different symptoms showed during their illness. Our thoughts are with their families, and we will do all we can to answer their concerns." Peter Greenhouse is now carrying out further research into the deaths - in the hope that it might mean new mothers with unexplained sepsis-like symptoms will be tested for herpes as a matter of course. "I hope that the research will eventually change the guidelines, so more people will benefit from earlier diagnosis. It is the only constructive outcome that one could hope for, after such a tragic scenario."
Ghislaine Maxwell: Brother Ian says she will not get fair hearing at trial. Ghislaine Maxwell's brother, Ian, has said he doubts his sister will get a fair hearing at her trial on sex trafficking and other charges which is due to start next week. Ms Maxwell, the daughter of the late media mogul Robert Maxwell, has been accused of trafficking minors for her former lover Jeffrey Epstein. She has been in a New York jail since her arrest in July 2020. The former socialite has pleaded not guilty to all charges. LISTEN: Ian Maxwell's interview in fullWho is Ghislaine Maxwell, Epstein's ex-girlfriend?Who was Jeffrey Epstein? "I think my sister's probably relieved finally that it is starting because she's been in prison now for over 500 days in isolation, so this has to come to an end," Ian Maxwell told BBC Radio 4's World at One programme. "The trial is starting, so I think there is relief on her part, and, I think, the family's part." Mr Maxwell said he fears the media interest in his sister's case will jeopardise her shot at a fair trial. "I think that there are several reasons for that; the enormous amount of negative media coverage of Ghislaine for at least the last 18 months - it's only been going in one direction and that level of negative reporting which is not coming in any other direction than against her, I think it has a potential to poison the jury pool at some level if they are only hearing one side of the story and not the other. "I am not here to go against the accusers or to talk about innocence and guilt, the reason I think this is a difficult process is because the way in which the authorities have chosen to proceed against my sister and to lock her up in isolation is wrong. It is an abuse of human rights and an abuse of the due process that has taken place," he said. One of Ms Maxwell's accusers, Virginia Giuffre, alleges she was recruited by her while working at former President Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago estate some 20 years ago "for the purpose of being trafficked". She alleges she had sexual encounters on Epstein's private island in the Caribbean and in his homes in Palm Beach and New York. "Ghislaine Maxwell [is] the one who abused me on a regular basis. She's the one that procured me, told me what to do, trained me as a sex slave, abused me physically, abused me mentally. She's the one who I believe, in my heart of hearts, deserves to come forward and have justice happen to her more than anybody," she said in a deposition released last year. Ms Maxwell has branded Ms Giuffre "an absolute liar". When asked why no friends of Ghislaine's had come forward to defend her, Mr Maxwell said: "Ghislaine continues to have many friends. I know this because we receive mail, emails, letters and so forth from her friends, but we live in a world where people are cancelled for friendships of this type. "Friends of hers have lost their jobs. A man helping us behind the scenes [in] the news-handling has lost two board positions because it's become known that he is somehow assisting the family." Mr Maxwell was asked if he believes his sister should take the stand in court: "One thing you can say is there's been an awful lot of talking by everybody for the last few years and the voice of Ghislaine has never been heard. "The family is not going to leave it there. We are taking steps to lodge a complaint with the United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention, because America needs to be held to account for the way it is choosing to discriminate against my sister. The treatment meted out to Ghislaine has been appalling." Panorama: The Prince and the Epstein Scandal US financier and convicted paedophile Jeffrey Epstein killed himself in a New York prison cell on 10 August 2019, as he awaited his trial on sex trafficking charges. Ms Maxwell was in a relationship with Epstein in the 1990s. She allegedly introduced him to wealthy and powerful figures including former President Bill Clinton and Prince Andrew of the British Royal Family. She faces charges including sex trafficking of a minor, sex-trafficking conspiracy and allegations of perjury. US prosecutors say she would build a rapport with the girls she helped to groom - including by taking them shopping or to the movies - and would later coax them into giving Epstein massages during which they were sexually abused. "Maxwell played a critical role in helping Epstein to identify, befriend and groom minor victims for abuse," said Audrey Strauss, acting US attorney for the southern district of New York last year. Ms Maxwell's trial is due to begin on 29 November, and is expected to last for six weeks.
US jury awards $25m in damages over Unite the Right rally. A US jury has awarded millions in damages against the organisers of a deadly far-right rally in August 2017. The defendants were found liable in four out of six counts over the bloodshed at the Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia. Nine of those injured sued the event's organisers arguing they had conspired to commit racially motivated violence. A woman was killed and dozens were hurt after an avowed neo-Nazi drove a car into counter-protesters. The total damages awarded amount to $25m (£19m), according to US media. In court, the jury awarded $500,000 in punitive damages against 12 defendants, and $1m against five white supremacist organisations. Punitive damages are awarded at a court's discretion to punish a defendant for conduct judged to be especially harmful. Additionally, the jury awarded $250,000 in compensatory damages to two plaintiffs and $200,000 against several defendants. A total of $12m in punitive damages was also imposed against the driver of the car in the fatal incident. The lawsuit alleged that the defendants "brought with them to Charlottesville the imagery of the Holocaust, of slavery, of Jim Crow and of fascism". "They also brought with them semi-automatic weapons, pistols, mace, rods, armour, shields and torches," the lawsuit said. The defendants include several prominent figures in America's white nationalist and far-right sphere. Among those found liable in the case were Jason Kessler, the rally's main organiser, and Richard Spencer, who famously coined the term "alt-right" and spoke at the event. Another defendant, Christopher Cantwell, became famous as "the crying Nazi" after an emotional YouTube video he posted after the rally went viral. The lawsuit largely rested on an 1871 law passed after the US Civil War to protect black Americans following their emancipation from slavery from the Ku Klux Klan. US white supremacists face a legal reckoning It allows private citizens to sue others believed to have committed civil rights violations - with the condition that the plaintiffs must prove that they conspired to do so. The 2017 rally began as a protest against the removal of a Confederate statue. Then-President Donald Trump came under fire after saying afterwards that there were "very fine people on both sides". In the same speech he also said neo-Nazis and white nationalists "should be condemned totally". A counter-protester, 32-year-old Heather Heyer, was killed when James Alex Fields drove his car into a crowd. He was sentenced to life in prison in June 2019. The civil case included testimony from survivors of the incident. "It was a complete terror scene. It was blood everywhere," one of the plaintiffs, Marissa Blair, testified. "I was terrified." The defendants sought to distance themselves from the violence and claimed that there was no conspiracy. "None of these defendants could have foreseen what James Fields did," Mr Kessler's attorney said.
Bulgaria bus crash: Survivors broke window to flee inferno that killed 46. The survivors of a bus inferno that killed at least 46 people scrambled to safety through a window after the vehicle caught fire and crashed in Bulgaria, officials say. Seven people escaped with burns from the vehicle, which was packed with tourists who were mostly Macedonian. The bus slammed into a barrier and went up in flames while returning from Istanbul in Turkey to North Macedonia. Twelve children were among the dead, including twin boys, aged four. Only four men and three women survived the disaster, which happened on a motorway south-west of the Bulgarian capital, Sofia, early on Tuesday. The scale of the loss has caused shock and grief in Bulgaria and North Macedonia, where three days of national mourning have been declared. Macedonian Prime Minister Zoran Zaev described the crash as "horrifying". "I met the injured in a hospital in Bulgaria. My heart broke when I was hearing the cry of a father who lost [his] child," Mr Zaev told the BBC. The PM said he had spoken to one of the survivors, who told him that passengers were asleep when the sound of an explosion woke them. "They succeeded in breaking one of the windows and saved a few people. Unfortunately, the rest did not succeed," Mr Zaev told reporters. Holiday bus tragedy traumatises young nation The cause of the disaster was not immediately clear. Bulgarian officials said the bus swerved off the motorway and tore away a 50m (164ft) section of the crash barrier. But it is not yet known if the bus caught fire before or after the crash. No other vehicles were involved in the accident. Pictures of the aftermath showed a section of the road where the crash barrier had been shorn off and the charred bus, gutted by the fire. The mayor of the nearby village of Pernik said the motorway was in poor condition on that section and there were often accidents in the area. The bus had been returning to the capital of North Macedonia, Skopje, from a weekend holiday trip to Istanbul. It was apparently travelling as part of a convoy of four buses and had stopped at a petrol station near Sofia about an hour before the accident. The other buses, which were a few minutes ahead, returned to North Macedonia safely. Saska Cvetkovska for BBC News in Skopje, North Macedonia On social media and elsewhere, reactions to this tragedy have been similar: this should not have happened. Too many people die in road accidents every year in North Macedonia. In February 2019, 15 people were killed and more than 30 were badly injured when a bus carrying workers to the Macedonian capital crashed. The accident gained a lot of political attention and the government led by Prime Minister Zoran Zaev promised to review the way transport firms were licensed. When the news of Tuesday's accident broke, many Macedonians expressed outrage and disappointment. Many feel those promises to keep people safe on the roads haven't been kept. Nikola Atanasovski lost a cousin in the 2019 bus crash. "This morning, all I could think was, 'of course this has happened again'. But it should not. I feel angry," he told me. In 2019, many people blamed the authorities. This feels different though. In a country where so many people see their future abroad, it's particularly painful to lose so many young lives. Macedonians feel they cannot afford to lose any life. Today, we lost nearly 50 people. The victims have not yet been officially named, but officials said they included 12 children, and many young people aged between 20 and 30. One man told the Sloboden Pecat newspaper that 10 of his relatives had died in the disaster. "I lost my whole family in the blaze," the man was quoted as saying. Five pupils at a primary school in Skopje and a young couple who were due to be married were also among the dead, Macedonian media said. Macedonian reports said 27-year old Gazmend Ukali and Albina Beluli, 23, from the north-western town of Tetovo, had gone to Istanbul to celebrate Ukali's birthday. Albania's foreign minister indicated that most, if not all, the passengers were ethnic Albanians from North Macedonia. Adnan Yasharovski said his 16-year-old daughter Zuleikha called him to say she had survived the crash. Mr Yasharovski told Reuters news agency he went to Sofia to see her in hospital. "She was crying. Her hands were burnt but otherwise fine," he said, outside the hospital. "She didn't say much, she was crying and she was in shock." The bus belonged to Besa Trans, a travel company that organises trips in Europe. Within hours of the crash, relatives of people who travelled to Turkey with Besa Trans last week gathered outside the firm's office in Skopje, anxiously looking for information. Bulgaria's interim Prime Minister Stefan Yanev described the incident as "an enormous tragedy". "Let's hope we learn lessons from this tragic incident and we can prevent such incidents in the future," he told reporters as he visited the crash site. Investigative service chief Borislav Sarafov said "human error by the driver or a technical malfunction are the two initial versions for the accident". Mr Sarafov told reporters that it appeared both drivers had been killed in the crash so no one was able to open the doors. Have you have been affected by the issues in this story? Email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Or Upload your pictures/video hereTweet: @BBC_HaveYourSayPlease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission.
Yalda Hakim: My return to Afghanistan. BBC presenter Yalda Hakim was born in Afghanistan. Her family fled in the 1980s, during the Soviet occupation, but she has regularly reported from the country since. Now she has returned for the first time since the Taliban seized power 100 days ago. I knew that my first return to the country of my birth since the Taliban swept to power in August would raise many questions for me. How much has the nation changed since the Taliban ousted the Western-backed government? Would the Afghan people finally get the peace they have longed for? What future would there be for women and girls who are already being pushed out of public life by their new rulers? There was one question however I had not expected to be asking myself. What strength must it take to come to work, day after day, week after week, month after increasingly harrowing month, without getting paid? But that is exactly what I have found out. From healthcare workers in Kandahar to cleaners at Kabul hospitals, none of Afghanistan's public healthcare staff have been paid since the government fell and foreign aid came to a halt. Despite everything, they still turn up for work, caring for an increasingly desperate population as they themselves slip closer to the brink. Nasreen works as a cleaner at the Indira Gandhi Children's Hospital in the capital, Kabul. "If we don't come to work, these babies will die, how can we abandon them?" she tells me. The ward needs to be as clean as possible to ensure the patients, most of them weak and severely malnourished, don't get any infections. Nasreen says she can't afford transport, so she walks to work, a gruelling commute, down the side of one of the many mountains - trekking back up again after a 12 hour shift. However dire the plight of the healthcare workers is, the patients they care for are in a far worse position. The United Nations says almost 23 million Afghans are facing starvation. Ninety-five percent of people don't have enough food. On the wards that Nasreen keeps clean, you see the youngest victims of the crisis. Gulnara, three years old, is so weak she can barely keep her eyes open. Her eyes are sunken, her hair is thinning, when she seems to wake up, she cries in pain. This is what severe malnutrition is doing to the children of Afghanistan. EXPLAINER: Ten days that shook AfghanistanANALYSIS: A country abandoned: John Simpson on AfghanistanON THE GROUND: What has changed in Afghanistan in 20 years The Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen points the finger of blame at the international community and tells me the suffering of the Afghan people has been caused by the actions of the West. "If they are saying that this country is heading towards catastrophe, starvation, humanitarian crisis, then it is their responsibility to take action, proper action to prevent all these tragedies." "The international community and others countries who are speaking about human rights… they should reconsider taking steps that lead to a humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan," he adds. Whether or not you accept his analysis as to who is to blame - most observers would agree that the solution to this problem will come from international funding. Nowhere is this more apparent when it comes to the economy. When the international aid taps were turned off, the economy collapsed. "I used to work at the brick kilns," one man tells me while waiting on the streets for any labour work. "Back then my salary was 25,000 afghanis ($270) a month. Now I cannot even make 2,000 ($22) a month. All four of his children are sick at home and he doesn't have any money for medicine. "I don't see any future, Poor families don't have a future," he tells me.
Meredith Kercher: Student's killer Rudy Guede ends sentence. Rudy Guede, convicted of the 2007 murder of UK exchange student Meredith Kercher, has finished his sentence early saying he wants to be forgotten. Guede, 34, was the only person jailed over the notorious sexual assault and murder in Perugia, in central Italy. Meredith Kercher's American flatmate Amanda Knox and her Italian boyfriend were also initially convicted. Their case ran through the courts for years before they were eventually acquitted on appeal. Guede's initial 30-year jail term was cut to 16 years and he has spent the past year doing community service. The Ivorian national was due to be freed in January but magistrates in the city of Viterbo, where he now lives, granted him early release. His lawyer confirmed to the BBC on Tuesday that they had received notification that the jail sentence had been completed. "My initial thoughts are with Meredith Kercher's family who've been confronted by this painful affair," the lawyer, Fabrizio Ballarini, told Italian media. Kercher family lawyer Francesco Maresca said that while Guede had served his time there was a moral issue about the length of the sentence. "From a moral standpoint, of concrete and effective justice, clearly the term he served was very low with respect to the tragic nature of the event," he said, quoted by Ansa. Ms Kercher, from Coulsdon in south London, had been in Perugia for three months on an exchange from Leeds University when she was killed. She was studying modern history, political theories and history of cinema. Since her death, her family has campaigned for the truth. Six years ago her sister Stephanie said they were unlikely to ever know what really happened. Guede left Perugia and travelled to Germany in the days after Ms Kercher's murder. After his extradition back to Italy he chose a fast-track trial, held in a closed session without journalists present, and was subsequently convicted of the murder after his bloodstained fingerprints were identified at the scene. However, he continues to deny murdering Ms Kercher. Who was Meredith Kercher?Amanda Knox: Figure at the centre of a saga He was given partial prison release in 2017, and his lawyer told local media after the ruling that his client was "calm and socially well integrated". Over the last year, Guede has volunteered for the charity Caritas and worked as a librarian at the Viterbo criminological studies centre, Italian media say. Claudio Mariani, a teacher at the centre, told Ansa that numerous media outlets had asked Guede for interviews but that he "wants to be forgotten by the world". Ms Knox and her then-boyfriend Raffaele Sollecito were separately convicted of Ms Kercher's murder in 2009. Their arrests and the guilty verdicts generated international media attention. The pair served four years behind bars before those convictions were overturned. After a number of appeals and retrials Italy's highest court acquitted them both definitively in March 2015.
Ethiopia's Tigray conflict: Foreigners advised to leave. Germany and France have become the latest countries to advise their citizens to leave Ethiopia, amid an escalation in the country's civil war. The US and UK have also recently issued advisories, and the UN has begun what it describes as a temporary relocation of some staff. This comes as rebel Tigrayan fighters say they are still advancing towards the capital Addis Ababa. PM Abiy Ahmed says he will go to the front line to face the rebels. The year-long conflict has led to a humanitarian crisis, with hundreds of thousands facing famine-like conditions in the north of Ethiopia. Thousands of people have been killed and millions forced from their homes. US Special Envoy Jeffrey Feltman said progress was being made towards a diplomatic solution but this was being threatened by the escalation on the ground. He said both sides seemed to believe they were on the cusp of a military victory. Mr Feltman warned that if the rebels moved on Addis Ababa it would be unacceptable and catastrophic. Reports from the front line are hard to verify but the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF) says its fighters are in control of a town just over 200km from Addis Ababa. The Ethiopian government has previously denied reports of rebel advances. Germany's foreign ministry said its nationals should depart on the first available commercial flights, while France urged its citizens to leave the country "without delay". Meanwhile an internal UN security document said "eligible family members of internationally recruited staff" should be evacuated by 25 November. Previously the US and UK announced they were pulling out non-essential diplomatic staff, and told other citizens to leave. In a post on social media on Monday evening, Abiy Ahmed, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2019, said he would go to the front to lead the defence forces. "Those who want to be among the Ethiopian children, who will be hailed by history, rise up for your country today. Let's meet at the front," he said. His Nobel win came after ending nearly two decades of tension with Eritrea that continued after the war between the two countries. The TPLF has dismissed Mr Abiy's statement with its spokesperson, Getachew Reda, saying that "our forces won't relent on their inexorable advance towards bringing [Mr Abiy's] chokehold on our people to an end". The African Union is leading efforts to find a negotiated end to the fighting, but neither side has committed to talks. At the root of the war is a disagreement between Prime Minister Abiy and the TPLF, which for almost 27 years dominated the whole country, not just Tigray. Mr Abiy came to power in 2018 and in a whirlwind of reform, in which he liberalised politics and made peace with long-time foe Eritrea, the TPLF was sidelined. The simmering dispute between the TPLF and Mr Abiy then erupted into war 12 months ago when Tigrayan forces were accused of attacking army bases to steal weapons and the federal government responded. More on the Tigray crisis: ANALYSIS: How Ethiopia's once mighty army has been outflankedANALYSIS: Why the Ethiopia conflict matters to the worldREALITY CHECK: Why Facebook and Twitter are under fire in EthiopiaPROFILE: The Nobel Peace Prize winner who went to war
Brian Laundrie: US blogger Gabby Petito's fiancé 'died by suicide' - family lawyer. The fiancé of murdered US blogger Gabby Petito, Brian Laundrie, took his own life, his family's lawyer has said in a statement. Mr Laundrie returned from a road trip without his fiancée and her body was later found in Wyoming. Mr Laundrie's body was identified last month using dental records. He had been the subject of a manhunt for more than a month before his body was found. Police had described him as a person of interest in Gabby Petito's death. "Chris and Roberta Laundrie have been informed that the cause of death was a gunshot wound... and the manner of death was suicide," the family's lawyer said. "Chris and Roberta are still mourning the loss of their son and are hopeful that these findings bring closure to both families," Steven Bertolino told ABC Action News. The case of Ms Petito, 22, and Mr Laundrie, 23, sparked nationwide media attention. The couple had been documenting their summer road trip in a van through national parks on social media. Ms Petito's parents reported her missing on 11 September after they had been unable to contact her for a fortnight. Her body was eventually discovered in Wyoming, where the couple had been travelling, on 19 September. A coroner later found that she had been strangled. It eventually emerged that Mr Laundrie had returned to Florida without Ms Petito on 1 September. Her family repeatedly appealed for her fiancé and his family to co-operate with investigators, but he then went missing himself. His parents told police they last saw him on 13 September - when he went hiking alone and never returned. His body was discovered in a Florida park on 20 October.
Walgreens, CVS, and Walmart fuelled opioid crisis, Ohio jury finds. Three big US retail chains have been found guilty of helping fuel a painkiller crisis in two Ohio counties, in the first case of its kind. A federal court found that actions by Walgreens Boots Alliance, CVS, and Walmart helped create an oversupply of addictive opioid pills. The scale of compensation to be paid to the two Ohio counties will be decided at a future hearing. CVS said it would appeal against the judgement. The other retailers, who all contested the cases, did not immediately comment. US drug overdose deaths hit record levelsSacklers win immunity from further opioid litigationOpioid crisis: US drug giants reach $26bn settlement The case could open the door to further cases. More than 3,300 similar cases have been brought, largely by US state and local governments, which have faced huge costs in managing an epidemic of painkiller addiction. Over the last few decades, millions of Americans have become addicts through over-prescription and abuse of legal opiate-based painkillers such as Fentanyl and OxyContin. Nearly 500,000 deaths were attributed to painkiller overdoses between 1999 and 2019. As well as the pharmacy chains, big pharmaceutical companies and medical professionals have been accused of turning a blind eye to the problem. Lawyers for the two Ohio counties, Lake and Trumbull, said the costs are potentially $1bn for each county, to cover social and legal expenses related to the impact of the opioid epidemic. "The judgment today against Walmart, Walgreens and CVS represents the overdue reckoning for their complicity in creating a public nuisance," they said in a joint statement. They argued that the pharmacies created a public nuisance by failing to ensure opioid prescriptions were valid and so allowing excessive quantities of addictive pain pills to flood their communities. Walgreens Boots Alliance, CVS and Walmart denied the allegations, saying they had taken steps to prevent painkillers being diverted from their intended legal use. CVS in a statement said it strongly disagreed with the verdict and would appeal. "As plaintiffs' own experts testified, many factors have contributed to the opioid abuse issue, and solving this problem will require involvement from all stakeholders in our healthcare system and all members of our community," CVS said. Other cases around the country are relying on the "public nuisance" argument to target the companies involved in making and distributing the opioid painkillers. However earlier this month courts in Oklahoma and California rejected it as a legal argument in cases against drugs makers.
Throne Speech: Trudeau's Liberals lay out parliamentary agenda. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has laid out a legislative agenda with  a focus on climate and economic recovery. The Throne Speech comes after a five month parliamentary hiatus during which voters re-elected his minority Liberals. Mr Trudeau must once again seek cross-party votes to pass new legislation. The opposition Conservatives said the speech failed to adequately address issues like rising inflation and affordability concerns. Laying out the Liberal government priorities in parliament on Tuesday was Governor General Mary Simon, the first indigenous person to serve as the Queen's representative in Canada. Reading a speech written by Mr Trudeau, Ms Simon said the government would seek to pass laws continuing Covid support, addressing climate change, strengthening gun control, and increasing efforts towards indigenous reconciliation. She also renewed the Liberal party's call for a ban on gay conversion therapy, and to provide $10 per day for childcare to families across the country. The federal government has so far signed childcare agreements with a majority of provinces. The speech also praised the people of British Columbia who are reeling from deadly and destructive rain, slides and flooding that hit last week and warned that the "Earth is in danger". "From a warming Arctic to the increasing devastation of natural disasters, our land and our people need help," said Ms Simon. After a debate over the coming weeks, Canadians legislators will vote on whether to they support the government's agenda. If they reject it, it could trigger another election, though that scenario is unlikely. The left-wing NDP party, which the Liberals hope to get support from, have backed enhanced paid sick leave, a continuation of Covid benefits, and a law outlawing gay conversion therapy. Party leader Jagmeet Singh told reporters after the speech that that Liberals have been warned not to take NDP votes "for granted". "This is not a speech that demonstrates a willingness to work together," he said. The return to parliament also comes amid a row over vaccine mandates for MPs. The Liberals, New Democrats and Bloc Québécois have confirmed their members are vaccinated, but Conservatives had for weeks threatened to challenge how the new rule was implemented in parliament. Party leader Erin O'Toole said on Friday that all his MPs present for the Tuesday session would either been fully vaccinated or had secured medical exemptions to the requirement.
Mexican nursery's lottery win turns into nightmare. Parents in southern Mexico say they are being threatened by a gang after their children's nursery won 20m pesos ($950,000; £710,0000) in a lottery. The nursery has just over two dozen pupils and their parents were put in charge of administering the prize. Soon after their win was made public, they received threats from an armed group, which demanded that they use the money to buy weapons for the gang. The families say they had to flee their village and have been living rough. Gang violence is rife in Mexico and armed groups often try to recruit locals in their fight with rivals for control of territory. A number of the 500-peso tickets in Mexico's much-publicised "plane lottery" were bought by anonymous benefactors and donated to poor schools and nurseries across the country. The Mexican state organised the lottery after a previous plan to raffle off the presidential plane to raise funds for hospital supplies had been shelved because it was deemed impractical. A list of the 100 winners was announced in September 2020 and published in Mexican newspapers. The tiny nursery in the indigenous village of Ocosingo was among the winners. While the windfall was cause for celebration at first, the problems started soon after news of it spread. Members of the parents' association say that they started receiving threats from an armed group called Los Petules which demanded that the prize money be used to buy guns for the gang, which reportedly planned to attack a rival group in a neighbouring village. The parents refused and instead spent part of the money on a new roof for the nursery. The threats increased this year when the parents decided to use the remaining 14m pesos for works to improve their village. In March, one father was shot at by gang members who demanded he hand over the prize money. Last month, the situation escalated further when the gang reportedly attacked women and children in the village, causing 28 families to flee. One member of the parents' association said the community had lost "cattle, our homes, refrigerators, our corn and bean harvests, our chickens". A spokesman for the families said that they had alerted the local authorities to their plight but that unless the gang  was disarmed and dissolved, they would not be able to return to their homes.
Crypto US constitution bidder refunds hit by high fees. The people behind a failed bid to buy a rare original copy of the US constitution are facing an avalanche of refunds - up to $40m for 17,000 donors. The ConstitutionDAO team used a "decentralised" approach - largely unregulated and using cryptocurrency - to amass the fortune. But large fees for those crypto-transactions are eating up huge sums of money in the refund process. The group said issuing refunds was its top priority. ConstitutionDAO - short for "decentralised autonomous organisation" - raised the vast sums of money in the Ethereum cryptocurrency to bid on an extremely rare privately-owned copy of the original printing of the US constitution. The group had promised to maintain the historic document "for the people". Crypto bid to buy US constitution raises over $40mCrypto group fails in bid for rare US constitution But they were outbid by a private investor, and the document sold for more than double the auction house's original estimate. Now, some investors in the scheme are reporting that they must pay fees of up to half their refund. That is because the Ethereum network records its transactions on the blockchain, the same basic technology idea that powers other cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin. And like Bitcoin mining, it requires computational power to run. "Gas" is the fee paid to those who run the computer systems to facilitate transactions. And it changes price based on supply and demand. That means that at times, it can be much more expensive to make any kind of transaction, depending on how busy the Ethereum network is. And the network has recently seen high usage - and high gas prices. Buying a pink NFT cat was a nightmare On its official Discord - the chat app which allows anyone to create rooms and discussion channels for enthusiasts on almost any topic - the group said it had 17,437 donors with a median donation of $206.26. High gas fees mean that "small" donations could be severely hit by the transaction charge. One user on the Discord said that in order to get $400 refunded, they would have to pay $168 in gas. Others complained of the fees being higher than the relatively small amount of their refund. "Wow, lessons learned, [Ethereum] is no good. Gas too high," wrote another in the support channel. A different contributor lamented that the experience might sour cryptocurrency for those who were not already investors, but got caught up in the drama of "buying the constitution". "Almost a third of people that contributed are new to [Ethereum] and their first experience is this. Not only that, they'll have to know the pain of paying $200+ in gas for literally nothing," they said. Senior figures in the Discord- known as delegates - said there was no clear solution. "We looked at and did everything in our power to come up with a gas-free refund option. However there was nothing that could be set up in a timely manner," wrote one. "Providing a safe refund process as soon as possible was the primary goal." Another admin on the server told users: "This was a very, very hard call and we've all been at our computers for the last several days for every waking hour trying to find the least bad option. There was no solution that was going to please everyone." But despite the chaotic refunds process after the group's initial reason for existence failed, its organisers have pledged that this is not the end. The group was only established days before the auction of the historic document by Sotheby's, and so had little time to set up its desired decentralised structure. Instead, a core group of insiders - the delegates - took care of managing the project, writing and rewriting the rules and FAQs as they went. The group had originally planned to use ownership of digital tokens as a way of allocating voting power over the care and display of the constitution document, and briefly proposed a new type of token to decide its future. That has since been scrapped - but the group is promising an imminent announcement "regarding the future of ConstitutionDAO". "We know you have been waiting patiently, and we are grateful for it. We know you have questions, and we are working on answers."
Ahmaud Arbery: Jury to decide fate of men accused in his murder. After a 13-day trial, a Georgia jury has begun deliberating in the case of three men accused of chasing down and killing a black jogger last year. Ahmaud Arbery, 25, was fatally shot during a confrontation with Travis McMichael, his father Gregory and their neighbour, William Bryan. If convicted, the men face the possibility of life imprisonment. They deny all charges. The racially charged case has garnered nationwide interest in the US. Mr Arbery was shot by Travis McMichael after being pursued and confronted by the men while jogging on the afternoon of 23 February 2020. The case gained widespread attention after footage of Mr Arbery's final moments - filmed by Mr Bryan - went viral months later. The defendants each face nine criminal charges, including malice and felony murder, aggravated assault and false imprisonment. The 12-member jury heard from more than two dozen witnesses over the course of the trial, including Travis McMichael, who was the only defendant to take the witness stand. Lawyers for the men argued in court that the defendants acted in self-defence while making a citizen's arrest, which was legal in the state of Georgia at the time. It has since been repealed. The trio say that they suspected Mr Arbery of theft from a nearby construction site. Closing arguments in the case wrapped up on Tuesday morning. In a rebuttal to the defence's argument on Tuesday, lead prosecutor Linda Dunikoski said that the men had no legal authority to confront Mr Arbery. "They don't have any authority to use verbal commands," Ms Dunikoski said. "This is a fellow citizen. This is another human being." While Travis McMichael, 35, fired the shots that killed Mr Arbery, Ms Dunikoski said that his father Gregory, 65, and Mr Bryan, 52, are equally responsible for the killing. Ahmaud Arbery went jogging. Why did he die? "When three people chase an unarmed man in pick-up trucks with guns in order to violate his personal liberty, who gets to claim I am not responsible for that?" she said. "Under the law in Georgia, no one gets to say that. Everybody is responsible." In their closing arguments on Monday, the defence team continued to focus on the right to make citizens arrests, as well as Travis McMichael's worries that Mr Arbery could harm him. "You do have the right to stop a person and hold them and detain them for police," the younger Mr McMichael's attorney said on Monday. "There's a risk with that." An attorney for Gregory McMichael, Laura Hogue, said that a "good neighbourhood is always policing itself" and argued that some of Mr Arbery's actions that day were partly to blame for his death. The composition of the jury - with 11 white and one black member - has been criticised by some observers who believe it doesn't reflect the local community, which is 55% Black.
Grammy Awards: Olivia Rodrigo dominates nominations for 2022. Olivia Rodrigo has emerged as the front-runner for next year's Grammy Awards, with nominations in all four of the main categories. The 18-year-old is up for best album, best new artist, record of the year and song of the year, for Drivers License. She faces competition from Billie Eilish and Lil Nas X in all of those categories, except best new artist. Abba also received their first ever Grammy nomination in the record of the year category. The Swedish band are recognised for their bittersweet comeback single, I Still Have Faith In You, which was released in September. Taylor Swift also picks up her second consecutive album of the year nomination, for Evermore. She won the award earlier this year for its companion album, Folklore. British musicians are relatively thin on the ground, but Ed Sheeran's Bad Habits is up for song of the year; while Arlo Parks and Glass Animals make the shortlist for best new artist. Coldplay also receive their 36th Grammy nod, for the single Higher Power, which is in the running for best pop group performance. Although relatively unknown in the UK, the jazz keyboardist Jon Batiste leads the nominations, with 11 in total - recognising both his eclectic solo album We Are and the soundtrack to the Pixar film, Soul. Justin Bieber, Doja Cat and H.E.R. follow with eight nominations apiece. Billie Eilish and Olivia Rodrigo are close behind with seven. Meanwhile, Korean pop sensation BTS miss out on the main categories, receiving a single nomination for pop duo/group performance. The group's monster hit Butter, which spent 10 weeks at number one in the US, is nominated alongside Tony Bennett and Lady Gaga's I Get A Kick Out Of You, Justin Bieber's Lonely, Coldplay's Higher Power and Doja Cat's Kiss Me More. This year's ballot also makes Jay-Z the most-nominated artist in Grammy history. He had been tied with legendary record producer Quincy Jones on 80, but surges ahead with three new nominations, including two in the best rap song category, for collaborations with DMX and Kanye West. The unstoppable rise of Olivia RodrigoIs Lil Nas X the defining star of his generation?Grammy Awards scrap controversial voting committees The nominees were announced at the Grammy Museum in Los Angeles on Tuesday morning, with help from Billie Eilish, H.E.R., Eurovision winners Måneskin and BTS themselves. With almost 22,000 songs and albums submitted for consideration, the shortlists in the main categories were expanded from eight to 10 nominees for the first time. "We're living in a time of extraordinary growth in music," explained Recording Academy CEO Harvey Mason, Jr. "Over 60,000 songs a day are being released. With so much more music available. There's a lot more excellence to recognise and celebrate." The Grammys also made sweeping changes to their rules for 2022, after The Weeknd was controversially shut out of this year's awards. Organisers subsequently scrapped dozens of anonymous committees that had the ability to overrule votes in 72 of the 86 categories, allowing rank-and-file voters to choose the shortlists instead. Veiled in secrecy, the committees had been accused of vote-rigging, favouritism and racism. Several high profile artists including Drake, Frank Ocean and The Weeknd himself, boycotted recent ceremonies in protest. The change seems to have boosted the chances of artists with broad appeal, such as Tony Bennett and Lady Gaga, whose duets album Love For Sale generated six nominations. The so-called "big four" are the Grammys' most prestigious prizes. This year's field looks like this. Album of the year We Are - Jon BatisteTony Bennett & Lady Gaga - Love For SaleJustin Bieber - JusticeDoja Cat - Planet HerBillie Eilish - Happier Than EverH.E.R. - Back Of My MindLil Nas X - MonteroOlivia Rodrigo - SourTaylor Swift - EvermoreDonda - Kanye West Song of the year (recognising the songwriters) Bad Habits - Ed SheeranA Beautiful Noise - Alicia Keys and Brandi CarlileDrivers License - Olivia RodrigoFight For You - H.E.R.Happier Than Ever - Billie EilishKiss Me More - Doja Cat ft SzaMontero (Call Me By Your Name) - Lil Nas XPeaches - Justin Bieber ft Daniel Caesar & GiveonLeave The Door Open - Silk SonicRight On Time - Brandi Carlile Record of the year (recognising the whole recording) I Still Have Faith In You - AbbaFreedom - Jon BatisteI Get A Kick Out Of You - Tony Bennett and Lady GagaPeaches - Justin Bieber ft Daniel Caesar & GiveonRight On Time - Brandi CarlileKiss Me More - Doja Cat ft SzaHappier Than Ever - Billie EilishMontero (Call Me By Your Name) - Lil Nas XDrivers License - Olivia RodrigoLeave The Door Open - Silk Sonic Best new artist Arooj AftabJimmie AllenBaby KeemFinneasGlass AnimalsJapanese BreakfastThe Kid LaroiArlo ParksOlivia RodrigoSaweetie Read more: The main nominees for the 2022 Grammy Awards This time last year, Olivia Rodrigo was best known as the star of the Disney series High School Musical: The Musical: The Series. Then, in January, a few weeks before her 18th birthday, she released the lovelorn piano ballad Drivers License - which became an instant, but organic, global hit. The teenager followed it up with Sour, a debut album inspired by the same heartbreak (allegedly her Disney co-star Joshua Bassett). Showcasing her piercing, precise lyrics and precociously accomplished songwriting, it saw her hailed as "pop's newest icon" and hit number one on both sides of the Atlantic. In its incessantly hooky choruses, Sour embraced Rodrigo's musical inspirations, from Taylor Swift to Paramore. Both artists later received writing credits for their influence, and therefore share her album of the year nomination. If Rodrigo sweeps all of the "big four" categories next January, she'll be only the third person in history to do so, after Christopher Cross and Billie Eilish. But she faces stiff competition from Bruno Mars' impeccably-crafted soul band Silk Sonic and, of course, from Swift herself. This year, the Grammys are actually recognising a 13-month time period, from 1 September, 2020, to 30 September, 2021. Even so, that rules out some of pop's biggest new albums, including Adele's 30, Ed Sheeran's = and Abba's Voyage. Also absent is The Weeknd, who is refusing to participate in the Grammys after being snubbed last year. Ariana Grande and Doja Cat also declined to submit their duets with the star for awards, in an apparent show of solidarity. But Kanye West didn't get the memo: His single Hurricane, which features The Weeknd and Lil Baby, made it onto the best melodic rap song shortlist. Taylor Swift also withheld her re-recorded version of Fearless from consideration. The original, released in 2008, is itself an album of the year winner. And Dua Lipa failed to submit her 4x-platinum chart hit Levitating, apparently to avoid recognising featured rapper DaBaby after he made homophobic comments earlier this year. Country star Morgan Wallen also failed to receive a nomination after being filmed using a racial slur earlier this year. The singer, whose album Dangerous is the biggest-selling country record of 2021, was ruled ineligible at the Academy of Country Music Awards, but had been allowed to enter the Grammys, only for voters to pass him over in favour of acts like Chris Stapleton and Sturgill Simpson. The Grammys are ostensibly decided by the 12,000 voting members of the Recording Academy. But for decades they were overseen by a shadowy group of "secret committees", who narrowed down the top 20 finalists in each category to the final shortlist of between five and eight nominees. Those committees were accused of corruption and insider dealing, most notably by ousted Recording Academy CEO Deborah Dugan, who said votes had been overruled and artists promoted onto shortlists without merit (the Academy called her allegations "categorically false"). It came to a head this time last year, when R&B singer The Weeknd was overlooked in the nominations list, despite his single Blinding Lights having become one of the best-selling songs of the century. "The Grammys remain corrupt," he tweeted in response. "You owe me, my fans, and the industry transparency." In April, the Grammys announced the committees would be scrapped; with regular voters getting to decide the shortlists in every category - including the "big four": Song of the year, record of the year, best new artist and best album. Even so, the awards have managed to stir up controversy, thanks to a separate group of committees: The steering committees, who decide which prizes artists are eligible for. The Nashville screening committee decided that Star-Crossed, the latest record by country superstar (and 2018 album of the year winner) Kacey Musgraves was actually a pop album, not country. Musgraves responded on Instagram with her middle fingers raised. "You can take the girl out of the country (genre), but you can't take the country out of the girl," she wrote. In the end, the album failed to receive a single nomination in the more competitive pop field. The single Camera Roll, however, sneaked into the best country song shortlist. What happened at the 2021 Grammys? Beyoncé and Taylor Swift make Grammys historyGrammys 2021: Five weird and wonderful momentsReview: Grammys reflect a year of solitude and protest Follow us on Facebook, or on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Parkland shooting: Families involved in 2018 attack settle FBI lawsuit. The families of those killed in a Florida school shooting have reached a multi-million dollar settlement with the US government after the FBI failed to act on a tip about the gunman. A lawyer for the plaintiffs said the agreement, once finalised, would mark "an important step" towards justice. At least 17 people died after a former student opened fire at the campus in Parkland on 14 February 2018. It was one of the deadliest school shootings in US history. Parkland school shooter pleads guilty to murder Department of Justice officials did not immediately comment on the settlement of between $125m and $130m (£97m), whose details were confirmed by the BBC's US partner, CBS News and other US media. Parents of the victims argued in a 2018 lawsuit that the authorities had failed to act on complaints about the gunman's stated desire to carry out a school attack and his weapons cache. A month before the attack at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, a woman had warned on the FBI's tip line that the suspect was "going to explode". The FBI acknowledged it had failed to follow up on the tip, which the bureau said had provided information about "Cruz's gun ownership, desire to kill people, erratic behaviour, and disturbing social media posts, as well as the potential of him conducting a school shooting". FBI failed to investigate USA Gymnastics abuser The Parkland families last month reached a $25m settlement with the Broward County school district in a lawsuit that had accused it of negligence. Their lawyers filed nearly two dozen legal actions in the aftermath of the attack. The gunman pleaded guilty last month to 17 counts of murder and 17 counts of attempted murder. He faces a possible death sentence.
New Covid variant: How worried should we be?. We're back in familiar territory - growing concern about a new variant of coronavirus. The latest is the most heavily mutated version discovered so far - and it has such a long list of mutations that it was described by one scientist as "horrific", while another told me it was the worst variant they'd seen. It is early days and the confirmed cases are still mostly concentrated in one province in South Africa, but there are hints it may have spread further. Immediately there are questions around how quickly the new variant spreads, its ability to bypass some of the protection given by vaccines and what should be done about it. There is a lot of speculation, but there are very few clear answers. The variant has been named Omicron by the World Health Organization, following the pattern of Greek code-names like the Alpha and Delta variants. It is also incredibly heavily mutated. Prof Tulio de Oliveira, the director of the Centre for Epidemic Response and Innovation in South Africa, said there was an "unusual constellation of mutations" and that it was "very different" to other variants that have circulated. "This variant did surprise us, it has a big jump on evolution [and] many more mutations that we expected," he said. In a media briefing Prof de Oliveira said there were 50 mutations overall and more than 30 on the spike protein, which is the target of most vaccines and the key the virus uses to unlock the doorway into our body's cells. Zooming in even further to the receptor binding domain (that's the part of the virus that makes first contact with our body's cells), it has 10 mutations compared to just two for the Delta variant that swept the world. This level of mutation has most likely come from a single patient who was unable to beat the virus. A lot of mutation doesn't automatically mean: bad. It is important to know what those mutations are actually doing. But the concern is this virus is now radically different to the original that emerged in Wuhan, China. That means vaccines, which were designed using the original strain, may not be as effective. Some of the mutations have been seen before in other variants, which gives some insight into their likely role in this variant. For example N501Y seems to make it easier for a coronavirus to spread. There are some in there that make it harder for antibodies to recognise the virus and might make vaccines less effective, but there are others that are completely new. Prof Richard Lessells, from the University of KwaZulu-Natal in South Africa, said: "They give us concern this virus might have enhanced transmissibility, enhanced ability to spread from person to person, but might also be able to get around parts of the immune system." Do variants mean we need new vaccines?How many cases are there in the UK?Why has the Delta variant spread so quickly in UK? There have been many examples of variants that have seemed scary on paper, but came to nothing. The Beta variant was at the top of people's concerns at the beginning of the year because it was the best at escaping the immune system. But in the end it was the faster-spreading Delta that took over the world. Prof Ravi Gupta, from the University of Cambridge, said: "Beta was all immune escape and nothing else, Delta had infectivity and modest immune escape, this potentially has both to high degrees." Scientific studies in the laboratory will give a clearer picture, but answers will come more quickly from monitoring the virus in the real world. It is still early to draw clear conclusions, but there are already signs that are causing worry. There have been 77 fully confirmed cases in Gauteng province in South Africa, four cases in Botswana and one in Hong Kong (which is directly linked to travel from South Africa). Israel and Belgium have also reported cases. However, there are clues the variant has spread even more widely. This variant seems to give quirky results (known as an S-gene dropout) in the standard tests and that can be used to track the variant without doing a full genetic analysis. That suggests 90% of cases in Gauteng may already be this variant and it "may already be present in most provinces" in South Africa. But this does not tell us whether it spreads faster than Delta, is any more severe or to what extent it can evade the immune protection that comes from vaccination. It also does not tell us how well the variant will spread in countries with much higher vaccination rates than the 24% of South Africa that is fully vaccinated, although large numbers of people in the country have had Covid. So for now we are left with a variant that raises significant concerns despite huge holes in our knowledge, and is one that needs to be watched closely and asks deep questions about what to do and when. The lesson of the pandemic is you can't always wait until you have all the answers. Follow James on Twitter
What are the Covid variants and will vaccines still work?. A new heavily mutated version of coronavirus has been found that scientists say is of "great concern". One of most pressing questions is will vaccines still work? There are thousands of different types, or variants, of Covid circulating across the world. That's to be expected because viruses mutate all the time. But this new variant has experts particularly worried because it is very different to the original Covid, which current vaccines were designed to fight. It has a long list of genetic changes - 50 in all. Of these, 32 are in the spike protein of the virus - the part which is the target of vaccines. However, it is too soon to know how much of a threat B.1.1.529 poses. What do we know about this new variant? Current vaccines are not an ideal match so might not work quite as well, say experts. But that doesn't mean they'll offer zero protection. Remember, vaccines are still very effective at protecting lives by cutting the risk of severe illness against other major Covid variants, including Delta, Alpha, Beta and Gamma. Doctors say it is vital people get the recommended number of doses to gain maximum protection against existing and emerging variants. In the UK, booster jabs are being offered to: Over-40sFrontline health and social care workersOlder adults in residential care homesPeople aged 16-49 years old with underlying health conditions which put them at greater risk of severe CovidAdults who share a household with vulnerable people More than 16m booster or third doses have been given so far in the UK. Although Covid infections have been rising again across the UK, the number of hospitalisations and deaths has remained well below the levels seen in earlier waves. Experts say this is because of the success of the vaccine programme. Scientists will be running lots of tests to check if the vaccines will hold up against this latest variant. It is early days, but experts will study potentially important mutations that might make it more infectious and able to sidestep some of the protection given by vaccines. And they will assess if it is causing more serious disease than other variants. How many people have been vaccinated so far? Updated versions of vaccines against Covid variants are already being designed and tested, in case they are needed at some point. Should that time arrive, a new vaccine could be ready within weeks, to run checks on. Manufacturers could scale up production quickly too and regulators have already discussed how to fast track the approval process. No corners would be cut, but the whole process - from design to approval - could be much faster than when Covid vaccines were first launched. Officials have a close watch on a few. The most potentially dangerous ones are called variants of concern and include: Delta (B.1.617.2), first identified in India and now the most common type circulating in the UKAlpha (B.1.1.7), first identified in the UK but which spread to more than 50 countriesBeta (B.1.351), first identified in South Africa but which has been detected in at least 20 other countries, including the UKGamma (P.1), first identified in Brazil but which has spread to more than 10 other countries, including the UK UK officials are also keeping an eye on a recent descendent of the Delta variant, called AY.4.2 or "Delta plus". There is no evidence that any of them cause more serious illness for the vast majority of people. As with original Covid, the risk remains highest for people who are elderly or have significant underlying health conditions. But even so, if a variant is more infectious it will lead to more deaths in an unvaccinated population. Vaccines offer high protection against severe illness with Covid-19, including infections caused by variants of concern. The shots also reduce the risk of infection. But they do not completely eliminate all risk. The advice to avoid infection remains the same for all strains: wash your hands, keep your distance, wear a face covering in crowded places and be vigilant about ventilation. How many cases are there in the UK?Why has the Delta variant spread so quickly in UK? Viruses make carbon copies of themselves to reproduce but they aren't perfect at it. Errors can creep in that change the genetic blueprint, resulting in a new version or variant. If this gives the virus a survival advantage, the new version will thrive. The more chances coronavirus has to make copies of itself in us - the host - the more opportunities there are for mutations to occur. That's why keeping infections down is important. Vaccines help by cutting transmission as well as protecting against serious Covid illness. Experts say it is possible that the new highly altered variant B.1.1.529 may have originated in a patient whose immune system was unable to get rid of a Covid infection quickly, giving the virus more time to morph.
The African countries on the red list - and other UK travel rules. New restrictions are being introduced on travel to the UK from six southern African countries - including South Africa. Concern about a new Covid variant means they are now on the UK's travel red list - with direct flights temporarily banned. The changes mark the return of the UK's travel red list, which had been cleared of all countries in October. Travellers from South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho and Eswatini will not be able to enter the UK unless they are UK or Irish nationals, or UK residents. Flights to the UK from these countries  have been suspended until 04:00 GMT on Sunday - when it's hoped quarantine arrangements will be ready. Arrivals will then have to pay for and self-isolate in a government-approved hotel for 10 days. Rates are: 10 days (11-nights) for one adult - £2,285Additional adult (or child over 11) - £1,430Children aged five to 11 - £325 Anyone arriving in the UK beforehand, who's been in one of the six countries in the last 10 days, must self-isolate at home for 10 days and take PCR tests on day two and day eight of their quarantine. Northern Ireland and Scotland are also following the new rules, but hotel quarantine will be in place for arrivals to Scotland from 04:00 GMT on Saturday. What are the rules in popular destinations? There are concerns that a new variant, known as B.1.1.529 - which was identified in southern Africa - may not respond as well to vaccines. Health Secretary Sajid Javid said it could be the most infectious variant so far. New heavily mutated Covid variant raises concern Before travelling to the UK Fully vaccinated passengers travelling to the UK from many other countries no longer have to take a Covid test before setting off. This applies to people vaccinated in the UK, the EU, the US and dozens of other recognised countries - including Brazil, Hong Kong, India, Pakistan and Turkey. You must be able to prove you are fully vaccinated. The changes also apply to under-18s resident in one of these countries, whether or not they are vaccinated. Upon arrival Fully vaccinated people travelling to the UK need to take a lateral flow test two days after arrival. They should order and pay for a test kit privately before they arrive - NHS kits cannot be used. If they have ordered a home testing kit, they will usually have to send a picture to verify the result. All travellers coming to the UK must also fill in a passenger locator form - even if they are just passing through -  which they need to fill in 48 hours or less before their journey. If you aren't fully vaccinated - and you're over 18 - you must self-isolate at home for 10 days after arrival in the UK. You also need to: take a PCR or lateral flow/antigen test (not a free NHS test) in the three days before you travel to the UKtake a test on or before day two and on or after day eight after your return. Test to Release will remain an option for unvaccinated passengers to England who want to shorten their quarantine. Vaccinated people who have had a negative test taken no more than three days before travelling can enter the US without quarantining. Another test, three to five days after arriving in the US, is recommended. Vaccine certificates - including the NHS Covid Pass and equivalents from Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland - are accepted. Children under 18 do not need to be vaccinated, but should also take a test after arriving. Masks are mandatory on planes and in airports, and travellers must follow state and local rules at their destination. Some European countries are tightening rules. In France, from 15 December, over-65s must have had a booster jab to travel or visit restaurants and museums. It is not clear whether this will apply to UK visitors. People in England can now show they have had a third dose using the NHS Covid Pass, while users in Wales will can do this from 29 November. In Austria you must have received your second or third dose less than 360 days before arrival. In Switzerland, your vaccination is also only valid for 12 months after your last dose. You need to keep checking the rules for your destination country as these can change at short notice.
Covid: US joins EU in restricting flights from S Africa over new coronavirus variant. The US will restrict travel from South Africa and seven other southern African countries to try to contain a new coronavirus variant spreading there. From Monday, only US citizens and residents will be allowed to travel from the region. This follows a similar flight ban imposed by the EU earlier on Friday. The World Health Organization (WHO) declared the new variant to be "of concern", naming it Omicron. US officials said flights from South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique and Malawi will be blocked, mirroring earlier moves taken by EU Member States. European Commission spokesperson Erik Mamer said health chiefs from all 27 EU states agreed to impose restrictions in an emergency meeting on Friday following the discovery of the first European case of the variant in Belgium. Scientists say they still have much to learn about the virus's new mutations and the WHO has said it will take a few weeks to understand the impact of the new variant, as experts work to determine how transmissible it is. The WHO on Friday said preliminary evidence suggested the new variant carried a higher risk of reinfection than other variants. Scientists have said it is the most heavily mutated version yet, which means Covid vaccines, which were designed using the original strain from Wuhan, may not be as effective. What do we know about the new variant so far?South Africans fear impact of new variant measuresCovid map: Where are cases the highest? Stock markets across the world fell sharply on Friday, amid investor fears over the potential economic impact. In London, the FTSE 100 share index dropped by nearly 3%, while markets in Germany and France also declined following falls in Asia. The WHO says so far fewer than 100 sample sequences have been reported. Cases have mainly been confirmed in South Africa, but have also been detected in Hong Kong, Israel, Botswana and Belgium. UK Health Secretary Sajid Javid said on Friday that the variant is "highly likely" to have spread to other countries. Most of the cases in South Africa have been from its most populated province, Gauteng, of which Johannesburg is the capital city. Only about 24% of South Africa's population is fully vaccinated, which could spur a rapid spread of cases there, Dr Mike Tildesley, a member of the Scientific Pandemic Influenza Modelling group (Spi-M), told the BBC on Friday. In Hong Kong, the infections were found in a person who had arrived from South Africa, and a guest in the same quarantine hotel who tested positive a few days later, the Department of Health revealed. Both were fully vaccinated. The UK's red list is back... which countries are on it?Shares hit as new Covid variant rattles investors Europe has identified its first case of the variant in Belgium. Belgian media reports suggest that the case emerged in an unvaccinated young woman who had recently travelled from Egypt via Turkey and developed mild flu symptoms 11 days later. Israel's Prime Minister Naftali Bennett said on Friday it is "on the verge of a state of emergency" regarding the new variant, and that he would "act fast, strong and now". One case was detected in a person who returned from Malawi, according to Israeli media reports quoting the country's health ministry. Another two suspected infections were yet to be confirmed with test results. All three are said to have been fully vaccinated. The WHO has warned against countries hastily imposing travel restrictions, saying they should look to a "risk-based and scientific approach." Nevertheless, an increasing number of nations including the UK have temporarily halted flights from these southern African countries: South AfricaBotswanaNamibiaZimbabweEswatini (formerly Swaziland)Lesotho The travel ban agreed by the EU comes after the head of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, called for all member nations to put on the "emergency brake" and stop flights from the region. "It is now important that all of us in Europe act very swiftly, decisively and united," she said on Friday. The EU is already struggling to cope with fresh waves of the virus, and several countries have re-imposed lockdowns and restrictions. Singapore, Italy, France and Israel are among those who have also placed Mozambique on their red lists. The Czech Republic will ban anyone who has spent more than 12 hours in those nations and also Zambia from entering as of Saturday. Japan has announced that from Saturday, travellers from much of southern Africa will need to quarantine for 10 days and take a total of four tests during that time. "The key to crisis management is to prepare for the worst," the Japan Times newspaper quoted chief cabinet secretary Hirokazu Matsuno as saying. Germany, which is currently going through a fourth wave of infections because of the Delta variant, will allow only Germans to fly into Germany from South Africa as of Friday night. The head of the country's RKI public health institute, Lothar Wieler, said he was very worried about the new variant. Meanwhile, the German air force on Friday began airlifting patients within the country for the first time during the pandemic, flying people from Bavaria to Münster-Osnabrück in the west, where there are more intensive care beds free. India has ordered more rigorous screening and testing for travellers arriving from South Africa, Botswana and Hong Kong, local media is reporting. Health Minister Joe Phaahla told reporters that the flight bans against the country were "unjustified". "The reaction of some of the countries, in terms of imposing travel bans, and such measures, are completely against the norms and standards as guided by the World Health Organization," Mr Phaahla said. The bans already appear to be causing confusion at a number of airports. Passengers on a plane travelling from Cape Town to Manchester via Amsterdam told the BBC that they were held on the tarmac at Schiphol Airport in the Dutch capital for four hours, before eventually disembarking to take PCR tests. Meanwhile, the flight bans threaten to separate families over the festive season. Ruth Daines-Slack, 70, had booked to fly from Cape Town to the UK next week for Christmas and her mother's 100th birthday celebration. She told the BBC she is "beyond devastated" that she will no longer be able to make the trip, adding that the UK's travel ban is a "knee-jerk reaction". The UK was one of the first nations to impose a flight ban, which South Africa's foreign ministry has criticised as a "rushed decision" made before the WHO has made any announcement on the variant.
Omicron: Mutations prompt new coronavirus variant concern from WHO. The World Health Organization (WHO) has declared a new coronavirus variant to be "of concern" and named it Omicron. It said the variant had a large number of mutations, and early evidence suggested a possible increased risk of reinfection. It was first reported to the WHO from South Africa on 24 November, and has also been identified in Botswana, Belgium, Hong Kong and Israel. Several countries banned travel from southern Africa on Thursday. It is not uncommon for a virus to change, or mutate, over time. A variant becomes a variant of concern when that mutation might affect things like transmissibility, virulence or the effectiveness of vaccines. In a statement on Friday the WHO said the number of cases of this variant, initially named B.1.1.529, appeared to be increasing in almost all of South Africa's provinces. The WHO has said it will take a few weeks to understand the impact of the new variant, as scientists work to determine how transmissible it is. It has warned against countries hastily imposing travel restrictions, saying they should look to a "risk-based and scientific approach". However, the UK, US, EU countries and Switzerland have temporarily halted flights from some southern African countries. "It is now important that all of us in Europe act very swiftly, decisively and united," European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen said. South Africans fear impact of new variant measuresHow worrying is the new Covid variant?The UK's red list is back... which countries are on it? South Africa's Health Minister Joe Phaahla told reporters that the flight bans were "unjustified". "The reaction of some of the countries, in terms of imposing travel bans, and such measures, are completely against the norms and standards as guided by the World Health Organization," he said. Stock markets across the world also fell sharply on Friday, reflecting the fears of investors over the potential economic impact. A "variant of concern" is the World Health Organization's top category of worrying Covid variants. The decision adds weight to the mounting scientific worry about the potential of this new variant, but it doesn't change any of the facts. The variant has an astounding collection of mutations which are thought to increase its ability to spread and bypass some, but not all, of the protection from vaccines. However, we still don't have the clear real-world data. We don't know for sure that it spreads faster, makes vaccines or drugs less effective or whether it leads to more severe disease. The WHO have also given it a name and ended days of speculation that we would end up in the slightly ridiculous position of calling the new variant the "Nu variant". There have even been arguments about the correct pronunciation of the Greek letter Nu (it's technically a "Nee"). Instead, you can guarantee we'll be talking a lot about Omicron in the weeks to come.
Channel disaster: Kurdish woman is first victim identified. A 24-year-old Kurdish woman from northern Iraq has become the first victim of this week's mass drowning in the Channel to be identified. Maryam Nuri Mohamed Amin was one of 27 people who died while attempting to cross to Britain on Thursday. Her fiancé, who lives in the UK, told the BBC she was messaging him as the group's dinghy started deflating. She tried to reassure him that they would be rescued. But help came too late, and she and 17 men, six other women - one of whom was pregnant - and three children died after their inflatable boat sank into the sea off the northern French coast. There were only two survivors - an Iraqi and a Somali. The disaster marked the biggest loss of life by drowning in the Channel in many years. Her fiancé said Maryam, nicknamed Baran, had been on the boat with a female relative. He had not known beforehand about the attempted Channel crossing and said Maryam's arrival in the UK was supposed to be a surprise. They were messaging each other on Snapchat just before the dinghy began to lose air, he said. Maryam told him that the boat was deflating and that they were trying to get the water out of it. He said she had been trying to reassure him in her last message, and give him hope that the authorities were on their way to rescue them. What's being done to stop Channel crossings?Why do migrants leave France for the UK?The migrant debate can't escape European politics Reports from Calais say the two survivors of Wednesday's sinking have been discharged from hospital and are due to be questioned about how many people were on the boat. Maryam's uncle confirmed to the BBC that she was one of the people who drowned in the English Channel. He said the family heard the news from two people who were with her, and the family were waiting for her body to be flown back to Kurdistan.
Ukraine-Russia conflict: Zelensky alleges coup plan involving Russians. Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky says Russian "representatives" are planning to overthrow his government next week, as a Russian troop build-up sparks fears of an invasion. Mr Zelensky said audio recordings suggested the country's wealthiest businessman was being dragged into the plan, though this has been denied. The Kremlin spokesman, meanwhile, said Russia had "no plans to get involved". Moscow has also dismissed concerns over the troop build-up as "alarmist". On Friday, Nato's Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg warned that Russian use of force against Ukraine would "come at a cost", without specifying what this would be. Mr Zelensky denounced a "very dangerous rhetoric" coming out of Russia. "It is a signal... that there could be escalation," he said. "There is a threat today that there will be war tomorrow. We are entirely prepared for an escalation." A large part of the Russian force is in Crimea, the peninsula which Russia annexed from Ukraine in March 2014. Troops have recently been massing near Ukraine's eastern Donbas region, the name for Luhansk and Donetsk areas partially under the control of Russian-backed separatists. "I have received information that a coup will happen in our country on 1 December," the Ukrainian president said in a lengthy news conference. Mr Zelensky said business magnate Rinat Akhmetov - seen as an opponent of the president - was "being dragged into war against the Ukrainian state". Mr Zelensky did not name the alleged plotters, but said Mr Akhmetov may or may not know about such plans that he was being drawn into by his "inner circle". In a statement, Mr Akhmetov dismissed the president's claims, saying he was "outraged by the spread of this lie". "My position was and will be unequivocal, an independent, democratic and integral Ukraine with Crimea and my native Donbas. My actions confirm this," he added in a statement published in Ukrainian media. The Ukrainian leader did not directly accuse the Russian government over the alleged plan, but Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov responded almost immediately by saying Russia "never does such things at all".
Protesters hit Amazon buildings on Black Friday. Protests are being staged at Amazon buildings in the UK, US, and Europe - on Black Friday. The shopping sales day is among Amazon's busiest all year. An international coalition of unions, equality and environmental groups called "Make Amazon Pay" is staging a day of action. The movement is demanding Amazon make changes to its business, including improved pay, an end to employee surveillance, and union engagement. In an unrelated separate protest, the Extinction Rebellion environmental group has blocked the entrances to Amazon distribution centres in the UK. The group says it has targeted 13 British buildings, including the largest one in Dunfermline. It is staging similar action abroad in Germany and Netherlands. Extinction Rebellion targets Amazon distribution centresBlack Friday spending set to soar despite fewer dealsCan you buy the tech you want on Black Friday? The Make Amazon Pay coalition is not affiliated with Extinction Rebellion group, but also has environmental groups such as Greenpeace among its members. "Amazon takes too much and gives back too little," it claims - backed by trade unions, grassroots campaigns and non-profit-making organisations in individual countries. In the UK, that includes: the GMB UnionTrades Union CongressMomentum War on Want   International Transport Workers' FederationLabour Behind the Label No UK Amazon warehouses are unionised, so legally they can't strike. Many employees will be working on the day, but campaign groups which include Amazon workers are staging protests at Amazon buildings in Coalville, Leicestershire, Coventry, Peterborough and at its London headquarters. But strikes are being encouraged elsewhere. In Germany, for example, the union Verdi called on employees at major shipping centres to strike, beginning on Wednesday night. And in France, major union CGT is also calling for workers to down tools. Worldwide, nearly 50 organisations have signed up to a list of "common demands", published by the Make Amazon Pay coalition, which include: raising warehouse workers' pay and adding hazard pay and peak time incrementshalting worker "surveillance" and strict productivity targetsextending sick leave and improving Covid-19 tracking and reportingending casual employment status and "union-busting" activitiespaying taxes without using loopholes or tax havens Owen Espley, from the War on Want campaign group, said: "Amazon is abusing its dominance across online retail, cloud services, and logistics, to create unfair competition that is driving down standards for everyone. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter "Amazon workers face unsafe conditions, constant surveillance and are treated like robots. "It's time for Amazon to pay fair wages, fair taxes, and for its impact on the planet." The GMB union also released figures on Friday that it said showed ambulance callouts to Amazon warehouses increased by nearly 50% in the run-up to Black Friday - something it blames on staff rushing to hit "crushing targets". It filed Freedom of Information requests with four ambulance trusts near "major Amazon sites". It said the data shows that over five years, November had the most ambulance visits. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter Amazon said such claims were "using incomplete information that's without context and designed to intentionally mislead". "We know we're not perfect and are continuing to get better every day, but the fact is that Amazon has 40% fewer injuries on average compared to other transportation and warehousing businesses in the UK," a spokesperson said. It claimed the "vast majority" of ambulance visits to its buildings were for pre-existing conditions. Mick Rix, from the GMB Union, said: "This company is a pandemic profiteer that can afford to do better." "It's time for Amazon sit down with their workers' union GMB and make Amazon a great, safe place to work. " Amazon reported a tripling of profits earlier this year, attributed to its success during the Covid-19 pandemic. Amazon issued a prepared statement in advance of the protests about the wider Make Amazon Pay movement. "These groups represent a variety of interests, and while we are not perfect in any area, if you objectively look at what Amazon is doing in each one of these areas you'll see that we do take our role and our impact very seriously," it said. "We are inventing and investing significantly in all these areas, playing a significant role in addressing climate change with the Climate Pledge commitment to be net zero carbon by 2040, continuing to offer competitive wages and great benefits, and inventing new ways to keep our employees safe and healthy in our operations network, to name just a few."
Adele: 30 becomes 2021's fastest-selling album despite sales drop. Adele's 30 has shot to number one, overtaking Abba to become the fastest-selling album of the year so far. Its 261,000 first-week chart sales mean it sped past the Swedish pop group's comeback album Voyage, which opened with 204,000 sales. However, Adele's sales figures are significantly lower than those of her previous album 25, released in 2015. That album, her third, opened with 800,000 first-week sales, which means 30 has sold 32% of its predecessor. The drop can be partially explained by the huge growth of streaming in the last six years. Added to which, there was a greater incentive for fans to buy 25, as it was kept off streaming platforms for its first six months of release. Adele won out over Ed Sheeran's = (Equals) album to claim top spot this week. This means she has now secured a chart double, with the album's lead single Easy On Me remaining number one for a sixth consecutive week. Adele's opening week success with 30 ensures all four of her albums have now reached number one - a record for a female act. The album made up 67% of all physical sales and became the most-streamed album of the week, with 55.7 million plays across all tracks. The numbers mark the biggest first week for an album since Sheeran's ÷ (Divide) in 2017. It is also strongest opening week for a female solo album since Adele's last studio album 25, which was released in November 2015. The London-born star has said that 30 is an attempt to explain her divorce from her husband to nine-year-old son Angelo. The BBC's review said it finds an "emotionally bewildered" Adele "at the top of her game". Adele's last album achieved platinum status in 24 hours, selling 300,000 copies in a single day. Her latest hasn't reached that figure after a week on sale. But go easy on her - album sales have fallen precipitously in the six years since Adele released 25. Back then, streaming accounted for just 11% of the UK's music market - and no-one thought it was odd for Adele to withhold her album from Spotify and Apple. By relying on CDs, vinyl and downloads, she racked up a record-breaking 800,000 sales in the space of a week. Today, 80% of music consumption is on streaming services and most of Adele's fans are happy not to own a hard copy of 30. That's reflected in lower sales figures - but Adele is still setting fire to the rain. In the US, 30 is already the biggest-seller of the year, overtaking albums by Drake and Olivia Rodrigo. In the UK, her first-week total of 261,000 is miles ahead of the 7,317 copies Dua Lipa's Future Nostalgia sold on its fourth week at number one last May (the lowest ever total for a UK chart topper). The record industry and the media still rely on album sales as a measure of success - but in reality, the public has moved on. Adele's success should really be measured in cultural impact. Her US TV special was watched by more people than the Grammys or the Oscars. The British equivalent drew a peak audience of 5.4 million viewers, helping ITV achieve its biggest Sunday night of the year. The real question is whether, after this publicity blitz, her new music will hang around. "Success may be more about whether, two months down the line, we still have memes flooding TikTok and James Corden doing skits," observed music industry analyst Mark Mulligan. "This will say as much about how the world is responding to her music than how many streams she clocks up." Abba's Voyage slips to third place this week, while Oasis are a new entry at number four with the live recording of their Britpop-defining Knebworth gig from 1996. Other debut entries in the top 10 include Robert Plant and Alison Klauss' second collaboration Raise The Roof and London rap collective D Block Europe's new mixtape Home Alone 2. Rock-pop veterans Elbow also feature with their latest album Flying Dream 1. Adele gets Spotify to take shuffle off album pagesWhat we learned from Adele's Oprah interviewAdele's comeback single: Hit or miss? In the singles rundown, Adele's chart domination means her biggest competition remains... herself. The singer's 101,000 chart sales and 11.5 million streams of Easy On Me beat out her two other tracks from 30 - Oh My God, which claims the week's highest new entry at number two, and I Drink Wine at number four. Easy On Me is now Adele's longest-running chart-topper, outstripping Someone Like You. Her closest competition in the singles chart, Sheeran, slipped to third with Shiver, while Bad Habits spent its 22nd week in the top 10 at number five. This week's biggest chart jump comes courtesy of 17-year-old Nashville pop prodigy Gayle, whose track ABCDEFU rises 26 positions to number 14. Follow us on Facebook, or on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Channel migrants: Johnson under pressure to reduce small boat crossings. Usually tragedies bring people together but the deaths in the Channel seem to have highlighted the differences between the UK and French governments The prime minister is under pressure from many of his own MPs - who in turn are under pressure from a substantial number of their voters - to do more to stop the small boats coming to our shores. So it was perhaps unsurprising that Boris Johnson made his letter to the French president public, portraying himself as offering potential solutions. Downing Street insiders say they were genuinely surprised at what they regarded as a disproportionate response from France. And they point out that it is not unknown for French ministers to use social media to criticise UK positions, or indeed to denounce the prime minister personally for "populism". Migrant tragedy is biggest loss of life in ChannelChannel deaths: What do we know so far?Macron and Johnson clash over migrant boats Downing Street is emphasising that everything Mr Johnson asked for publicly in his letter - for example, joint patrols or an agreement on returning refugees - had already been asked for privately, but to no avail. And those close to discussions with the French government say that many of the arguments that are now out in the open had persisted for some time behind closed doors. It had been thought that the events of this week might have led to a willingness to revisit some of the more contentious issues. The atmosphere, though, has instead turned more negative. But while the sound of megaphone diplomacy has dominated much of the coverage today, there are quieter attempts to get the UK/French relationship on an even keel. There is a move to try to get Home Secretary Priti Patel's invitation to meet her French counterpart, Gérald Darmanin, reinstated. I'm told that amid rocky relations with France over fishing and the Northern Ireland protocol, the entente between the Home Office and the French interior ministry is usually relatively cordiale. So while she is currently not on this weekend's guest list in France, Ms Patel did speak to Mr Darmanin this afternoon. Home Office officials are already in France tonight to try to discuss closer co-operation. And the UK government is still paying by instalments the £54m promised to France to help bolster patrols and surveillance on the other side of the Channel. But Labour realises what a potentially toxic issue this is for Boris Johnson. In his attack today, the shadow home secretary Nick Thomas-Symonds has targeted the prime minister's vulnerabilities. He deliberately echoed concerns of Mr Johnson's backbenchers by accusing him of "losing control of the situation in the Channel". But he has also picked at another political sore. With concerns about how Downing Street has handled some difficult issues in recent weeks, the Labour MP has accused the prime minister of "a gross error of judgment" over his diplomacy by Twitter. It's well known in Whitehall that Boris Johnson has been frustrated at the continuation of the migrant crisis. His critics say he has focused too much on small boats, while not doing enough to tackle the underlying factors driving migration. Lives remain at risk, but the longer the crisis persists, the greater the political risks for the prime minister too.
Australia missing campers: Pilot accused of murders remanded in custody. A commercial airline pilot has been accused of murdering two elderly campers who went missing in Australia 20 months ago. Greg Lynn, 55, was arrested on Monday night after police helicopters descended on his campsite in Victoria. He was charged with murdering Russell Hill, 74, and Carol Clay, 73. There has been no trace of the pair since March last year. On Friday, Mr Lynn was remanded in custody to face a court next year. He was stood down as a pilot by Jetstar - a budget airline owned by Qantas - shortly after his arrest. The disappearance of Mr Hill and Ms Clay from the Victorian Alpine National Park sparked one of the state's largest missing person investigations. Police allege they were murdered on 20 March, according to court documents reported by The Age newspaper. They had used a high-frequency radio to call a friend earlier that day. During the call, the pair said they were setting up camp in the Wonnangatta Valley. Passers-by found their campsite destroyed by fire the next day. "Our efforts to locate the remains of Russell and Carol will continue," Victoria Police Assistant Commissioner Bob Hill said on Thursday. The campsite where Mr Lynn was arrested is about 55km (34 miles) from where the pair went missing. Police have conducted several extensive searches of the Victorian Alpine National Park since their disappearance, looking for clues in the rugged terrain. The families of the missing pair have also issued appeals for information in recent months. "It's really hard. It's not getting any better not knowing. It's just unknown - he just disappeared and you're just stuck in the middle," said Mr Hill's daughter, Debbie, last month. Ms Clay's sister, Jill, said: "We need to know what happened and we need to know where their bodies are so we can put them to rest." Three other people have gone missing in the Victorian Alps in the past decade, but none is suspected to have met with foul play. Mr Hill knew the area well from frequent visits and work decades ago as a logger, local media reported.
Russian coal mine: Dozens killed in Siberia accident. Fifty-one people have been killed in Russia's worst mining disaster in a decade, prompting three days of mourning in Siberia's Kemerovo region. Among the dead were five rescue workers, although a sixth was found alive and taken to hospital in a serious condition. The blast happened at the Listvyazhnaya mine when coal dust caught fire in a ventilation shaft on Thursday. Rescuers suffocated as they tried to reach dozens of missing miners. At the time of the accident early on Thursday there were 287 people in the mine, some 3,500km (2,175 miles) east of Moscow. Many managed to get out and 49 people were taken to hospital, some of them suffering from smoke inhalation. But dozens were trapped and rescue operations had to be suspended because of high concentrations of methane. Officials said a methane gas explosion had filled the mine with smoke and the victims had died because of a lack of oxygen and high concentration of poisonous gas. By Petr Kozlov, BBC Russian Relatives sobbed outside the mine office on Friday. One man who said his grandson had died was prevented from going in and argued bitterly with a guard. A woman came out carrying a black plastic bag containing her dead son's clothes and boots: "My boy is under the ground now, there is nothing more to say." Relatives said warnings about growing levels of methane gas in the mine had gone unheeded. They said there had been a fire at the mine only 10 days earlier and miners had been frustrated that more was not done to improve safety. Amid all the sadness there was one moment of relief. As hope faded for the lives of the missing, the rescuers managed to find one man alive. The survivor from the rescue team was named as Alexander Zakovryashin and Russian Emergencies Minister Alexander Chupriyan said it was a "miracle carried out by our people". The mine director, his deputy and the disaster area supervisor were arrested over alleged safety failings, according to Russian news agencies. Russian mine accidents are not uncommon and this is not the first accident at Listvyazhnaya. In 2004, a methane gas explosion left 13 people dead. In 2016, authorities assessed the safety of the country's 58 coal mines and declared 34% of them potentially unsafe. The list did not include the Listvyazhnaya mine at the time, reports say. President Vladimir Putin described the loss of life as "a great tragedy".
Poorest face food crisis amid fertiliser shortage. A global shortage of fertilisers is driving up food prices and leaving poorer countries facing crisis, says the boss of a major fertiliser firm. Svein Tore Holsether, chief executive of Yara International, said higher gas prices were pushing up fertiliser costs and affecting food prices worldwide. Fertiliser requires large amounts of gas in its production. Mr Holsether said Yara had been forced to cut some production due to higher gas prices, which had led to shortages. The chief executive said developing countries would be hit hardest by the shortages, with crop yields declining and food prices rising. "It's really scary, we are facing a food crisis and vulnerable people are being hit very hard," he told the BBC's Today programme. "It's impacting food prices all over the world and it hits the wallets of many people. But for some people, especially in the developing world, this is not only a question about the wallet, but it's a question of life or death." Less fertiliser, Mr Holsether said, meant farmers in developing countries would not be able to plant as efficiently, leading to smaller crops. Farmers apply fertilizers to boost yields of crops such as corn, canola and wheat. The process of creating ammonia, which is present in many fertilisers, currently relies on hydropower or natural gas. The increase in gas prices in recent months has been triggered by several factors which have increased demand, including the unlocking of economies during the pandemic and reduced wind or rain for renewable power. This has led to a sharp rise in the cost of producing fertiliser, with the price of ammonia - the product Yara International produces more than anyone in the world - up 255% on last year. Mr Holsether said the situation was "very volatile" and called for support and funding for the World Food Programme "to avoid famine at massive scale". He said that last year Yara donated 40,000 tonnes of fertiliser, which resulted in small-hold farms in East Africa tripling their crop yields. "It says a lot about the impact that fertiliser can have," he added.
Clashes as protesters demand end to violence against women. Riot police in Turkey and Mexico have fired tear gas and smoke bombs at protesters calling for an end to violence against women. In the Mexican city of Guaymas, three people were shot dead in an apparent attack on the city's female mayor. And in the Turkish city of Istanbul, clashes broke out with security forces. There were also large rallies in Barcelona, Paris and London to mark the international day for the elimination of gender-based attacks. Mexican media say the incident in Guaymas saw armed attackers storm the city's municipal palace, shooting dead a female protester and two men - a government worker and a bodyguard for Mayor Karla Córdova, who was in the palace at the time. Eyewitnesses told local journalists that they heard something like a grenade exploding at the door of the building, before gunshots rang out. The identity of the attackers and their motives remain unknown. There was another rally in Mexico City, where crowds chanted "not one (woman) less" as they demanded an end to femicide - the intentional murder of women because of their gender. "We are always protesting and it shouldn't have to be this way, violence needs to end at some point," protester Laura Valle told Reuters news agency. "We notice the authorities are not acting on it, for example, when we report it [violence]," she added. Police fired smoke bombs at a small group of hammer-wielding protesters who tried to grab their shields. At least 10 women and girls are killed every day in the Latin American country, according to Amnesty International. "Femicide Mexico! They're killing us!" one woman reportedly shouted during a tussle with police. Some hooded demonstrators threw bottles, stones and flares at police, local media reported. Seventeen people, including 10 female police officers, were injured during the march, according to police. The demonstration in Istanbul's Taksim Square came just months after Turkey withdrew from an international treaty aimed at protecting women. Police scuffled with protesters as they urged them to disperse from the area. Many demonstrators were pictured holding banners while others called for the government to resign over its withdrawal from the Istanbul Convention in June. Some in the party of Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan had argued that the agreement was inconsistent with Turkey's conservative values. Mr Erdogan said Turkey would use local laws to protect women. 'Black and White' campaign highlights Turkish femicideHundreds join 'Day of Dead Women' march in Mexico "Women are being killed," one protester told Reuters. "They are being publicly murdered. As of June, we have started to move away from the guarantees that protect us. "We do not and will not accept this and we will keep fighting". According to rights groups in Turkey, 345 women have been killed so far this year.
Covid: Travel and mask rules tightened over Omicron variant. Face coverings will become mandatory again in shops and on public transport in England from next week as part of  measures to target the new coronavirus variant, Omicron, the PM has said. PCR tests for everyone entering the UK will be introduced and all contacts of new variant cases will have to self-isolate, even if fully jabbed. But Boris Johnson said Christmas would be "considerably better" than in 2020. The measures were "temporary and precautionary", he added. Mr Johnson announced the restrictions at a Downing Street news conference after it was confirmed that two Omicron cases had been detected in Brentwood, Essex, and Nottingham. Officials said the cases were linked and connected to travel in southern Africa. How are England's Covid rules changing because of Omicron?How are masks rules being tightened?The UK's red list is back... which countries are on it? The new variant was first reported from South Africa on Wednesday, with early evidence suggesting it has a higher reinfection risk. Mr Johnson said: "Our scientists are learning more hour by hour, and it does appear that Omicron spreads very rapidly and can be spread between people who are double vaccinated." He added: "We need to slow down the spread of this variant here in the UK, because measures at the border can only ever minimise and delay the arrival of a new variant rather than stop it all together." The prime minister said the new measures would be reviewed in three weeks, by which time they should have better information about the "continuing effectiveness" of vaccines. The prime minister said the "tightening up" of the mask rules will be outlined by Health Secretary Sajid Javid "in the next day or so". He did not indicate when PCR tests would begin and in a press release the Department of Health only said it was among the measures being "introduced from next week". Covid restrictions were tightened across the UK days before Christmas last year amid a surge in cases. Asked by the BBC's Iain Watson if the prime minister could say with any confidence whether or not people could keep their Christmas plans this year, Mr Johnson replied: "We continue to be in a strong position largely thanks to the speed of the vaccine rollout, another booster rollout, and... I'm pretty confident to absolutely confident this Christmas will be considerably better than last Christmas." Countries around the world are introducing travel bans and restrictions on southern African countries in an effort to contain the variant's spread. Under the plans: Everyone entering the UK (other than those coming from the Common Travel Area that covers the Channel Islands and Ireland) will have to take PCR test by the end of the second day after their arrival and self-isolate until they receive a negative resultAll contacts of suspected Omicron cases must self-isolate, regardless of whether or not they are fully jabbedFace coverings will be made compulsory in shops and on public transport - but hospitality settings will be exempt from the changesThe health secretary is to ask advisers to consider rapidly extending boosters, including reducing the gap between the second dose of the vaccine and the booster The UK's chief medical adviser, Prof Chris Whitty, said there was a "reasonable chance" that vaccines could be less effective against the new variant but stressed people who are vaccinated or receive the booster jab will be less likely to become seriously ill. He said the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation would now need to decide whether to extend the booster vaccine down to adults age 18, and whether a second dose should be offered to children aged 12-15. Do we need new vaccines yet?How worrying is the new Covid variant? The reintroduction of masks in shops and public transport brings England back into line with the other UK nations. Paddy Lillis from the shopworkers' union Usdaw accused ministers of "flip-flopping on basic and sensible Covid measures" and said the face covering rules should have been kept in place when restrictions were relaxed in July. "Retail staff working with the public every day are deeply worried about catching Covid-19 and the arrival of the Omicron variant is a further concern," he said. Carol Popplestone, chairwoman of the Royal College of Nursing, said face coverings were "something we have already called for and it should not have been a new variant that forced the prime minister to act". This is a moment the government had wanted to avoid. We've got used to restrictions in England being lifted. But for the first time in months, they're now being re-imposed in response to the new variant. And these restrictions could have a significant impact. For example, anyone who goes on holiday will now need to pay for a PCR test and self-isolate until they get a negative result. If Omicron spreads quickly, there could be a lot of people forced to self-isolate for 10 days as close contacts. But the government hasn't gone for its full plan B. Masks won't be mandatory in hospitality settings in England like they are in Scotland and Wales. People aren't being told to work from home - and there still aren't plans for vaccine passports. But it's a sign of the uncertainty and concern in Whitehall that Boris Johnson felt he had to announce these measures. Both the UK cases of the Omicron variant and their households are self-isolating.  Additional testing is being carried out at locations where those people were likely to have been infectious. "Confirmed cases and contacts are being followed up and requested to isolate and get tested as necessary," the Department of Health said. Ten countries - South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, Eswatini, Angola, Mozambique, Malawi and Zambia - are now on the UK's travel red list meaning, from Sunday at 04:00 GMT, all arrivals will have to quarantine in a hotel for 10 days. Other countries are also introducing travel bans and restrictions on southern African countries in an effort to contain the variant's spread. The average number of daily confirmed Covid cases in the UK began rising again in early November. A further 39,567 confirmed cases were announced on Saturday. IS THERE AN IDEAL POST-COVID DIET? How what you eat can help your recoveryCANADA'S MISSING CHILDREN: Who should be held accountable? Have you been affected by issues covered in this story? Share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Tweet: @BBC_HaveYourSayUpload pictures or videoPlease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission.
Covid: Will there be another lockdown in the UK?. England's Covid rules are being strengthened in response to concern over the Omicron variant, Prime Minister Boris Johnson has announced. New measures include: All contacts of suspected Omicron cases will be required to self-isolate for 10 days. This is regardless of a person's vaccination statusAnyone entering the UK will require a PCR test by the end of the second day after their arrival and will need to self-isolate until they have a negative resultFace coverings will once again be compulsory in shops and on public transportThe Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) - the UK's vaccine advisory body - will consider giving the booster vaccine "to as wide as group as possible". It will also reduce the gap between the second dose and booster The PM said the new rules were temporary and would be reviewed after three weeks. How are masks rules being tightened?Two cases of new variant of Covid detected in UKHow worrying is the new Covid variant? In September, the health secretary announced a list of measures which would come into place if the NHS came under "unsustainable pressure" in England. These include: introducing mandatory Covid passportsmaking face coverings compulsory again advising people to work from homecommunicating clearly and urgently to the public that the level of risk has increased, and the need to behave more cautiously However, these restrictions would only effectively bring England in line with stricter rules still in place in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. The government has repeatedly said it has no plans for another lockdown. No single event or set of figures would necessarily trigger stricter measures, but the government said it would monitor: hospitalisations rapid rates of change in figuresthe overall state of the NHS The government's current strategy is centred on encouraging take-up of Covid vaccines and boosters. Measures include: Covid booster jabs for everyone aged 40 or over, and other vulnerable groupssingle vaccine doses for all 12- to 15-year-olds, and a second doses now offered for those aged 16 and 17encouraging unvaccinated people to get jabbedfree PCR and lateral flow testsoffer of free flu jab take-up 1m-plus social distancing guidance remains in places such as hospitals and passport controlface coverings no longer required by law, but the government "expects and recommends" them in crowded/enclosed spacessome shops and transport operators still require maskspeople who've been working from home should return to the workplace graduallyunder new guidance, people are advised to test for Covid before going to crowded places or spending time with those who are at greater risk from Covid What are the full rules in England? First Minister Mark Drakeford has warned that Covid measures could be brought back in to allow Wales to have a "normal" Christmas. Current measures include: NHS Covid Pass needed for entry to nightclubs, cinemas, theatres and concert halls and many other indoor and outdoor eventsworking from home wherever possibleface coverings compulsory on public transport, and in shops and hospitals What are the full rules in Wales? Ministers in Northern Ireland have strengthened their message on working from home, asking employees to do so "where they can" and businesses to support this "where possible". Health Minister Robin Swann has also warned that some hospitality venues "may be asked to close" over Christmas if Covid-19 continues to spread. The NI executive's autumn/winter Covid contingency plan sets out a range of other possible measures, including: strengthened arrangements for self-isolation for close contactsa return to mandatory social distancing Other current restrictions include: a limit of 30 people from different households mixing indoors in domestic settingsface coverings compulsory in shops, indoor seated venues and visitor attractions, public transport and some other settingsvaccine passports for venues including nightclubs, bars and cinemas to be mandatory from 29 November What are the rules in Northern Ireland? physical distancing rules remain in healthcare settings such as hospitals, GP surgeries and dentists, where the 2m (6ft) rule appliesface coverings still compulsory on public transport and inside places like shopsall school staff and secondary pupils to wear face coverings indoors indoor hospitality venues must collect customer contact detailsworking from home where possibleall over-18s required to prove their vaccine status at nightclubs and other venues What are the rules in Scotland?
What are the rules and guidance for face masks and coverings?. Boris Johnson has said people will have to wear face coverings in shops and on public transport in England. The rules are being tightened up as part of the government's "precautionary measures" against the Omicron variant of coronavirus. Mr Johnson said the changes wouldn't include hospitality settings. He said more details will be announced by the health secretary "in the next day or so" and the rule change will be reviewed in three weeks. In Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland they are still mandatory on public transport and many indoor areas. Since July, masks have not been a legal requirement in England Under the government's Covid "Autumn and Winter Plan", their use has been recommended in crowded and enclosed spaces. But requiring people to wear masks again has been an option under the government's "Plan B" contingency measures. Meanwhile the UK Health Security Agency has asked MPs and peers to wear masks and cancel some activities in Parliament buildings, for the next two weeks. This follows a number of Covid outbreaks at Westminster. Face coverings have already been made mandatory for everyone else working in or visiting the House of Commons Could Covid restrictions return this winter?How many people still wear masks?What are the face mask rules at COP26? In England, the legal requirement to wear a face covering ended on 19 July. Now it is set to return on transport and in shopsIn Scotland, masks must still be worn in shops and on public transport - as well as pubs and restaurants when not seated. They are required in indoor public spaces in universities and remain compulsory for all school staff as well as secondary school pupilsIn Wales, masks are still legally required on public transport and in all public indoor areas apart from pubs and restaurantsIn Northern Ireland face coverings are no longer compulsory in places of worship, or for students in school classrooms, but they must be worn on public transport and in shops and hospitality venues Although face coverings are no longer compulsory in schools in England, head teachers and health officials can ask staff and pupils to wear them in response to local circumstances. A number of schools across different part of England have already reintroduced face coverings. Businesses and travel operators can already set their own rules for customers and passengers. For example, Transport for London requires face covering for travel on the Underground and on buses. However, until the latest government announcement, it's not been a legal requirement. Confusion and upset over masks on public transport Many retailers have continued to ask shoppers to wear face coverings, including Sainsbury's, Tesco and Waterstones. Most people could be refused service, entry or the right to travel if a firm enforces a requirement to wear a face covering even if it's not legally required. Companies decide their own health and safety measures, and insisting on masks could be a reasonable rule, says Adam Wagner, a barrister at Doughty Street Chambers. However, they would not be able to discriminate. So, if you are currently exempt from wearing a mask - for example if you have breathing difficulties - companies would probably have to continue to honour that exemption, says Mr Wagner. The British Medical Association, which represents doctors back the continued use of masks. England's chief medical officer Chris Whitty and chief scientific adviser Sir Patrick Vallance said they will continue to wear them. Evidence suggests transmission mainly happens indoors where people are close together. Face coverings worn over the nose and mouth reduce the spread of coronavirus droplets from coughs, sneezes and while speaking. The main purpose is to protect others although there is some evidence they offer protection to wearers,. Masks can also help reduce virus spread from contagious people with no symptoms. Five ways to avoid catching coronavirus indoors It should: have a nose wirehave at least two/three layers of materialfit snugly over mouth, nose and chin The highest level of protection is provided by FFP3 (or similar) masks worn by healthcare workers in high risk settings. A recent study found FFP3 masks could provid up to 100% protection against Covid. Hospital staff wearing standard surgical masks were much more likely to catch the virus. Members of the public can buy FFP3 masks, but they won't provide the highest protection unless fitted correctly.
New Covid variant: How worried should we be?. We're back in familiar territory - growing concern about a new variant of coronavirus. The latest is the most heavily mutated version discovered so far - and it has such a long list of mutations that it was described by one scientist as "horrific", while another told me it was the worst variant they'd seen. It is early days and the confirmed cases are still mostly concentrated in one province in South Africa, but there are hints it may have spread further. Immediately there are questions around how quickly the new variant spreads, its ability to bypass some of the protection given by vaccines and what should be done about it. There is a lot of speculation, but there are very few clear answers. The variant has been named Omicron by the World Health Organization, following the pattern of Greek code-names like the Alpha and Delta variants. It is also incredibly heavily mutated. Prof Tulio de Oliveira, the director of the Centre for Epidemic Response and Innovation in South Africa, said there was an "unusual constellation of mutations" and that it was "very different" to other variants that have circulated. "This variant did surprise us, it has a big jump on evolution [and] many more mutations that we expected," he said. In a media briefing Prof de Oliveira said there were 50 mutations overall and more than 30 on the spike protein, which is the target of most vaccines and the key the virus uses to unlock the doorway into our body's cells. Zooming in even further to the receptor binding domain (that's the part of the virus that makes first contact with our body's cells), it has 10 mutations compared to just two for the Delta variant that swept the world. This level of mutation has most likely come from a single patient who was unable to beat the virus. A lot of mutation doesn't automatically mean: bad. It is important to know what those mutations are actually doing. But the concern is this virus is now radically different to the original that emerged in Wuhan, China. That means vaccines, which were designed using the original strain, may not be as effective. Some of the mutations have been seen before in other variants, which gives some insight into their likely role in this variant. For example N501Y seems to make it easier for a coronavirus to spread. There are some in there that make it harder for antibodies to recognise the virus and might make vaccines less effective, but there are others that are completely new. Prof Richard Lessells, from the University of KwaZulu-Natal in South Africa, said: "They give us concern this virus might have enhanced transmissibility, enhanced ability to spread from person to person, but might also be able to get around parts of the immune system." Do variants mean we need new vaccines?How many cases are there in the UK?Why has the Delta variant spread so quickly in UK? There have been many examples of variants that have seemed scary on paper, but came to nothing. The Beta variant was at the top of people's concerns at the beginning of the year because it was the best at escaping the immune system. But in the end it was the faster-spreading Delta that took over the world. Prof Ravi Gupta, from the University of Cambridge, said: "Beta was all immune escape and nothing else, Delta had infectivity and modest immune escape, this potentially has both to high degrees." Scientific studies in the laboratory will give a clearer picture, but answers will come more quickly from monitoring the virus in the real world. It is still early to draw clear conclusions, but there are already signs that are causing worry. There have been 77 fully confirmed cases in Gauteng province in South Africa, four cases in Botswana and one in Hong Kong (which is directly linked to travel from South Africa). Israel and Belgium have also reported cases. However, there are clues the variant has spread even more widely. This variant seems to give quirky results (known as an S-gene dropout) in the standard tests and that can be used to track the variant without doing a full genetic analysis. That suggests 90% of cases in Gauteng may already be this variant and it "may already be present in most provinces" in South Africa. But this does not tell us whether it spreads faster than Delta, is any more severe or to what extent it can evade the immune protection that comes from vaccination. It also does not tell us how well the variant will spread in countries with much higher vaccination rates than the 24% of South Africa that is fully vaccinated, although large numbers of people in the country have had Covid. So for now we are left with a variant that raises significant concerns despite huge holes in our knowledge, and is one that needs to be watched closely and asks deep questions about what to do and when. The lesson of the pandemic is you can't always wait until you have all the answers. Follow James on Twitter
Covid: Israel to impose travel ban for foreigners over new variant. Israel is to ban foreigners from entering the country for 14 days and use surveillance to halt the spread of the new Covid strain, local media report. The ban is expected to come into effect at midnight on Sunday, following full cabinet approval. Israel has so far confirmed one case of the potentially more infectious Omicron strain first detected in South Africa. Many countries have since banned travel to South Africa and its neighbours. South Africa has complained that it is being punished - instead of applauded - for discovering Omicron earlier this month. The World Health Organization (WHO) has warned the new variant is "of concern", with early evidence suggesting a higher re-infection risk. However, the WHO has warned against countries hastily imposing travel restrictions, saying they should look to a "risk-based and scientific approach". South Africans fear impact of new variant measuresHow worrying is the new Covid variant?The UK's red list is back... which countries are on it? The Israeli coronavirus cabinet agreed a series of new restrictions at a crisis meeting late on Saturday and are subject to final approval by the larger cabinet. In addition to the entry ban for non-Israelis, a three-day mandatory quarantine would be required for all vaccinated Israeli nationals, and a seven-day quarantine for those who have not been vaccinated. The cabinet also authorised surveillance of confirmed coronavirus patients by the Israel's Shin Bet security agency. Earlier on Saturday, the Israeli authorities had put 50 African nations on the so-called "red" list. All Israeli nationals returning from those countries must quarantine in the government-approved hotels and undergo Covid tests. A ban on foreigners entering Israel from most African countries was imposed on Friday. Israel has confirmed more than 1.3 million Covid infections since the start of the pandemic, with over 8,100 deaths, according to America's Johns Hopkins university. On Friday and Saturday, a number of countries around the world announced new measures to halt the spread of the new variant: Travellers from South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Angola, Mozambique, Malawi, Zambia, Lesotho and Eswatini will not be able to enter the UK unless they are UK or Irish nationals, or UK residents.US officials said foreigners would be blocked from travelling from South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique and Malawi, mirroring earlier moves taken by the EU. They will come into effect on Monday.Australia announced on Saturday that flights from South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, Eswatini, the Seychelles, Malawi, and Mozambique would be suspended for 14 days. Non-Australians who have been in those countries in the past two weeks are now banned from entering AustraliaJapan has announced that from Saturday, travellers from much of southern Africa will need to quarantine for 10 days and take a total of four tests during that timeIndia has ordered more rigorous screening and testing for travellers arriving from South Africa, Botswana and Hong KongCanada is barring all foreign nationals who have travelled through South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, Eswatini or Mozambique in the last 14 days The WHO said the number of cases of this variant, initially named B.1.1.529, appeared to be increasing in almost all of South Africa's provinces. "This variant has a large number of mutations, some of which are concerning," the UN public health body said in a statement on Friday. It said "the first known confirmed B.1.1.529 infection was from a specimen collected on 9 November". The WHO said it would take a few weeks to understand the impact of the new variant, as scientists worked to determine how transmissible it was. The head of the South African Medical Association told the BBC that the cases found so far in South Africa - where only about 24% of the population is fully vaccinated - were not severe, but said investigations into the variant were still at a very early stage.
Covid: South Africa 'punished' for detecting new Omicron variant. South Africa has complained it is being punished - instead of applauded - for discovering Omicron, a concerning new variant of Covid-19. The foreign ministry made the statement as countries around the world restricted travel from southern Africa as details of the spread emerged. Early evidence suggests Omicron has a higher re-infection risk. The World Health Organization (WHO) said on Friday that the new variant was "of concern". Several cases have now been identified in Europe - two in the UK, two in Germany, one in Belgium and another one in Italy, while a suspected case was found in the Czech Republic. Israel, where the new variant has been confirmed, has decided to ban all foreigners from entering the country from midnight Sunday. The measure will last for 14 days, according to the Times of Israel. Omicron cases have also been detected in Botswana, Hong Kong and Israel. Hundreds of passengers arriving in the Netherlands from South Africa are being tested for the new variant. Some 61 people on two KLM flights were positive for Covid-19 and have been quarantined at a hotel near Amsterdam's Schiphol airport while they have further tests, Dutch officials said. The Netherlands is currently struggling with a record-breaking surge in cases. An extended partial lockdown comes into force there on Sunday evening. South Africans fear impact of new variant measuresHow worrying is the new Covid variant?The UK's red list is back... which countries are on it? The new Omicron variant was first reported to the WHO from South Africa on 24 November. A statement by the South African foreign ministry on Saturday strongly criticised the travel bans. "Excellent science should be applauded and not punished," it said. The bans were "akin to punishing South Africa for its advanced genomic sequencing and the ability to detect new variants quicker". The statement added that the reaction had been completely different when new variants were discovered elsewhere in the world. An African Union official told the BBC developed countries were to blame for the emergence of the variant. "What is going on right now is inevitable, it's a result of the world's failure to vaccinate in an equitable, urgent and speedy manner. It is as a result of hoarding [of vaccines] by high-income countries of the world, and quite frankly it is unacceptable," said AU vaccine delivery alliance co-chair Ayoade Alakija. "These travel bans are based in politics, and not in science. It is wrong... Why are we locking away Africa when this virus is already on three continents?" On Friday and Saturday, a number of countries announced new measures: Travellers from South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Angola, Mozambique, Malawi, Zambia, Lesotho and Eswatini will not be able to enter the UK unless they are UK or Irish nationals, or UK residents.US officials said foreigners would be blocked from travelling from South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique and Malawi, mirroring earlier moves taken by the EU. They will come into effect on Monday.Australia announced on Saturday that flights from South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, Eswatini, the Seychelles, Malawi, and Mozambique would be suspended for 14 days. Non-Australians who have been in those countries in the past two weeks are now banned from entering AustraliaJapan has announced that from Saturday, travellers from much of southern Africa will need to quarantine for 10 days and take a total of four tests during that timeIndia has ordered more rigorous screening and testing for travellers arriving from South Africa, Botswana and Hong KongCanada is barring all foreign nationals who have travelled through South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, Eswatini or Mozambique in the last 14 days The WHO said the number of cases of this variant, initially named B.1.1.529, appeared to be increasing in almost all of South Africa's provinces. "This variant has a large number of mutations, some of which are concerning," the UN public health body said in a statement on Friday. It said "the first known confirmed B.1.1.529 infection was from a specimen collected on 9 November". The WHO said it would take a few weeks to understand the impact of the new variant, as scientists worked to determine how transmissible it was. A top UK health official warned that vaccines would "almost certainly" be less effective against the new variant. But Professor James Naismith, a structural biologist from the University of Oxford, added: "It is bad news but it's not doomsday." The head of the South African Medical Association told the BBC that the cases found so far in South Africa - where only about 24% of the population is fully vaccinated - were not severe, but said investigations into the variant were still at a very early stage. "The patients are mostly complaining about a sore body and tiredness, extreme tiredness and we see it in the younger generation, it's not the older people... We're not talking about patients that might go straight to a hospital and be admitted," Dr Angelique Coetzee said. US infectious disease chief Dr Anthony Fauci said that while the reports on the new variant threw up a "red flag", it was possible that vaccines might still work to prevent serious illness. The WHO has warned against countries hastily imposing travel restrictions, saying they should look to a "risk-based and scientific approach".
Biden: Fact-checking claims about US economic progress. President Joe Biden says the US has made "historic progress" on the economy in the last 10 months. In a speech before Thursday's Thanksgiving holiday in the US, he also talked about price rises and supply chain problems. We have been looking into some of Mr Biden's claims. Since shrinking by more than 30% in the first six months of 2020, the US economy has recorded a strong bounceback and returned to above pre-pandemic levels China has also posted strong economic growth, but overall its economy didn't contract last year - meaning it had less damage to recover compared with the US. Under Mr Biden, the US economy has continued to grow this year, but a large part of the recovery happened under former president Donald Trump. Since President Biden came into office, the US GDP has grown by 6% in 2021. This is less than several major economies - including the UK, China and India, according to data collected by the International Monetary Fund. Mr Biden became president on 20 January this year. From that month until October (the latest available data), the US economy added 5,583,000 jobs, according to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics. This is the highest number of jobs created in the first 10 months of any presidency since records began in 1939. But this job growth comes from a low base point, given that in April last year, unemployment hit its highest level since the Great Depression of the 1930s. More than 22 million jobs were lost in the space of two months because of the impact of coronavirus. Workers' wages in the US are up 4.9% this October compared with the same time last year. But the cost of living is also going up, meaning more of the money people earn is spent on everyday goods, in particular food and fuel. The cost of living for Americans has risen by 6.2% over the last year - the highest rise in three decades. When inflation is taken into account, average hourly earnings decreased 1.2% from October 2020 to October 2021, according to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics. "The price of gas in America, on average, is $3.40 (£2.55) a gallon," said Mr Biden, comparing it with France (about $7) and Japan (about $5.50) at the end of October. These figures are broadly correct. But there are countries where fuel prices are lower, such as Russia (about $2.5 a gallon) and some of the other major oil producers like Saudi Arabia, Nigeria, Iraq and the UAE. And is a comparison between the US and France that relevant, given that in Europe there are significantly higher taxes on both petrol and diesel? According to the Washington-based Tax Foundation think tank, the average excise duty imposed on a gallon of petrol in the EU and UK was $2.40 in July this year. That's just one tax - there are also other taxes in European countries. The US federal tax on petrol was $0.18 per gallon and the average of all state taxes was $0.30, so much lower than in Europe. Mr Biden is talking about shipping containers coming into US ports and sitting on docksides because they are not being moved out fast enough. This is because of shortages of truck drivers, and other supply chain issues which have created a backlog. On 22 November, the Port Authority of Los Angeles said there had been a 33% reduction in containers left on the docks after the authority warned it would start imposing fines on businesses who do not move containers out within a given time frame. However, it is worth saying there were a record 84 ships waiting offshore in California on 6 November. Gene Seroka, Los Angeles port executive director, was quoted as saying last week that there were also increasing numbers of empty containers left in the port, up by 18% in only a few weeks. He said they were waiting for ships to come and take these empty boxes back to Asia to pick up manufactured goods. Read more from Reality Check Send us your questions
Burkina Faso: Tear gas fired at protesters decrying Islamist attacks. Police in Burkina Faso have fired tear gas at people protesting against the state's failure to stop a rise in Islamist violence. Some erected barricades and burned tyres as scuffles spread around the streets of the capital, Ouagadougou. Authorities had suspended mobile internet services and deployed hundreds of riot police to stop the gathering. There is growing anger against both the government and the French soldiers who are supporting the Burkinabe army. Hundreds of people joined Saturday's protest, which was organised by a group calling itself the 27 November Coalition and demanded the president's resignation. "We refuse to lose Burkina Faso. We will put in someone who is competent to assure the security of the nation," one protester told the Associated Press news agency. A young child was injured after security forces fired tear gas, the AFP news agency reported. Local media outlets Pomega and Filinfos said two of their journalists were also injured from tear gas. A spokesman for the November 27 Coalition reported "a huge amount of injured", including two in a coma. It was not immediately possible to independently verify the claim. There has been an escalation of violence since the beginning of November, in which scores of security officers have been killed. The worst was on 14 November when 53 paramilitary officers and four civilians were killed during a raid on a camp in Inata in the north. After reports that the officers had run out of food in the run-up to the attack, President Roch Kaboré said he would announce "imminent changes" within the military structure, and ordered the "active and effective" presence of military chiefs on the front line. West Africa faces up to policing its terror triangle Africa's semi-arid Sahel region has been hit by an insurgency since militants captured large parts of northern Mali in 2012 and 2013. In Burkina Faso, the violence has forced more than a million people from their homes over the past two years.
Stephen Sondheim: London's West End to dim lights for theatre icon. The lights in London's West End will be dimmed as theatres pay tribute to legendary US composer and songwriter Stephen Sondheim who has died aged 91. The composer and lyricist, famous for creating the musical Sweeney Todd, was described as one of theatre's "greatest geniuses" after his death on Friday. The lights will be dimmed for two minutes at 19:00 GMT on Monday. Sir Cameron Mackintosh said the world had "lost one of its greatest and most original writers". Musical theatre icon Stephen Sondheim dies at 91Stephen Sondheim: A giant of musical theatre with a knack for adapting unlikely subjects The theatrical producer renamed renamed his Queen's Theatre venue after the composer in 2019. During his illustrious career, he wrote the scores of some of Broadway's best known shows including Company, Follies and A Little Night Music. He also wrote the lyrics for West Side Story. His ballad Send in the Clowns - from the 1973 musical A Little Night Music - has been recorded hundreds of times, including by Frank Sinatra and Judy Collins. Six of Sondheim's musicals won Tony Awards and he also received a Pulitzer Price, an Academy Award, five Olivier Awards and he was also awarded the Presidential Medal of Honour. Julian Bird, chief executive of the Society of London Theatre and UK Theatre, said: "The theatre world is a smaller place tonight after the passing of Stephen Sondheim. "His legacy of extraordinary shows and songs will live on for many generations to come - but now, we pay tribute to his outstanding contribution to our theatres and celebrate his talent."
Hondurans vote to replace controversial leader. In the final hours before polling day in Honduras, a few dozen activists gathered inside the Liberal Party's headquarters in the capital, Tegucigalpa, for some last-minute training on the main plank of their electoral platform. On a flatscreen TV, they watched their white-shirted presidential hopeful, Yani Rosenthal - who lies third in the polls - extol the virtues of the universal basic income, a proposed family stipend of 1,500 lempiras ($60; £45) a month for the country's poorest. "That's $2 a day which is precisely the World Bank's definition of the poverty line," Mr Rosenthal tells me in an empty back office, citing the success of similar programmes in Brazil and Jamaica. The funds for such a plan already exist in cash-strapped Honduras, he insists, saying around $3bn in public funds are siphoned off each year through corruption. "The money is there. If we can reduce corruption to about half its current level, we can reach about three million Hondurans," he says. But such a facile-sounding campaign promise is tough to deliver. It's become almost impossible to eradicate corruption in Honduras, an all-pervasive disease crippling the country's economic development. And, as Yani Rosenthal's critics are quick to point out, he is in no position to lecture anyone about corruption - he spent three years in a US prison for laundering drug money. "Rosenthal doesn't represent change," says economics student, Mario Aguilar, dismissively. As we drive past a group of flag-waving Libre Party supporters, Mario says he is most likely to vote for their candidate, the frontrunner and former First Lady, Xiomara Castro. In her final campaign rally, Ms Castro promised to "pull Honduras out of the abyss" of "a narco-dictatorship and corruption". Strong words about the state of the nation but they clearly ring true for many voters. Married to the former President Mel Zelaya, who was ousted in a coup in 2009, she has stood on a platform of "democratic socialism", which includes plans to decriminalise abortion, create an anti-corruption commission, bring down soaring utility bills and dismantle drug-trafficking networks. More worrying for Washington, she also plans to re-establish diplomatic ties with mainland China at the cost of relations with Taiwan. Despite the TV spots trying link her to that other Castro - the late Cuban leader, Fidel - and his Venezuelan protégé, Hugo Chavez, the scare tactics may not be enough to prevent her from becoming Honduras's first woman president. Student Mario Aguilar sees Xiomara Castro as "the least worst option". But like him, many are ready to punish the ruling National Party and outgoing President Juan Orlando Hernandez for a series of corruption scandals, ruinous economic mismanagement and poor handling of the coronavirus pandemic. Natural disasters, too, have played a part. Thousands still live in perilous conditions after two huge hurricanes, Eta and Iota, battered the country last year, prompting a sharp rise in immigration north. In such a febrile atmosphere, many are wary of a repeat of the events of four years ago, when the vote count was mired in allegations of fraud. At least 30 people were killed in street protests, mainly by the security forces. Yet within weeks, the Trump administration had recognised Mr Hernandez's victory even as international election observers and opposition parties were still challenging the result. Since then, President Hernandez has come to represent the very worst of Latin American leadership in the 21st Century. Authoritarian, disgraced and now deeply unpopular, his brother was sentenced in the US to life imprisonment plus 30 years for "state-sponsored drug trafficking". In the trial, and a subsequent one of another Honduran drug smuggler, President Hernandez was identified as a co-conspirator. The sitting president - one of Washington's key allies in Central America - dubbed a drug lord in open court by the US department of justice. The BBC has repeatedly requested an interview with President Hernandez over the past few months but none have been granted. He has robustly denied any wrongdoing or involvement with drug cartels and says the accusations against him are politically motivated. Yet it appears few voters believe him. "He could be in big trouble when he leaves office," says Mario, with no hint of sympathy. "We've heard that charges against him are being prepared [in New York]," says Fernando Silva, a journalist with the Honduran publication, Contra Corriente. "He runs the real risk of being extradited when he leaves power." President Hernandez desperately needs the National Party and its candidate, the current mayor of Tegucigalpa, Nasry Asfura, to win to provide him some degree of official protection. However, he faces two serious problems there. First, Mr Asfura seems well aware of the toxic stain of association with President Hernandez. He has distanced himself from the incumbent and knows that any move to grant immunity to the tainted leader would be deeply unpopular. Secondly, Mr Asfura is currently trailing Xiomara Castro by double-digits in most polls. Juan Orlando Hernandez's name is not on the ballot but the election is largely about him and his party's 12-year-long iron grip over the country, says journalist Fernando Silva. "He once said the National Party would be in power for 50 years. This feels like a defining moment as to whether that's the case."
Storm Arwen: Third person dies as gale-force winds hit UK. A third person has died after Storm Arwen lashed parts of the UK with high winds, rain and snow. The 35-year-old man died after his pick-up truck was struck by a falling tree in Aberdeenshire on Friday. The same day a head teacher died after a tree fell onto his car in Antrim and another man also died after he was hit by a falling tree in Cumbria. In the Aberdeenshire incident, police returned to their own van to find it had been crushed by another tree. Gusts reached speeds of 98mph in Northumberland, and about 120 lorries became stuck in snow on the M62. In Scotland, more than 100,000 people lost power. A rare red warning for wind was issued by the Met Office on Friday across the east coast of Scotland and north-east England, with the highest speeds of 98mph recorded at Brizlee Wood in Northumberland. Gusts overnight affected "a wide swathe of the United Kingdom", the Met Office said, with buildings damaged and trees blown down. Trains halted, power off as 81mph winds hit WalesThousands of homes without power after Storm ArwenThousands lose power in England as travel hit by Storm ArwenMan dies as high winds strike NI Gusts of 87mph were recorded at Orlock Head, County Down, while Inverbervie on the north-east coast of Scotland saw speeds of 78mph, and Aberporth in Wales had gusts of up to 77mph. The man who died when a falling tree hit his car in Northern Ireland was named as the principal of St Mary's Primary School in Maghera, Francis Lagan. Police in Cumbria said a man from Lancaster was killed after a tree fell on him in Ambleside on Friday evening. The driver in Aberdeenshire was in a Nissan Navara on the B977 Dyce to Hatton of Fintray road when it was struck by a falling tree at about 17.45 GMT on Friday. LNER advised customers not to travel north of York on Saturday or Sunday, saying they were unable to transport passengers between Newcastle and Edinburgh due to significant damage to the rail network. ScotRail also withdrew services between Aberdeen, Perth and Inverness on Friday and there was disruption on other lines. Passengers in Aberdeenshire were stuck on a train for 17 hours as Storm Arwen swept across Scotland. Mark Swinglehurst, 62, told the BBC the train had reached Huntly at about 17:00 GMT on Friday before coming to a halt. Asked about the experience, he said: "I don't think it will get rave reviews on any sort of travel site." He said it had been cold but comfortable and although there was a lack of refreshments initially, staff managed to secure bacon rolls and pies for the stranded passengers during their ordeal. Meanwhile, dozens of people - including an Oasis tribute band - were trapped by heavy snow at Britain's highest pub. On Friday night, about 3ft of snow fell at the Tan Hill Inn in the Yorkshire Dales, which is 1,732ft (528m) above sea level - meaning 60 people were unable to leave. Beds in the pub's lounge area were set up for the 20 guests who had not planned an overnight stay, but the pub said it had plenty of supplies to keep people warm and fed. Sleet fell across parts of Scotland and northern England with some heavy snow on higher ground. Part of the M62 near Rochdale between junctions 21 and 22 was closed, with 120 lorries stuck in the snow after one of them jack-knifed. More than 100,000 homes in Scotland lost power in the storm, with Scottish and Southern Electricity Networks saying electricity had been restored to 55,000 by mid-afternoon on Saturday. A post on Twitter said 60,000 customers currently remained without supply. Northern Powergrid reported outages for customers in north-east England, mainly in Northumberland, County Durham and Tyne and Wear, as well as people in the Midlands, Cheshire, Merseyside, Wales and south-west England. By late afternoon on Saturday, the supplier tweeted it had restored power to 153,000 customers. However, a tweet urged those still without power on Saturday evening to "seek alternative accommodation with family and friends" where possible, adding that it was "likely" the supply would remain off throughout the night and into Sunday. There were also power outages in Northern Ireland. In Wales, reality TV show I'm a Celebrity Get Me Out of Here cancelled all its weekend shows "owing to technical difficulties caused by extreme weather conditions in the area". A compilation show featuring the best bits from previous shows will be broadcast instead. The celebrity participants are understood to be safe inside the castle, with only essential crew on site, after the set was badly damaged by the storm, reports suggest. Friday's live show was also abandoned and pre-recorded footage broadcast in its place as a precautionary measure due to Storm Arwen. In County Durham, the roof of the clubhouse came off at Chester-le-Street Town FC, landing on the pitch of the Northern League division two team. Temperatures are set to fall with the storm and a yellow warning for ice, lasting until 11:00 on Sunday, has been issued for large stretches of northern and eastern Scotland, along with much of northern England. Storm Arwen forces I'm a Celeb to abandon live showGales cause Isle of Man travel disruption In the early hours of Sunday, parts of north-west Scotland might receive more snow, while temperatures in Scotland and northern England could fall as low as -6C. The UK Health Security Agency has issued a cold weather alert, which is in place from 18:00 on Friday until 15:00 on Monday. The government body is advising people to check on older neighbours and relatives, especially those who live alone or have a serious illness. In other developments: A rowing boat crew was rescued after capsizing off the coast of WalesA rugby union game on Friday night between Newcastle Falcons and Worcester Warriors was postponed until Saturday evening due to safety concernsFallen trees caused disruption in Scotland with the A96 blocked between Elgin and Forres A railway line between Keith and Elgin in the north of Scotland was blocked by a landslipFerries were cancelled between Northern Ireland and Scotland, as well as the Isle of Man and Lancashire. Are you in the area affected by Storm Arwen? Share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Tweet: @BBC_HaveYourSayUpload pictures or videoPlease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission. TRAPPED AS THE WATERS ROSE: What happened when Hurricane Ida hit New York City'BEING A SURGEON SHOWS YOU LIFE IS PRECIOUS': The doctors pushing science - and the human body - to its limits
Peng Shuai: WTA concerned over 'censorship or coercion'. The head of the Women's Tennis Association (WTA) says he remains concerned about Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai after she accused a top official of sexual assault. Steve Simon said he would not engage in further email communications because he was not convinced her earlier replies were not "influenced by others". Ms Peng disappeared from public view for three weeks after accusing the former Vice-Premier Zhang Gaoli. The WTA has sought proof she is safe. The UN and US have also demanded information on her whereabouts along with a number of major tennis players including Serena Williams, Naomi Osaka and Novak Djokovic. Ms Peng, 35, who is one of China's top tennis players, had earlier this month written a 1,600-word post on Chinese social media platform Weibo, where she laid out her allegations against the 75-year-old Mr Zhang. This is the most significant case of its kind in China's slow-moving #MeToo movement. Peng Shuai: What we know so far How China censored a tennis star Last Sunday, Peng Shuai said she was safe and well in a video call involving International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach. China has reacted angrily to the attention, particularly after the sceptical reaction to the IOC statement on the call - as well as a series of photographs and videos that appeared to show all was well with the athlete. Some have accused Mr Simon of ignoring Ms Peng's emails. On Saturday, a WTA spokesman told AFP news agency Mr Simon "remains deeply concerned that Peng is not free from censorship or coercion and decided not to re-engage via email until he was satisfied her responses were her own, and not those of her censors. "The WTA remains concerned about her ability to communicate freely, openly, and directly." Mr Simon has threatened to pull the WTA's business out of China, which would have a big effect. There are 10 WTA events scheduled to take place in the country next year including the Wuhan Open and WTA finals in Shenzhen. The Wuhan Open next year will be the first time tennis players have returned to the city since the start of the pandemic.
Covid: Swiss vote on ending restrictions while cases surge. Swiss Health Minister Alain Berset is in a bit of bind. With just under two-thirds of the population fully vaccinated, the Swiss have one of the lowest vaccination rates in Western Europe. Now, Covid-19 infections are rising exponentially, with case numbers rising by 40% to 50% each week. So is the health minister planning new restrictions, like neighbouring Germany, or even making vaccination mandatory, like Austria? Not a bit of it. In fact, on Sunday, Switzerland votes on getting rid of some Covid restrictions altogether. From the start of the pandemic the Swiss government has performed a tricky balancing act, trying to introduce measures to control the spread of Covid, while still staying true to Switzerland's system of direct democracy, in which the government has little formal power and the people have the final say. Switzerland's lockdowns were never as strict as its neighbours. People were allowed outside for exercise whenever they wanted and the schools only closed for a few weeks. But last summer, with cases falling dramatically, Switzerland didn't have a celebratory, UK-style "freedom" day either. Instead, a Covid certificate was introduced with proof of vaccination, negative test, or immunity through having had the virus. In September it became obligatory to enter bars, cafes, restaurants, cinemas, museums, sporting events, and face-to-face university classes. But not everyone agrees. Vaccination has long been a sensitive issue here, especially in German-speaking Switzerland. A belief that natural immunity is best led to a drop in childhood measles vaccinations that sparked a surge in measles cases across Europe. Meanwhile, in the alpine communities, a historic pride in their own independence rooted, some say, in the time when the mountain villages were cut off from the world each winter, means there is resistance to the government issuing orders. And so, when the certificate was introduced and Covid tests stopped being free, life for the unvaccinated became difficult and even going out for a beer was suddenly expensive. The government hoped the measures would encourage people to get vaccinated. Instead, many took to the streets and others gathered enough signatures to challenge the Covid certificate in Sunday's referendum. For weeks there have been demonstrations. Some have turned violent, with police using water cannons and rubber bullets against protesters trying to storm parliament. At a rally in Bern this month, thousands turned out to hear speakers, including renowned anti-vaxxer Robert Kennedy Jr, who hailed Switzerland as Europe's last great hope against what he claimed were sinister powers forcing people to get vaccinated, while at the same time, via the Covid certificate, introducing a draconian mass surveillance system. The crowd, huddled together, all mask-less, roared their approval. Some wore the insignia of the far right, others the far left. Health minister Alain Berset was depicted, complete with red horns, as the devil. How fast is worldwide progress? Among the crowds was part-time student Manuela. She refuses to get vaccinated because, she says, she is "a healthy young woman" for whom getting the virus poses little risk. In fact, the World Health Organization advises that, while young people are less likely to be hospitalised with Covid-19, they are still susceptible to infection, and with it the risk of serious and long term health consequences. And so, for fear of increasing opposition to the Covid certificate, the health minister dare not introduce any new restrictions ahead of Sunday's crucial vote. Mr Berset and his science taskforce are convinced Switzerland needs infection control measures during this increasingly bleak Covid winter. A vote to abolish the certificate, they believe, could be a huge risk, especially as booster vaccinations have scarcely begun. Instead, as cases rise, the government has advised hospitals to increase their intensive care capacity. This has brought a bitter laugh from Switzerland's nurses, who point out that extra beds won't help when there aren't enough staff to look after the patients in them. It's estimated 10% of Swiss nurses and care workers have left the profession since the start of the pandemic. "Everywhere we have too few staff," says Michèle Giroud, a nurse who's also president of the Swiss Federation of Nurse Anaesthetists. "We are constantly working without breaks, doing overtime, extra shifts. A third of us have burn-out symptoms: anxiety or insomnia." But unlike in other European countries going through similar health sector shortages, Swiss nurses have the power to change things. They have gathered the signatures for a nationwide referendum demanding more investment and better working conditions. On Sunday, Swiss voters will decide on that too. Opinion polls suggest the pandemic has focused voters' minds on how important their health workers are - almost 70% say they will vote yes to the nurses' demands. On the Covid certificate, things are a little tighter, but around 60% of voters look set to back keeping the certificate, and with it the restrictions. So, once Sunday's votes are counted, the health minister will return to the grim business of counting the rising Covid cases, and he is likely to start thinking about what new restrictions might be necessary. He may also have to count out around CHF8bn (£6bn) for Switzerland's nurses. But the anger, fear, and social division born of the pandemic cannot be solved by a referendum or two, and the demonstrations are sure to continue, in Switzerland and across Europe.
Covid: 13 test positive for Omicron after S Africa-Netherlands flights. The new coronavirus variant Omicron has been detected in 13 people who arrived in the Dutch capital Amsterdam on two flights from South Africa. They are among 61 passengers who tested positive for coronavirus. It comes as tighter restrictions come into force in the Netherlands, amid record Covid cases and concerns over the new variant. This includes early closing times for hospitality and cultural venues, and limits on home gatherings. Omicron was first reported to the World Health Organization (WHO) by South Africa on Wednesday, and early evidence suggests it has a higher re-infection risk. It has been categorised by the WHO as a "variant of concern". But after many countries around the world restrict travel from southern African countries over the variant, South African President Cyril Ramaphosa called for the bans to be urgently lifted. In an address to the nation on Sunday he said the moves were unjustified and not based on science. The Dutch National Institute for Public Health announced the 13 Omicron cases on Sunday, but noted that its investigation had "not yet been completed", meaning the new variant could still be found in more test samples. Dutch Health Minister Hugo de Jonge made an "urgent request" for people who have returned from southern Africa to get tested for Covid "as soon as possible". "It is not unthinkable that there are more cases in the Netherlands," he told reporters. Cases of the heavily mutated variant have now been reported in a number of countries around the world, including several in Europe, such as the UK, Germany and Italy. ANALYSIS: How worrying is the new Covid variant?BACKGROUND: Covid variants: Do we need new vaccines?FEATURE: South Africans fear impact of new variant measures The flights by Dutch national carrier KLM from Johannesburg arrived on Friday morning. The 600 passengers on board were held for several hours after arriving while they were tested for the virus. New York Times correspondent Stephanie Nolen, who was on one of the flights, tweeted that the passengers were not even brought water while they remained on the plane. Passengers travelling from South Africa to the UK via Amsterdam told the BBC that they were held on the tarmac at Schiphol airport for four hours, before eventually disembarking. The passengers who were confirmed to have Covid-19 have since been quarantined at a hotel near Schiphol airport. Those that tested negative have been asked to isolate at home for five days and take further tests. Officials said those in transit would be allowed to continue their journeys, though there were reports on Saturday that some passengers had not received written proof of a negative test and were therefore unable to board onward flights. Dutch health authorities were also trying to contact and test thousands of other passengers who had travelled from seven southern African countries - South Africa, Botswana, Eswatini, Lesotho, Mozambique, Namibia or Zimbabwe - since Monday. The Netherlands is one of many countries around the world to have now imposed travel restrictions on countries in southern Africa in response to the new variant. Some have also gone further, with Israel set to bar entry to all foreign nationals and Morocco banning all inbound international flights for two weeks from Monday. Switzerland has ordered that passengers from other countries where the variant has been detected, including the UK and the Netherlands, provide proof of a negative coronavirus test and quarantine for 10 days. Dr Angelique Coetzee, chair of the South African Medical Association, told the BBC countries could be "panicking unnecessarily" and the symptoms she had seen from the new variant were "extremely mild". Meanwhile, the Netherlands is one of several European countries struggling to contain record numbers of coronavirus infections. It has a shortage of intensive care beds, operations are being cancelled and hundreds of people are dying of Covid every week, the BBC's Anna Holligan in The Hague says. An extended partial lockdown came into force on Sunday morning and will remain in place for at least the next three weeks. Bars, restaurants and shops - whose opening hours have already been restricted for several weeks - are required to close earlier than before, and there is a limit on the number of guests allowed in homes. People are also being encouraged to work from home where possible, but nurseries, schools and universities across the country remain open. Thousands of people protested after the measures were announced. The Netherlands has had nearly 20,000 confirmed Covid-related deaths since the pandemic started.
New Covid variant: How worried should we be?. We're back in familiar territory - growing concern about a new variant of coronavirus. The latest is the most heavily mutated version discovered so far - and it has such a long list of mutations that it was described by one scientist as "horrific", while another told me it was the worst variant they'd seen. It is early days and the confirmed cases are still mostly concentrated in one province in South Africa, but there are hints it may have spread further. Immediately there are questions around how quickly the new variant spreads, its ability to bypass some of the protection given by vaccines and what should be done about it. There is a lot of speculation, but there are very few clear answers. The variant has been named Omicron by the World Health Organization, following the pattern of Greek code-names like the Alpha and Delta variants. It is also incredibly heavily mutated. Prof Tulio de Oliveira, the director of the Centre for Epidemic Response and Innovation in South Africa, said there was an "unusual constellation of mutations" and that it was "very different" to other variants that have circulated. "This variant did surprise us, it has a big jump on evolution [and] many more mutations that we expected," he said. In a media briefing Prof de Oliveira said there were 50 mutations overall and more than 30 on the spike protein, which is the target of most vaccines and the key the virus uses to unlock the doorway into our body's cells. Zooming in even further to the receptor binding domain (that's the part of the virus that makes first contact with our body's cells), it has 10 mutations compared to just two for the Delta variant that swept the world. This level of mutation has most likely come from a single patient who was unable to beat the virus. A lot of mutation doesn't automatically mean: bad. It is important to know what those mutations are actually doing. But the concern is this virus is now radically different to the original that emerged in Wuhan, China. That means vaccines, which were designed using the original strain, may not be as effective. Some of the mutations have been seen before in other variants, which gives some insight into their likely role in this variant. For example N501Y seems to make it easier for a coronavirus to spread. There are some in there that make it harder for antibodies to recognise the virus and might make vaccines less effective, but there are others that are completely new. Prof Richard Lessells, from the University of KwaZulu-Natal in South Africa, said: "They give us concern this virus might have enhanced transmissibility, enhanced ability to spread from person to person, but might also be able to get around parts of the immune system." Do variants mean we need new vaccines?How many cases are there in the UK?Why has the Delta variant spread so quickly in UK? There have been many examples of variants that have seemed scary on paper, but came to nothing. The Beta variant was at the top of people's concerns at the beginning of the year because it was the best at escaping the immune system. But in the end it was the faster-spreading Delta that took over the world. Prof Ravi Gupta, from the University of Cambridge, said: "Beta was all immune escape and nothing else, Delta had infectivity and modest immune escape, this potentially has both to high degrees." Scientific studies in the laboratory will give a clearer picture, but answers will come more quickly from monitoring the virus in the real world. It is still early to draw clear conclusions, but there are already signs that are causing worry. There have been 77 fully confirmed cases in Gauteng province in South Africa, four cases in Botswana and one in Hong Kong (which is directly linked to travel from South Africa). Israel and Belgium have also reported cases. However, there are clues the variant has spread even more widely. This variant seems to give quirky results (known as an S-gene dropout) in the standard tests and that can be used to track the variant without doing a full genetic analysis. That suggests 90% of cases in Gauteng may already be this variant and it "may already be present in most provinces" in South Africa. But this does not tell us whether it spreads faster than Delta, is any more severe or to what extent it can evade the immune protection that comes from vaccination. It also does not tell us how well the variant will spread in countries with much higher vaccination rates than the 24% of South Africa that is fully vaccinated, although large numbers of people in the country have had Covid. So for now we are left with a variant that raises significant concerns despite huge holes in our knowledge, and is one that needs to be watched closely and asks deep questions about what to do and when. The lesson of the pandemic is you can't always wait until you have all the answers. Follow James on Twitter
What are the Covid variants and will vaccines still work?. A new heavily mutated version of coronavirus has been found that scientists say is of "great concern". One of most pressing questions is will vaccines still work? There are thousands of different types, or variants, of Covid circulating across the world. That's to be expected because viruses mutate all the time. But this new variant, called B.1.1.529 or Omicron, has experts particularly worried because it is very different to the original Covid, which current vaccines were designed to fight. It has a long list of genetic changes - 50 in all. Of these, 32 are in the spike protein of the virus - the part which is the target of vaccines. However, it is too soon to know how much of a threat it poses. What do we know about this new variant? Current vaccines are not an ideal match so might not work quite as well, say experts. But that doesn't mean they'll offer zero protection. Remember, vaccines are still very effective at protecting lives by cutting the risk of severe illness against other major Covid variants, including Delta, Alpha, Beta and Gamma. Doctors say it is vital people get the recommended number of doses to gain maximum protection against existing and emerging variants. In the UK, booster jabs are being offered to: Over-40sFrontline health and social care workersOlder adults in residential care homesPeople aged 16-49 years old with underlying health conditions which put them at greater risk of severe CovidAdults who share a household with vulnerable people More than 16m booster or third doses have been given so far in the UK. Although Covid infections have been rising again across the UK, the number of hospitalisations and deaths has remained well below the levels seen in earlier waves. Experts say this is because of the success of the vaccine programme. Scientists will be running lots of tests to check if the vaccines will hold up against this latest variant. It is early days, but experts will study potentially important mutations that might make it more infectious and able to sidestep some of the protection given by vaccines. And they will assess if it is causing more serious disease than other variants. How many people have been vaccinated so far? Updated versions of vaccines against Covid variants are already being designed and tested, in case they are needed at some point. Should that time arrive, a new vaccine could be ready within weeks, to run checks on. Manufacturers could scale up production quickly too and regulators have already discussed how to fast track the approval process. No corners would be cut, but the whole process - from design to approval - could be much faster than when Covid vaccines were first launched. Officials have a close watch on a few. The most potentially dangerous ones are called variants of concern and include: Delta (B.1.617.2), first identified in India and now the most common type circulating in the UKAlpha (B.1.1.7), first identified in the UK but which spread to more than 50 countriesBeta (B.1.351), first identified in South Africa but which has been detected in at least 20 other countries, including the UKGamma (P.1), first identified in Brazil but which has spread to more than 10 other countries, including the UK UK officials are also keeping an eye on a recent descendent of the Delta variant, called AY.4.2 or "Delta plus". There is no evidence that any of them cause more serious illness for the vast majority of people. As with original Covid, the risk remains highest for people who are elderly or have significant underlying health conditions. But even so, if a variant is more infectious it will lead to more deaths in an unvaccinated population. Vaccines offer high protection against severe illness with Covid-19, including infections caused by variants of concern. The shots also reduce the risk of infection. But they do not completely eliminate all risk. The advice to avoid infection remains the same for all strains: wash your hands, keep your distance, wear a face covering in crowded places and be vigilant about ventilation. How many cases are there in the UK?Why has the Delta variant spread so quickly in UK? Viruses make carbon copies of themselves to reproduce but they aren't perfect at it. Errors can creep in that change the genetic blueprint, resulting in a new version or variant. If this gives the virus a survival advantage, the new version will thrive. The more chances coronavirus has to make copies of itself in us - the host - the more opportunities there are for mutations to occur. That's why keeping infections down is important. Vaccines help by cutting transmission as well as protecting against serious Covid illness. Experts say it is possible that the new highly altered variant B.1.1.529 may have originated in a patient whose immune system was unable to get rid of a Covid infection quickly, giving the virus more time to morph.
New Covid variant: South Africa's pride and punishment. South Africans have responded sharply to the news that the UK, and a growing list of other countries, have reacted to the emergence of a new Covid variant with red-listings and travel bans. While there is genuine pride here in the country's scientific expertise, and the speed with which South Africa has been able to identify and share information about new variants, there is also a strong sense that the nation is being unfairly punished for its successes. "The world should provide support to South Africa and Africa and not discriminate or isolate it," said Prof Tulio de Oliveira, the Durban-based scientist leading efforts to understand the new variant. In a series of tweets, he pointed out that South Africa has been "very transparent with scientific information. We did this to protect our country and the world in spite of potentially suffering massive discrimination." South Africa has a sophisticated monitoring infrastructure that allows it to do the sequencing work effectively. Prof de Oliveira urged "billionaires and financial institutions" to help the country cope with the economic damage caused by new travel restrictions. South Africa's Foreign Minister Naledi Pandor was also quick to condemn the UK's travel ban, describing it as "rushed" and damaging to tourism and business, and urging the UK government "to reconsider this decision". News of the flight bans has caused inevitable frustration among many South Africans who had hoped to see visiting friends and family over the southern hemisphere summer holidays in December. South Africa was one of the last countries to have previously been removed from the red list last month. "It's absolutely ridiculous that they've imposed it again so quickly without investigating this new variant," said one woman waiting for arrivals from London at Cape Town's international airport this morning. "My sister just got on the flight [from London] but I think she'll be staying here for a long time. We were just getting on our feet again with tourism, and this is going to just kill it." "The new ban is a knee-jerk reaction of the UK government that puts airlines, hotels, travel businesses and travellers in a very difficult situation,'' said Otto de Vries, CEO of South Africa's travel agents' association, Asata. One industry analysis estimated that South Africa lost 26 million rand ($1.6m; £1.2m) for every day it spent on the UK's red list. "The UK being our largest inbound international market, last night's news by the British government has caused widespread disbelief and disappointment amongst our hospitality industry as we enter our peak festive season period," said Rosemary Anderson, national chairperson of the Federated Hospitality Association of South Africa. Overall, tourism employs 2.8 million people and in 2018 it earned the country about $8bn (£6bn). The variant was first sequenced in neighbouring Botswana, and then in South Africa's capital, Pretoria. That was where a group of students, exactly how many is not known, took PCR tests which all contained an anomaly that prompted experts to send their samples to Prof de Oliviera's Durban laboratory for genome sequencing. "His team then found all these mutations. So we've only know about it for a few days, and because it's a new variant we have no idea how it will actually behave," said Prof Salim Karim, former chair of the South African government's Covid advisory committee. "All we can do is extrapolate some of the likely behaviour based on previous similar mutations. But we do know that it spreads fast - we've seen how rapidly it spread in Pretoria. It sky-rocketed." From a relatively low base, the numbers of confirmed cases in South Africa have shot up this week - from less than 700 on Sunday to almost 2,500 on Thursday. It is believed the increase is largely down to the new variant. South Africa's vaccination programme has slowed in recent months - not because of a lack of supplies, but due to public indifference. An estimated 42% of the population has had at least one jab. But roughly two-thirds of those aged over 60 have been vaccinated. Experts are hopeful that the variant may help encourage more people to get jabbed. The government has urged people to come forward, saying: "Let us crush the power of the new variant by vaccinating to limit the number of mutations." "It's going to be a shock to the system. I think it can have a positive effect [on vaccination rates]," said Stavros Nicolaou, senior executive at Aspen Pharmacare Group. "We know this variant is more contagious. My sense is that the current vaccines are likely to reduce morbidity. They might not be as effective in terms of preventing people getting infected. All the more reason, if you've got a more contagious variant, that you should go out and get vaccinated." The bigger concern is the potential impact of the variant if it spreads to other parts of the continent where, on average, roughly 3% of the population has been vaccinated.
Covid: Third case of Omicron variant detected in the UK. A third case of the Omicron coronavirus variant has been detected in the UK, the Health Security Agency has said. The person is no longer in the UK but had visited Westminster in London. It comes after the government set out measures in response to the variant, including mandatory face masks in shops and on public transport in England. And the Department for Education is now advising pupils, staff and visitors in Year 7 and above to wear face coverings in communal areas of schools. The measure applies to education establishments in England including secondary schools, colleges and universities, as well as staff in childcare settings. Early evidence suggests the new Omicron variant - initially reported to the World Health Organization from South Africa on Wednesday - has a higher re-infection risk. On Monday, an urgent meeting of G7 health ministers will be held "to discuss the developments on Omicron", the Department for Health and Social Care said. How worrying is the new Covid variant?Shoppers asked to respect new mandatory mask rulesHow are England's Covid rules changing because of Omicron?Omicron: Will new measures against variant work? Health Secretary Sajid Javid told the BBC ministers had acted "swiftly" and "in a proportionate way" as news of the variant emerged. Other measures will see people arriving in the UK required to take PCR tests and isolate until they get a negative result. Both this requirement and the mask mandate will come into effect at 04:00 GMT on Tuesday. Mr Javid said he expected to receive new advice within the next couple of days from the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) on extending the booster vaccination programme. The deputy chairman of the JCVI told the BBC adults aged 18 and over "will have an offer of a booster earlier than we had previously envisaged". But the government has stopped short of issuing advice to work from home or requiring vaccine passports in England, which are part of its Plan B for winter - a contingency plan if intervention on Covid is needed to protect the NHS. Ten countries in southern Africa are now on the UK's travel red list, meaning that until further notice, any British or Irish residents arriving in the UK after recently visiting any of those countries will have to quarantine in an approved hotel for 10 days. Residents from the countries themselves will not be allowed into the UK until the red list status changes. Prof Neil Ferguson - a key government adviser on the pandemic - said "it's likely we'll detect quite a lot more cases in the coming days" because the UK is among the countries to see the largest number of flights from South Africa, where the variant is circulating. Omicron has been detected in a number of other countries, including Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Australia, Hong Kong and Israel. The UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) said the person in the third UK case had been linked to travel in southern Africa. Testing is being carried out at locations they visited in London's Westminster area. The agency said it was "very likely" more cases would be found in the coming days. Dr Jenny Harries, chief executive of the UKHSA, said: "Our advanced sequencing capabilities enable us to find variants and take rapid action to limit onward spread. "We are continuing our efforts to understand the effect of this variant on transmissibility, severe disease, mortality, antibody response and vaccine efficacy. "It's critical that anyone with Covid-19 symptoms isolates and gets a PCR test immediately. Vaccination is critical to help us bolster our defences against this new variant." The first UK cases were confirmed on Saturday in Brentwood, Essex and Nottingham. Contact tracing is taking place and Essex County Council is asking people who were at a church and a KFC outlet in Brentwood to get a PCR test. South Africa has a young population and it is encouraging that doctors there are reporting that Omicron is causing mild symptoms with no increase in hospital admissions. But we need to see what happens when the variant moves into older age groups who are the most vulnerable to Covid. We also need to see what happens when Omicron comes up against the fully immunised, and those who have had a third booster shot. So far the vaccines have proved highly effective at giving strong protections against severe illness from all variants. If the vaccines prevent people falling seriously ill with Omicron, then some breakthrough infections - while unwelcome - will not be disastrous. As long, of course, as people are already vaccinated. If anything, this is a wake-up call for those yet to be vaccinated to come forward and get the jab. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has called the new measures for England "temporary and precautionary" - and said they would be reviewed in three weeks, just before most schools break up for the Christmas holidays. Labour has called for full implementation of Plan B and for improved sick pay to encourage self-isolation. Under the rules coming in on Tuesday: Everyone entering the UK (other than those coming from the Common Travel Area that covers the Channel Islands and Ireland) will have to take a PCR test by the end of the second day after their arrival and self-isolate until they receive a negative resultAll contacts of suspected Omicron cases must self-isolate, regardless of whether or not they are fully vaccinatedFace coverings will be made compulsory in shops and on public transport - but pubs and restaurants are exemptThe health secretary has asked advisers to consider rapidly extending boosters, including reducing the gap between the second dose of the vaccine and the booster In Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, face coverings are already mandatory on public transport and many indoor areas. Asked about Scotland's approach to the new variant, First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said "we may need to go further in restricting travel in the days to come", adding: "We need to be open-minded to doing anything to keep the population safe." The average number of daily confirmed Covid cases in the UK began rising again in early November. A further 37,681 confirmed cases were announced on Sunday. IS THERE AN IDEAL POST-COVID DIET? How what you eat can help your recoveryCANADA'S MISSING CHILDREN: Who should be held accountable?
Covid: South Africa's president calls for lifting of Omicron travel bans. South Africa's president has condemned travel bans enacted against his country and its neighbours over the new coronavirus variant Omicron. Cyril Ramaphosa said he was "deeply disappointed" by the action, which he described as unjustified, and called for the bans to be urgently lifted. The UK, EU and US are among those who have restricted travel from southern African countries over the new variant. Omicron has been categorised as a "variant of concern". The heavily mutated variant was first reported to the World Health Organization (WHO) by South Africa on Wednesday, and early evidence suggests it has a higher re-infection risk. The variant is responsible for most of the infections found in South Africa's most populated province, Gauteng, over the last two weeks, and is now present in all other provinces in the country. The WHO has warned against countries hastily imposing travel restrictions, saying they should look to a "risk-based and scientific approach". However, numerous bans have been introduced in recent days amid concerns over the variant. How worrying is the new Covid variant?South Africans fear impact of new variant measuresCovid variants: Do we need new vaccines yet? In his speech on Sunday, Mr Ramaphosa said there was no scientific basis for the travel bans and that southern Africa was the victim of unfair discrimination. He also argued that the bans would not be effective in preventing the spread of the variant. "The only thing the prohibition on travel will do is to further damage the economies of the affected countries and undermine their ability to respond to, and recover from, the pandemic," he said. He called on countries with bans in place to "urgently reverse their decisions... before any further damage is done to our economies". Mr Ramaphosa described the emergence of the Omicron variant as a wake-up call for the world regarding vaccine inequality - warning that until everyone was vaccinated, more variants were inevitable. There are no vaccine shortages in South Africa itself, and Mr Ramaphosa urged more people to get jabbed, saying that remained the best way to fight the virus. A previous statement by the South African foreign ministry on Saturday also strongly criticised the travel bans, saying the country was being punished - instead of applauded - for discovering Omicron. Omicron has now been detected in a number of countries around the world, including the UK, Germany, Australia and Israel. The UK has called for an emergency meeting of the G7 group of nations on Monday to discuss the variant.
Biden: Fact-checking claims about US economic progress. President Joe Biden says the US has made "historic progress" on the economy in the last 10 months. In a speech before Thursday's Thanksgiving holiday in the US, he also talked about price rises and supply chain problems. We have been looking into some of Mr Biden's claims. Since shrinking by more than 30% in the first six months of 2020, the US economy has recorded a strong bounceback and returned to above pre-pandemic levels China has also posted strong economic growth, but overall its economy didn't contract last year - meaning it had less damage to recover compared with the US. Under Mr Biden, the US economy has continued to grow this year, but a large part of the recovery happened under former president Donald Trump. Since President Biden came into office, the US GDP has grown by 6% in 2021. This is less than several major economies - including the UK, China and India, according to data collected by the International Monetary Fund. Mr Biden became president on 20 January this year. From that month until October (the latest available data), the US economy added 5,583,000 jobs, according to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics. This is the highest number of jobs created in the first 10 months of any presidency since records began in 1939. But this job growth comes from a low base point, given that in April last year, unemployment hit its highest level since the Great Depression of the 1930s. More than 22 million jobs were lost in the space of two months because of the impact of coronavirus. Workers' wages in the US are up 4.9% this October compared with the same time last year. But the cost of living is also going up, meaning more of the money people earn is spent on everyday goods, in particular food and fuel. The cost of living for Americans has risen by 6.2% over the last year - the highest rise in three decades. When inflation is taken into account, average hourly earnings decreased 1.2% from October 2020 to October 2021, according to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics. "The price of gas in America, on average, is $3.40 (£2.55) a gallon," said Mr Biden, comparing it with France (about $7) and Japan (about $5.50) at the end of October. These figures are broadly correct. But there are countries where fuel prices are lower, such as Russia (about $2.5 a gallon) and some of the other major oil producers like Saudi Arabia, Nigeria, Iraq and the UAE. And is a comparison between the US and France that relevant, given that in Europe there are significantly higher taxes on both petrol and diesel? According to the Washington-based Tax Foundation think tank, the average excise duty imposed on a gallon of petrol in the EU and UK was $2.40 in July this year. That's just one tax - there are also other taxes in European countries. The US federal tax on petrol was $0.18 per gallon and the average of all state taxes was $0.30, so much lower than in Europe. Mr Biden is talking about shipping containers coming into US ports and sitting on docksides because they are not being moved out fast enough. This is because of shortages of truck drivers, and other supply chain issues which have created a backlog. On 22 November, the Port Authority of Los Angeles said there had been a 33% reduction in containers left on the docks after the authority warned it would start imposing fines on businesses who do not move containers out within a given time frame. However, it is worth saying there were a record 84 ships waiting offshore in California on 6 November. Gene Seroka, Los Angeles port executive director, was quoted as saying last week that there were also increasing numbers of empty containers left in the port, up by 18% in only a few weeks. He said they were waiting for ships to come and take these empty boxes back to Asia to pick up manufactured goods. Read more from Reality Check Send us your questions
Channel disaster: A father's anguish over missing family since tragedy. The last time Rizgar Hussein spoke to his daughter Hadia it was late on Tuesday night in Iraq. She called him from northern France to say she was about to board a boat with her mother, sister and brother. Hadia was excited at the prospect of finally making it to the UK. But since then, Rizgar has heard nothing from his family. The following day he saw on television that 27 people had died while attempting to cross to the UK. "I'm waiting now for any news from anyone... I just want to know if they are alive or dead," Rizgar tells the BBC. He is one of many Iraqi Kurds trying to find out the fate of family members who have not been heard from since Tuesday's tragedy in the English Channel. Maryam Nuri Mohamed Amin, a 24-year-old Kurdish woman from northern Iraq, is so far the only person to be confirmed as a victim. Rizgar's wife, Kajal Hussein, 45, and their children Hadia, 22, son Mobin, 16 and younger daughter Hesty, seven, all left from a Kurdish town in northern Iraq. Rizgar says that he didn't want his family to leave for Europe, and he would lose his job as a policeman if he joined them and the plan failed. But his family were adamant they wanted to try to make it to the UK for a better life. He promised to join them if they made it. "They wanted to go, everybody wants to live a good life, to have a peaceful heart and mind. But here, ask anyone from seven to 80 years old - nobody feels good," Rizgar says. "If the situation was good, people would not emigrate. Who wants to leave like that? No-one," he says. Rizgar's family started their pursuit of a better life four months ago. They first travelled to Turkey before being smuggled by land and sea to Italy, where they stayed in a camp for three weeks. They then continued their journey to northern France, where they stayed in another camp. Rizgar would speak to his family numerous times each day. They soon contacted smugglers who promised to get them to the UK but had three unsuccessful attempts. The first time they were caught by French police while setting off, the second time the boat ran out of fuel and had to return to shore, and the third time the boat's motor broke and they were once again taken back to land by police. Then on Tuesday his daughter Hadia called. "She said: 'Dad, in five minutes we will leave, now everyone is getting in the boat'," Rizgar recalls. "I said, okay be careful." That was the last he heard from her. "I called 100 times but no answer," he says. The following day, Rizgar turned on the TV to reports that 27 people had died while attempting to cross the English Channel. What's being done to stop Channel crossings?Why do migrants leave France for the UK?The migrant debate can't escape European politics He has still not heard any official news and is spending his days chasing journalists to see if they have any information on his family. "I can't do anything, I can't eat or sleep... I'm beginning to feel like I'm becoming crazy. Nobody can comfort me," Rizgar says. He is still hoping for good news. "I will not believe anything until I hear their voices or see a recent photo of them, I don't want to believe anything." Rizgar's mother-in-law, Qadrya Amin, said she also didn't want her daughter, Kajal, and grandchildren to make the perilous journey to the UK. "I was going to say: 'Don't go'... I said don't get in that water, you could drown," Qadrya says. But Kajal was adamant she wanted to give her children a better life than they had in Iraq, where food and water is scarce. Kajal's brother also left Iraq and is now in Greece. "She said: 'I'm a mother and my kids have dreams, my heart burns for them. They want to go there and finish their education," Qadrya recalls. Hadia dreamed of becoming a doctor in the UK. Qadrya says her heart broke the moment she heard about the deaths in the English Channel. All she can do now is pray for her daughter and grandchildren. "They just hoped for a better life," she says. "Everybody wants their kids to have a better life."
Virgil Abloh: Designer and Off-White founder dies aged 41. Virgil Abloh, the Louis Vuitton artistic director and founder of the Off-White fashion label, has died from cancer aged 41, it has been announced. Revealing the news, the French fashion house's parent company LVMH described Abloh as a "genius" and a "visionary". The US designer came to prominence as Kanye West's creative director but later made history as the first African-American to lead Louis Vuitton. Abloh is survived by his wife, Shannon, and their two children. A statement on his Instagram page described him as a "fiercely devoted father, husband, son, brother, and friend". Abloh was diagnosed with cardiac angiosarcoma - a rare, aggressive form of cancer - in 2019, but did not make the diagnosis public. "He chose to endure his battle privately since his diagnosis in 2019, undergoing numerous challenging treatments, all while helming several significant institutions that span fashion, art and culture," the statement read. "Through it all, his work ethic, infinite curiosity and optimism never wavered." Abloh was often hailed as one of the most influential designers in the fashion industry but was also a DJ and an artist, and had degrees in civil engineering and architecture. LVMH chief executive Bernard Arnault said: "Virgil was not only a genius designer, a visionary, he was also a man with a beautiful soul and great wisdom. "The LVMH family joins me in this moment of great sorrow, and we are all thinking of his loved ones after the passing of their husband, their father, their brother or their friend." The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter
Covid-positive Czech president appointed new PM from plexiglass box. Czech President Milos Zeman has appointed opposition leader Petr Fiala as the country's new prime minister. Mr Zeman - who tested positive for coronavirus last week - made the appointment from inside a plexiglass box in a state room at his residence. The president was wheeled in by hospital staff in full protective gear. Czech rules require a positive patient to observe two weeks of self-isolation. He caught Covid just after a spell in intensive care for unrelated problems. The 77-year-old is a heavy smoker and former heavy drinker who uses a wheelchair and suffers from diabetes. Under the Czech constitution, the president is a figurehead, but he leads talks on forming a new government. Last month's vote returned a surprise win for the opposition against Prime Minister Andrej Babis. A leader politically incorrect and proud of itCzech leader calls transgender people 'disgusting' Speaking through a microphone inside the sealed box, Mr Zeman said he would spend the next two weeks interviewing nominees for minister, even though the choice of candidates is supposed to be up to the prime minister-designate. This process will continue until 13 December, at which point the new government as a whole can be appointed to take over from Mr Babis. Prime Minister Babis and his populist ANO party had sought re-election after four years in power. But they were beaten in the poll by the centre-right coalition Spolu (meaning Together). The appointment of Mr Fiala comes after weeks of speculation that the president wanted to entrust his ally, the incumbent, with the task of forming a cabinet. A controversial figure, Mr Zeman is known for making divisive remarks and using strong language. In June he was sharply criticised for calling transgender people "disgusting".
Channel migrants: France wants 'serious' talks with UK. France's interior minister has said he wants to work with the UK on migration but that talks need to be serious. Gérald Darmanin made the comments at a meeting of European officials following the deaths of 27 people who drowned in the English Channel this week as they tried to cross from France to the UK The UK's invitation to the meeting was halted in a diplomatic row with France. Home Secretary Priti Patel described her absence at the meeting in Calais as "unfortunate". But she says she is holding separate urgent talks with European ministers this week. The UK's absence came after Emmanuel Macron reacted angrily to Boris Johnson's public call for France to take back migrants who reach the UK. The French president accused the UK prime minister of showing a lack of seriousness by publishing the letter on Twitter. The UK government insisted that the letter was sincere and urged France to reconsider its invitation, with Mr Johnson saying: "This is a problem we have to fix together." Belgium, France, the Netherlands, Germany and the European Commission attended the talks in Calais, which Mr Macron set up to deal with the recent surge in migrant crossings of the Channel. The sinking of an inflatable boat last Wednesday marked the biggest loss of life by drowning in the Channel in many years, with 17 men, seven women - one of whom was pregnant - and three children dying. Many of the victims came from Iraqi Kurdistan. They include Maryam Nuri Mohamed Amin, the first to be named, who was trying to join her fiance in the UK. Speaking at the start of the meeting, Mr Darmanin said he wanted to work with the UK to deal with the crisis. "Britain left Europe, but not the World. We need to work seriously on these questions... without being held hostage by domestic British politics," he said. The interior minister added that there had been too many deaths and "we cannot accept that any more people die". But he also argued that the UK had to assume responsibility by making itself less economically attractive for illegal migrants. In the few studies that exist, family ties have been identified as the main reason migrants wish to travel from France to the UK. Immigration expert Marley Morris told the BBC the UK had introduced policies that make it much harder to work illegally. Why do migrants leave France for the UK?Why Iraqi Kurds risk their lives to reach the WestCalais activists: Migrants call us from boats asking for help Officials at Sunday's meeting agreed that Frontex, the European border agency, would send a plane to help combat migrant trafficking in the Channel from Wednesday. EU Commissioner for Home Affairs Ylva Johansson said the criminal groups organising the trips were acting "more or less on an industrial scale". "That's why it's so important to have an even closer police cooperation with the help and support from Europol," she said.
Covid: Swiss back government on Covid pass as cases surge. Swiss voters have backed the government's measures to tackle Covid, according to preliminary results. More than 60% opposed moves to remove some restrictions, including the Covid vaccination pass. Sunday's referendum came after organisers said the pass was an unnecessary restriction of freedoms. With just under two-thirds of the population fully vaccinated, the Swiss have one of the lowest vaccination rates in Western Europe. Now, Covid-19 infections are rising exponentially, with case numbers up by 40-50% each week. From the start of the pandemic the Swiss government has performed a tricky balancing act, trying to introduce measures to control the spread of Covid while still staying true to Switzerland's system of direct democracy, in which the government has little formal power and the people have the final say. Switzerland's lockdowns were never as strict as its neighbours'. People were allowed outside for exercise whenever they wanted and the schools only closed for a few weeks. But last summer, with cases falling dramatically, Switzerland didn't have a celebratory, UK-style "freedom" day either. Instead, a Covid certificate was introduced with proof of vaccination, negative test, or immunity through having had the virus. In September it became obligatory to enter bars, cafes, restaurants, cinemas, museums, sporting events, and face-to-face university classes. But not everyone agrees. Vaccination has long been a sensitive issue here, especially in German-speaking Switzerland. A belief that natural immunity is best led to a drop in childhood measles vaccinations that sparked a surge in measles cases across Europe. Meanwhile, in the alpine communities, a historic pride in their own independence rooted, some say, in the time when the mountain villages were cut off from the world each winter, means there is resistance to the government issuing orders. And so, when the certificate was introduced and Covid tests stopped being free, life for the unvaccinated became difficult and even going out for a beer was suddenly expensive. The government hoped the measures would encourage people to get vaccinated. Instead, many took to the streets and others gathered enough signatures to challenge the Covid certificate in Sunday's referendum. For weeks there have been demonstrations. Some have turned violent, with police using water cannons and rubber bullets against protesters trying to storm parliament. At a rally in Bern this month, thousands turned out to hear speakers, including renowned anti-vaxxer Robert Kennedy Jr, who hailed Switzerland as Europe's last great hope against what he claimed were sinister powers forcing people to get vaccinated, while at the same time, via the Covid certificate, introducing a draconian mass surveillance system. The crowd, huddled together, all mask-less, roared their approval. Some wore the insignia of the far right, others the far left. Health minister Alain Berset was depicted, complete with red horns, as the devil. How fast is worldwide progress? Among the crowds was part-time student Manuela. She refuses to get vaccinated because, she says, she is "a healthy young woman" for whom getting the virus poses little risk. In fact, the World Health Organization advises that, while young people are less likely to be hospitalised with Covid-19, they are still susceptible to infection, and with it the risk of serious and long term health consequences. And so, for fear of increasing opposition to the Covid certificate, the health minister was loath to introduce any new restrictions ahead of Sunday's crucial vote. Alain Berset and his science taskforce are convinced Switzerland needs infection control measures during this increasingly bleak Covid winter. Abolishing the certificate, they believe, could be a huge risk, especially as booster vaccinations have scarcely begun. Instead, as cases rise, the government has advised hospitals to increase their intensive care capacity. This has brought a bitter laugh from Switzerland's nurses, who point out that extra beds won't help when there aren't enough staff to look after the patients in them. It's estimated 10% of Swiss nurses and care workers have left the profession since the start of the pandemic. "Everywhere we have too few staff," says Michèle Giroud, a nurse who's also president of the Swiss Federation of Nurse Anaesthetists. "We are constantly working without breaks, doing overtime, extra shifts. A third of us have burn-out symptoms: anxiety or insomnia." But unlike in other European countries going through similar health sector shortages, Swiss nurses have the power to change things. They have gathered the signatures for a nationwide referendum demanding more investment and better working conditions. On Sunday, Swiss voters backed them. So now the health minister will return to the grim business of counting the rising Covid cases, and he is likely to start thinking about what new restrictions might be necessary. He may also have to count out around CHF8bn (£6bn) for Switzerland's nurses. But the anger, fear and social division born of the pandemic cannot be solved by a referendum or two, and the demonstrations are sure to continue, in Switzerland and across Europe.
Kevin Strickland: Fundraiser for exonerated Missouri man tops $1.5m. A fundraiser set up to help a Missouri man who served more than 42 years in jail for a triple murder he did not commit has reached $1.5m (£1.1m). Kevin Strickland was freed on Tuesday at the age of 62. He had maintained his innocence since his arrest at 18. It was the longest wrongful incarceration in state history, but under Missouri law he is not entitled to receive any financial compensation. So his lawyers launched a GoFundMe page to help with his living expenses. As of Sunday 16:00 GMT, it had reached $1,511,440. Lawyers for the Midwest Innocence Project, who worked for months to help free Mr Strickland, praised the more than 27,000 strangers who had donated. The state of Missouri only compensates prisoners exonerated through DNA evidence, not because of eyewitness testimony, his lawyers said. "Until the system has changed where the system is failing, the community is stepping in to fix it, to fill the void," said Tricia Rojo Bushnell. Falsely convicted US trio freed after 36 yearsUS man wrongfully imprisoned for 26 years pardoned A judge on Tuesday ordered Mr Strickland's immediate release from state custody, after 15,487 days behind bars. He was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole for 50 years after he was linked to the deadly ransacking of a home in Kansas City on 25 April 1978. On that night, four assailants shot three people inside the home: Sherrie Black, 22, Larry Ingram, 22, and John Walker, 20. A fourth victim - Cynthia Douglas, 20 - escaped with injuries after pretending to be dead. On a hunch from her sister's boyfriend, police arrested the teenage Mr Strickland and then reportedly pressured Ms Douglas to pick him out of a line-up. Mr Strickland told police he had been at home watching television. No physical evidence ever linked him to the crimes. His first trial in 1979 ended with a hung jury, after one black juror on a 12-member panel held out for his acquittal. At his second trial, an all-white jury found Mr Strickland guilty of one count of capital murder and two counts of second-degree murder. Years later, Ms Douglas would recant her lone eyewitness testimony, writing to the Midwest Innocence Project that "things were not clear back then, but now I know more and would like to help this person if I can". How much is 31 years in prison worth in the US?'How I survived 22 years on death row' Ms Douglas died before she could formally recant her testimony against Mr Strickland, but her mother, sister and daughter have all testified in court that she picked "the wrong guy". Prosecutors in Jackson County began reviewing Mr Strickland's conviction last November and - under a new Missouri law - filed a motion calling for his immediate exoneration and release.
Covid: Israel to impose travel ban for foreigners over new variant. Israel is to ban foreigners from entering the country for 14 days and use surveillance to halt the spread of the new Covid variant, local media report. The ban is expected to come into effect at midnight on Sunday, following full cabinet approval. Israel has so far confirmed one case of the potentially more infectious Omicron variant first detected in South Africa. Many countries have since banned travel to South Africa and its neighbours. South Africa has complained that it is being punished - instead of applauded - for discovering Omicron earlier this month. The World Health Organization (WHO) has warned the new variant is "of concern", with early evidence suggesting a higher re-infection risk. However, the WHO has warned against countries hastily imposing travel restrictions, saying they should look to a "risk-based and scientific approach". South Africans fear impact of new variant measuresHow worrying is the new Covid variant? The Israeli coronavirus cabinet agreed a series of new restrictions at a crisis meeting late on Saturday and are subject to final approval by the larger cabinet. In addition to the entry ban for non-Israelis, a three-day mandatory quarantine would be required for all vaccinated Israeli nationals, and a seven-day quarantine for those who have not been vaccinated. The cabinet also authorised surveillance of confirmed coronavirus patients by the Israel's Shin Bet security agency. In a statement, Prime Minister Naftali Bennett said phone-tracking technology would be used. Earlier on Saturday, the Israeli authorities had put 50 African nations on the so-called "red" list. All Israeli nationals returning from those countries must quarantine in the government-approved hotels and undergo Covid tests. A ban on foreigners entering Israel from most African countries was imposed on Friday. Israel has confirmed more than 1.3 million Covid infections since the start of the pandemic, with over 8,100 deaths, according to America's Johns Hopkins university. In other developments on Saturday: The UK announced PCR tests would be mandatory for everyone entering the country, and all contacts of new variant cases would have to self-isolateAustria saw thousands of people protesting against government plans to make vaccinations mandatorySwitzerland toughened its quarantine requirements for travellers from several European and African countries. Early indications from a referendum appear to suggest voters supporting the government plan on a Covid passport certificate that's required to get into most public spaces. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken praised South Africa for promptly sharing information with the world. He said its transparency should serve as a model for the world, and he'd spoken to his South African counterpart about co-operation on vaccinating people in Africa Australia said flights from South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, Eswatini, the Seychelles, Malawi, and Mozambique would be suspended for 14 days. Non-Australians who have been in those countries in the past two weeks are now banned from entering Australia It is a rapidly evolving situation. Omicron's genetic profile has raised concerns, but there's a shortage of real-world data that means nobody has the complete picture of what it can do. It is unclear how big a threat it poses. Yet, it is at this early stage, in an absence of definitive facts and when there is a danger of both under-reacting and overreacting, that governments have to act. It's like you or me deciding whether to marry someone after the first date. Only the stakes are much higher. What we know is Omicron has mutations that theoretically help it to spread more quickly and there is mounting evidence of that happening in South Africa. It also has mutations that theoretically make vaccines less effective. But we don't know how transmissible it is. We don't know whether it is milder or more severe. We don't know what will really happen when it comes up against our significant wall of immunity built up through vaccines. Read James's analysis in full here. After an emergency meeting on Friday, the WHO said the first known confirmed infection from this variant had been collected on 9 November, it had "a large number of mutations, some of which are concerning". The WHO said it would take a few weeks to understand the impact of the new variant, as scientists worked to determine how transmissible it was. The head of the South African Medical Association told the BBC that the cases found so far in South Africa - where only about 24% of the population is fully vaccinated - were not severe, but said investigations into the variant were still at a very early stage. Have you been affected by issues raised in this article? Tell us about it by emailing: haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Tweet: @BBC_HaveYourSayOr fill out the form belowPlease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission.
Covid: Australia woman charged after setting fire in quarantine hotel. A 31-year-old woman in Australia has been charged with arson after a fire destroyed part of a Covid-19 quarantine hotel in Cairns, Queensland. It is alleged she lit a fire under a bed in the room she had been sharing with two children on Sunday morning. More than 160 people were evacuated as fire took hold in the 11-storey Pacific Hotel. No-one was injured. It came as Australia confirmed two cases of the new coronavirus variant which is prompting new restrictions. Omicron was first reported by South Africa, and has been classified as "of concern" by the World Health Organization (WHO) with early evidence suggesting a higher re-infection risk. The government in Canberra has announced a suspension of flights from South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, Eswatini, the Seychelles, Malawi, and Mozambique. Non-Australians who have been in those countries in the past two weeks are now banned from entering Australia. Australians have spent 20 months under some of the world's strictest border rules, in an effort to keep out Covid. It is not clear whether the new variant will mean a roll-back of some relaxations that began early this month. The lives upended by Australia's sealed border The Australians who are trapped in the UK A surge in vaccinations has allowed some Australian states to end their strategy of eliminating all cases. But unvaccinated travellers are obliged to quarantine for 14 days in hotels in the country.
Omicron: WHO warns of 'high infection risk' around globe. The World Health Organization (WHO) has warned that the Omicron coronavirus variant poses a high risk of infection surges around the globe. The variant could lead to severe consequences in some regions, the WHO said on Monday. The head of the organisation, Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, renewed a call for a global push to get vaccines to poorer nations. Covid-19 is "not done with us" yet he warned. The variant was detected in South Africa earlier this month with initial evidence suggesting it has a higher re-infection risk. South Africa has been praised for its prompt reporting of the variant. "Omicron has an unprecedented number of spike mutations, some of which are concerning for their potential impact on the trajectory of the pandemic," the WHO said. Cases have already been reported in a number of countries including Canada, the UK, Portugal, Belgium and the Netherlands. The new variant has prompted the UK, EU and US to issue a travel ban on Southern African countries - a decision criticised by South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa. Japan has announced it is closing its borders to new foreign visitors from midnight on Tuesday, while Australia has paused its long-awaited plan to ease border restrictions. Travel into Australia for international students and "skilled workers" holding visas was meant to re-start on Wednesday but has now been delayed until 15 December. Israel has also banned foreigners from entering the country. How worrying is the new Covid variant?How do you detect Omicron? In the UK, Covid booster jabs are set to be offered to all over-18s to help stop a new wave driven by Omicron. The US has also followed suit with Joe Biden telling Americans to "go get your booster". He also urged people to wear masks indoors. But Mr Biden also said he did not anticipate any further US travel restrictions or lockdowns at this time. There have been more than 261 million cases and five million deaths around the globe since the pandemic started in 2020, according to data from John Hopkins University.
Magdalena Andersson: Sweden's first female PM returns after resignation. Sweden's first female prime minister has been reappointed to the top job after political turmoil forced her to resign within hours of taking the post last week. MPs backed Social Democratic Party leader Magdalena Andersson by a narrow margin in a new vote on Monday. She will attempt to lead a one-party government until an election in September next year. She stood down as PM last Wednesday after her coalition collapsed. Just hours earlier, Ms Andersson had been elected as Sweden's first female prime minister by a single vote in parliament. But the 54-year-old economist's plan for forming a new coalition government with the Green Party was thrown into disarray when her budget proposal failed to pass. Sweden's first female PM resigns hours after appointment Instead, parliament voted for a budget drawn up by a group of opposition parties, including the far-right Sweden Democrats. The Green Party said it would not accept a budget drafted by the far-right and walked away from the government, leading to its demise. By convention, the prime minister in Sweden is expected to resign if a coalition party leaves government. In Monday's vote in Sweden's parliament, the Riksdag, 101 of its 349 members voted yes, 75 abstained and 173 voted no. To be appointed prime minister under Sweden's political system, a candidate only needs to avoid a majority voting against them. At a news conference after the vote, Ms Andersson said she was ready to "take Sweden forward" with a programme focused on welfare, climate change and crime. But without the support of other parties, Ms Andersson will struggle to pass legislation in parliament, where the centre-left Social Democrats hold 100 of 349 seats. After a week of drama, Magdalena Andersson's prime ministerial career is back on track, but Sweden's political soap opera is far from over. Ms Andersson still has to implement a budget put together by some of her right-wing rivals. Plus, she's got to govern a fragile minority without the formal support of the Greens, who've been a crucial coalition partner since 2014. All this has highlighted the complexities of having a deeply divided eight-party parliament. Some political commentators here are worried that Ms Andersson's chaotic rise to power may have dented trust in the entire political system. Once formed, Ms Andersson's new government will remain in place until general elections, which are set to take place in September next year. Until then, she's got just over nine months to prove herself to the public. A former junior swimming champion from the university city of Uppsala, Ms Andersson began her political career in 1996 as political adviser to then-Prime Minister Goran Persson. She has spent the past seven years as finance minister before becoming leader of the Social Democrats at the start of November. She replaced Stefan Lofven, who resigned as prime minister after seven years in power. Until Ms Andersson took over, Mr Lofven had remained prime minister of a caretaker government after being ousted in an unprecedented vote of no confidence in June.
Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey steps down as chief executive. Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey is stepping down as chief executive of the company. He will be replaced by the current chief technical officer, Parag Agrawal, Twitter said. Mr Dorsey, who co-founded Twitter in 2006, has been serving as chief executive of both Twitter and payment firm Square. "It's finally time for me to leave" he wrote in a statement, saying the company was "ready to move on." Mr Dorsey said he had "deep" trust in his replacement. "I'm deeply grateful for his skill, heart, and soul. It's his time to lead," he said. Mr Agrawal joined Twitter in 2011, and has been the firm's head of technology since 2017. Twitter's share price jumped slightly as rumours of his departure emerged. Trading of shares on the stock exchange was temporarily halted as a result, but has since resumed. News of Mr Dorsey's departure was first reported by CNBC on Monday, citing anonymous sources familiar with the matter. Reuters news agency separately reported it had been told the same. On Sunday, Mr Dorsey tweeted, apparently unprompted: "I love Twitter." The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter In a separate message to the official corporate statement, Mr Dorsey tweeted: "Not sure anyone has heard but I resigned from Twitter". "There's a lot of talk about the importance of a company being 'founder-led'. Ultimately I believe that's severely limiting and a single point of failure," he wrote in an attached email he sent to staff. He added that he would leave the board after his term expires. "Why not stay or become chair? I believe it's really important to give Parag the space he needs to lead." In a way, Jack Dorsey typifies the Silicon Valley CEO. He's a multi-billionaire - and has founded two hugely successful companies - Twitter and Square. Yet he dresses in tie-dye t-shirts and sports a beard like a wizard. He's a hippie at heart, with high ideals for how technology can change the world for good. He genuinely believes, for example, that Bitcoin has the ability to create "world peace". And with Twitter, he certainly has changed the world. In particular it revolutionised how politicians communicate with voters - and how news is communicated with the public. Perhaps the best known user of Twitter was Donald Trump. The populist US president used the platform as a key way of bypassing traditional media. The decision to remove him from the platform after the Capitol Hill riots was undoubtedly the most controversial moment of Jack Dorsey's time. The nature of his departure is also interesting. He is extricating himself from the company, even giving up his board seat. That's very different to say, Jeff Bezos, who retains much influence at Amazon despite stepping down as boss earlier this year. Mr Dorsey claims this is his decision. But at a multi-billion dollar company, there could well be more at play behind the scenes. He is in his mid-40s, and still has lofty ambitions to change the world. With his track record, he may well do so again. The 45-year-old co-founded the company with Biz Stone, Evan Williams and Noah Glass in 2006. Mr Dorsey has, however, become the face of the company, having sent the earliest tweets on the service and due to his long tenure as chief executive. He left the role of Twitter chief in 2008 and founded the digital payments app Square, which has also grown into a multi-billion dollar company. Jack Dorsey's Square in Australia's biggest buyoutJack Dorsey's first ever tweet sells for $2.9m However, he was brought back to helm Twitter in 2015 after then-chief executive Dick Costolo stepped down. The role has seen him appear in televised inquiries before US politicians to be quizzed about his platform and its potential role in the spread of disinformation - something Twitter has been repeatedly accused of acting too slowly on in recent years. Like other social media sites it has also been accused of political bias on both sides of the US political divide. Calls for his departure came in 2020 from Elliott management, an investment firm which owns a significant amount of Twitter's shares. The firm reportedly felt that a full-time chief executive with only one company to run would be better for Twitter's fortunes. Twitter: Five anti-vaccine strikes and you are outTwitter works with news sites to tackle disinformation But the two sides later came to an agreement which saw Mr Dorsey remain in his post. Reacting to the news of Mr Dorsey's resignation, Elliott said the new management team were "the right leaders for Twitter at this pivotal moment for the company". The change in leadership comes alongside several other changes to Twitter's board, including the appointment of Bret Taylor, an existing Twitter board member and veteran of Google and Salesforce, as the new chairman. "I want to thank Jack for his visionary leadership and unrelenting dedication to Twitter since its founding," Mr Taylor said. "Jack returned to Twitter and turned the Company around at the most critical time. The progress since then has been nothing short of incredible. "Jack has given the world something invaluable and we will continue to carry it forward."
China surveillance of journalists to use 'traffic-light' system. The Chinese province of Henan is building a surveillance system with face-scanning technology that can detect journalists and other "people of concern". Documents seen by BBC News describe a system that classifies journalists into a "traffic-light" system - green, amber and red. Journalists in the "red" category would be "dealt with accordingly", they say. The Henan Public Security Bureau has not responded to a request for comment. The documents, discovered by the surveillance analyst firm IPVM, also outline plans to surveil other "people of concern", including foreign students and migrant women. Human Rights Watch said: "This is not a government that needs more power to track more people... especially those who might be trying to peacefully hold it accountable." The documents, published on 29 July, are part of a tendering process, encouraging Chinese companies to bid for a contract to build the new system, won, on 17 September, by NeuSoft. NeuSoft has not responded to BBC News request for comment. The system includes facial-recognition technology linked to thousands of cameras in Henan, to alert authorities when a "person of concern" is located. "People of concern" would be categorised into "thematic libraries" - in an already existing database of information about and images of people in the province. The system would also connect with China's national database. One of the groups of interest to the Henan Public Security Bureau is journalists, including foreign journalists. "The preliminary proposal is to classify key concerned journalists into three levels," the documents say. "People marked in red are the key concern. "The second level, marked in yellow, are people of general concern. "Level three, marked in green - are for journalists who aren't harmful." And an alert would be triggered as soon as "journalists of concern", marked as "red" - or "yellow", if they had previous criminal charges - booked a ticket to travel into the province. The system would also assess foreign students and divide them into three categories of risk - "excellent foreign students, general personnel, and key people and unstable personnel". "The safety assessment is made by focusing on the daily attendance of foreign students, exam results, whether they come from key countries, and school-discipline compliance," the documents say. The schools themselves would need to notify the authorities of students with security concerns. And those considered to be of concern would be tracked. During politically sensitive periods, such as the annual meeting of the National People's Congress, "a wartime alarm mechanism" would be activated and tracking of "key concern" students stepped up, including tracking their cell phones. The documents outline a desire for the system to contain information taken from: cell phonessocial media - such as WeChat and Weibovehicle details hotel stays travel ticketsproperty ownershipphotos (from existing databases) It should also focus on "stranded women", or non-Chinese migrant women who do not have the right to live in China. A large number of women enter China to find work. Others have been trafficked from neighbouring countries. And the system would "dock" with the National Immigration Bureau, the Ministry of Public Security and Henan police, among others. The documents were published around the time the Chinese government criticised foreign media outlets for their coverage of the Henan floods. Conor Healy, Government Director of IPVM, said: "The technical architecture of mass surveillance in China remains poorly understood... but building custom surveillance technology to streamline state suppression of journalists is new. "These documents shed light on what China's public-security officials want from mass surveillance." China's facial-recognition system is thought to already be in use across the country. And last year, the Washington Post reported Huawei had tested artificial-intelligence software that could recognise people belonging to the Uighur ethnic minority and alert police. Human Rights Watch's China director Sophie Richardson said: "The goal is chilling, ensuring that everyone knows they can and will be monitored - and that they never know what might trigger hostile interest."
Enes Kanter Freedom: NBA star changes name to celebrate US citizenship. Outspoken professional basketball player Enes Kanter will legally change his name to Enes Kanter Freedom to celebrate becoming a US citizen. The Swiss-born, Turkish-raised Mr Kanter, 29, will reportedly have his citizenship ceremony on Monday afternoon. He has repeatedly condemned human rights violations in China and Turkey. The NBA star has said his Turkish passport was revoked by authorities in 2017. In an interview with CNN, Mr Kanter, who plays with the Boston Celtics, said the name change will reflect his "fight" for freedom throughout his life. "Here [in the US] there is freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom of expression, freedom of the press," he said. "I didn't have any of those with Turkey." In his remarks, Mr Kanter said that "freedom is the greatest thing a human being can have". "That's why I wanted to make that word a part of me, and carry it wherever I go," he added. Mr Kanter's manager told the AP news agency that the name change will take place at the same time as his naturalisation ceremony on Monday. The name 'Freedom' will be on his jersey when the Celtics face off against the Philadelphia 76er later this week. Mr Kanter has said his teammates already call him by that name. In the years since he first arrived to the US in 2009, Mr Kanter has been an outspoken critic of both his native Turkey and China. In October, his name was blocked on Chinese social media and streams of Celtics games were reportedly cancelled after he referred to President Xi Jinping as a "brutal dictator". "My message for the Chinese government is free Tibet," Mr Kanter told his followers. "Tibet belongs to Tibetans." He has also used his social media to criticise Chinese government mistreatment of the Uyghur people and has argued for a boycott of the 2022 Beijing Olympics. In response, China's foreign ministry accused Mr Kanter of "trying to get attention". The 11-year NBA veteran has also repeatedly referred to Turkish President as a "dictator". In 2019, Turkish authorities filed an international arrest warrant for Mr Kanter, accusing him of having links with groups involved in a failed 2016 coup. He denied the allegations.
Ghislaine Maxwell accused of preying on young girls for Epstein to abuse. Prosecutors have alleged that British socialite Ghislaine Maxwell and convicted paedophile Jeffrey Epstein were "partners in crime", and that she groomed vulnerable young girls for him to sexually abuse. Ms Maxwell appeared in court in New York on the first day of her trial for sex trafficking charges, which she denies. Her defence said she was being used as a scapegoat for Epstein's crimes. Epstein died in prison in 2019. Ms Maxwell has been in a US jail since her arrest last year, awaiting the high-profile six-week trial. The 59-year-old, who also has American and French citizenship, has pleaded not guilty to all the charges against her. Lawyers for Ms Maxwell, as well as family members, have repeatedly complained about her conditions in jail and her legal team has made several unsuccessful applications for bail. Epstein died in a New York prison cell on 10 August 2019 as he awaited his trial on sex trafficking charges. His death was ruled to be a suicide. Who is Ghislaine Maxwell, Epstein's ex-girlfriend?Panorama: The Prince and the Epstein ScandalWho was Jeffrey Epstein? The trial of Ms Maxwell, the daughter of late media mogul Robert Maxwell, began at around 08:30 local time (13:30 GMT) on Monday. A jury of 12 was selected, followed by opening statements. For the prosecution, Assistant District Attorney Lara Pomerantz said Ms Maxwell "preyed on vulnerable young girls, manipulated them, and served them up to be sexually abused", accusing her and Epstein of being "partners in crime". The defence however said she is only on trial because prosecutors cannot bring Epstein to justice, and said Ms Maxwell was not like powerful men who abuse women. "The charges against Ghislaine Maxwell are for things that Jeffrey Epstein did, but she is not Jeffrey Epstein," her lawyer Bobbi Sternheim said. No cameras are allowed in the courtroom. According to a letter by Ms Maxwell's lawyer, the defence will say her accusers might have faulty memories. The letter says that leading experts in psychiatry and memory will be brought in to testify in her defence. Ghislaine Maxwell 'won't get fair trial' - brother Ms Maxwell is accused of having helped Epstein sexually abuse underage girls. US prosecutors allege she "played a critical role in the grooming and abuse" of minors. Four charges relate to the years 1994-97 when she was, according to an indictment, among Epstein's closest associates and also in an "intimate relationship" with him. Two other charges - of sex trafficking conspiracy and sex trafficking of a minor - came in an amended indictment and relate to the period 2001 and 2004. Sarah Ransome, one of Epstein's alleged victims, has told the BBC's Panorama programme that Ms Maxwell worked closely with him. She said: "Ghislaine controlled the girls. She was like the madam. She was like the nuts and bolts of the sex trafficking operation." Ghislaine Maxwell's highly awaited trial will be closely followed from New York to London. The British publishing heiress for years dodged the press as her accusers came forward with shocking and disturbing claims. In the long and twisted saga of Jeffrey Epstein's sex trafficking scandal, his arrest and death under unusual circumstances, many questioned whether this trial would in fact take place. Legal experts say this is one of the most high-profile cases to try a woman for allegedly facilitating a sex trafficking operation. The four underage girls in the indictment, now grown women, are expected to take the stand to tell their stories under oath. It's unclear if Ghislaine Maxwell will do the same. Her brother, Ian Maxwell says at least one sibling will be present every day of the trial to support her. This case will be narrowly focused on the charges in the indictment, and therefore will not answer every burning question around Epstein's sex trafficking ring. But it will add another piece to the puzzle. Born outside Paris on Christmas Day, 1961, Ms Maxwell grew up in a country mansion, went to Oxford University and speaks several languages. She is Robert Maxwell's ninth and youngest child. She is said to have had a very close relationship with her late father, and he named his luxury yacht - the Lady Ghislaine - after her. Soon after her father's death in 1991, Ms Maxwell left the UK to settle in America, where she worked in real estate, and not long after met Jeffrey Epstein. She sold her Manhattan townhouse in 2016, and kept a low profile until she was arrested last July at her secluded mansion in the state of New Hampshire.
Virgil Abloh: How he 'helped black people dream in fashion'. "Virgil gave me the ability to think and imagine I could be in spaces that weren't necessarily for black people in the first place." From musicians to models to sports stars, many people have paid tribute to designer Virgil Abloh this week. On Sunday it was announced the founder of the Off-White fashion label died from cancer, aged 41. He became recognised while working as Kanye West's creative director - and later made history as the first African-American to lead Louis Vuitton. But his influence has not been limited to those in the celebrity world. Radio 1 Newsbeat has been speaking to fashion designers and students about the legacy Virgil Abloh leaves behind.  "He opened the doors for a generation of thinkers from marginalised communities," says Maxwell Shoroye. Maxwell is a graduate and designer in men's fashion, and the 23-year-old credits Virgil for his impact on the black community. "Virgil gave us the ability to dream, because we [black people] don't necessarily see ourselves in the media in good ways." And that's something Bianca Saunders can relate to. The 28-year-old has her own menswear brand (also called Bianca Saunders), and feels having a black person at the very top of the industry has been "influential". Bianca already had a sense of what her brand would be when she was a student - but seeing Virgil achieve as much as he did inspired her. "It gave me an idea of where the glass ceiling could actually go - because there's not many people that look like me in the industry in terms of being black and in fashion." Bianca feels it's possible for black creatives to have their own brands and believes there are opportunities out there. Fashion student Kiara Morris feels Virgil represented something special. "He showed you can make it and not to let anything ever hold you back," Kiara, 20, says. "The fashion industry has been traditionally white and middle class. But hearing him speak in interviews, it felt like that's what black excellence is about." Kiara feels Virgil showed "there's a space" for black people, particularly in luxury retail and fashion. "I'm not saying I'll be like him, but I have someone to look up to. "And I want to say thank you [to him] for showing me I can have a seat at the table."  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter It's Virgil's multiple talents that made him such an innovative and disruptive figure. As well as one of the most influential designers in the fashion industry, he was also a DJ, an artist, and had degrees in civil engineering and architecture. "When you look at his work you wonder how he did it? And then you realise it's through his hard work, taking opportunities and his creative genius," Kiara says. Maxwell adds: "Virgil knew the power of combining different walks or different industries to create new things." Having a range of voices and stories "makes fashion exciting," which is what Virgil was able to do, he says. And that's what Maxwell is trying to bring to his own identity as a designer. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter But it's not just the creative genius which makes Virgil a standout, according to both Bianca and Kiara. Bianca met Virgil for the first time this year and says it's not just his professional skills that make him stand out - but that he was "super nice". "In terms of offering advice, saying I could message him any time." "He was always a person grateful to be here, and I felt like he wanted people to know that as well." Kiara says the tributes that have come in from so many different people show "there's something about the way he works". "Everyone loved him. He wasn't someone that I ever saw as problematic or a bad person, just someone who's genuine." "Virgil has shifted the world and I hope fashion follows in his footsteps and has this mass integration of different communities coming together," Maxwell adds. Follow Newsbeat on Instagram, Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. Listen to Newsbeat live at 12:45 and 17:45 weekdays - or listen back here.
Covid: Biden urges calm over Omicron fears. US President Joe Biden has called the Omicron Covid variant a "cause for concern, not a cause for panic" one day after it was detected in North America. Cases have been found in Canada, and his speech from the White House comes as US travel bans on eight African countries takes effect. Mr Biden also urged people to get a booster and to wear masks. He said he does not anticipate any further US travel restrictions or lockdowns at this time. In remarks on Monday, the president called it "almost inevitable" that the Omicron strain, first reported by South Africa, will be found in the US "at some point". He added that said vaccine companies are creating "contingency plans" for new vaccines "if needed". Late last week, the US announced a ban on flights from South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique and Malawi. Canada, the UK and the EU and other countries have also restricted travel from southern Africa. In his remarks, Mr Biden said that the ban had bought some time for the US to study the new strain. While the World Health Organization has deemed Omicron a "variant of concern", it is still not clear whether it is associated with more transmission or more risk of evading vaccines. How do you detect Omicron?Latest news on Covid Omicron variant "We have the best vaccine in the world, and the best medicines, the best scientist and we're learning more every single day," the president said. He also vowed to "fight this variant with scientific and knowledgeable actions and speed. Not chaos and confusion". He praised the scientific community of South Africa for reporting the strain, despite criticism that travel bans are being used to punish the country. "To their credit, the scientific community in South Africa quickly notified the world of the emergence of this new variant," Mr Biden said. "This kind of transparency is to be encouraged and applauded because it increases our ability to respond quickly to any new threats, and that's exactly what we did." He also said he was directing the US Food and Drug Administration, which regulates vaccines, to use the "fastest process available without cutting any corners" to approve any potential new vaccines that specifically target Omicron. Canada, the US neighbour to the north, said on Sunday that the Omicron strain had been discovered in two patients who had recently travelled to Nigeria. A third case was announced on Monday.
Jussie Smollett: Jury selection begins in actor’s trial. Jury selection in the high-profile trial of US TV actor Jussie Smollett begins on Monday, nearly three years after he claimed he was the victim of a racist and homophobic attack. Mr Smollett, 39, claimed in January 2019 that he was attacked by two men who yelled pro-Donald Trump slogans and tied a noose around his neck. Authorities accused him of staging the attack on himself as a publicity stunt. He has denied any wrongdoing. Authorities allege that Mr Smollett paid two brothers $3,500 (£2,630) to carry out the attack to promote his career because he was "dissatisfied with his salary". Mr Smollett has claimed that the payment was for one of the brothers to work as a personal trainer. The former Empire show actor was indicted by a special prosecutor in Illinois last year on six counts of lying to police. Previous disorderly conduct charges against him had been dropped following an emergency court appearance in March 2019, prompting Chicago police and the city's mayor to accuse courts of letting Mr Smollett "off scot-free". A special prosecutor, Dan Webb, was later assigned to investigate how the case was handled. Mr Webb said that his office had obtained "sufficient factual evidence" to argue that the case should not have been dropped. In a statement, Mr Webb said that prosecuting the case was "in the interest of justice", partly due to the "extensive nature of Mr Smollett's false police reports" and the resources expended by Chicago police to investigate. How the Jussie Smollett drama unfolded If convicted, Mr Smollett faces a prison sentence of up to three years. Given Mr Smollett's lack of previous convictions, however, legal experts have said a lighter sentence or probation is more likely. It remains unclear if Mr Smollett will testify during the trial, which is expected to last a week. The two brothers accused of carrying out the attack - Abimbola and Olabinjo Osundairo - are both expected to take the witness stand. Both men had worked as extras on 'Empire'. Ever since authorities cast doubt on his claims, Mr Smollett has repeatedly maintained his innocence. In an Instagram Live interview with US author Marc Lamont-Hill last year, Mr Smollett said that the last two years had been "beyond frustrating". "They won't let this go…there is an example being made," he said. "The sad part is it's an example being made of someone that didn't do what they're being accused of."
Oscar Pistorius: Reeva Steenkamp's parents to meet her killer. Reeva Steenkamp's parents are preparing to meet her murderer, the former Paralympics star Oscar Pistorius. It is part of a process that could lead to his eventual release on parole. The South African athlete has been moved to a prison closer to Barry and June Steenkamp to enable the meeting to go ahead. Pistorius has served half his 13 years and five months sentence, handed to him for the 2013 Valentine's Day killing. The Steenkamp family lawyer has previously said the announcement he was being considered for release came as a shock, but that they were willing to participate in what the South African authorities describe as "restorative justice". As part of this, offenders are expected to speak to their victims or their relatives. They must also acknowledge the harm they have caused, the department of correctional services said. He has been moved from a prison in the capital, Pretoria to one in the port city of Gqeberha, previously known as Port Elizabeth, in the Eastern Cape. Pistorius shot his girlfriend Ms Steenkamp dead in 2013, saying he mistook her for a burglar at his Pretoria home. He fired four times through a locked toilet door. The making and unmaking of Oscar PistoriusMy friend Reeva Steenkamp Africa Live: More on this and other stories from the continent In 2014, at the conclusion of a trial that was followed around the world, he was given a five-year term for manslaughter. But Pistorius was found guilty of murder on appeal in 2015 and the sentence was later increased to 13 years and five months. When the possibility of Pistorius' release first came up earlier this month, the Steenkamps' lawyer, Tania Koen, told national broadcaster SABC that they "would like to participate in the victim-offender dialogue". "June [Steenkamp, Reeva's mother] has always said that she has forgiven Oscar, however that doesn't mean that he mustn't pay for what he has done... Barry [Steenkamp, Reeva's father] battles with that a bit, but that is something he will have to voice at the appropriate time," Ms Koen added. "The wound, even though so much time has passed, is still very raw." The lawyer also told the UK's Daily Mirror newspaper that the Steenkamps had received a letter from Pistorius which she described as being "emotionally distressing" for them. According to AFP, social workers are expected to speak to the family before the meeting goes ahead. The authorities have not said when the meeting will take place, simply saying "the timeframe... will be guided by the level of preparedness by all participants". The department of correctional services asked people not to put pressure on those taking part to reveal what was said. Prior to the murder, Pistorius was well known as a Paralympic gold medallist. In 2012, he made history by becoming the first amputee sprinter to compete at the Olympics running on prosthetic "blades". His legs were amputated below the knee when he was 11 months old because he was born without fibula bones. August 2012: Competes in London Olympics and Paralympics, where he won a gold medalFebruary 2013: Shoots dead his girlfriend Reeva SteenkampMarch 2014: Trial beginsSeptember 2014: Judge finds Pistorius guilty of culpable homicideOctober 2014: Begins five-year sentenceOctober 2015: Transferred to house arrestDecember 2015: Appeal court changes verdict to murderJuly 2016: Sentenced to six years in jail for murderNovember 2017: Sentence more than doubled to 13 years, five months Oscar Pistorius trial: 10 key moments
The Simpsons: Tiananmen episode not found in Hong Kong. An episode of The Simpsons that refers to the Tiananmen Square massacre is reported to be missing from Disney's streaming service in Hong Kong. Customers noticed that episode 12 of season 16 is missing from Disney +, which launched in the city this month. It comes as authorities in Hong Kong clamp down on the entertainment industry, banning films that violate a strict national security law. Disney has not commented on the missing episode. The episode, named "Goo Goo Gai Pan", sees the cartoon family visit China. During their trip to Beijing, they visit Tiananmen Square where a sign reads: "On this site, in 1989, nothing happened" - a nod to censorship of the deadly crackdown on protesters there that year. The demonstrators were calling for greater political freedom, and soldiers killed many unarmed civilians. Nobody knows for sure how many were killed. In June 1989, the Chinese government said 200 civilians and several dozen security personnel had died. Other estimates have ranged from hundreds to many thousands. In another part of the episode, the Simpsons also visit the embalmed body of former Chinese Communist leader Mao Zedong, whom Homer refers to as "a little angel that killed 50 million people". Mao led China through its Cultural Revolution, and a devastating famine that killed many millions of people. It is not clear why the episode is missing and who made the decision not to include it on the streaming service. The BBC has contacted Disney for comment. China's new law: Why is Hong Kong worried?What were the Tiananmen Square protests about? Since the introduction of the national security law last year, authorities have cracked down on dissent in Hong Kong. The legislation, which came after huge pro-democracy protests in 2019, criminalises secession, subversion, terrorism and collusion with foreign forces. Last month, Hong Kong's legislature passed a new law banning films that violate China's national security interests. Book publishers in Hong Kong have admitted to self-censoring and the largest pro-democracy paper, Apple Daily, closed earlier this year amid a national security investigation. Meanwhile, many opposition figures are already in prison or in exile.
Covid: Omicron variant causes passengers to scramble for flights. Travellers and airlines are scrambling to rearrange plans as the latest Covid restrictions cause travel turmoil for people trying to return to the UK. Passengers criticised airlines and government for a lack of information on returning from "red list" countries. One told the BBC he had found a return flight from South Africa but now cannot get a quarantine hotel in the UK. Alex Clarke, from near Reading, said a lack of hotel space meant he might have to re-arrange his return again. "I should have landed back in the UK this morning," he told the BBC. "My flight was cancelled but I managed to book another for Friday. Now that's been cancelled. "I found return flights via Dubai and Amsterdam, but they have now been closed off. I now have a return booked for Thursday, but the website that books quarantine hotels says everything is booked." What are the UK's new travel rules?How do you detect Omicron?Latest news on Covid Omicron variantAustralia delays reopening over Omicron variant Cases of the new Covid variant - Omicron - were first recorded in South Africa last week. There are concerns it could be more infectious and less responsive to vaccines. As a result, Covid rules are being strengthened once more. The government has added 10 southern African countries - including South Africa where Mr Clarke is stuck - to the UK's travel red list. The only people allowed to enter the UK from these countries are UK or Irish nations, or UK residents. They will have to pay for and self-isolate in a pre-booked government-approved hotel for 10 days. Mr Clarke, who has been staying with friends while his wife and two young children remained at home in the UK, had travelled from Cape Town to Johannesburg when he thought he had secured an alternative flight. He estimates the extra airline, hotel and UK quarantine costs will be about £4,000. He said: "There has been absolutely no communication from British Airways or the UK government on getting back to the UK. "In the one email received from BA, the helpline that BA set up went to a call centre and the person in the phone had no idea that flights to the UK had been suspended or cancelled." When he telephoned again later, he was directed to BA's website. Meanwhile, another traveller, Mike Haswell, from Cardiff, told the BBC on Sunday how he had been struggling to return from Malawi, where he was working. He reached Ethiopia, where ground staff at Addis Ababa airport refused to let UK nationals onto the flight to the UK. Mr Haswell said he and about 30 other UK passengers have been stuck at the airport for 18 hours and still did not know when a flight would be available. If your flight is cancelled, you are entitled to a full refund and you can choose to receive that refund in cash rather than as a voucher. An airline should refund the money within seven days, although some people have waited longer. A package holiday should be refunded, in full, within 14 days. Read more here Meanwhile, Virgin Atlantic has said it will operate its first flight from Johannesburg to London on Wednesday.  The airline has not flown from South Africa since last Friday morning. All passengers will arrive into Heathrow Terminal 4, which is being reinstated as an arrival facility for red list countries and passengers. They will then go to a managed hotel quarantine facility, as per the new guidance. A Heathrow spokesperson said: "We are reopening Terminal 4 as a dedicated arrivals facility for red list countries on Wednesday 1 December. In the meantime, there will be no direct flights arriving from affected areas." As well as adding more countries to the UK's red list, the government has said that from 04:00 GMT on Tuesday, 30 November, anyone entering the UK will require a PCR test within 48 hours of arrival and will need to self-isolate until they have a negative result. However, Willie Walsh, the head of the IATA airline trade body and formerly the boss of IAG, the group that owns BA, Iberia and Aer Lingus, told the BBC that the latest developments exposed the lack of a sensible testing regime and risk-based approach. "I'm very disappointed to see this knee-jerk reaction by governments to the latest development," he said. "It's clear that these measures have been completely ineffective in the past but impose huge hardship on people who are trying to connect with families and friends, and clearly massive financial damage to the tourism and airline industry." Mr Walsh said the failure of similar restrictions to prevent a second coronavirus wave in the UK after being implemented in May last year demonstrates they "do not have any long-term benefits" and are "not the answer". "I think sensible testing regimes which have been proven to be effective could be introduced which would enable people to continue travelling in a safe environment," he added. Tim Alderslade, the chief executive of Airlines UK, which represents UK-based carriers, also said the government could do more. "The situation is developing rapidly, and hopefully as more data emerges emergency border restrictions can be reversed quickly - and applied only where they will make a material difference," he said. "In the meantime, we urge ministers to make mandatory PCR tests free of charge for impacted passengers, many of whom are now in the invidious position of having less than 48 hours to arrange extra testing whilst overseas." Transport Secretary Grant Shapps tweeted that the changes were "targeted measures to provide confidence and protection", and they would be reviewed in three weeks "to ensure they are working effectively".
Supreme Court: Top US judges signal support for abortion limits. The US Supreme Court appears poised to accept a Mississippi law that would bar abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy, even in cases of rape or incest. In Wednesday's hearing into the case, conservative justices hinted that a majority backed upholding the law. A ruling, expected in June, may see millions of women lose abortion access. Anti-abortion activists are urging the court to "protect unborn children", but experts warn of an increase in maternal mortality if abortion is restricted. Both sides of the debate regard this case, known as Dobbs v Jackson Women's Health Organization, as an all-or-nothing fight over abortion rights. Lawyers defending the Mississippi law have asked the court to overturn two previous landmark decisions regarding abortion. The first, 1973's Roe v Wade, gave women in the US an absolute right to an abortion in the first three months of pregnancy, and limited rights in the second trimester. In 1992, in Planned Parenthood v Casey, the court ruled that states could not place an "undue burden" on women seeking abortions before a foetus could survive outside the womb, at about 24 weeks. In the years since, the "foetal viability" standard has acted as a red line in abortion law, preventing any bans on abortion before this time. But anti-abortion campaigners hope the current ideological makeup of the court has created a new opening. The court, reshaped by three appointments under former President Donald Trump, has been called the most conservative-leaning in modern US history. Addressing the court on Wednesday - with its 6-to-3 conservative majority - Mississippi Solicitor General Scott Stewart told justices that past rulings Roe and Casey "haunt our country" and "poison the law". He took direct aim at the existing foetal viability standard, arguing it was not "tethered" to the Constitution. Justice Sonya Sotomayor, a liberal, took issue with this claim, responding: "There's so much that's not in the Constitution". She warned that the court "would not recover" if Americans saw it as a political body, stepping in to reverse Roe and Casey. The court would not "survive the stench that this creates in the public perception." Representing Jackson Women's Health Organization - the only abortion clinic in Mississippi - Julie Rikelman of the Center for Reproductive Rights spoke next, asking the court to strike down the Mississippi law. "Mississippi's ban on abortion, two months before viability, is flatly unconstitutional under decades of precedent," Ms Rickelman said. Mississippi's law would "force women to remain pregnant and give birth against their will". US Solicitor General Elizabeth Prelogar also spoke, arguing against the Mississippi abortion ban on behalf of the Biden administration. "The real world effects of overruling Roe and Casey would be severe and swift," she said, adding that women have come to rely on this "fundamental right". The case that could change abortion laws in the US If the court strikes down Roe v Wade, or rules that the Mississippi law does not place an undue burden on women seeking abortions, at least 21 states are expected to introduce abortion restrictions, including outright bans after 15 weeks. In these states, nearly half of US women of reproductive age (18-49) - some 36 million people - could lose abortion access, according to research from Planned Parenthood, a healthcare organisation that provides abortions. Carol Tobias, president of anti-abortion group National Right to Life, told the BBC she was optimistic the court would step in "to protect unborn children". "We certainly hope that they will let the Mississippi law stand," she said. "We'd love to see them go even further and say that unborn human beings deserve the same protection as born human beings". But for other women in Washington DC, the possibility of restricted abortion brought fear. "I'm not shocked, but I'm scared," said Olivia Dinucci. "Abortion still going to happen, people are going to do it no matter if it's legal or not. However, it will not be safe." She added: "It's 2021, I cannot believe we have to be fighting this." And some experts have predicted dangerous ripple effects if abortion is restricted. "We will see significant increases in maternal mortality, which are already disproportionately experienced by women of colour," said Katherine Franke, director of the centre for gender and sexuality law at Columbia University. "We will see families descend into greater levels of poverty because the inability to take care of kids, rises in domestic violence." There were about 630,000 reported abortions in the US in 2019, according to the US Centers for Disease Control. This was an 18% decrease compared with 2010. Women in their 20s account for the majority of abortions - in 2019 about 57% were in this age group. Black Americans get abortions at the highest rate - 27 per 1,000 women aged 15-44. The pro-choice Guttmacher Institute says a lack of access to healthcare plays a role, as does discrimination. Their 2014 survey found three quarters of people receiving abortions were either on low incomes or below the poverty line in the US. After two hours of oral arguments, the Roe v Wade precedent that has set a baseline of abortion rights through the US for nearly half a century appears to be in serious jeopardy. That shouldn't come as a huge surprise, given that the US Supreme Court is now dominated by conservatives, three of whom were appointed by Donald Trump with the explicit goal of overturning Roe. Still, the tenor of questioning by the justices over the course of the morning suggests that there is, at the very least, a five-justice majority willing to uphold Mississippi's ban on all abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy. Chief Justice John Roberts, who is now at the ideological centre of the court, seemed comfortable with such a result which, in and of itself, would constitute a major blow to Roe's first-trimester abortion protections. That may end up a best-case scenario for abortion-rights supporters at this point, however. Other justices, like Amy Coney Barrett and Brett Kavanaugh, displayed an openness to a wholesale reversal of Roe, returning the question of abortion legality to individual states. That's the outcome anti-abortion activists have been working toward for decades - and today it seems closer than ever to becoming a reality.
Why US abortion laws could be changed by Supreme Court ruling. The US Supreme Court has heard the most important abortion case in a generation. On Wednesday it considered a Mississippi law that asks the court to ban abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy. Its final ruling, due in June next year, could cut off abortion services for tens of millions of women. A woman's right to abortion was established in 1973, following a Supreme Court ruling in a case known as Roe v Wade. The decision gave women in the US an absolute right to an abortion in the first three months of pregnancy, and limited rights in the second three months. Nearly two decades later the court made another key decision. In Planned Parenthood v Casey, the court ruled that states could not place an "undue burden" on women seeking abortions before foetal viability. In the US, this threshold for when foetuses can sustain life outside the womb has been set at about 23 or 24 weeks. A state law was passed in Mississippi in 2018 which would make most abortions illegal after the first 15 weeks of pregnancy - including those caused by rape or incest. It hasn't been enforced due to a legal challenge by Mississippi's only abortion provider, the Jackson Women's Health Organization. The US Supreme Court is now considering the case. Five ways this Supreme Court could change America Mississippi is asking for Roe v Wade to be overturned, and with it the constitutional right to an abortion in the US. If successful, states would be welcome to set their own standards for abortion - including outright bans before foetal viability. Nearly two dozen states are expected to introduce their own bans, some probably more severe than Mississippi's. In a legal brief filed this summer Mississippi Attorney General Lynn Fitch - who will be defending the state's law - said that throwing out Roe would effectively return decision-making about abortion to the American people and their elected officials. "The matter should be returned to the States and the people," she wrote. Ms Fitch did not return a BBC request for comment. There are three possible outcomes next summer: overturn Roe v Wade rule that the Mississippi law does not place "an undue burden" on women seeking an abortion - this would leave Roe standing in principle, while undermining it in practice strike down the Mississippi law, allowing Roe to stand - though this is considered unlikely The first option is a distinct possibility. The court, reshaped by three appointments under former President Donald Trump, has been called the most conservative-leaning in modern US history. "It has been a 50 year campaign to overrule Roe v Wade and there certainly are enough members of the court now to do so," said Katherine Franke, director of the center for gender and sexuality law at Columbia University. But she believes an outright repeal is unlikely. Instead, the court could uphold the Mississippi law while keeping both Roe and Casey in place. Still, lawyers for Jackson Women's Health Organization have said that such a decision is tantamount to gutting the court's past abortion rulings, because it would discard the foetal viability standard. That could happen in 22 states, including Mississippi. Twelve have passed so-called trigger laws, which would automatically ban abortion if Roe was overruled. Others have either passed unconstitutional abortion bans in the years since Roe v Wade (which would be revived), or retained abortion restrictions from before Roe, which are currently unenforceable. In all, nearly half of US women of reproductive age (18-49) - some 36 million - could lose abortion access, according to research from Planned Parenthood, a healthcare organisation which provides abortions. In more than half of US states, abortion access would probably remain the same. In 15 states and the District of Columbia, state law guarantees the right to an abortion even if Roe v Wade is overturned. Hollowing out abortion access would most intensely affect poor women - who are already more likely to seek an abortion in the first place. Black and Latina women are likely to be inordinately affected - 61% of abortion patients are minorities. "The typical abortion patient is in their 20s, doesn't have a lot of money and has one or more children," said Rachel Jones, a principal investigator at the Guttmacher Institute, a pro-choice group. "These are the groups that are going to be the most impacted when restrictions are placed on abortion, or abortion is banned." Although Roe v Wade gave US women a guaranteed right to an abortion, for millions it is a right in name only. In the decades since 1973, anti-abortion rulings have gradually pared back access in more than a dozen states. In 2021 alone, nearly 600 abortion restrictions have been introduced nationwide, with 90 enacted into law. That is more than in any year since Roe. How US women came to be jailed for miscarriages And abortions have long been out of reach for many low-income women. Since 1976, a law known as the Hyde Amendment has blocked the use of federal funding for the procedure. Women are often forced to pay for abortion themselves, which can cost cost hundreds of dollars.
Mike Pence asks Supreme Court to overturn abortion rights. Former US Vice-President Mike Pence has called on the Supreme Court to overturn the landmark 1973 Roe v Wade case that legalised abortion in the US. Mr Pence said the ruling was "a misguided decision" that harmed millions of unborn babies. If Roe v Wade is quashed, millions of women would lose access to abortions. On Wednesday, the Supreme Court will hear arguments over a Mississippi law banning abortion after 15 weeks. A ruling is expected by next summer. The Mississippi ban includes abortions of pregnancies caused by rape or incest. The law, however, has not been enforced because of a legal challenge from the state's only abortion provider. What is Roe v Wade ruling on abortion? Five ways this Supreme Court could change AmericaWhy abortion rights in US could be about to change At a news conference in Washington DC on Tuesday, Mr Pence said he hoped the Supreme Court will "make history" with a full reversal of Roe v Wade. The 1973 ruling gave women in the US an absolute right to an abortion in the first three months of pregnancy, and limited rights in the second three months. "We are asking the Supreme Court of the United States to overturn Roe v Wade and restore the sanctity of human life to the centre of American law," the former vice-president said. Mr Pence also argued that the "fiat of unelected judges" is not reflective of popular opinion in the US. He believes elected, state-level officials are better placed to write abortion laws for their own jurisdictions. A nationwide ban on abortions is not on the horizon, but a ruling in Mississippi's favour would mean that US states would be able to develop their own abortion laws. Experts believe that abortions would soon become illegal in more than 20 other states. Twelve states have passed so-called trigger laws, which would automatically ban abortion if Roe was overruled. Others have either passed unconstitutional abortion bans in the years since Roe v Wade (which would be revived), or retained abortion restrictions from before Roe, which are currently unenforceable. Such a move would be "devastating" for low-income women, Katherine Franke, director of the centre for gender and sexuality law at Columbia University, told the BBC. It would increase maternal mortality and poverty, she added. What Texas women make of six-week abortion ban Mississippi Attorney General Lynn Fitch has repeatedly called on Roe v Wade to be overturned. In a summer brief filed to the court, Ms Fitch said that the precedent the ruling set is "egregiously wrong". While Mr Pence acknowledged he "can't say" how the court will rule, he said he has "absolute confidence that the tide has turned for the pro-life movement". "Americans are ready for an end to the judicial tyranny of Roe v Wade," he added. A Pew Research survey from May 2021 found that about 6 in 10 Americans believe that abortion should be legal in almost all circumstances. The same survey found that 4 in 10 Americans believe it should be illegal in all cases. In a statement earlier this year, Nancy Northrup, the president and CEO of the Center for Reproductive Rights - which has brought the case to the Supreme Court on behalf of the Jackson Women's Health Organization - said that the state's case is "extreme and regressive." "Their goal is for the Supreme Court to take away our right to control our own bodies and our own futures - not just in Mississippi, but everywhere," Ms Northrup said. "Women of childbearing age in the US have never known a world in which they don't have this basic right." There were about 630,000 reported abortions in the US in 2019 according to the US Centers for Disease Control. This was an 18% decrease compared with 2010. Women in their twenties account for the majority of abortions - in 2019 about 57% were in this age group. Black Americans get abortions at the highest rate - 27 per 1,000 women aged 15-44. The pro-choice Guttmacher Institute says a lack of access to healthcare plays a role, as does discrimination. Their 2014 survey found three quarters of people receiving abortions were either on low incomes or below the poverty line in the US.
Covid Omicron: Time to consider mandatory jabs, EU chief says. European Union countries should consider mandatory vaccination to combat Covid and the Omicron variant, the head of its Commission has said. Ursula von der Leyen said vaccines would be crucial in the fight against the "highly contagious" new variant. Some two dozen countries have reported cases of Omicron, and the EU has tightened travel restrictions since it was first reported earlier this month. European countries have also been facing a wider spike in cases. The World Health Organization (WHO), meanwhile, said early signs were that most cases of the Omicron variant were "mild". On Wednesday, Ms von der Leyen said it was "understandable and appropriate" for EU members to discuss mandatory Covid vaccinations given that a third of the bloc's population was unvaccinated. "How we can encourage and potentially think about mandatory vaccination within the European Union? This needs discussion. This needs a common approach, but it is a discussion that I think has to be led," she told a news conference in Brussels. Only individual EU states can enforce vaccine mandates and some are already taking steps in that direction. Austria has announced compulsory Covid vaccinations from February next year, while Greece is fining all unvaccinated over-60s €100 (£85) a month. Germany's incoming Chancellor, Olaf Scholz, has said he supports compulsory jabs. In an interview with Bild television, Mr Scholz said he wanted compulsory vaccinations from March and also said a faster rollout of booster jabs was needed. The WHO, which declared Omicron "of concern" on Friday following its rapid spread in South Africa, says it will know more about the new variant within days. Omicron is becoming the dominant Covid strain in South Africa, where the daily number of recorded cases doubled on Wednesday. Officials there say the variant could be fuelling the surge. However, the WHO has already said it believes existing vaccines "will still prevent severe disease" among people who contract the new variant. Omicron may need 'stringent response' - scientistsIs Omicron more harmful than other Covid variants?How can I tell I have Omicron? How fast is worldwide progress on vaccines? Asked about the severity of cases, WHO epidemiologist Dr Maria van Kerkhove said: "There is some indication that some of the patients are presenting with mild disease. "There is still suggestion of increased hospitalisations across South Africa but this could be the sheer fact that we have more cases, and if you have more cases you have more hospitalisations." The US on Wednesday became the latest country to report a case of Omicron. Other nations include Nigeria, Norway and South Korea. Several countries have tightened their borders to halt the spread of Omicron. But the WHO warned against "punitive" travel measures imposed on southern African countries. WHO head Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said he was concerned about "blunt, blanket measures", which "will only worsen inequities". Dr Van Kerkhove said travel bans imposed on South Africa had created problems for shipping virus samples. The US, which has already banned foreign travellers from eight African countries, has ordered airlines to tell it the names of passengers who have been there.
Michigan school shooting: Suspect, 15, charged as an adult. The suspect in a Michigan school shooting will face charges of terrorism and first-degree murder following a rampage that left four students dead and seven injured. Prosecutors on Wednesday charged Oxford High School student Ethan Crumbley, 15, as an adult. He has pleaded not guilty. Police are yet to identify a motive in the attack. The victims were named as Tate Myre, 16, Madisyn Baldwin, 17, Hana St Juliana, 14, and Justin Shilling, 17. Fourth death confirmed in Michigan school shooting Announcing the charges on Wednesday, Oakland County prosecutor Karen McDonald said her office had "a mountain of digital evidence" to show the suspect had planned the attack "well before the incident". One such instance is a video of the suspect the night before the shooting, in which he discusses killing students. "This isn't even a close call," she said. "This was not an impulsive act." She added that it was "absolutely premeditated". Ms McDonald said the teen will face one count of terrorism, four counts of first-degree murder, seven counts of assault with intent to murder, and 12 counts of possession of a firearm, with further charges likely as the investigation unfolds. At a later news conference, Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard said charging the suspect as an adult was "the most appropriate" action. "I agree with holding this individual wholly and completely responsible for the deplorable, tragic event that occurred by his choice," he said. The suspect will be transferred from a juvenile detention centre to the local county jail, where he will be held without bond. The teenager has refused to speak with investigators on the instructions of his family. The sheriff stressed that the teenager had never been on the radar of law enforcement or the school. He also added there was no evidence the suspect had been bullied by his peers. "There is nothing that he could have faced that would warrant senseless, absolutely brutal violence on other kids," said Mr Bouchard. He noted that the suspect's parents had been called to the school hours before the shooting "for behaviour in the classroom that was concerning". Investigators have found the suspect loaded his firearm - purchased by his father on Friday - in the bathroom and then walked through the hallway firing more than 30 shots from the weapon. Mr Bouchard said the suspect appeared to fire indiscriminately during the attack at the school of around 1,700 students. Tate Myre reportedly tried to disarm the shooter, and more than 75,000 people have signed a petition calling for the school to rename its football stadium after Tate. The 17-year-old, who played on the football team, died in a police officer's car on the way to hospital. Madisyn and Hana also died on Tuesday, while Justin was confirmed dead on Wednesday. Among those admitted to hospital, a 17-year-old female student remains in critical condition with a gunshot wound to the chest.
When Jesus is used to steal from his flock. To his listeners, William Neil "Doc" Gallagher was known as the "Money Doctor" - a charming financial guru who advertised his services on Christian radio, broadcast all over the American conservative 'Bible Belt' that stretches across North Texas. His adverts often concluded with a familiar slogan: "See you in church Sunday." "Doctor Neil Gallagher is a premier true American, with integrity in all his pursuits," a narrator says in a corporate video posted to YouTube. "His life's passion is to help people retire safe, early and happy." The three-minute video goes on to extol the benefits of the octogenarian's "visionary style", claiming he had guided more than 1,000 people to financial independence through his firm, Gallagher Financial Group, while also publishing a book, "Jesus Christ, Money Master". In reality, Gallagher was anything but. Instead, he was a fraudster who amassed $32m (£24m) in a Ponzi scheme that mostly targeted retired victims between the ages of 62 and 91. In Ponzi schemes, earlier investors generated "returns" by taking money from later investors, who are often promised considerable profits with little risk. These schemes rely on a steady flow of new joiners giving money to those already invested in order to continue. When that doesn't happen, the scam collapses. According to court documents, Gallagher had been defrauding people through a Ponzi scheme since at least 2013. His two companies, Gallagher Financial Group, Inc. and W. Neil Gallagher, Ph.D. Agency, Inc. were ordered shut by the US Securities and Exchange Commission in March 2019. Last month, he was given three life sentences in prison by a judge in Texas' Tarrant County, in addition to a 25-year sentence he had already received in Dallas in March 2020. Gallagher promised his victims returns of between 5% to 8% of their investment annually. Instead, they received nothing, with Gallagher spending most of the funds on personal and company expenses and to make payments to earlier investors. To hide the fraud, he also provided fake account statements showing false balances. The BBC was unable to reach Gallagher's attorney for comment. While Gallagher's scam garnered national media attention, his methods were far from new. Ponzi schemes are named after a notorious swindler from the 1920s, but versions of the scam date back to at least the mid-1800s. The medium Gallagher used to attract victims - Christian radio - has also been popular for decades, and has remained so even in the face of stiff competition from newer forms of media. Instead, Gallagher's nearly 200 victims highlight a different trend: elder fraud, a crime that the FBI believes is growing, costing billions of dollars each year. Among the people Gallagher preyed upon were a woman in her 70s suffering from lymphoma who invested more than half a million dollars; a commercial sandblaster, as well as serving and retired local police officers. Many victims were forced to sell homes, take loans from their children or return to work after retirement. It was the worst case of elder fraud she's seen in her career, Lori Varnell, the chief of the Tarrant County District Attorney's Elder Financial Fraud team, told the BBC. "These are individuals who worked their whole lives to save this money up. It was personal," Ms Varnell said. "They're devastated. It wasn't just the money. It was a betrayal." To reach his victims, Gallagher promoted his company's services in churches and through Christian radio, an umbrella term that encompasses thousands of stations across the country that broadcast Christian-oriented programming, from sermons and talk shows to music and news. Dating back to 1920 - the year commercial radio was first aired - Christian radio remains immensely popular in the US. More than 20 million listeners tune in each week, according to the Radio Advertising Bureau, an industry group. Ms Varnell said she wasn't surprised that Doc Gallagher would use Christian radio to dupe his victims. "Within the Christian community, there's a high level of trust. Especially here in the Bible Belt," she said. "Once you start speaking the Christian language, and using their words, their phrases, that will be a tell-tale sign to other Christians that you're a Christian." Once Gallagher established a sense of trust with his victims, they are less likely to "pay as much attention to the details" of what was happening, said Ms Varnell. This tactic is a prime example of 'affinity fraud', said David Fleck, a former Los Angeles prosecutor. In these schemes, fraudsters target members of an identifiable group, ranging from religious or ethnic communities to certain professions. In many cases, they use members of the group to unwittingly help advertise the scam to others and help convince people of its validity. Mr Fleck recalled one incident in which he prosecuted a man who was a member of six different churches. After gaining their trust, the man stole the identities of 25 different people he met at church, bought houses in their names and then collected cash from renters. In another example, a California man was arrested in 2017 for defrauding more than 200 Armenian immigrants of $19m by promising to invest their money in lucrative technology stocks. "You see it among all cultural groups and expatriates from all sorts of countries," Mr Fleck said. "Affinity fraud permeates all con games. It just makes it so much easier for the con artist." Officials say that the elderly are a particularly vulnerable affinity group. According to the FBI, millions of elderly Americans fall victim to fraud each year, accumulating more than $3bn in losses annually. Jeffrey Cramer, a former federal prosecutor, said that the elderly are often lucrative targets for fraudsters who assume they have ample savings. "For the most part, they have more money because they've been working longer. Their house probably has equity and they've got a 401k [retirement savings]," Mr Cramer explained. "There's no sense trying to scam a 20-year-old. Someone in their 60s or 70s may have multiple investments and a house that's worth five times what they paid for it." Mr Cramer's assessment was echoed by Ms Varnell. In Gallagher's case, he also took advantage of "generational differences" among his victims, in addition to their faith, she said. "These are people who believe that when a man shook your hand and looked you in the eye, that was fine," she said. "They're built to believe people, because you don't lie. That's against the Ten Commandments." Fraud experts believe that only a fraction of all cases are reported. In instances that do go to court, victims are unlikely to see much - if any - of their money returned. The scammer often spends the money as quickly as it comes in, using it to continue making fraudulent payments or attempting to hide it in offshore accounts. In the Gallagher case, a court-appointed receiver was only able to recover approximately 14 cents on the dollar. Gallagher had spent much of the remainder, while the rest was laundered and remains unaccounted for. While the financial costs of frauds can be devastating for victims and their families, the real impact often runs deeper. "It takes an emotional and psychological toll," said Mr Cramer. "There's an embarrassment element when you've worked 20, 30, 40 years and you've got literally nothing to show for it." In court, many of Gallagher's victims spoke of that psychological toll. Among them was Susan Pippi, a 74-year-old who, with her husband, lost hundreds of thousands of dollars to the scheme. "I don't trust anybody anymore," she said in a statement released by Tarrant County prosecutors. "Except for God and my family." But these sorts of frauds are unlikely to go away, said Ms Varnell. A "concerted onslaught" of fraudsters - many of them abroad, are stealing the retirement funds of Americans at a rate of "millions every single day", she said. The elderly and their families must be on the lookout for warning signs. "If you purport to be a Christian, and someone's approaching you in the Christian realm, you should be extra suspicious," she said. "Be no less suspicious if you're Jewish, or Muslim, or whatever. If someone is approaching you on religious grounds, you should be very suspicious." Mr Cramer, for his part, said that affinity frauds are likely to become more common as younger, more tech-savvy generations come of age on social media. A fraudster can reach a much larger audience - but hide behind an account and disappear into the ether. Illustrations by Angelica Casas
First US case of Omicron coronavirus variant reported. Public health officials in California have confirmed the first known case of the Omicron coronavirus variant in the US. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said on Wednesday the infected individual had recently returned from South Africa. The traveller was fully vaccinated, has displayed mild symptoms so far and is currently self-isolating, the CDC said. The US plans to impose fresh travel restrictions over the new variant. How worrying is the new Covid variant?WHO warns of very high global risk from Omicron International passengers are expected to soon be required to provide a negative test result from within 24 hours of their departure, US media reports have said. President Joe Biden is expected to announce the stricter testing requirement and possible additional measures on Thursday. On Monday, the president said he believes the new variant is "not a cause for panic", adding that it was unlikely to result in domestic lockdowns. While the World Health Organization (WHO) and the US have deemed Omicron a "variant of concern", it is still not clear whether it is associated with more transmission or more risk of evading vaccines. The US and other countries have already imposed a ban on travel from eight African countries: South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique and Malawi. Health experts say the travel restrictions will buy them time to study the new variant, but new reports suggest the Omicron variant may have already been spreading through western Europe when scientists in South Africa detected it last week. According to the WHO, at least 23 countries have now reported cases of the heavily mutated variant, including the UK, Canada, and several European Union member countries. At a White House briefing on Wednesday, CDC director Rochelle Walensky said Omicron's emergence "further emphasises the importance of vaccination, boosters and prevention efforts needed to protect against Covid-19".
Canadian MPs vote to ban LGBT 'conversion therapy'. Canada's House of Commons has voted unanimously to ban so-called LGBT conversion therapy. The legislation would make it illegal to have a child undergo the practice or have anyone unwillingly undergo it. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's Liberals proposed the measure, though its passage prompted applause on both sides of the aisle. The bill must now be approved by the upper chamber of parliament, the Senate. Conversion therapy, which purports to change individuals' sexuality or gender identity, has been widely discredited. The House passed an earlier version of the bill in June, but it failed to clear the Senate before Mr Trudeau called an election in September. In emotional scenes on the House floor on Wednesday, Liberal MPs crossed the aisle to shake hands with and even hug their Conservative counterparts, reports CBC News. Conservative Leader Erin O'Toole allowed his caucus to have a free vote on the issue. But unanimous support for the bill caught the other side by surprise, according to Liberal MP Seamus O'Regan. Tourism Minister Randy Boissonnault, who is also a special adviser to Mr Trudeau on LGBT issues, said: "No one can consent to torture. "It's a great day for survivors, to know that no-one else is going to go through what they went through." Several Conservative MPs had expressed concern the wording of the bill could criminalise private conversations about sexuality or gender identity between children and teachers, religious leaders or mental health professionals. But Federal Justice Minister David Lametti said those objections were unfounded.
Rust: Alec Baldwin says he didn't fire gun on film set. Alec Baldwin says he "didn't pull the trigger" of the gun that fatally wounded cinematographer Halyna Hutchins on the set of his film, Rust. The star made the claim in his first sit-down interview since the incident in October. "I would never point a gun at anyone and pull a trigger at them. Never," he told George Stephanopoulos of ABC News. The interview was recorded on Tuesday, and is due to be broadcast in the US on Thursday evening. Mr Stephanopoulos described their 80-minute discussion as "raw" and "intense. The journalist described Mr Baldwin, 63, as "devastated" yet "very candid" and "forthcoming", while previewing the interview on Wednesday's Good Morning America. "I've done thousands of interviews in the last 20 years at ABC," he said. "This was the most intense I've ever experienced." Mr Baldwin is best-known for his performances in films like Glengarry Glen Ross and The Hunt For Red October, as well as his impersonation of Donald Trump on US sketch show Saturday Night Live. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter The interview marks the first time Mr Baldwin has spoken about the incident on camera, except for a brief interview he gave to TMZ in October, in a bid to stop the paparazzi from following him and his family. In that appearance, he described the incident as a "one in a trillion episode" and said accidents of this nature very rarely happened on film sets. Dead cinematographer 'was an incredible artist' Police to search arms supplier over Rust shootingBaldwin speaks about 'one in a trillion' shooting Ms Hutchins was shot and killed as Mr Baldwin rehearsed with what he believed to be a "cold" - or safe - gun on the set of Rust in New Mexico. It is believed to have discharged when he removed it from a holster during rehearsals for a forthcoming scene. Ms Hutchins was flown to hospital by helicopter after the shooting but later died of her injuries. Director Joel Souza, 48, was also injured. According to court records, Mr Baldwin was handed the weapon by the film's assistant director, Dave Halls, who did not know it contained live ammunition and indicated it was unloaded by shouting "cold gun". Mr Halls had been given the gun by Hannah Gutierrez-Reed, the 24-year-old armorer on the film. Asked by Mr Stephanopoulos how a live bullet had made its way on to the set, Mr Baldwin replied, "I have no idea. "Someone put a live bullet into a gun. A bullet that wasn't even supposed to be on the property." Lawyers for Ms Gutierrez-Reed have said she did not know where "the live rounds came from". That question is now at the centre of a police investigation in the US. Earlier this week, the investigators obtained a warrant to search the premises of an arms supplier in the US. An affidavit with the warrant said police were told ammunition for the film had come from several sources, including PDQ Arm & Prop. The affidavit said the ammunition supplier's owner, Seth Kenney, had told investigators the live round might have been from some "reloaded ammunition". He said the ammunition he supplied for the film consisted of dummy rounds and blanks, according to the affidavit. Follow us on Facebook, or on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Ethiopia's Tigray conflict: Lalibela retaken - government. Ethiopian troops have recaptured the historic town of Lalibela from Tigrayan rebels, the government has said. This is the latest victory claimed by the government since Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed went to the front lines last week to lead the fight-back. The Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF) said it had made a "strategic withdrawal" from certain areas. Lalibela, famous for its rock-hewn churches, was captured by the rebels in August. It is a Unesco world heritage site in Ethiopia's Amhara region, and was a popular tourist destination before the civil war broke out in Ethiopia last year. The conflict started in the northern Tigray region, and later engulfed other parts of Ethiopia as the TPLF launched an offensive to reach Addis Ababa in the south and the border with Djibouti in the east, which is crucial for getting supplies to landlocked Ethiopia. Fears of the rebels advancing on Addis Ababa led several countries, including the US and UK, to urge their citizens to leave Ethiopia last month. Why Facebook and Twitter are under fire in EthiopiaWhy the Ethiopia conflict matters to the worldAbiy Ahmed: The Nobel Prize winner who went to war Earlier on Wednesday, government spokesman Legesse Tulu was quoted by state media as saying the military was also confident of retaking the strategic city of Dessie "in a short period of time". The TPLF captured Dessie last month, in what was seen as a major blow to the government as the city leads to both Addis Ababa and the border with Djibouti. Other towns retaken from the rebels included Shewa Robit, about 220km (135 miles) from Addis Ababa, the government said. State-linked TV aired footage of Mr Abiy on Tuesday in military jungle fatigues, scanning the horizon with binoculars. "The enemy is defeated. Our remaining task is to rout the enemy and destroy them," he told soldiers sitting under trees. Last week, TPLF leader Debretsion Gebremichael wrote to the UN, raising concerns about drone strikes against civilians. Ethiopia had received Chinese drones, as well as weapons from Iran, Turkey and the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Mr Debretsion said. There has not been any response to his claims. China's Foreign Minister Wang Yi is currently visiting Ethiopia. He is expected to meet Deputy Prime Minister Demeke Mekonnen, who has taken charge of the day-to-day running of government while Mr Abiy is on the battlefield. China had opposed foreign "meddling" in Ethiopia as Mr Abiy's government came under pressure from the US and some European countries over reports of human rights abuses during the civil war. Meanwhile, the Ethiopia government has accused Twitter of targeting accounts that are critical of the rebels. Twitter has said it remains "neutral to political identity and ideology". Last month, Twitter temporarily removed its trends function in Ethiopia, citing ''the imminent threat of physical harm''. Facebook removed a post from Mr Abiy, saying it violated its policies against inciting violence.
Arizona officer fired after fatally shooting man in wheelchair. A US police officer has been fired after fatally shooting a man in a motorised wheelchair while responding to a reported shoplifting. Tucson police officer Ryan Remington fired nine shots at 61-year-old Richard Lee Richards during the incident. The Arizona city's police chief said on Tuesday that he's "deeply disturbed and troubled" by the officer's actions during the incident. Mr Remington's attorney has defended his client's actions. On Tuesday, police in Tucson released footage of the Monday incident, which began after Mr Richards was accused of stealing a toolbox from a local Walmart. Both a Walmart employee who confronted him and Mr Remington reported that Mr Richards had brandished a knife during the incident, refused to comply with orders to surrender the weapon, and attempted to move away. According to the Walmart employee, Mr Richards said that "if you want me to put down the knife, you're going to have to shoot me". The footage - drawn from CCTV cameras and police bodycams, including one on Mr Remington - shows Mr Remington and another officer following Mr Richards to the entrance of another nearby store, with one officer instructing him to "not go into the store". Mr Remington then fires nine shots from his gun at Mr Richards, who slumps forward and falls from his wheelchair. He was then handcuffed. He was later declared dead. "His [Mr Remington's] deadly use of force in this incident is a clear violation of department policy and directly contradicts multiple aspects of our use of force and training," Tucson police chief Chris Magnus said on Tuesday. "As a result, the department moved earlier today to terminate Officer Remington," he added. Tucson Mayor Regina Romero said in a statement that Mr Remington's actions were "unconscionable and indefensible". The incident is now being reviewed by the Pima County Attorney's Office. Michael Storie, an attorney representing Mr Remington, told the BBC in an interview that the department's overview of the case is "only half the story" and that "many more important details were withheld" from the department's news conference. "Officers always have alternative actions that can be second guessed," Mr Storie said. "However, just because there are multiple actions, doesn't mean the one he chose was inappropriate." An additional statement on behalf of Mr Remington is expected later Wednesday.
Austria: Doctor fined for amputating wrong leg of patient. A surgeon in Austria has been fined after amputating the wrong leg of a patient earlier this year. The elderly patient's right leg was removed instead of his left, with the mistake only discovered two days later. On Wednesday, the court in Linz found the 43-year-old guilty of gross negligence and fined her €2,700 (£2,296). The widow of the patient, who died before the case came to court, was also awarded  €5,000 in damages. The patient attended the clinic in Freistadt last May to have his leg amputated but the surgeon marked the wrong limb for amputation, AFP news agency reports. The mistake was identified during a routine bandage change and the patient was told he would have to have his other leg amputated as well. At the time, the hospital said the incident had occurred as a "result of a sequence of unfortunate circumstances". Its director made a public apology at a news conference. In court, the surgeon said there had been a flaw in the chain of command in the operating theatre. When asked why she had marked the right leg and not the left, she said: "I just don't know". Since the incident, she has moved to another clinic. Half of her fine has been suspended. Cases like these are rare but there have been similar incidents in the past. In 1995, a doctor in the US discovered halfway through surgery that he was amputating the wrong leg of a diabetic patient. He was forced to continue after cutting through muscles, tendons and ligaments.
Argentina ex-President Mauricio Macri charged in sub families spying case. Argentina's former President Mauricio Macri has been charged with ordering the secret services to spy on relatives of 44 sailors who died when the Ara San Juan submarine sank in 2017. Judge Marin Bava says Mr Macri has violated the country's intelligence laws by demanding a dossier on the victims' families. They accuse the Navy of negligence. Mr Macri, who was president in 2015-19 and is now an opposition leader, says the charges are politically motivated. "I did not spy on anyone, I never ordered [anyone] in my government to spy on anyone," he said earlier this month. The victims' relatives say they have been followed, intimidated, and had their phones tapped after accusing the Argentine Navy of negligence in the maintenance of the Ara San Juan submarine. The vessel was returning from a routine missing when it disappeared 430km (270 miles) off the Argentine coast in the South Atlantic on 15 November 2017. The wreckage was found only a year later off the coast of Patagonia. Who were the crew of the Ara San Juan submarine? Experts believe the submarine imploded and sank after a technical fault.
Arsenal star Gabriel fights off baseball bat-wielding robber. Premier League star Gabriel fought off a baseball bat-wielding man attempting to steal his car. The Arsenal defender was followed into his home in Barnet, north London, by three men on 20 August who demanded he hand over his car keys. Footage of the incident shows Gabriel struggling with a baseball bat-wielding man, later identified as Abdi Muse. Muse, 26, was sentenced to five years in jail for robbery at Harrow Crown Court on 17 November. After a struggle, the men fled with Gabriel's keys but left the car behind in the garage. Mr Muse, of no fixed address, was later arrested and admitted robbery and possession of an offensive weapon. Reacting to the incident, Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta said you have to "give credit" to the Brazilian defender. "It's not a nice thing to go through, when you have family involved and they're trying to access your house," he said. "Gabby showed a lot of character, you see the reaction that he had straight away. Credit to the boy. After that he was fine. "He was shocked and obviously he wanted to change a few things in his life to make sure that didn't happen again." Arteta added that Arsenal supported Gabriel in the wake of the robbery. "The club gave him all the support that was needed to try and help him forget about the situation, learn about it and move on", he said. Arsenal bought 23-year-old Gabriel from Lille for £27m last year. At the time of the robbery, he had been sidelined with a knee injury. However, he has since made 10 appearances for the Premier League side. It was not the first time that an Arsenal star has had to face off against robbers. Two armed men attempted to rob expensive watches from defender Sead Kolasinac, 28, and midfielder Mesut Ozil, 33, in Hampstead, north-west London, in 2019. However, Kolasinac fought back and was able to jump into a car driven by Ozil.
Covid: Germany puts major restrictions on unvaccinated. Germany's national and regional leaders have agreed to bar unvaccinated people from much of public life in a bid to fend off a fourth wave of Covid-19. Outgoing Chancellor Angela Merkel described the far-reaching measures as an act of "national solidarity". Only those who have been vaccinated or recently recovered from Covid will be allowed in restaurants, cinemas, leisure facilities and many shops. Vaccinations could be made mandatory by February, the chancellor added. Germany's fourth wave of Covid is its most severe so far, with another 388 deaths recorded in the past 24 hours. There is also growing concern about the spread of the Omicron variant, which EU health officials warn is likely to cause over half of all Covid cases in the next few months. Mrs Merkel said hospitals were stretched to the point of patients having to be moved to different areas for treatment. "The fourth wave must be broken and this has not yet been achieved." "Given the situation, I think it is appropriate to adopt compulsory vaccination," she said, while making clear that this would have to be approved by parliament. Her successor Olaf Scholz, who is expected to take over as chancellor next Wednesday, had already said he backed the move, which would come a few weeks later than a similar Austrian law. Berlin Mayor Michael Müller said the vast majority of Covid cases were down to unvaccinated people. The country locking down the unvaccinatedOmicron drives major surge in S Africa Covid casesMerkel picks punk singer for big farewell event The new measures are not described as a lockdown on the unvaccinated, although outgoing Health Minister Jens Spahn spoke earlier of a "quasi lockdown". Some German states already operate so-called 2G policies, and these will now become nationwide - 2G stands for genesen (recovered in the past six months) or geimpft (vaccinated). Under the measures agreed by Germany's 16 states and federal leaders: Unvaccinated people will be limited to meetings with their own household and two other peopleThe 2G rule will be enforced at restaurants and cultural venues and non-essential shopsClubs will shut in areas where 350 cases have been recorded per 100,000 people in the past seven days - the national rate is over 400Up to 30 million vaccinations will be carried out by Christmas - first, second or boostersOutdoor events, including Bundesliga football, will have limited crowds of 15,000 and 2G rulesFireworks on New Year's Eve will be banned While vaccinations have been stepped up in Germany - with almost a million carried out on Wednesday alone - only 68.7% of the population has been vaccinated, a relatively low rate for Western Europe. Seventy-nine cases of the new Omicron variant of Covid-19 have been reported in 15 European countries so far, according to the EU's European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. Most cases were linked to travel to African countries while others were linked to connecting flights between Africa and Europe. The ECDC does not cover the UK.
Covid: The country locking down the unvaccinated. Carina, a yoga teacher in Vienna, is not vaccinated against Covid-19 and wants to remain that way. So she is now under lockdown, like around two million other unvaccinated Austrians. She is only allowed to leave her home for essential reasons like work or shopping for food, and is barred from cafés and restaurants. So I met her in a Vienna park, where she is allowed to take exercise. Carina says she doesn't understand the rationale behind the lockdown and that it makes her feel sad. "I was walking by some cafes this morning," she told me. "It's a bit strange to look inside and to know that I couldn't go in. It makes you feel really excluded, and ostracised." "I'm one of these people that is made into the enemy," she said. "And that doesn't sit well." "I don't want people to get sick. I am careful. I get tested. I'm not at very great risk [from Covid-19] and I feel like it's a very personal decision. I understand people who do get vaccinated and when people don't want to get vaccinated." There have been demonstrations in several parts of the country in protest against the lockdown. Police say they'll carry out random spot checks on people in public places and fine anyone who can't show a certification of vaccination or recovery. Austria introduces lockdown for unvaccinatedCovid passes set to stay as Europe heads for winterHow fast is vaccine progress around the world? Around 65% of Austria's population is fully vaccinated, one of the lowest rates in western Europe. The country is currently seeing the highest rate of daily infections for Covid-19 since the pandemic began. Chancellor Alexander Schallenberg says the government was forced to act because of the surge in new infections. He said the vaccination rate was "shamefully low" and would "keep us trapped in a vicious circle, from one lockdown to the next". Since the measures tightened, more Austrians have been getting jabbed. Long lines have formed outside one Vienna vaccination centre. Some were coming for booster shots, others for their first injections. Dr Thomas Szekeres, head of the Austrian Medical Chamber, says he is hoping the vaccination rate will rise to 80% or more. "We know that vaccination is the only way to decrease the number of infections," he says. "We know this from other countries. We hope that the lockdown for unvaccinated Austrians will be enough to decrease the number of infections. But the experts are not sure about that. Maybe we will need additional measures to reach the goal to decrease the number." Many Austrians have welcomed the increase in vaccinations, but some are concerned the lockdown for the unvaccinated isn't constitutional. Karl Weller, a Viennese businessman, told me he is very much in favour of the jab. "It is necessary for our health and our economy," he said. "But I think it's a catastrophe, to divide between the vaccinated and not vaccinated. People start to become more and more angry and they are afraid." Shopping for clothes and other non-essentials is now only possible for the vaccinated. Doris, who was out in central Vienna, said she was losing patience with those who refuse to get jabbed. "The only solution is that we all have to be vaccinated. That's the only solution. Otherwise, we have the problem for quite a long time. And we really want to get rid of it."
Omicron: Biden tightens travel rules amid new Omicron cases. President Joe Biden has unveiled stricter Covid-19 travel rules as the US confirmed multiple cases of the Omicron variant from coast to coast. Mr Biden said his plan "doesn't include shutdowns or lockdowns" and does not expand vaccine mandates. Cases have been detected in California, Colorado, Minnesota, New York and in Hawaii, where officials say that person had no recent travel history. Local health officials have reported only mild symptoms in the cases. The variant has now been found up to 30 countries, according to reports. It is still not clear whether the highly-mutated Omicron strain is associated with more transmission or more risk of evading vaccines. How worrying is the new Covid variant?Covid variants: Do we need new vaccines yet?Biden: Omicron lockdown not needed for now Under the details unveiled on Thursday, all international passengers will have to be tested for the virus in the 24 hours before they leave for the US, regardless of their vaccination status. Mask requirements on planes, trains and buses will be extended until March. The US government will seek to make available millions of free at-home tests through private insurance companies for those who have coverage and through health centres and rural clinics for those who do not. The administration's plan for the winter months also consists of steps to encourage all adults to get their booster vaccines, including through a public education campaign and more targeted outreach. Over 40 million Americans have received their boosters, but Mr Biden said nearly 100 million more are eligible and have not yet had theirs. Hundreds of family vaccination clinics will be set up across the country in an attempt to increase vaccination rates among children and teenagers. The US and several other countries have banned travel from eight southern African countries. Health experts have said travel restrictions will buy them time to study the new variant. Five cases of the variant have been detected in New York, state Governor Kathy Hochul said on Thursday. A man who attended a convention in Manhattan in late November tested positive for the variant, said officials. One of the cases was a vaccinated 67-year-old woman in Suffolk County who was experiencing mild symptoms of a cough and a headache, said Governor Hochul. The other four were in New York City. A case confirmed in California on Wednesday and in Colorado Thursday were identified in travellers who had recently flown back from South Africa. A Omicron-positive individual in Minnesota had recently returned from a three-day anime (Japanese cartoon) convention in New York City. The person in Hawaii, who was unvaccinated and had previously been infected with coronavirus in 2020, had no recent travel history, meaning community transmission there has already probably begun, health officials say. The Hawaii case was experiencing mild to moderate symptoms and was isolated at home, said officials. With the rise of the Omicron variant, Joe Biden is back in front of the American people with another set of steps to stop the spread of Covid-19. Unlike his last major action, however, the administration's plan is light on government mandates - perhaps a reflection of the political firestorm his previous orders created and the legal morass that has enveloped them. Instead, Mr Biden is pushing for greater access to testing and encouraging, but not requiring, all Americans to get vaccination booster shots. He also makes specific mention of keeping schools open and children in classrooms - a reflection of the white-hot rage last year's extended closures generated among some suburban parents, who have become a key part of the Democrats' electoral voting bloc. When Mr Biden assumed the presidency earlier this year, he acknowledged the success of his tenure would be determined in large part by his ability to contain the pandemic and return a semblance of normalcy to American life. After some early positive results, the rise of new variants - along with vaccine hesitancy among some in the US - dampened those hopes and exacted an economic and political toll. Thursday's actions suggest Mr Biden knows a return to normal is still a long way off.
US and Mexico to restart Trump-era 'Remain in Mexico' policy. Would-be asylum seekers who cross the US southern border will be sent to Mexico to await claims decisions following the restart of a controversial programme. The US and Mexican governments said Thursday that they will reinstate the Trump-era policy known as Remain in Mexico. US President Joe Biden had suspended the programme, calling it "inhumane". A court order forced a reversal, however. Former President Donald Trump used the programme, then known as the Migrant Protection Protocols, to send more than 60,000 asylum applicants back to Mexico. Migrants were often left waiting in Mexico for months, where they sometimes fell prey to criminal gangs. According to charity Human Rights First, there have been more than 1,500 publicly reported cases of kidnapping, rape, torture and other crimes against migrants returned to Mexico. Mr Biden, a Democrat, had suspended the programme almost immediately after taking office, as part of a campaign pledge to reverse hardline immigration policies enacted by his predecessor. In June, Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas terminated the policy. The programme's resurrection follows an August ruling by federal court Judge Matthew Kacsmaryk, a Trump appointee, who found that the Biden administration had improperly cancelled the policy earlier this year. Asked about the resumption of the policy on Thursday, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said that both Mr Biden and Mr Mayorkas stand by previous statements describing the programme as one with "endemic flaws" with "unjustified human costs". "But we also believe in following the law," she said. The revived policy includes new steps to address Mexico's human rights concerns about the policy - reportedly a caveat for their participation. Under guidance from Mexico, the US will now include providing Covid-19 vaccinations for migrants, and expanded exemptions, such as for those with physical and mental health challenges. Also at Mexico's request, the US agreed to limit time spent to six months for each asylum applicant. The Mexican government said it was committed to maintaining the health and safety of migrants. The administration is appealing Judge Kacsmaryk's order, but was legally required to enforce the ruling. Judge Kacsmaryk acknowledged that the policy could only be implemented with Mexico's consent, prompting a months-long negotiation between the two countries. Implementation is expected to begin next week, first in El Paso and Brownsville, Texas, as well as San Diego, California. The move was slammed by the pro-immigration Washington-DC based American Immigration Council. "We categorically reject the Biden administration's claims that it can administer the Remain in Mexico program in a more humane manner," the group said in a statement, adding: "Today is a dark day for the United States and for the rule of law." They added that by expanding the programme to include any migrants from the Western Hemisphere - including non-Spanish speaking groups such as Haitians - Mr Biden "made the programme even broader than under Trump".
Margaux Pinot: Shock over release of judoka’s partner in assault case. French athletes have expressed disbelief over the acquittal of a coach accused of domestic violence against Olympic judo champion Margaux Pinot. Ms Pinot accused her partner and judo trainer Alain Schmitt of punching and attempting to strangle her during an altercation over the weekend. The Olympic gold medallist, 27, filed a complaint against Mr Schmitt. He was arrested but denied the allegations and was acquitted in court. A judge said there was not "enough proof of guilt" for the prosecution to proceed when delivering his verdict in a preliminary hearing on Wednesday. "A court is never there to tell who is telling the truth and who is lying," the judge said. Shortly after the hearing, Ms Pinot tweeted a picture of her swollen face, marked by cuts and several bruises. In one tweet, in which she alluded to her wounds and "the blood strewn on the floor of my apartment", she asked: "What was missing? My death at the end, perhaps?" "It was probably judo that saved me," she added in the tweet. "And my thoughts are also with those women who can't say the same." The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter Prosecutors have said they will appeal against the verdict. In court, they requested a one-year suspended prison sentence for what they described as "very serious violence". In her complaint, Ms Pinot accused Mr Schmitt of assaulting her at her home in a suburb of Paris during the night of Saturday and early hours of Sunday. She said she had escaped and taken refuge with neighbours, who called the police. Ms Pinot said she had been taken to hospital where she received treatment for several injuries, including a broken nose. But Mr Schmitt, 38, appeared in court to deny the allegations. He called them "100% false" and accused Ms Pinot of starting the fight, which he said had involved judo holds, according to French reports. French media said bruises were visible on his face as he described the incident as a fight between lovers. "I have never hit a woman in my life, it's rubbish," he told the court. His defence lawyer, Malik Behloul, disputed Ms Pinot's version of events. "With the strength that this man [Mr Schmitt] has, he is quite capable of doing a great deal more harm than that," Mr Behloul argued. Mr Schmitt was arrested hours before he was expected to take over as head coach of the Israeli national women's judoka team. But the Israel Judo Association told AFP news agency it had suspended all contact with Mr Schmitt following the allegations. On Thursday afternoon, Mr Schmitt and Ms Pinot held separate news conferences to explain the circumstances of the altercation in more detail. Mr Schmitt, who appeared to have a black eye, said he had gone for a drink before visiting Ms Pinot's home, where he intended to print documents before flying out to Israel. The pair started arguing and Ms Pinot "threw herself on me", Mr Schmitt said. He described a violent struggle in which they banged into walls, a radiator and a door. He denied punching Ms Pinot and said there had been a "media lynching" against him. But at her news conference, Ms Pinot disputed his account and accused Mr Schmitt of trying to "make me look like a hysterical woman". Ms Pinot's lawyer, Rachid Madid, said he would seek to "set the record straight in this case" and gather additional information to support the appeal. Earlier, some members of the judo community in France shared messages of support for Ms Pinot, including three-time Olympic champion Teddy Riner. The president of the French Judo Federation, Stéphane Nomis, and female French judo star Clarisse Agbégnénou said they were shocked by the court's decision. Ms Pinot has mostly competed in the women's 70 kg event for France. She has had a career decorated with medals, including a gold in the mixed team event at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, and a bronze at the World Championships in 2019.
Laverne & Shirley star Eddie Mekka dies aged 69. US actor Eddie Mekka - best known for starring in the Laverne & Shirley TV sitcom in the 1970s-80s - has died aged 69, local media report. He was found dead at his California home last Saturday, Mekka's brother Warren Mekjian is quoted as saying. Reports say concerned neighbours decided to alert police after not hearing from the actor for a few days. Mr Mekjian said there was no indication that his brother's death was suspicious, according to NBC News. Mekka played Carmine Ragusa, Shirley's love interest, in the popular sitcom that run on ABC from 1976 to 1983. Paying tributes, Cindy Williams, who played Shirley, tweeted: "My darling Eddie, A world-class talent who could do it all. I love you dearly. I'll miss you so much. But oh the marvellous memories." The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter Born in Massachusetts on 14 June 1952, Mekka rose to fame for his lead role in the Lieutenant musical in 1975, garnering a Tony Award nomination for best actor. Mekka - who later moved to Los Angeles - also played in a number of TV series, including The Love Boat and Family Matters. In 1982, he married actress DeLee Lively, divorcing in 1992. Two years later he married Yvonne Marie Grace, with whom he had a daughter.
Ikea customers and staff sleep in store after snowstorm. Customers and staff at an Ikea store in Denmark had the ultimate sleepover after getting stranded by a snowstorm. Up to 30cm (12in) of snow fell in the city of Aalborg, leaving at least 25 staff and customers unable to go home. So the group bedded down in the showroom, dined on the store's food and watched television. Parts of northern Denmark were heavily affected by the snow, with 300 people spending the night in Aalborg's airport. Police advised against driving in the region due to the weather conditions. Several staff members from a toy shop next door also asked the Ikea store for shelter. The store's manager, Peter Elmrose, said the group slept in the showroom, where there are beds, mattresses and sofa beds. "This is certainly a new situation for us," he told local newspaper Nordjyske. Erik Bangsgaard and his wife were among the customers trapped in the store. "We gathered in the canteen, where we got food and drink, and there was television," he recalled. "There was nothing we could do about the situation. We were just really happy to get shelter," he told the Ekstra Bladet newspaper. The group was treated to a breakfast of cinnamon rolls and coffee before leaving the store. Mr Elmrose told the Danish Broadcasting Corporation that the beds would be ready with clean bedding when the store opened on Thursday morning.
Covid: South Africa new cases surge as Omicron spreads. The new coronavirus variant Omicron has now become dominant in South Africa and is driving a sharp increase in new infections, health officials say. Some 11,500 new Covid infections were registered in the latest daily figures. That is a sharp rise on the 8,500 cases confirmed the previous day. By contrast, daily infections were averaging between 200 and 300 in mid-November, a top South African scientist told the BBC. Omicron has now been detected in at least 24 countries around the world, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). Those who have already had other variants of coronavirus do not appear to be protected against Omicron but vaccines are still believed to protect against severe disease, according to top scientists from the global health body and South Africa's National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD). "Previous infection used to protect against Delta but now with Omicron that doesn't seem to be the case," said Anne von Gottberg, microbiologist at NICD. The full picture in South Africa will not become clear until "people get so sick that they need to go to hospital" which is generally "three, four weeks later," says Prof Salim Abdool Karim of the Africa Task Force for Coronavirus. "But the feedback we're getting from the ground is that there's really no red flags - we're not seeing anything dramatically different, what we're seeing is what we are used to," he told the BBC's Newsday programme. The BBC's Pumza Fihlani in South Africa's biggest city, Johannesburg, says that restaurants and supermarkets remain packed, ahead of the Christmas and New Year holidays. People are talking about the new variant - but so far there's little panic and, according to scientists, there shouldn't be. How can I tell I have Omicron?Covid map: Where are cases the highest? South Africa was the first country to report on the highly mutated new variant. The NICD says more than 70% of all the virus genomes it sequenced last month have been of the new variant. India, Ghana, Saudi Arabia and the UAE are among the latest countries to have confirmed their first cases of Omicron. Others including the UK, US and Germany have also seen people infected by the new variant. Many questions about Omicron remain to be answered, including how much protection current vaccines provide. The WHO has categorised it as a "variant of concern", and says early evidence suggests it has a higher re-infection risk. Earlier this week, countries around the world restricted travel from southern Africa as details of the spread emerged. This prompted South Africa's foreign ministry to complain that it was being punished - instead of applauded - for discovering Omicron. WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus later warned that blanket Covid measures were penalising southern Africa. The rate of new infection is expected to increase in what is now the beginning of the fourth wave in South Africa, and the national health department says there has also been a slight increase in hospital admissions. Most of the people who have been hospitalised in South Africa had not been vaccinated against coronavirus, according to the NICD. There are no vaccine shortages in the country, and Mr Ramaphosa has urged more people to get jabbed, saying this remains the best way to fight the virus. About 24% of South Africans have so far been fully vaccinated - far more than the 7% average recorded across the African continent, but lower than the latest European average of 54%. Officials in South Africa are ramping up efforts to get more people vaccinated. Before the detection of the Omicron variant late last month, vaccination campaigns had stalled, in part because of the low rate of reported new infections, experts say. But our South Africa reporter says that seems to be changing - on 25 November about 120,000 vaccines were administered and a week later the number had risen to just over 160,000 new vaccinations a day. It could be the silver lining that health officials were hoping for, she says. What this means for the rest of the world remains very uncertain. South Africa had a wave driven by another variant - Beta -  that did not take off in other places. Levels of a later variant, Delta, were very low when Omicron took hold in South Africa - meaning the new variant did not have to work hard to compete. South Africa has low levels of vaccination although it has had high levels of infection and that brings its own immunity. How it fares in places like the UK, where there is plenty of Delta circulating but the population is heavily vaccinated, therefore, remains to be seen.
Ghislaine Maxwell: Defence lawyers seek to discredit key accuser. Defence lawyers for British socialite Ghislaine Maxwell have been trying to find inconsistencies in the testimony of a key accuser at her trial. The accuser, known as "Jane", says she was abused by Ms Maxwell and convicted paedophile Jeffrey Epstein aged 14. But on Wednesday, defence counsel Laura Menninger presented documents suggesting Jane was uncertain about Ms Maxwell's participation in the abuse. Ms Maxwell denies sex-trafficking charges. She has pleaded not guilty to eight charges of sex trafficking and other crimes, covering a period from 1994-2004. She has been in a US jail since her arrest last year, and faces up to 80 years in prison if convicted. The defence claims she is being used as a scapegoat for Epstein's crimes, following his death in prison in 2019. Prosecutors argue the pair were "partners in crime" in sex abuse. They say Ms Maxwell, who also has American and French citizenship, recruited and groomed underage girls for her long-term companion Epstein to abuse. Epstein died in a New York prison cell on 10 August 2019 as he awaited trial on sex-trafficking charges in a federal case. His death was ruled to be a suicide. Ghislaine Maxwell 'won't get fair trial' - brotherWho is Ghislaine Maxwell, Epstein's ex-girlfriend?Panorama: The Prince and the Epstein ScandalWho was Jeffrey Epstein? Jane is the first of four alleged victims to testify at the trial. Cross-examining the witness, defence lawyer Laura Menninger produced documents from law enforcement dating back to December 2019 suggesting that Jane was unclear about whether Ms Maxwell was present during the abuse, or whether she touched or kissed her. In her court appearance on Tuesday, Jane had described the alleged abuse - which went on from 1994 to 1997 -  in graphic detail, saying that Ms Maxwell was present for much of it and was "very casual" about the encounters. Under cross-examination she denied changing her story and questioned the accuracy of the documents, adding that the statements she made then were never recorded. Through tears she said she had found it difficult to tell the officers involved in initial questioning "the most shameful, deepest secrets that I've been carrying around with me my whole life". Jane also denied using her experience as a soap opera actor to embellish her testimony, and said she had no financial interest in testifying. She said that while she had received $5m (£3.75m) from the victims' compensation fund she wished she had never received that money. "I guess in this country compensation is the only thing you can get to try and move on with your life," Jane added. Her only motivation for testifying, she said, was to "find some sort of closure". Four charges relate to the years 1994-97 when Ms Maxwell was, according to an indictment, among Epstein's closest associates and also in an "intimate relationship" with him. Two other charges - of sex trafficking conspiracy and sex trafficking of a minor - came in an amended indictment and relate to the period 2001 and 2004. Born outside Paris on Christmas Day, 1961, Ms Maxwell grew up in a country mansion, went to Oxford University and speaks several languages. She is the youngest child of late media mogul Robert Maxwell. She is said to have had a very close relationship with her late father, and he named his luxury yacht - the Lady Ghislaine - after her. Soon after her father's death in 1991, Ms Maxwell left the UK to settle in America, where she worked in real estate, and not long after met Jeffrey Epstein. She sold her Manhattan townhouse in 2016, and kept a low profile until she was arrested last July at her secluded mansion in the state of New Hampshire.
Meghan wins ruling in Mail on Sunday privacy fight. The Duchess of Sussex has won the latest stage in her legal fight against the publisher of the Mail on Sunday over a letter she sent to her father. The Court of Appeal rejected Associated Newspapers' attempt to have a trial in the privacy and copyright case. Meghan said it was a win "not just for me, but for anyone who has ever felt scared to stand up for what's right". Associated Newspapers said it was disappointed, and was considering a further appeal to the Supreme Court. A judge had previously ruled in favour of Meghan after extracts from the letter appeared in the paper. In a statement issued after the ruling, the duchess urged people to be "brave enough to reshape a tabloid industry that... profits from the lies and pain that they create". Meghan, who started the civil action against newspaper group in 2019, said: "In the nearly three years since this began, I have been patient in the face of deception, intimidation and calculated attacks." She added: "The courts have held the defendant to account and my hope is that we all begin to do the same. Because as far removed as it may seem from your personal life, it's not. Tomorrow it could be you. "These harmful practices don't happen once in a blue moon - they are a daily fail that divide us and we all deserve better." Will Meghan's big win change public opinion?Profile: Duchess of SussexWhere do Harry and Meghan get their money?Who's in the UK Royal Family and how does it work? A spokesman for Associated Newspapers said: "It is our strong view that judgment should be given only on the basis of evidence tested at trial, and not on a summary basis in a heavily contested case." The Court of Appeal accepted Meghan's argument that the letter to Thomas Markle in August 2018 - three months after her wedding to Prince Harry - was "deeply personal". It had been given to the Mail on Sunday by Mr Markle, who wanted to address what he thought were unfair media accounts. The judges were told that 585 out of the 1,250 words in the letter to her estranged father had been republished in five articles. In their decision, the three judges said the letter's contents were "personal, private and not matters of legitimate public interest". In February, the High Court had ruled against the newspaper group on the issue of privacy and copyright - saying the issues in the case were so clear cut that there was no need for a full hearing. Associated Newspapers was refused permission to appeal against the decision but went to the Court of Appeal in an attempt to get the original ruling overturned. But on Thursday, judges at the appeal said it was hard to see what evidence at a trial would have altered the situation. They added: "The judge had correctly decided that, whilst it might have been proportionate to publish a very small part of the letter for that purpose, it was not necessary to publish half the contents of the letter." ONE OF THE MOST DRAMATIC PERIODS IN MODERN ROYAL HISTORY: The Princes and the Press At the three-day appeal hearing last month, lawyers for Associated Newspapers presented evidence to support its contention that Meghan's privacy and copyright claims against the publisher should be heard at a full trial. During the case, it was revealed that Meghan had authorised her former communications secretary, Jason Knauf, to co-operate with the authors of a book about her and Prince Harry, something she had previously denied. They also produced a witness statement from Mr Knauf, which indicated that the duchess had written the letter knowing it might be leaked. Mr Knauf said Meghan sent him an early draft of the letter and had written: "Obviously everything I have drafted is with the understanding that it could be leaked so I have been meticulous in my word choice, but please do let me know if anything stands out for you as a liability." But in written evidence, Meghan denied she thought it likely that her father would leak the letter, saying she "merely recognised that this was a possibility". A statement issued by Associated Newspapers after the latest ruling said "Mr Knauf's evidence raises issues as to the duchess's credibility". Explaining why it was considering a Supreme Court challenge, Associated said its article raised "issues of public interest including the reasons for the breakdown in the relationship between the duchess and her father". Meghan has won a significant victory in this courtroom battle to protect her privacy. She's drawn a line in the sand. Even if her life is of public interest, she's shown that it doesn't make her public property. It was a high-risk strategy, which could have put her in court facing awkward questions, but the appeal court ruling has seen her winning without that. But it's already come with some bruising headlines - such as having to apologise for having forgotten how information was given to authors writing a book about her and Prince Harry. This might have been an "unfortunate lapse of memory", said the appeal court ruling, but it didn't bear on the fundamental issues of whether such a private letter to her father should have been published. Meghan divides public opinion - with vocal supporters and critics both seeing bias and prejudice on the other side - and this court case is unlikely to change that. But she has succeeded in a legal battle that previous generations of royals would probably have avoided.
Russia Ukraine: Lavrov warns of return to military confrontation nightmare. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has warned that Europe could be returning to what he called the "nightmare of military confrontation". At a European security conference in Sweden, Mr Lavrov floated the idea of a new European security pact to try to stop Nato from expanding further east. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken warned of "serious consequences" if Russia sought conflict with Ukraine. The meeting comes as Russia boosts its military near Ukraine's border. Ukraine says Russia has amassed more than 90,000 troops there. Moscow denies it is preparing an attack on Ukraine and accuses Kyiv of its own military build-up. As tensions rise, Russia said on Thursday it had arrested three suspected Ukrainian security service agents. One of the three was accused of planning a terrorist attack, while the other two had been seeking to gather intelligence, Russia's Federal Security Service said. Why Russia is stoking border tensions with UkraineNato warning over Russian build-up near Ukraine Mr Lavrov and Mr Blinken met at a conference of the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE). US officials said the two sides had agreed to further dialogue on Ukraine. Mr Blinken hinted at the possibility of direct talks between US President Joe Biden and his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin in the near future. Russia's foreign ministry hoped a Putin-Biden summit would take place in the coming days but no date had been set, Interfax news agency reported. The build-up of Russian troops near Ukraine's border was among the topics discussed at an in-person summit between the two leaders in Geneva in June. Earlier this week, President Putin said Russia would seek US guarantees that Nato will limit its presence in Ukraine, which is not a member of the security alliance. But on Thursday, Mr Lavrov said in a speech that Nato was refusing to constructively consider proposals to de-escalate tensions and prevent dangerous incidents. "The alliance's military infrastructure is being irresponsibly brought closer to Russia's borders in Romania and Poland, deploying an anti-missile defence system that can be used as a strike complex," he said. "American medium-range missiles are about to appear in Europe, bringing back the nightmare scenario of a military confrontation." He warned Nato against turning countries neighbouring Russia, ie Ukraine, into "bridgeheads of confrontation", and said he hoped Russian proposals for a new security pact would be carefully considered. At a joint news conference with the Russian foreign minister, Mr Blinken said the best way to avoid a crisis was through diplomacy and urged Russia to pull back its forces. "The United States is willing to facilitate that but... if Russia decides to pursue confrontation there will be serious consequences," he added. On Wednesday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called for direct talks with Russia over the more than seven-year conflict with Russian-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine. He also said that Kyiv's goal was to "liberate" Crimea, annexed by Russia in 2014, but made no mention of using force. A large part of the recent Russian military build-up is in Crimea. Troops are also massing near Ukraine's eastern Donbas region, the name for parts of Luhansk and Donetsk regions under the control of separatists.
Michigan school shooting: Parents of gunman charged with manslaughter. Prosecutors have charged the parents of a suspect in a deadly Michigan school shooting with involuntary manslaughter. Authorities have issued a fugitive warrant for James and Jennifer Crumbley, who are accused of ignoring warning signs before the gun rampage. Ethan Crumbley, 15, is accused of using his father's gun to shoot classmates in Oxford, about 35 miles (60 km) north of Detroit, this week. He has pleaded not guilty on multiple charges including terrorism. James and Jennifer Crumbley are facing four counts each. Authorities in Oakland County have told US media they are currently searching for the pair after the Crumbleys' lawyers were unable to reach them by phone. "If they think they're going to get away, they're not," Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard told CNN. He said that a number of his detectives, the FBI and US Marshals Service were looking for the couple. But in a joint statement via text message to the BBC lawyers Shannon Smith and Mariell Lehman said the Crumbleys "are not fleeing from law enforcement" and had left town on the night of the shooting "for their own safety". They added the pair would return for their arraignment, which was expected to take place later on Friday. Four people were killed and seven injured in the shooting on Tuesday. The victims were Tate Myre, 16, Madisyn Baldwin, 17, Hana St Juliana, 14, and Justin Shilling, 17. On Friday, Oakland County lead prosecutor Karen McDonald acknowledged that charging parents in a child's alleged crime was highly unusual. According to her office's investigation, the boy was with his father last Friday when Mr Crumbley bought the firearm believed to have been used in the shooting. A post on the boy's social media later that day showed off his dad's new weapon as "my new beauty", adding a heart emoji. America's gun culture in chartsHow a medieval English law affects guns in New York Just one day before the shooting, a teacher said she saw the boy searching online for ammunition, which prompted a meeting with school officials, Ms McDonald said. After being informed of the incident, Mrs Crumbley texted her son: "LOL I'm not mad at you. You have to learn not to get caught." And on Tuesday morning - hours before the rampage - Mr and Mrs Crumbley were called into the school for an urgent meeting after teachers found a note by their son, including several drawings of guns and bloodied people alongside captions like "the thoughts won't stop. Help me", and "blood everywhere". The boy had also written "My life is useless" and "The world is dead", according to the prosecutor. School officials told the pair they would have to seek counselling for their son. But the boy's parents did not want him to be removed from school that day, Ms McDonald said, and did not ask him whether he had the gun with him, or search the backpack he brought with him to school. At 13:22 later that day, Mrs Crumbley texted her son to say: "Ethan, don't do it." Minutes later her husband called police to report his gun was missing, said the prosecutor. But authorities say the boy had already emerged from the school bathroom and opened fire on fellow students. Ms McDonald said the charges were meant to hold the Crumbleys accountable as well as to send a message about responsible gun ownership. "The notion that a parent could read those words and also know that their son had access to a deadly weapon that they gave him is unconscionable, and it's criminal," she said. The prosecutor had previously noted that, although the gun had been purchased legally, it "seems to have just been freely available" for the child's use. According to her, the suspect took the gun from an unlocked drawer in his parents' bedroom and brought it to school. Neither federal nor state law requires gun owners to keep their weapons locked away from their children. In a video message posted to YouTube on Thursday, the school's superintendent Tim Throne said that - while the boy and his parents had been called to the office - "no discipline was warranted" at the time. He added that the school looked like a "war zone" and would not be ready to operate again for weeks. Ms McDonald alleged on Friday that, when James Crumbley heard about the shooting, he "drove straight to his home to look for his gun" before calling authorities to say he suspected his son was the perpetrator. "I'm angry as a mother. I'm angry as a prosecutor. I'm angry as a person that lives in this county," she said. "There were a lot of things that could have been so simple to prevent." On Wednesday, prosecutors charged the boy as an adult. He now face charges of terrorism and first-degree murder. Announcing the charges, Ms McDonald said her office had "a mountain of digital evidence" to show the suspect had planned the attack "well before the incident".
Covid: Don't panic about Omicron variant, WHO says. The world should not panic about the new Omicron variant of Covid-19 but it should prepare, the World Health Organization (WHO) has said. Speaking at a conference on Friday, top WHO scientist Soumya Swaminathan said the situation now was very different to a year ago. Reports suggest Omicron has been found in close to 40 countries. It is still unclear if the highly mutated variant is more transmissible or better able to evade vaccines. Early data reported by scientists in South Africa - where the variant was first detected - suggests Omicron may evade some immunity to Covid-19, although experts caution the analysis is not definitive. How worrying is the new Covid variant?First data points to Omicron re-infection riskSouth Africa battles Omicron fear and vaccine myths Dr Swaminathan told the Reuters NEXT conference that the variant was "highly transmissible", citing data from South Africa, and said it could possibly become the dominant strain worldwide - although this is hard to predict. Delta currently accounts for 99% of cases globally, she added. "How worried should we be? We need to be prepared and cautious, not panic, because we're in a different situation to a year ago," she said. WHO emergencies director Mike Ryan meanwhile said the world currently had "highly effective vaccines" against Covid-19, and the focus should be on distributing them more widely. He said there was no evidence to back changing these jabs to tailor them to the new Omicron variant. Countries around the world have announced travel bans against southern African countries in the wake of Omicron's first detection. US officials have made it compulsory for all international travellers to the US to take a Covid test no more than one day before travel. It comes after authorities tightened US travel rules in light of the variant. Omicron has now been detected in at least six US states including Hawaii, where officials said the case had no recent travel history. India has also reported its first two cases of the Omicron variant. Officials said one of them - a 66-year-old South African national - had travelled from the country and had already left India, while the second - a 46-year-old doctor in the southern Indian city of Bengaluru - had no travel history. A second wave of Covid infections brought the country's healthcare system to its knees in April and May this year, with hospitals running out of beds, oxygen and medicines. The emergence of the new variant comes as European countries are already grappling with a surge in infections. On Thursday Germany announced major restrictions on the unvaccinated, declaring that only those inoculated or who had recently recovered from the virus will be allowed in restaurants, cinemas and many shops. Chancellor Angela Merkel also said vaccinations could be mandatory by February. Neighbouring Austria announced compulsory jabs for residents from 1 February, while countries including Belgium and the Netherlands have brought back or tightened measures aimed at tackling the spread of cases. Health officials in the UK are working on accelerating the rollout of booster jabs. The government has bought 114 million more doses of the Pfizer and Moderna jabs and has announced that all adults will be offered a booster by the end of January.
Covid: First data points to Omicron re-infection risk. The first real world data showing the coronavirus variant Omicron may evade some of our immunity has been reported by scientists in South Africa. Scientists have detected a surge in the number of people catching Covid multiple times. It is a rapid analysis and not definitive, but fits with concern about the mutations the variant possesses. It is also not clear what this means for the protection given by vaccines. New Covid variant: How worried should we be?New Covid variant: Will new measures against Omicron work?Omicron: How do you detect it? A week after the variant was named Omicron, the world is still scrambling to understand the true threat posed by the variant. But now the first pieces of a large and complex puzzle are starting to be assembled. We already know the variant is heavily mutated and officials in South Africa have warned it is leading to a surge in cases there. The latest piece of the jigsaw is understanding how likely somebody who has already had Covid is likely to catch Omicron. It has also been detected in more than 30 countries. Scientists have analysed nearly 36,000 suspected re-infections in South Africa to look for any changes to re-infection rates (catching it twice or more) throughout the pandemic. They showed there was no surge in the risk of re-infection during either the Beta or Delta waves. This is despite laboratory studies suggesting those variants had the potential to evade some immunity. However, they are now detecting a spike in re-infections. They have not tested each patient to prove it is Omicron, but they say the timing suggests the variant is the driving force. The study, which has not been formally reviewed by other scientists, estimates Omicron could be twice as likely to cause a re-infection than earlier variants. Prof Juliet Pulliam, from Stellenbosch University and one of the researchers, said: "These findings suggest that Omicron's selection advantage is at least partially driven by an increased ability to infect previously infected individuals." However, it is still only one piece of the puzzle. There are questions about how much waning immunity is a factor and the extent to which any variant would be able to take off now. In addition, this was a rapid analysis and more data will come with time. The high burden of HIV, which suppresses the immune system, in the country also makes it harder to interpret the findings for the rest of the world. Laboratory studies that show how well antibodies can attack the virus are expected to give results in the next week. In South Africa, only 24% of people are fully vaccinated. The researchers said their findings could have "important implications" for similar countries where there are high levels of natural immunity from infection. But Prof Pulliam stressed they "cannot make any assessment of whether Omicron also evades vaccine-derived immunity" because they did not have that data. That makes it harder to understand what would happen in countries like the UK which have not only vaccinated far more people, but have rapidly rolled out booster doses to enhance immunity even further. Boosting the immune system should compensate for some of the variant's immune-evading tricks. Prof Paul Hunter, from the University of East Anglia, said: "The implications of this paper are that Omicron will be able to overcome natural and probably vaccine-induced immunity to a significant degree. "But, the degree is still unclear - though it is doubtful that this will represent complete escape." The gut instinct of most scientists is that even if vaccines are less effective at stopping you catching Covid their main job of preventing severe disease and death will hold up better. However, Omicron could still cause a problem even if that is the case. If the variant is capable of causing a sudden large wave of new infections that could again put pressure on hospitals. It is still too soon to know for sure as it takes a couple of weeks from catching the virus to needing hospital care. South Africa is also a relatively young country, which means Covid will appear milder than it would if it spread in a more elderly population. Prof Francois Balloux, from University College London, said: "The higher estimated re-infection ability of the Omicron variant to cause re-infection is not overly surprising and could be largely anticipated based on the large number of mutations in the spike protein carried by the omicron variant, which increase the Omicron variant's ability to bypass host immunity." Follow James on Twitter
Oregon police seek clues in poisoning of eight wolves. Police in the US state of Oregon are investigating the poisoning of eight grey wolves found dead by officials earlier this year. Five wolves were discovered near Mount Harris in February, followed by another three later. Tests later confirmed that a "poisonous substance" had killed the wolves. Authorities are asking for help from public and conservation groups are offering a $26,000 (£19,600) award for information leading to conviction. In a statement, Oregon State Police said that the initial batch of five wolves - all of whom were collared members of the same pack - were found dead along with a nearby magpie on 9 February. Just over a month later, on 11 March, officials responding to a 'mortality signal' from a wolf collar discovered another dead wolf, a skunk, and a magpie. Two more wolves were found dead in April and July. Toxicology reports confirmed that all the wolves had been poisoned. The police statement said that investigators have "exhausted leads" in the case and are seeking information from the public. An Oregon State Police spokesperson told the BBC that there are several possible charges that the culprits could face. A conviction for taking or possessing a wolf - a felony - could result in a prison sentence of up to five years and fines of up to $125,000. A lesser misdemeanour charge for placing a toxic substance where wildlife can access it can be punishable by up to one year in jail and fines of over $6,000. Additionally, there could be civil damage costs of $7,500 for each wolf. The exact charges and penalties will be determined by a court and will depend on the circumstances of the case, the spokesperson added, Brooks Fahy, the executive director of Oregon-based wildlife advocacy organisation Predator Defense, said that the poisonings were a "cowardly and despicable act". Grey wolves were once nearly wiped out across the contiguous US. The Endangered Species Act of 1974 created federal protections that saved the species from extinction and led to sustained population recovery efforts. But the animals were delisted by the Trump administration last year and management of the species has since fallen to the states. The Biden administration is reportedly considering relisting grey wolves on the Endangered Species List.
Actor Kal Penn to play Toronto Raptors 'superfan' in biopic. The Toronto Raptors so-called superfan Nav Bhatia already has an NBA championship ring, and now he's getting the Hollywood treatment. US actor Kal Penn, star of the Harold & Kumar film franchise, has signed on to star and produce a biopic about the Toronto-based car salesman. Mr Bhatia has become a beloved staple of Toronto Raptors fandom. He has sat courtside for almost every home game since the basketball team was established in 1995. Writing on Twitter, Mr Bhatia thanked Mr Penn "from the bottom of my heart for accepting this role". "I'm pinching myself," he said. Mr Penn , 44, applauded Mr Bhatia's story of "perseverance and unity" and said he was excited to bring the story to film. South Asians react to Kal Penn coming out as gay Mr Bhatia's story is also covered in a new documentary by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. Superfan: The Nav Bhatia story follows him through his journey from India to Canada in 1984, the racism he experienced after immigrating, and how he first got his courtside Raptors seats. Mr Bhatia, a mechanical engineer, struggled to get a job after moving to Canada, he told The Toronto Star newspaper. After finally finding work at a Hyundai dealership outside of Toronto, customers "didn't want me to serve them",  he said, recalling how they sometimes used racial slurs. He called that period the lowest of his life, but also the "most motivational". Mr Bhatia has attended nearly every home game since the inception of Canada's sole National Basketball Association (NBA) team in 1995. He was honoured by the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in 2020 - the first fan inducted into the museum. Mr Bhatia told the Toronto Star that his "obsession" has occasionally taken a toll on his relationships. "I have missed birthdays, I have missed wedding anniversaries... everything is around the schedule of basketball," he said. The basketball champions' rings with 640 diamonds The Toronto Raptors won their first NBA championship in 2019. Mr Bhatia became the first fan in NBA history to be given a championship ring, a 640-plus diamond and gold rock.
Ex-nurse gets 10 years in prison for raping incapacitated patient. An Arizona man has been sentenced to 10 years in prison for sexually assaulting an incapacitated woman who gave birth at a clinic where she was under his care. Ex-nurse Nathan Sutherland was accused of raping the victim, who has severe disabilities, at the Hacienda HealthCare facility in Phoenix. He was arrested in 2018 after his DNA matched a sample from the newborn. Sutherland pleaded guilty to abuse of a vulnerable adult in September. The victim, who was 29 years old at the time of the baby's birth, had reportedly been in the care of the clinic since she was a toddler. Nurse held after patient gives birthDNA sought over vegetative woman's babyCEO quits after vegetative patient has baby In addition to his prison sentence, Sutherland will be placed on probation for the rest of his life and will be required to register as a sex offender after his release. In a statement quoted by US media, Maricopa County Attorney Allister Adel said that the sentence was the maximum allowable under Sutherland's plea agreement. She added that the sentence "took into consideration numerous aggravating and mitigating factors, including the vulnerability of the victim and the position of trust by the defendant". The BBC has reached out to both the Maricopa County Attorney's office and to Sutherland's attorney for comment. Recordings of 911 calls released to the media show that, at the time the victim gave birth, the Hacienda HealthCare facility was unaware that she was pregnant. "One of the patients just had a baby, and we had no idea she was pregnant," a nurse can be heard saying on the call. "We were not prepared for this." In May 2019, the victim's family filed a lawsuit against Hacienda HealthCare. The lawsuit noted that a medical examination revealed that the woman had been "violated repeatedly" and may have been pregnant before the incident that led to Sutherland's arrest. In June, an Arizona judge approved a $15m (£11.3m) settlement agreed between the victim's family and the estate of a doctor - who died last December - who cared for her at the facility. The state of Arizona previously settled with the family for $7.5m.
Alec Baldwin admits career could be over after fatal shooting. Alec Baldwin has admitted his acting career may be over after the fatal shooting of cinematographer Halyna Hutchins on the set of the film Rust. "It could be," the 63-year-old actor said in an interview to George Stephanopoulos of ABC News, adding that he did not care. Mr Baldwin also said he "didn't pull the trigger" of the gun during the incident on 21 October in New Mexico. "Someone put a live bullet in a gun" he said. "I know it's not me". Mr Baldwin is best-known for his performance in the US sitcom 30 Rock, as well as his impersonation of Donald Trump on sketch show Saturday Night Live. Dead cinematographer 'was an incredible artist' Police to search arms supplier over Rust shootingBaldwin speaks about 'one in a trillion' shooting The ABC interview was broadcast in the US on Thursday evening. "I don't know what happened on that set. I don't know how that bullet arrived in that gun. I don't know," Mr Baldwin said. "But I'm all for doing anything that will take us to a place where this is less likely to happen again." The actor said that during the rehearsal on 21 October Hutchins was directing his every move. "She's guiding me through how she wants me to hold the gun for this angle. "I'm holding the gun where she told me to hold it, which ended up being aimed right below her armpit." To get the shot, the actor said he needed to cock the gun - but not fire it. "The trigger wasn't pulled. I didn't pull the trigger. "I cock the gun. I go, 'Can you see that? Can you see that? Can you see that?' "And then I let go of the hammer of the gun, and the gun goes off," he said. Mr Baldwin told ABC News that, while he didn't feel guilty, the incident had left him emotionally scarred. "I have dreams about this constantly now," he said. "I go through my day, and I make it through the day. Then I collapse at the end of the day. Emotionally, I collapse." Mr Baldwin said he met with Hutchins' widower, Matthew, and her 9-year-old son after the shooting. "I didn't know what to say," he recalled.. "[Matthew] hugged [me] and he goes 'I suppose you and I are going to go through this together'... and I thought, 'Well, not as much as you are.'" The interview marks the first time Mr Baldwin has spoken about the incident on camera, except for a brief interview he gave to TMZ in October, in a bid to stop the paparazzi from following him and his family. Ms Hutchins, 42, was flown to hospital by helicopter after the shooting - but later died of her injuries. Director Joel Souza, 48, was also injured. According to court records, Mr Baldwin was handed the weapon by the film's assistant director, Dave Halls, who did not know it contained live ammunition and indicated it was unloaded by shouting "cold gun". Mr Halls had been given the gun by Hannah Gutierrez-Reed, the 24-year-old armourer on the film. Lawyers for Ms Gutierrez-Reed have said she did not know where "the live rounds came from". That question is now at the centre of a police investigation in the US. Investigators have already obtained a warrant to search the premises of an arms supplier in the US. An affidavit with the warrant says police have been told ammunition for the film came from several sources, including PDQ Arm & Prop. The affidavit says the ammunition supplier's owner, Seth Kenney, has told the investigators the live round might have been from some "reloaded ammunition". He says the ammunition he supplied for the film consisted of dummy rounds and blanks, according to the affidavit. Follow us on Facebook, or on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Ghislaine Maxwell: Employee told 'not to look Jeffrey Epstein in the eye'. British socialite Ghislaine Maxwell tightly oversaw every detail in Jeffrey Epstein's Florida mansion, a former employee has alleged. At Ms Maxwell's trial, Juan Alessi said as "lady of the house", she ordered a "tremendous" number of rules, telling him not to look Epstein in the eye. He also accused her of having two underage girls driven to the home. She has pleaded not guilty to eight charges of sex trafficking and other crimes from 1994-2004. Ms Maxwell has been in a US jail since her arrest last year, and faces up to 80 years in prison if convicted. The defence says she is being used as a scapegoat for Epstein's crimes, following his death in prison in 2019. During the Manhattan court hearing, prosecutors produced an instruction manual allegedly given to staff at the late financier and convicted paedophile Jeffrey Epstein's Palm Beach mansion. "Remember that you see nothing, hear nothing, say nothing, except to answer a question directed at you," the 58-page booklet read. It ordered staff to "NEVER disclose Mr Epstein or Ms Maxwell's activities or whereabouts to anyone." A lengthy checklist to review prior to Epstein arriving at the mansion also required that a gun be placed in the drawer of a side table in his bedroom. The manual was dated after Mr Alessi's departure in 2002, but he said he remembered a previous version of it with similar content. Ghislaine Maxwell 'won't get fair trial' - brotherPanorama: The Prince and the Epstein ScandalWho was Jeffrey Epstein? He also recalled seeing two girls who appeared to be aged 14 or 15, including one who testified this week under the pseudonym "Jane". Mr Alessi said he first met "Jane" in 1994 when she visited the mansion with her mother, and that he once picked her up from school. He also recalled seeing her board a plane from Palm Beach with Epstein and Ms Maxwell. Earlier this week, "Jane" told jurors that she was subjected to years of sexual abuse by Epstein, from the age of 14. She alleged that Ms Maxwell was often present during the abuse and sometimes participated in the sex acts. Ms Maxwell's defence team will cross examine Mr Alessi on Friday. Born outside Paris on Christmas Day 1961, Ms Maxwell grew up in a country mansion, went to Oxford University and speaks several languages. She is the youngest child of late media mogul Robert Maxwell. She is said to have had a very close relationship with her late father, and he named his luxury yacht - the Lady Ghislaine - after her. Soon after her father's death in 1991, Ms Maxwell left the UK to settle in America, where she worked in real estate, and not long after met Jeffrey Epstein. She sold her Manhattan townhouse in 2016, and kept a low profile until she was arrested last July at her secluded mansion in the state of New Hampshire. Who is Ghislaine Maxwell, Epstein's ex-girlfriend?
Italian man tries to dodge Covid jab using fake arm. An Italian man who wanted a Covid vaccination certificate without getting the jab turned up for his vaccine with a fake arm, officials say. The man, in his 50s, arrived for his shot with a silicone mould covering his real arm, hoping it would go unnoticed. But a nurse was not fooled and the man has now been reported to the police. The nurse told local media that when she had rolled up his sleeve, she found the skin "rubbery and cold" and the pigment "too light". After being discovered, the man tried to persuade the nurse to turn a blind eye, la Repubblica reported. But instead she reported him to the police for fraud. Local police are now investigating the incident in Biella, north-west Italy, and local officials have criticised the man's actions. "The case borders on the ridiculous, if it were not for the fact we are talking about a gesture of enormous gravity," the head of the Piedmont regional government, Albert Cirio, said in a statement on Facebook. He said the ploy was "unacceptable faced with the sacrifice that our entire community has paid during the pandemic, in terms of human lives, the social and economic cost". The man was reportedly a health worker who had been suspended from his job because he had not been vaccinated. The jab is mandatory for all health workers in Italy. La Repubblica suggests the incident may not have been a one-off, pointing to a message on social media that may have been written by the man. The Twitter post quoted by the paper featured a silicone male chest half-body suit, complete with fake arms and neck, that was on sale on Amazon for €488 (£416). "If I go with this, will they notice? Maybe beneath the silicone I'll even put on some extra clothes to avoid the needle reaching my real arm," the Twitter user reportedly wrote. The incident comes ahead of a tightening of the rules in Italy for those who have not been vaccinated. Since August, Italians have needed a Covid "green pass" - showing proof of vaccination, a negative test or recovery from the virus - to access train stations, cinemas, restaurants, gyms and swimming pools. But from Monday, these activities will be restricted to those with a "super green pass", which is only available to those who have been vaccinated or recently recovered from Covid. Covid vaccines: How fast is worldwide progress?Covid map: Where are cases the highest? The vaccine pass rules have prompted protests in several Italian cities in recent weeks. Just over 73% of Italians are fully vaccinated against Covid - higher than in France or the UK, but lower than in Spain and Portugal.
Ethiopia closes schools to boost civil war effort. Ethiopian authorities have closed all secondary schools so pupils can harvest crops for those on the frontline of the civil war, state-affiliated media says. The closure will last for one week, according to the education minister. More than 2 million pupils were already out of school due to the war which started in the northern region of Tigray last year, the government says. As the fighting intensifies, government troops say they are taking towns from the Tigray rebels. On Wednesday state forces announced they had recaptured the historic town of Lalibela, which contains churches that are Unesco world heritage sites. In an interview with the BBC, an Ethiopian army commander said the country's defence forces would not relent in their advances after recent gains. "I cannot say we will pause once we reach Mekelle [Tigray's capital] or other places, rather we will recapture areas at the hands of Woyane [the Tigray People's Liberation Front]. We will follow and get rid of them," Lt-Gen Bacha Debele said. The war has caused a humanitarian crisis with more than 300 schools that teach grade one to 12 destroyed as of October, according to a statement on the Ministry of Education's Facebook account. The government will work to restore the destroyed schools, the statement continued. The war intensified after Tigray fighters said they were advancing towards the capital Addis Ababa in November. They also launched an offensive to reach the Djibouti border in the east - which is crucial for getting supplies to landlocked Ethiopia. This led to Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed saying he would join the war effort on the frontline, where he has since been pictured by state TV. The TPLF has said it made a "strategic withdrawal" from some the areas which the army says it has recaptured. Africa Live: For more on this and stories around the continentEXPLAINER: Why the Ethiopia conflict matters to the worldVOICES: Civilians hunt rebels in EthiopiaPROFILE: The Nobel Peace Prize winner who went to war
US jobs growth falls far short of expectations. US employers hired only 210,000 more workers in November, missing economists' predictions for stronger growth. Forecasters had been expecting US non-farm payrolls to increase by 550,000. However, the unemployment rate dropped sharply to 4.2% and more Americans returned to the work force. The mixed jobs data does not reflect the emergence of the Omicron variant at the end of November which could affect the economic recovery. President Joe Biden described the jobs recovery as "very strong," despite the disappointing headline figure. "Today's historic drop in unemployment rate includes dramatic improvements for workers," he said. The rate dropped from 4.6% in October. Wages also rose month on month and many employers have been offering additional improvements to working conditions to attract scarce labour. "The trend is in the right direction," said Diane Swonk chief economist at Grant Thornton. "The overall labour market is healing much more rapidly than we expected despite the miss in payrolls." She said the apparent contradiction between sharply falling unemployment and slower than anticipated jobs growth lay in the way each was measured, through two different surveys with one covering households and the other based on employers' data. The outlook for the US economy is set to be complicated by the arrival of the Omicron strain of the coronavirus. "The new coronavirus Omicron variant, which has yet to fully establish itself in the US, is still the real unknown variable in relation to the pace of the jobs recovery," said Charles Hepworth, investment director at GAM Investments. Combined with the weaker-than-expected jobs data, Omicron was likely to delay the point at which the Federal Reserves would raise interest rates, he added. "This weak reading today shifts the narrative of the first hike coming earlier next year to perhaps a bit later now," he said. Retail, leisure and hospitality in particular did not see an increase in hiring on the scale that was expected. The US Bureau of Labour Statistics said there had been a decline in employment in the retail sector, after seasonal adjustment, of 20,000, especially in general merchandise and clothing stores. Employment in leisure and hospitality rose only 23,000 and remains nearly 8% lower than before Covid hit. But on the upside, it said there had been a rise in hiring across areas such as professional and business services as well as transport and warehousing. The bureau also said construction and manufacturing had added new jobs. Joe Kinahan, chief market strategist at TD Ameritrade, said the low rate of hiring overall and the sharp fall in unemployment didn't "add up" and he expected the figures to be revised upwards. He said the sectors "that don't truly make sense" are leisure and hospitality rising by such a small amount, and retail being down, "which is very odd for this time of year", he said. Biden says US economy 'in strong shape'Inflation uncertainty has risen, Fed chair warnsFact-checking Biden's claims about the US economy In September, children returned to schooling in-person and pandemic-related unemployment benefits stopped, leading many analysts to expect strong jobs growth throughout the autumn. Figures for October were revised up to show 546,000 jobs were added that month. However, millions of Americans have still not returned to work, leaving the total workforce significantly smaller than it was before the pandemic. Commonly cited reasons are difficulties with childcare and concerns around Covid infection. Despite an increase in the numbers of people in work or looking for work, known as the participation rate, there are still 3.9 million fewer people in the workforce compared to February 2020. As a result many employers have struggled to recruit the staff they need, and have raised wages or offered other perks to attract and retain workers.
Fourteen arrested over spate of Los Angeles smash-and-grab raids. Fourteen people have been arrested over a series of smash-and-grab robberies at retail outlets in Los Angeles in recent weeks, police say. Nearly $340,000 (£256,000) worth of goods were stolen between 18 and 28 November. All of the suspects were released from custody pending trial. Police and city officials called for an end to a bail relaxation policy for some defendants, introduced to prevent jail overcrowding during Covid-19. Police chief Michel Moore said four robberies, six burglaries and one grand theft had been carried out, leading to $338,000 worth of goods being stolen and $40,000 of property damaged. He said one of the suspects was a juvenile and the others had either been bailed or met no-bail criteria. It usually took three to four months for suspects to be arraigned, and criminal elements were capitalising on this situation, the police chief added. Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti said that with Covid infection levels easing it was time for more room to be found in jails and for more judges to put more people in them. "There are people who need to be behind bars," he told reporters on Thursday. "How many times does someone have to steal a car - three, four, five times - before we realise?" The November incidents are part of a recent spate of large-scale thefts in California and across the US involving shoplifting by flash mobs or smash-and-grab raids on display cases. Retailers fear the perpetrators face little accountability for their crimes, prompting officials to promise a crackdown on these groups.
Austria ruling party picks Nehammer for chancellor. After 24 hours of political turmoil, Austria's ruling People's Party has chosen Interior Minister Karl Nehammer to take over as leader of both party and country. Mr Nehammer will be the party's third choice of chancellor in weeks, after Sebastian Kurz stood down in October. Mr Kurz is under investigation after he was implicated in a corruption scandal. On Thursday he stepped down as party leader, prompting his replacement as chancellor to say he would resign too. Alexander Schallenberg said he was convinced the country should be run by the same person as the ruling party leader. The People's Party (ÖVP) is in coalition with the Greens, who withdrew their support for Mr Kurz when prosecutors said they were investigating him. Mr Nehammer told reporters it was a great honour and privilege: "Today I was unanimously appointed by the ÖVP leadership as party head and at the same time as candidate for federal chancellor." The Greens will not stand in his way, so he will become chancellor as soon as his swearing-in ceremony is agreed with President Alexander Van der Bellen. He said the government needed to "state clearly what is necessary when it concerns the question of asylum and migration, when it comes to security for the Austrian people". In all there were three party resignations on Thursday, as Finance Minister Gernot Blümel also stood down, so Mr Nehammer had the immediate task of reshuffling the cabinet too. The change at the top marks an end to the whirlwind career of Sebastian Kurz, who was just 31 when he became Austrian chancellor in 2017. His first coalition collapsed in May 2019  when the far-right Freedom Party became embroiled in a political scandal dubbed Ibiza-gate which involved a secret video. His position became untenable in October 2021 when anti-corruption prosecutors began investigating allegations that his entourage had previously used public funds for "partially manipulated opinion polls".  He denied wrongdoing but the Greens said he was no longer fit for office and demanded he step down. Mr Schallenberg will become foreign minister again as part of the shake-up.
Chris Cuomo: CNN fires presenter over help he gave politician brother. US anchor Chris Cuomo has been fired by CNN for help he gave his brother, ex-New York governor Andrew Cuomo, while he was battling harassment allegations. The decision came after CNN said additional information had emerged over the extent of Chris Cuomo's involvement in his older brother's defence. Andrew Cuomo resigned in August after prosecutors said he had harassed staff. Chris Cuomo, 51, said in a statement that he was disappointed and it was "not how I want my time at CNN to end". He had worked for the network since 2013 and became one of its most recognisable news presenters, most recently leading CNN's coverage of the 2020 US presidential election. A CNN statement said that a "respected law firm" had been hired to investigate Chris Cuomo's efforts to help his politician brother fight allegations of sexual harassment. But while that review was happening, "new information has come to light" leading to the network terminating his contract, "effective immediately". Chris Cuomo had already been suspended by CNN on Tuesday after the extent of his behind-the-scenes efforts to help with the scandal were revealed. At that time, the network said that while it "appreciated the unique position [Chris Cuomo] was in and understood his need to put family first and job second", the advice he offered to his brother was a breach of journalistic ethics. Documents released by New York Attorney General Letitia James on Monday showed that the younger Cuomo continuously pressed the governor's staff to let him play a larger role in his brother's defence. "You need to trust me," he texted Melissa DeRosa, his brother's secretary, in March, adding: "We are making mistakes we can't afford." He also pledged to contact other US media outlets to try and learn of other allegations that were forthcoming. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter In a staff email seen by the New York Times, CNN's President Jeff Zucker said: "It goes without saying that these decisions are not easy, and there are a lot of complex factors involved." The star anchor's dismissal will raise serious questions about journalistic standards in the US. CNN's media correspondent Brian Stelter said that "viewers need to be able to trust what they're hearing here on television when we're covering a sensitive story, even if it involves the family member of a colleague". The Cuomo family has long been one of the most dominant dynasties in US politics. Andrew Cuomo was elected to three successive terms as New York governor and their father Mario led the state for over a decade between 1983 and 1994. Prior to his resignation in October, Andrew Cuomo was a leading political figure, before after an investigation conducted by his own Attorney General concluded that he had sexually harassed and groped 11 women working for him.
CNN's Chris Cuomo suspended over help to governor brother. CNN star Chris Cuomo has been suspended indefinitely over help he gave his ex-New York governor brother while he was battling sex abuse allegations. The decision came after the New York attorney general released new documents that showed the extent of his work for his older sibling, Andrew Cuomo. CNN said the documents show "a greater level of involvement in his brother's efforts than we previously knew". Andrew Cuomo resigned in August after prosecutors said he harassed staff. Chris Cuomo's behind-the-scenes efforts to help his politician brother were widely considered a breach of journalistic ethics in the media industry. The thousands of pages release by Attorney General Letitia James on Monday show that the younger Cuomo continuously pressed the governor's staff to let him play a larger role in his brother's defence. "You need to trust me," he texted Melissa DeRosa, the governor's secretary, in March. "We are making mistakes we can't afford," he added. Last year CNN briefly suspended its rule barring Cuomo from covering his brother as New York became the global epicentre of the coronavirus pandemic. The host began interviewing his brother on air and praising his leadership as governor. The network had previously defended Cuomo, who joined the channel in 2013, amid the controversy surrounding his efforts to help his powerful brother. But CNN said in a statement on Tuesday: "The documents, which we were not privy to before their public release, raise serious questions. "When Chris admitted to us that he had offered advice to his brother's staff, he broke our rules and we acknowledged that publicly. "But we also appreciated the unique position he was in and understood his need to put family first and job second. "However, these documents point to a greater level of involvement in his brother's efforts than we previously knew." Scores of emails and text messages show the involvement the TV anchor had with the governor's staff. "Please let me help with the prep," he texted a senior aide. He also pledged to contact other US media outlets in order to try to learn of other allegations that were forthcoming. At one point, Ms DeRosa asked him to help by checking his "sources". "On it," the primetime host responded. Fox host condemned over Fauci Nazi doctor commentsChris Cuomo: Is 'Fredo' considered an Italian slur? A state investigation in March concluded that Andrew Cuomo, whose father was also a Democratic New York governor, sexually harassed and groped 11 women working for him. Once lavished with praise by US media for his daily Covid briefings in 2020, Mr Cuomo found himself facing pressure to resign from members of his own party, including President Joe Biden. The younger Cuomo apologised in May this year for his discussions with his brother's team, and maintained he was a staunch defender of sexual abuse victims.
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo resigns in wake of harassment report. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo has resigned after an inquiry found that he sexually harassed multiple women, prompting efforts to remove him. "The best way I can help now is if I step aside," he said, while continuing to deny the claims. The resignation will take effect in 14 days. Lt Governor Kathy Hochul will become the first woman to lead New York state. Mr Cuomo had been facing pressure to resign from fellow Democrats, including President Joe Biden. Just a year ago he was basking in adulation as millions of Americans tuned in daily to his no-nonsense televised briefings on the coronavirus pandemic. Mr Cuomo is the third New York governor in a row to leave office under a cloud of scandal. The independent investigation by the New York Attorney General's office found that Mr Cuomo, 63, sexually harassed 11 women, including state employees. Women alleged that he made sexual comments, inappropriately touched or groped them, and kissed them without consent. The report led many prominent Democrats to turn against Mr Cuomo, including Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi, Senate leader Chuck Schumer and New York's two US senators. His fellow New York Democrats had begun plans to impeach him. He is still facing criminal investigations relating to the harassment claims. As he announced his resignation on Tuesday, Mr Cuomo continued to deny allegations of sexual harassment but said he wanted to "deeply, deeply" apologise to any women who may have been offended by his actions. "In my mind I've never crossed the line with anyone. but I didn't realise the extent to which the line has been redrawn," he said. He added that his instinct was "to fight through this controversy, because I believe it is politically motivated". But he said he was resigning because the "current trajectory" of the scandal would generate months of distractions and "cost taxpayers millions of dollars". Mr Cuomo said the allegations had harmed his relationship with his daughters. "I have sat on the couch with them, hearing the ugly accusations for weeks. I have seen the look in their eyes, and the expression on their faces. It hurt," he said. He said he told them he "never did and would never intentionally disrespect a woman". Following Mr Cuomo's announcement, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, a long-time critic of the governor, said "it was past time" for him to resign. "I respect the governor's decision," Mr Biden told reporters at the White House. "I respect the decision he made." White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki earlier said the president had not spoken to his old friend since the report was published and did not have advance notice of his resignation. Mr Cuomo's brother, CNN primetime anchor Chris Cuomo, has also faced calls to resign after it emerged he had been advising the governor ahead of his Tuesday announcement. The younger Cuomo in May had apologised to viewers for strategizing with his brother about how to handle the initial misconduct claims. He recused himself from covering the matter on air, and has not commented on the official report. He has since gone on holiday. A separate federal inquiry is also looking into whether the governor's office deliberately undercounted the number of Covid deaths in New York care homes. This is a stunning reversal of fortunes for a former heavyweight of the Democratic Party - who was hailed as a national hero during the Covid pandemic just last year. His image now is closer to that of a villain. Before the report came out - and initially after its release - Andrew Cuomo tried to survive the scandal. He knew the #MeToo movement had changed the conversation around sexual assault, after all he had passed legislation with new protections for victims. So in public statements he tried, in a sense, to have it both ways. He said women should be heard, but then tried to discredit his accusers. He said what the women had described as sexual advances were in his view harmless gestures that arose from his upbringing and culture's physical warmth. The pressure did not let up and it became increasingly clear that Andrew Cuomo was backed into a corner. Still, when the resignation announcement did come from this defiant politician, it was major surprise that rocked New York and the country. Kathy Hochul will become the first female governor of the fourth most populous US state. The 62-year-old is a centrist Democrat from the Buffalo area of New York state. She joined the governor's team in 2014, and has held the largely ceremonial role of lieutenant governor. She was not part of Mr Cuomo's inner circle, but he described her on Tuesday as "smart and competent". Ms Hochul had joined the chorus of politicians denouncing the New York governor last week, and said his resignation on Tuesday was the "right thing to do". "As someone who has served at all levels of government and is next in the line of succession, I am prepared to lead as New York State's 57th Governor," she said in a statement. It's unclear whether she will seek a full term in the 2022 election.
Indonesia volcano: Dozens injured as residents flee huge ash cloud from Mt Semeru. One person has died and dozens are injured after a volcano erupted on Indonesia's Java island, officials said on Saturday. Residents were filmed fleeing a giant ash cloud from Mt Semeru. Witnesses described nearby villages covered in debris, and thick smoke blotting out the Sun, leaving them in pitch darkness. The deputy chief of Lumajang district put the number of injured at 41, saying they had suffered burns. Indah Masdar called for helicopters to help rescue at least 10 people trapped in buildings. "We're in big distress," she said. "It's harrowing, their families are all crying." Indonesia's disaster mitigation agency (BNPB) later said it knew of 35 people being treated at local medical facilities. Evacuation efforts have been hampered by choking smoke, a power blackout, and rainstorms during the eruption which turned the debris into mud. Thoriqul Haq, a local official, told Reuters that a road and bridge from the area to the nearby city of Malang had been severed. "This has been a very pressing, rapid condition since it erupted," he said. Several hundred people have been moved to shelters or left for safer areas, local broadcaster tvOne quoted him as saying. The eruption took place at about 14:30 local time (07:30 GMT). Local authorities have set up a restricted zone within 5km (3 miles) from the crater. Airlines have been warned of an ash cloud rising up to 15,000m (50,000 ft). The Volcanic Ash Advisory Center (VAAC) in Darwin, Australia said the ash appeared to have detached from the summit and was drifting south-west over the Indian Ocean. The VAAC provides advice to the aviation industry about the location and movement of potentially hazardous volcanic ash. Campbell Biggs, a meteorologist at the VAAC, told the BBC that the 15,000m plume was higher than the cruising altitude for most aircraft and would cause most flights in the vicinity to divert their flight paths to avoid it. Ash that solidifies on cooler parts of plane engines can disrupt airflow, which can lead to engines stalling or failing completely. It also affects visibility for the pilots and can affect air quality in the cabin - making oxygen masks a necessity. Mt Semeru was quite an active volcano that regularly spewed ash up to about 4,300m, so Saturday's eruption was a "pretty significant increase in intensity", Mr Biggs said. What does volcanic ash do to planes? The ash cloud should slowly dissipate, he said. Mt Semeru rises 3,676m above sea level and previously erupted last December, forcing thousands of residents to seek shelter. It is among Indonesia's nearly 130 active volcanoes. Indonesia is on the Pacific "Ring of Fire" where continental plates meet, causing frequent volcanic and seismic activity. Videos shared by emergency officials and local media showed residents running away as a giant ash cloud rose behind them. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on Twitter How have you been affected by the volcano erupting? Email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: WhatsApp: +44 7756 165803Or Upload your pictures/video hereTweet: @BBC_HaveYourSayPlease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission.
Michigan school shooting: Suspect's parents deny involuntary manslaughter. The parents of a teenager suspected of a deadly school shooting have denied charges of involuntary manslaughter following their arrest on Saturday. James and Jennifer Crumbley were found hiding in a Detroit basement having failed to show up in court on Friday. The judge set bail at $500,000 each after agreeing with prosecutors that the Crumbleys posed a flight risk. They are accused of ignoring warning signs before their son's alleged rampage. Prosecutors say Ethan Crumbley, 15, used his father's gun to shoot classmates in the nearby Michigan town of Oxford, killing four and wounding seven. The Crumbleys' lawyers said that the pair had intended to turn themselves in to the authorities on Saturday morning, according to US media. However reports in the US say the couple had withdrawn $4,000 (£3,000) from an ATM and had turned off their mobile phones. Ethan Crumbley is alleged to have opened fire on fellow students and teachers at his school in Oxford, about 35 miles (60 km) north of Detroit, on Tuesday. The four killed were Tate Myre, 16, Madisyn Baldwin, 17, Hana St Juliana, 14, and Justin Shilling, 17. Ethan Crumbley is being charged as an adult, and is facing one count of terrorism, four counts of first-degree murder, seven counts of assaults with intent to murder and 12 counts of possession of a firearm. Oakland County lead prosecutor Karen McDonald said the terrorism charge was neither "usual" nor "typical" but reflected the wider impact the shooting would have. "What about all the children who ran, screaming, hiding under desks? What about all the children at home right now who can't eat and can't sleep and can't imagine a world where they could ever step foot back in that school?" she said. "Those are victims, too, and so are their families and so is the community. The charge of terrorism reflects that." On Friday, Ms McDonald acknowledged that charging parents in a child's alleged crime was also unusual. According to her office's investigation, the boy was with his father last Friday when Mr Crumbley bought the firearm believed to have been used in the shooting. A post on the boy's social media later that day showed off his dad's new weapon as "my new beauty", adding a heart emoji. America's gun culture in chartsHow a medieval English law affects guns in New York Just one day before the shooting, a teacher said she saw the boy searching online for ammunition, which prompted a meeting with school officials, Ms McDonald said. After being informed of the incident, Mrs Crumbley texted her son: "LOL I'm not mad at you. You have to learn not to get caught." And on Tuesday morning - hours before the rampage - Mr and Mrs Crumbley were called into the school for an urgent meeting after teachers found a note by their son, including several drawings of guns and bloodied people alongside captions like "the thoughts won't stop. Help me", and "blood everywhere". The boy had also written "My life is useless" and "The world is dead", according to the prosecutor. School officials told the pair they would have to seek counselling for their son. But the boy's parents did not want him to be removed from school that day, Ms McDonald said, and did not ask him whether he had the gun with him, or search his backpack. At 13:22 later that day, Mrs Crumbley texted her son to say: "Ethan, don't do it." Minutes later her husband called police to report his gun was missing, said the prosecutor. But authorities say the boy had already emerged from the school bathroom and opened fire on fellow students. Ms McDonald said the charges were meant to hold the Crumbleys accountable and to send a message about responsible gun ownership. "The notion that a parent could read those words and also know that their son had access to a deadly weapon that they gave him is unconscionable, and it's criminal," she said. The prosecutor had previously noted that, although the gun had been purchased legally, it "seems to have just been freely available" for the child's use. According to her, the suspect took the gun from an unlocked drawer in his parents' bedroom and brought it to school. Neither federal nor state law requires gun owners to keep their weapons locked away from their children. In a video message posted to YouTube on Thursday, the school's superintendent Tim Throne said that - while the boy and his parents had been called to the office - "no discipline was warranted" at the time. He added that the school looked like a "war zone" and would not be ready to operate again for weeks. Ms McDonald alleged on Friday that, when James Crumbley heard about the shooting, he "drove straight to his home to look for his gun" before calling authorities to say he suspected his son was the perpetrator. "I'm angry as a mother. I'm angry as a prosecutor. I'm angry as a person that lives in this county," she said. "There were a lot of things that could have been so simple to prevent." She said her office had "a mountain of digital evidence" to show the suspect had planned the attack "well before the incident".
Coronavirus: UK tightens travel rules amid Omicron spread. Travellers heading to the UK will now have to take a Covid test before their departure in an effort to limit spread of the virus, the government has said. Health Secretary Sajid Javid said the tightened requirements would come into force from 04:00 GMT on Tuesday. Everyone aged 12 and over will be required to take a pre-departure test a maximum of 48 hours before leaving. Currently people only need to self-isolate until they test negative within two days of arriving. Nigeria will be added from Monday to the red list of countries from where people arriving must quarantine in a hotel for 10 days, Mr Javid also confirmed. The health secretary said the government's strategy since the discovery of the Omicron variant had been to "buy time" to assess and to "put in place protective measures", adding: "We've always said that we would act swiftly should new data require it." What are the UK's new travel rules?Is Omicron more harmful than other Covid variants?First data points to Omicron re-infection risk The Department of Health and Social Care later said 21 Omicron cases linked to Nigerian travel had been discovered in recent days. Mr Javid said this number was growing and Nigeria was now second only to South Africa in terms of linked cases to Omicron. He called on people to get a booster vaccine when called to do so by the NHS, describing vaccinations as the country's "first line of defence" against coronavirus. A further 26 Omicron cases - of which 25 were recorded in England and one in Scotland -  were confirmed in the UK on Saturday. Those cases took the total for England to 129. Scotland has so far recorded 30 cases while one case was identified in Wales, bringing the total for the UK as a whole to 160. The Scottish and Welsh governments have confirmed they will also bring in the updated measures for travellers following the assessment of the UK Health Security Agency. The moves come after pressure on the UK government to tighten the policy on overseas arrivals. Last week the government's scientific advisory body Sage said pre-departure tests for those arriving in the UK would be valuable, in the leaked minutes of a meeting seen by the BBC. Following the latest announcement Labour's shadow health secretary Wes Streeting called for further action and for the number of booster jabs given to be increased to 500,000 per day. In a tweet he said: "Finally the health secretary accepts Labour's call for pre-departure tests, but why up to 48 hours before flight?" by Katy Austin, BBC transport correspondent While Labour has pushed for pre-departure testing to avoid Omicron spreading, travel businesses will see it as a significant setback - just when green shoots of recovery were emerging. Airlines have supported the red list re-introduction and extension. But they view the introduction of blanket restrictions as unnecessary and ineffective. There was already concern in the industry that people's confidence to travel, and to book future trips, would be knocked by the requirement to take a PCR test within 48 hours of arriving in the UK, and the need to self-isolate until a negative result. The fear is this latest measure will provide a further deterrent. Also, the addition of another country to the red list comes as some UK residents in South Africa are still struggling to get home, because they can't find quarantine hotel rooms available on the day their flight arrives. Earlier this week, Downing Street said any further testing requirement would have a detrimental effect on the travel industry and those planning to go travelling. Commenting on the announcement, British Airways' Chairman Sean Doyle said the move was "completely out of step with the rest of the world, with every other country taking a measured approach based on the science". "Our customers will now be faced with uncertainty and chaos and yet again this a devastating blow for everyone who works in the travel industry," he added. Airlines UK said the change was a "premature" move that would "hit industry and passengers before we see the full data" on the effect of the Omicron variant. The trade body added: "The red list extension made complete sense - that's what it's there for - but we know from experience that blanket restrictions do not stop the importation of variants. "It's already here. They've now changed their travel advice twice within a week. It's impossible for anyone to plan." Travel association Abta said the re-introduction of pre-departure tests would be "a huge blow" to "an already devastated travel industry". The group called for the government "to step up to save jobs and businesses" and for the cost of PCR tests to be reduced. Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said additional caution is needed as scientists continue to work to understand the new variant. In a tweet he said: "We appreciate this will be difficult for the travel sector as we prioritise public health and protect the progress of our world-leading vax and booster programme." WHAT RISK DOES AI POSE TO OUR FUTURE?: Stuart Russell explores the future of Artificial IntelligenceTHE FAMOUS PHOTO OF A US PRESIDENT THAT'S ACTUALLY FAKE: How long has catfishing been around for?
Pacific Ocean garbage patch is immense plastic habitat. Scientists have discovered marine animals living on plastic debris in an area of the open ocean dubbed "the Great Pacific Garbage Patch". Many of the creatures are coastal species, living miles from their usual habitats, on a patch halfway between the coast of California and Hawaii. Plants and animals, including anemones, tiny marine bugs, molluscs and crabs, were found on 90% of the debris. Scientists are concerned that plastic may help transport invasive species. The study examined plastic items more than 5cm (2in) in diameter gathered from a gyre - an area where circulating currents cause floating debris to accumulate - in the Pacific. Lead researcher Dr Linsey Haram, who carried out the work at the Smithsonian Environmental Research Centre, said: "Plastics are more permanent than many of the natural debris that you previously have seen in the open ocean. They're creating a more permanent habitat in this area." Dr Haram worked with the Ocean Voyages Institute, a charity that collects plastic pollution on sailing expeditions, and with oceanographers from the University of Hawaii at Manoa. The world has at least five plastic-infested gyres. This one is thought to hold the most floating plastic - an estimated 79,000 tonnes in a region of more than 610,000 square miles (1.6m sq km). "All sorts of stuff ends up out there," said Dr Haram. "It's not an island of plastic, but there's definitely a large amount of plastic corralled there." Much of that is micro-plastic - very difficult to see with the naked eye. But there are also larger items, including abandoned fishing nets, buoys and even vessels that have been floating in the gyre since the Japanese tsunami in 2011. The researchers, who reported their findings in the journal Nature Communications, initially embarked on the investigation following that devastating tsunami. The disaster caused tonnes of debris to be ejected into the Pacific ocean, and hundreds of coastal Japanese marine species were found alive on items that landed on the shores of the North American Pacific coast and the Hawaiian Islands. "We want to get a handle on how plastics may be a transport for invasive species to coasts," Dr Haram told BBC News. Some of the organisms the researchers found on the plastic items they examined were open-ocean species - organisms that survive by "rafting" on floating debris. But the most eye-opening finding, Dr Haram said, was the diversity of coastal species on the plastic. "Well over half of the items had coastal species on them," she said. "That creates a lot of questions about what it means to be a coastal species." The scientists said the discovery highlighted another "unintended consequence" of plastic pollution - a problem only expected to grow. One previous study estimated that a total of 25,000 million tonnes of plastic waste would be generated by 2050. Follow Victoria on Twitter
Biden and Putin to hold call amid Ukraine invasion fears. US President Joe Biden and Russia's Vladimir Putin will speak via video call on Tuesday, the White House says, amid mounting tensions over Ukraine. It comes after Secretary of State Antony Blinken said the US had evidence that Russia had made plans for a "large scale" attack on Ukraine. But he added it was unclear if Mr Putin had made a final decision to invade. Russia has denied any such intention, and accused Ukraine of executing its own troop build-up. In a statement released on Saturday evening, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said that Mr Biden will "underscore US concerns with Russian military activities on the border with Ukraine and reaffirm the United States' support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine" during his call with the Russian president. Ukraine says Russia has deployed armoured vehicles, electronic warfare systems and 94,000 troops along their shared border. It is the largest massing of Russian forces on its borders since it annexed Crimea from Ukraine in 2014. Citing intelligence reports, Ukraine's Defence Minister Oleksii Reznikov said Moscow could be planning a military offensive at the end of January. The Russian troop movement has strained already tense relations between Russia and the US. EXPLAINER: Why Russia is stoking border tensions with Ukraine On Friday, Mr Biden warned he would make it "very, very difficult" for Mr Putin to "go ahead and do what people are worried he may do". The US and its European allies have discussed imposing sanctions on Russia if it takes aggressive action. While Ukraine is not a Nato member, it has close ties with the bloc and has received Western weapons including US Javelin anti-tank missiles. Russian officials have denied any plans for an invasion, and say the border troops are there for military exercises. Moscow has accused Nato of engaging in provocative behaviour by holding drills in the Black Sea, off Crimea. Russia's foreign ministry also said Ukraine has itself sent 125,000 troops to their shared border. Kyiv declined to comment on the claim. This week Britain's most senior military officer said "we have to be on our guard" about the potential for conflict in the region. Gen Sir Nick Carter told the BBC that he "distinctly hoped" there would not be a war with Russia, but added that Nato would have to be ready for that eventuality. Tensions between Russia and Ukraine are nothing new. In 2014 Russia annexed Ukraine's Crimean Peninsula and soon after started to back a separatist insurgency in Ukraine's east. More recently, Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky has imposed sanctions on a powerful friend of President Putin and banned broadcasts by three pro-Russian TV stations. Presidents Biden and Putin held their only face-to-face talks in Geneva in June. Reuters reports that their last phone call was on 9 July.
Bolsonaro: Brazilian Supreme Court opens investigation into vaccine comments. Brazil's Supreme Court has opened an inquiry into comments made by President Jair Bolsonaro wrongly claiming that Covid-19 vaccines may increase the chance of contracting Aids. The comments, made during a social media livestream in October saw him temporarily banned from Facebook and YouTube under their fake news policies. Mr Bolsonaro has frequently cast doubt over the effectiveness of vaccines. He is already facing a separate inquiry into his handling of the pandemic. During the livestream on 24 October, Mr Bolsonaro claimed that reports "suggest that people who are fully vaccinated against Covid-19 are developing Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (Aids) much faster than expected". The assertion has been strongly rejected by scientists and medical experts. The embattled president, who has refused to get vaccinated himself, has defended the comments and claimed that he was simply quoting from an article in a magazine. On Friday, Supreme Court Justice Alexandre de Moraes ruled that Mr Bolsonaro had "used the modus operandi of mass dissemination schemes in social networks" which called for further investigation. Brazil's leader defiant as Covid inquiry launchedWhy could Brazil's president face criminal charges? Mr de Moraes instructed Brazil's top prosecutor, Augusto Aras, to try to establish whether the president's comments are linked to a group of his supporters who are currently being investigated for the large-scale production of fake news. The group, known in local media as the Office of Hate, has spread misinformation throughout the pandemic and has called for a military coup that would give Mr Bolsonaro, a former army captain, unlimited powers to rule the country. Investigations into the group have already seen the arrest of a number of the president's allies, including Roberto Jefferson, the head of the right-wing Brazilian Labour Party. Mr Bolsonaro has come under heavy pressure in recent months and faced a number of political crises that have dented his popularity. In October, Brazilian senators voted to recommend charging him over his response to the Covid-19 pandemic. A special Senate investigative panel backed a report calling for charges to be filed against the president, including crimes against humanity. Mr Bolsonaro has maintained he is "guilty of absolutely nothing". Brazil's death toll from Covid-19 is the second highest in the world, behind the United States. More than 615,000 people have died, and 22.1 million have been infected with the virus, although there are fears the true numbers are far higher. In March, as deaths spiked, the president told Brazilians to "stop whining" and downplayed the threat of the virus, as the health system was crippled by the crisis.
Ghislaine Maxwell trial: Key moments from the first week. Prosecutors in Ghislaine Maxwell's sex trafficking trial dragged in one of paedophile Jeffrey Epstein's green massage tables to show jurors, as the first week of proceedings wrapped up in New York. The socialite, 59, is accused of grooming teenage girls for abuse by the late Epstein. She's pleaded not guilty to all the charges, which cover a period from 1994 to 2004. The opening week of the trial heard emotional testimony from some of the alleged victims of Epstein and Ms Maxwell. But there were also claims that Ms Maxwell was being targeted because Epstein, whose death in prison was ruled to be a suicide, could no longer face trial himself. Ms Maxwell, who has British, American and French citizenship, has been in a US jail since her arrest last year. She faces up to 80 years in prison if convicted. PROFILE: Who is Ghislaine Maxwell, Epstein's ex-girlfriend? Here are the key moments in her trial so far. In her opening statement on Monday, prosecutor Lara Pomerantz called Ms Maxwell a predator who recruited and groomed underage girls  for her long-term companion Epstein to abuse. "She preyed on vulnerable young girls, manipulated them, and served them up to be sexually abused," the prosecutor said. Ms Maxwell and Epstein were said to be "partners in crime" in the abuse. But the defence said Ms Maxwell was being scapegoated because Epstein was no longer alive. "The charges against Ghislaine Maxwell are for things that Jeffrey Epstein did, but she is not Jeffrey Epstein," her lawyer Bobbi Sternheim argued. On Tuesday, the trial's first witness, Epstein's long-time personal pilot Larry Visoski, told the court he flew VIPs to luxury locations worldwide. Mr Visoski recalled flying Prince Andrew, Bill Clinton and Donald Trump. None of them are accused of criminal wrongdoing. Asked to describe Ms Maxwell's standing in Epstein's operations, Mr Visoski described her as "the number two". "Epstein was the big number one," he told the court. The first of four Maxwell accusers to give evidence at the trial cried as she described being sexually abused by Epstein when she was 14. The woman, using the pseudonym Jane, said Ms Maxwell showed her how Epstein liked to be massaged, and sometimes took part in their sexual encounters. "Ghislaine was very casual, acting like it wasn't a big deal," Jane said. But on Wednesday, Ms Maxwell's defence sought to find inconsistencies in Jane's testimony. Defence lawyer Laura Menninger pointed out that Jane now worked as an actress. "You are an actor who convincingly portrays someone else for a living," the lawyer stated. "You are able to cry on command." On Thursday, Epstein's former housekeeper Juan Alessi recalled how Ms Maxwell had tightly controlled every detail in the financier's Florida mansion. Ms Maxwell was the "lady of the house", ordering staff to speak only when spoken to and to avoid eye contact with Epstein, according to Mr Alessi, who said his job included cleaning their sex toys. He said staff were given a 58-page instruction manual, warning them to keep Epstein's and Ms Maxwell's activities or whereabouts secret. "I was supposed to be blind, deaf and dumb," Mr Alessi told the court. Wrapping up a week of testimony in New York, Ms Maxwell's legal team sought to undermine the credibility of Mr Alessi during cross-examination. They challenged his recollection of meeting 14-year-old Jane in 1994, pointing to an earlier statement that he met her years later when she may have been of legal age. Later, jurors were shown a green massage table seized from Jeffrey Epstein's Palm Beach mansion during a 2005 police raid. Prosecutors have alleged that Epstein used massages as a "ruse" before escalating his encounters with young girls. Michael Dawson, a detective who took part in the 2005 search, recalled how officers found a variety of sexualised images at Epstein's home. Prosecutors also displayed a photo of a box labelled "Twin Torpedos", which Det Dawson said contained sex toys and was taken from an upstairs cupboard. Gruelling testimony in the courtroom By Pratiksha Ghildial , BBC News, New York After nearly 18 months in a New York prison, this was the week Ghislaine Maxwell finally faced her first accuser. Smartly turned out and out of her prison scrubs, the British socialite sat calmly - occasionally whispering to her lawyers, and listening intently to each testimony. In a wood-panelled Manhattan courtroom, her alleged relationship with Jeffrey Epstein was laid out for the world to see. We saw pictures from inside his Florida mansion and his infamous "portable and collapsible" massage table. Epstein's former pilot and house manager revealed a life of power and opulence socialising with the rich and famous. But for the alleged victims, the week was one of gruelling testimony of alleged abuse at Epstein's hands. In an emotional testimony, the first accuser, "Jane," described in graphic detail alleged sex acts at the hands of Epstein and Ms Maxwell. Though Epstein's shadow looms large over this trial, the prosecution tried to elucidate how Ms Maxwell may have facilitated abuse. Ms Maxwell's team, in cross-examination, alleged several inconsistencies in the accuser's statements, questioning her memory. Two of Ms Maxwell's siblings have been there to show solidarity. There was a gasp in the courtroom when one of the defence lawyers, accidently, uttered Jane's real name despite a strict anonymity order - prompting an admonishment from Judge Alison Nathan.
MH370: Could missing Malaysian Airlines plane finally be found?. The disappearance of a Malaysia Airlines flight, carrying 239 passengers and crew, is one of the world's biggest aviation mysteries. But a British aeronautical engineer, who has spent more than a year working on the disaster, thinks he has calculated where MH370 crashed. Richard Godfrey believes the Boeing 777 crashed into the Indian Ocean 2,000km west of Perth, Western Australia. The aircraft vanished from radar during a flight in March 2014. Mr Godfrey told the BBC he hoped "we'll be able to give closure to the next of kin and answers to the flying public and the aviation industry on exactly what happened with MH370 and how we prevent that in the future". He combined different data sets that were previously kept in separate domains, to align to this new location in the Southern Indian Ocean. Mr Godfrey said it was a "complicated exercise", but previously there was simply a lack of lateral thinking, across multiple disciplines, to bring this together. "No one had the idea before to combine Inmarsat satellite data, with Boeing performance data, with Oceanographic floating debris drift data, with WSPR net data," he said. Mr Godfrey said work with a team has been progressing for a year now, and "we've done quite a lot of testing of this new idea and we've came to the confidence to apply it to MH370". The exact point determined by data calculations is around 33 degrees south and 95 degrees east in the Indian Ocean. There have been two extensive searches of the Indian Ocean for MH370, which have yielded inconclusive results. The searches have cost hundreds of millions of dollars, and whilst there is demand from family members to find their loved ones, the costs associated are enormous. Grace Nathan lost her mother, Anne, in the crash. "It's really just been an ongoing nightmare. There is never an end. We just seem to be going in circles and hitting a brick wall after another. "We've been hoping for the longest time for something new - a new breakthrough, something new that would warrant the search starting again and at least there being a more precise location for the search being conducted at and to increase the odds of finding the plane" she told the BBC. Ms Nathan, a criminal defence lawyer who lives in Kuala Lumpur, wants the new data to be tested by aviation experts who can understand the science and physics behind the location and to test the theory is credible. She said: "We welcome all new findings, especially if it's based on tangible evidence. In this case it is based on tangible evidence. It's things that can be calculated. It's not based on just Google images or loose things that can't be backed up." Aviation chief quits over MH370 failingsFour-year hunt for missing MH370 endsMH370 'not brought down by rogue pilot' Previous searches for MH370 have been difficult because of the size of the search area. Mr Godfrey said: "An area as large as a 120,000 sq km has been searched and that's not looking for a needle in a haystack - that's looking for something microscopic in a haystack. It's very difficult to do." The engineer's new proposal is a circle radius of 40 nautical miles, far smaller than previous searches. "The wreckage could be behind a cliff or in a canyon on the ocean floor," he said. "And you need maybe three or four passes before you start to pick things up." The wreckage could lie as far as 4,000 metres deep, he added. More than thirty pieces of aircraft debris have been washed up on the beaches of the African coast and islands in the Indian Ocean. In 2009, Mr Godfrey was due to be a passenger on Air France 447 from Rio de Janeiro to Paris, but work plans meant he had to remain in Brazil. That flight never reached its destination and was lost in the Atlantic. From this point, he became interested in flights lost at sea and locating them. Mr Godfrey is a founding member of the MH370 Independent Group, and an engineer with a background in building automatic landing systems and autopilot systems for aircraft. He said: "I've done a lot of work on information systems and handling lots of data and that's important on this analysis. There is huge amount of data to get through and filter out the needle in the haystack." David Gleave is the chief investigator at Aviation Safety Consultants. He has worked on aeroplane crashes and disappearances for decades. Mr Gleave expects there to be a new search, saying: "The funding of the new search will be the issue. Given that we now have additional accurate data that as to where the crash site might be, that appears to be entirely credible and consistent with other theories". The timing and launch of another search will depend on the availability of specially designed equipment and also the sea state. He said: "Realistically we want to be in the Southern Ocean in the southern summer - which is about now. So quite when the search will be, it may start again in 12 months, because you can't get the assets together and on site in a short period of time. "But I think either the Chinese will take responsibility and look for their victims. Or private companies might search, sponsored by insurance companies." There were 122 Chinese nationals on board MH370, which departed from Kuala Lumpur but never reached its destination, Beijing. The vanishing has led to a huge number of theories as to what happened. One of the theories is that it was a 'pilot hijacking', where the pilot took control, and deactivated radar technology before turning around above the Gulf of Thailand and heading west. Mr Gleave said: "If you are choosing to hide the aeroplane in the Southern Indian Ocean, just make sure it was further to the west of the standard flight path, far away from beyond the range of Australia's search and rescue teams aircraft. So, this pinpointed location is consistent with that theory." The Australian Transport Safety Board (ATSB) involvement in the underwater search for MH370 concluded in October 2017. It told the BBC: "The ATSB is not involved in any contemporary efforts to establish the location of the aircraft. "Any decision to resume the search for the aircraft would be a matter for the Malaysian government, as the state of registry of the aircraft." The Malaysian government and Chinese government have been approached for a response. Grace Nathan said: "It's in the interests of global aviation safety that this plane is found so we can prevent something like this happening in the future. "It goes beyond our need for our closure."
Gambia elections: Ex-President Yahya Jammeh's shadow looms over poll. Gambians are voting in their first election since the former President Yahya Jammeh left office and fled the country in 2017. Six presidential candidates, including the incumbent Adama Barrow, are running. The election is seen as a litmus test for the West African nation's democratic transition. Some 960,000 voters, almost half of the country's population, are eligible to cast ballots. Unemployment, economic recovery from the impact of the Covid pandemic, and whether Mr Jammeh should return from exile have been the central issues in the campaign. Long queues have formed outside several polling stations, but many voters are not wearing masks or observing social distancing measures, the BBC's Thomas Naadi in the capital, Banjul, reports. The Gambia's unique marble voting system - introduced in 1965 because of the country's high illiteracy rate - is still being used. On arrival at a polling station, and after their ID has been verified, a voter will be directed to a series of drums painted in the party colours of the different candidates. Protruding from the top of each drum is a pipe into which the voter will slot a marble handed over by an election official. Why Gambians won't stop voting with marblesWho is Yahya JammehBeauty queen 'raped by Gambia's ex-President Jammeh' Mr Jammeh fled into exile in Equatorial Guinea following his shock defeat in 2017. Last week President Barrow received a long-delayed government report on alleged abuses under his 22-year rule. Hundreds of witnesses told the truth commission of state-backed executions squads and other rights violations including Aids patients being forced to take bogus cures. Mr Barrow has promised to ensure justice for the victims. The truth commission's report sets the scene for a showdown between the two men, who have already abandoned a controversial pre-election deal their parties announced in September. Six candidates in the running: Adama Barrow (National People's Party) - the incumbentOusainou Darboe (United Democratic Party) - a lawyer who briefly served as Mr Barrow's vice-president. He was part of the coalition that brought down Mr Jammeh and is contesting for a fifth time Essa Mbye Faal (Independent) - a lawyer and former lead counsel at the recently concluded TRRC. Contesting for the first timeMama Kandeh (Gambia Democratic Congress) - came third in the 2016 contest, backed by Mr JammehAbdoulie Ebrima Jammeh (National Unity Party) - a former teacher who once headed the country's civil aviation authority. Contesting for the first timeHalifa Sallah (People's Democratic Organisation for Independence and Socialism) - an MP contesting for the fifth time
Eitan Biran: Cable car survivor returned to Italy after custody battle. A six-year-old boy who was the sole survivor of a cable car crash has been returned to Italy after a bitter custody dispute. Eitan Biran's parents, brother and two great-grandparents were among 14 people killed in the accident in May. His paternal aunt, who lives in Italy, was given guardianship by an Italian judge afterwards. But in September, Eitan was flown to Israel by his maternal grandfather, Shmulik Peleg, without her permission. Mr Peleg insisted his actions were legal and in the boy's best interests, but Italian prosecutors opened a kidnapping investigation, demanding the boy's return. An Israeli court agreed that Eitan must be returned to Italy, but the transfer was delayed after his family appealed to the Supreme Court. Judges rejected that appeal last month. The Peleg family said they would continue to fight "in every legal way" to return the child to Israel. The legal battle will now continue in the Italian courts, but it is not yet clear what legal options are available. Eitan had been living in Italy for several years before the accident in northern Italy which killed his brother Tom, his parents Amit Biran and Tal Peleg, his paternal great-grandparents, and nine other people. After the boy was discharged from hospital in June, an Italian judge granted custody to his paternal aunt, Aya Biran-Nirko, an Israeli-born doctor who lives in the Italian city of Pavia. On 13 September, Eitan was taken out for the day by Mr Peleg, who had visitation rights. He travelled by car with Eitan to the Swiss city of Lugano and then flew with him to Tel Aviv in a private jet, using the boy's Israeli passport.
Belgian zoo hippos test positive for Covid. A Belgian zoo has said that its two hippopotamuses have been taken into quarantine after testing positive for coronavirus. It is unclear how Imani, aged 14, and Hermien, 41, caught the virus, Antwerp Zoo said, adding the animals were doing well - apart from having runny noses. Restrictions have been tightened at the zoo until the animals test negative. Globally, there have been several reports of captive and domesticated animals infected with Sars-CoV-2. The hippos' noses are usually wet, but vets at Antwerp Zoo decided to test the pair after they noticed they were "expelling snot". Their enclosure has been sealed off. Their handlers - who have tested negative - must wear masks and safety glasses, and disinfect their footwear before any contact with the hippos. "To my knowledge, it's the first recorded contamination among this species. Throughout the world this virus has mostly been seen in great apes and felines," said Antwerp Zoo vet Francis Vercammen. Earlier this week, Canada also confirmed that three Covid cases had been discovered in wild deer - the first such report in the country's wildlife. But limited testing means no-one knows how prevalent coronavirus is in the wild. Pets can catch Covid from owners, study suggestsCovid therapy from llamas shows promise
Rand Paul blasts Fauci: 'Astounding and alarming' to declare 'I represent science': Sens. Ted Cruz and Rand Paul have grilled Fauci over gain of function research. Dr. Frita Fisher joined 'Fox Report Weekend' to discuss the new COVID variant. Dr. Anthony Fauci escalated his spat with some lawmakers over the nation’s COVID-19 response by claiming they oppose "science." Fauci has served as the face of the government’s pandemic response, putting him at odds with lawmakers who remain critical of that response. Sen. Rand Paul, R-Kt., has frequently sparred with Fauci over various statements and policies the president’s chief medical adviser has made or endorsed. NIH DIR. COLLINS: COVID VACCINES WILL ‘MOST LIKELY’ PROTECT AGAINST OMICRON VARIANT, BUT TOO SOON TO TELL Most recently, Rand blasted Fauci for "obfuscating the truth" about the National Institute of Health funding gain-of-function research after the organization admitted in a letter to House Oversight Committee ranking member James Comer, R-Ky., that a "limited experiment" was indeed conducted. Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, speaks during a Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee hearing on Capitol Hill, Thursday, Nov. 4, 2021, in Washington. Fauci, during an interview with "Face the Nation," dismissed opposition by such lawmakers as "noise," saying they’re "really criticizing science." BARRASSO SLAMS BIDEN AS ‘MAD HATTER’ ON SPENDING: ‘THIS IS ALICE IN WONDERLAND LOGIC’ "Anybody who’s looking at this carefully, realizes that there’s a distinct anti-science flavor to this, so if they get up and criticize science, nobody’s going to know what they’re talking about," Fauci said. "But if they get up and really aim their bullets at Tony Fauci, well people can recognize that there’s a person there, so it’s easy to criticize, but they’re really criticizing science because I represent science." Paul took to Twitter Sunday morning to respond to Fauci’s claims, calling it "absolute hubris" for Fauci to declare he represents science. SCHIFF HINTS THAT JAN. 6 COMMITTEE MIGHT MAKE ‘DECISION’ ON HOLDING MARK MEADOWS IN CONTEMPT THIS WEEK "It’s astounding and alarming that a public health bureaucrat would even think to claim such a thing, especially one who has worked so hard to ignore the science of natural immunity," Rand wrote. Senator Rand Paul, a Republican from Kentucky, speaks during a Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee hearing in Washington, D.C., on Thursday, Nov. 4, 2021. Photographer: Al Drago/Bloomberg via Getty Images Fauci also dismissed a suggestion from Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, that he should be prosecuted by the attorney general over his comments about the gain of function research. Cruz tweeted that "It’s a crime to knowingly lie to Congress, so I asked AG Garland if he'd appoint a special prosecutor to investigate Fauci." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Fauci laughed at the suggestion, asked "What happened on January 6th, senator?" and claimed "you’d have to be asleep" not to believe that Republicans are trying to "scapegoat" him. Fox News' Charles Creitz contributed to this report.
Waukesha parade attack: 7 children still recovering in hospital one week after deadly ambush: Six died and least 62 people were injured. Joseph Sifnaios, co-owner of The Coop restaurant in Waukesha, Wisconsin, says about $15,000 was raised for the holiday parade victims. The city of Waukesha asked residents to light a blue light outside their homes and share a moment of silence at 4:39 p.m. CT on Sunday, exactly one week after the Christmas parade attack that left at least six people dead and dozens more injured. Businesses and city council members gave out blue lights to residents, who were asked to keep them illuminated outside of their homes through the holidays. Mayor Shawn Reilly, who led the moment of silence with other city officials, told Fox News "blue is the color of unity." Amy Mack lights candles at a memorial at Veterans Park for the victims of Sunday's deadly Christmas parade crash in Waukesha, Wis. The city of about 70,000 people held a candlelight vigil on Monday and set up a memorial for the victims in Veterans Park, just blocks away from where 39-year-old Darrell Brooks allegedly broke through barricades in a red SUV and plowed through a crowd at a Christmas parade. WAUKESHA PARADE CARNAGE COMES JUST OVER 6 YEARS AFTER SIMILAR ATTACK IN OKLAHOMA WITH EERIE SIMILARITIES A Waukesha police officer said that Brooks "had no emotion on his face" as he swerved from side to side in "an intentional act to strike and hurt as many people as possible," according to a criminal complaint filed this week. Darrell Brooks was charged with five counts of first-degree intentional homicide on Tuesday. Brooks was charged with five counts of first-degree intentional homicide on Tuesday, but the district attorney said more charges may be coming. Five adults were pronounced dead just hours after the tragedy – Wilhelm Hospel, 81; Virginia Sorenson, 79; LeAnna Owen, 71; Tamara Durand, 52; and Jane Kulich, 52. WAUKESHA PARADE SUSPECT DARRELL BROOKS FACING 5 COUNTS OF 1ST-DEGREE INTENTIONAL HOMICIDE, HELD ON $5M BAIL Jackson Sparks, 8, was marching in the parade with his baseball team when he was struck by the SUV and succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday. Jackson Sparks, 8, died Tuesday after he was struck in the Christmas parade attack. At least 62 people were injured in total and seven children are still in the hospital, according to Children's Wisconsin. Three of the hospitalized children are in serious condition, while three are in fair condition and one is in good condition. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP One of those children, 11-year-old Jessalyn Torres, was hit so hard by the SUV she had marks from the vehicle's grille across her chest. "She told them, ‘Just glue me back together,’" Ryan Kohnke, Jessalyn's uncle and a Waukesha resident who attended the parade, told Fox News Digital. "For her to crack a joke and have that type of human moment was big. My sister and I both kind of chuckled. We thought that was funny."
CNN roasted for tweet saying Waukesha parade attack was caused by 'a car' that drove through parade: The CNN tweet places responsibility on Brooks' vehicle, making no mention of the career criminal behind the wheel. Ryan Kohnke recounts horrific Christmas parade attack on 'Justice with Judge Jeanine.' CNN was the center of intense backlash on Sunday over a tweet suggesting that the SUV involved in the Waukesha parade attack was responsible for the massacre that resulted in six deaths. Darrell Brooks was charged with intentional homicide after driving his red SUV through a crowded street commemorating the holiday season, claiming six lives of those ages 8 to 81 and injuring dozens more. On Sunday however, CNN appeared to place the responsibility on Brooks' vehicle, making no mention of the career criminal behind the wheel. WAUKESHA PARADE ATTACK: DEBRA MESSING BLASTS MEDIA FOR DOWNPLAYING MASSACRE AS AN 'ACCIDENT' "Waukesha will hold a moment of silence today, marking one week since a car drove through a city Christmas parade, killing six people and injuring scores of others," the tweet reads. Screenshot/Twitter Critics tore into the liberal outlet on social media for an apparent attempt to deflect blame from the suspect. "Well, how about that? Autonomous cars seem to be running amok," legal scholar and McCormick professor Robert P. George wrote. "Evidently, one got it into it's head to kill and maim a bunch of humans, so it 'drove through a Christmas parade, killing six people and injuring scores of others.' We should punish that car to teach others a lesson."  "A ‘car’ did this? Not a human being with intent to kill and maim and being held on $5 million bail?" California congressional candidate Buzz Patterson agreed. "You guys are a joke." "Hey, @CNNKeith, what is up with this headline and tweet of your article?" Newsbusters deputy managing editor Nicholas Fondacaro asked. "You guys know the movie Cars isn't real right? Cars are not living things," he wrote in a separate tweet. "Someone  is radicalizing cars," former New York Times reporter Nellie Bowles tweeted. "A car drove through a city Christmas parade," radio host Jason Rantz emphasized. "Give me a break CNN,"  Sen. Ted Cruz's communication adviser Steve Guest wrote. "A car drove through a city Christmas parade" The headline was written like this for a reason." Pluribus editor Jeryl Bier noted that CNN appeared to change the headline of the article to, "Waukesha will hold a moment of silence Sunday, one week after a man plowed a vehicle through a Christmas parade." The CNN tweet comes amid ongoing criticism over the media's decision to refer to the deadly attack as a "parade crash," downplaying the intent prosecutors have leveled against the career criminal.
Biden 'prematurely declared independence from the virus': NBC's Chuck Todd: President Biden announced travel bans from 8 African countries on Friday due to omicron variant. Fox News contributor Sean Duffy joined 'Fox & Friends Weekend' to discuss the incident and how the American people are losing trust in the government. NBC's Chuck Todd challenged President Biden for how he's handled the coronavirus pandemic, particularly in light of the new omicron variant that has prompted the White House to ban travel from several African countries, beginning Monday. Todd, host of "Meet the Press," suggested that omicron, from which most cases were discovered in southern Africa, was not just a health problem. It's a political one as well for the current administration, he argued, flashing back to when Biden "prematurely" declared a sort of victory over the virus on July 4. "Ultimately, this is also a political problem," Todd said Sunday. "Biden ran on taming the pandemic and he prematurely declared independence from the virus back in July." President Joe Biden at the White House on Oct. 4, 2021. BIDEN PROMISED TO ‘SHUT DOWN’ COVID, BUT OMICRON VARIANT POSES NEW CHALLENGE FOR ADMIN Biden announced that the U.S. had achieved the "upper hand" against the coronavirus from the South Lawn of the White House in July 2021. But within days of his speech, the highly contagious delta variant spread through the country and led to hundreds of thousands more infections. More Americans were found to have died from the disease in 2021 than in 2020, according to data from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. More Americans were found to have died from COVID-19 in 2021 than in 2020, according to CDC data. OMICRON COVID-19 VARIANT: US TO LIMIT TRAVEL FROM 8 SOUTHERN AFRICA COUNTRIES Todd said more of the same earlier on NBC's "Sunday Today," telling host Willie Geist that it seemed Biden has not been properly leading in the battle against the virus. "One of the things about his COVID response, over the last couple of months, it can be argued he has not been the face of the COVID response, not in some time," Todd said. "Not really since we declared our – back in July, when he declared our independence from the virus, obviously prematurely." But Todd also pointed fingers at Republican politicians who have been fighting against vaccine mandates. He suggested Biden needs to use his "bully pulpit" to push back on "vaccine misinformation" because none of his political agenda will pass until he does. "This is a reminder he needs to be more front and center on the COVID response than he has been so far," Todd said. The newest strain of the virus, omicron, which has been detected in at least 10 countries, has been described by experts as highly contagious, yet it is largely unknown whether it comes with mild or severe symptoms. Dr. Angelique Coetzee, a board member of the South African Medical Association who first reported the presence of the variant, said it presents "unusual but mild" symptoms. Omicron still has no documented cases in the U.S., but some experts have suggested it's already in the country. The Biden administration announced on Friday that it was restricting travel from South Africa and seven other countries, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique and Malawi. People lineup to get on an overseas flight at the airport in Johannesburg, South Africa on Friday Nov. 26, 2021. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Biden also previously declared that former President Trump's pandemic-prompted travel ban from China was "xenophobic." "We need to lead the way with science – not Donald Trump’s record of hysteria, xenophobia and fear-mongering," Biden tweeted at the time.
ABC's 'Good Morning America' guest worries omicron variant could hurt Biden's economic 'progress': Dow dropped 903 points on Friday. Dr. Frita Fisher joined 'Fox Report Weekend' to discuss the new COVID variant. A guest on ABC’s "Good Morning America" posed concerns over how the omicron variant of the coronavirus could affect President Biden’s economic record. ABC congressional correspondent Rachel Scott filled in as the anchor for the morning show on Sunday when she spoke with deputy political director Averi Harper on the emergence of this new variant. Namely, Scott asked what kind of challenge the omicron variant posed to Biden. BIDEN ‘PREMATURELY DELARED INDEPENDENCE FROM THE VIRUS’: NBC’S CHUCK TODD President Joe Biden points to the Oval Office of the White House as he arrives on Marine One on the South Lawn in Washington, Sunday, Nov. 21, 2021, as he returns from Wilmington, Del. "Nearly 150 days ago the president said we were closer to declaring independence from the virus. Now we see this new Covid variant. How much of a challenge does this pose for the President," Scott asked. Harper remarked that the latest variant could pose "a significant challenge" on the "economic front" after the largest single-day drop of the year in U.S. stocks on Friday. "We know that New York's governor has declared a state of emergency and we saw the markets took a nosedive on Friday all because of the omicron variant. So, I would say this poses a significant challenge to the Biden administration, particularly on the economic front," Harper said. A healthcare worker conducts a polymerase chain reaction BIDEN PROMISED TO ‘SHUT DOWN’ COVID, BUT OMICRON VARIANT POSES NEW CHALLENGE FOR ADMIN Harper also showed some concern that the omicron variant could be a threat to the "progress of the economy" that she claimed Biden has made in the past year as well as the upcoming 2022 elections. "Last week, we heard the president urge Americans to have confidence in the progress of the economy has made. Well, the omicron variant could pose a significant threat to that progress. And heading into an election year for the Biden administration, which is critical, it could spell trouble," Harper said. Stocks Take Another Plunge As Economic Uncertainty Over Coronavirus Continues NEW YORK, NY - MARCH 11: Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange  on March 11, 2020 in New York City. The Dow plunged more than 1400 points as Coronavirus cases rose around the world. Other media pundits, like "Meet the Press" host Chuck Todd, hit Biden for "prematurely" declaring the U.S. had the "upper hand" against the virus back in July, and argued he had to "get out in front" of the ongoing fight against the disease. He added the president should use his "bully pulpit" to push back against Republicans who have shunned vaccine mandates or his political agenda would get nowhere. Markets currently worry that the variant could lead to new restrictions and bans that will greatly impact businesses. However, their biggest concern remains rising inflation rates which could be exacerbated by a new coronavirus strain. Various economic advisors, including ones from the Obama administration, have denounced Biden’s policies as contributing to the rapidly increasing inflation rates. The Biden administration has since denied inflation as a growing concern, with many members of the media also downplaying concerns over economic consequences. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
New York Times columnist says he has 'high tolerance' for inflation in 'white-hot economy': David Brooks: 'Since we can’t really fine-tune an economy, we’re probably overheating and we’re getting inflation'. FOX Business correspondent Hillary Vaughn has the latest on 'Special Report' as eager shoppers brave long lines for Black Friday specials despite rising prices and new COVID fears. The media continues to downplay mass inflation in today’s economy, including New York Times columnist David Brooks, who encouraged a "white-hot economy" and said he has a "high tolerance" for inflation. "I want a white-hot economy," he said. "I want a white-hot economy that will raise wages at the bottom, which is happening, that will bring people back into the labor force, which is happening, which is spreading wealth around the country and not concentrating in a few cities." Brooks' push for a hyperactive economy is due to his recognition of society "coming apart" in recent years, he said, in areas like income inequality and labor. But the consequence of these pressures is what’s causing inflation to surface. LIBERAL MEDIA ROUTINELY DOWNPLAY INFLATION OR TURN IT INTO A POSITIVE: ‘SLASH YOUR SHOPPING BURDEN’ "Since we can’t really fine-tune an economy, we’re probably overheating and we’re getting inflation," he said. Post-pandemic inflation, he said, is less of a threat than Jimmy Carter’s inflation of the 1970s which he said "builds on itself." "I have a high tolerance for inflation in this kind of economy because I think we need it as a society to heal," he said. "But if it turns out to be accelerating 1970s inflation, that becomes its own monster. And I don’t think we know. And I’ve read a million economists on the subject, and believe me, they don’t know." MSNBC COLUMNIST CLAIMS CURRENT INFLATION CRISIS IS ACTUALLY A 'GOOD THING' This is not the first time a media pundit has lessened the crisis of higher prices as the holiday season rolls in. MSNBC's Stephanie Ruhle claimed in an interview with "Sunday Today" host Willie Geist earlier this month that Americans "on average" can afford the higher prices that come with inflation, earning her the nickname "Stephanie Antoinette" from her critics. "The dirty little secret here, Willie, while nobody likes to pay more, on average, we have the money to do so," she said on NBC. "Household savings hit a record high over the pandemic, we didn't really have anywhere to go out and spend." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Fox News’ Cortney O’Brien contributed to this report.
'More money than God:' Chinese titan lavished Hunter Biden with 3-carat gem, offer of $30 million: Miranda Devine details Biden's family involvement with the Chinese government in new book. Retired Brig. Gen. Peter Zwack discusses the potential of an armed conflict with China on 'Americas Newsroom.' The Biden family offered their services to a huge, Chinese-government-linked energy consortium to expand its business around the world. How do we know? Because of hundreds of emails documenting the deal found on Hunter Biden’s laptop, left in a Delaware repair shop in April 2019. In her new book, "Laptop from Hell," New York Post columnist Miranda Devine tells the tale: James Gilliar, a wiry, 56-year-old British ex-SAS officer, got to know Ye Jianming, the 40-year-old chairman of CEFC, when they were both working in the Czech Republic. CEFC was a Chinese conglomerate, one of the largest energy companies in the world. Ye’s task at was to spend $1.5 billion as quickly as possible to ensure the Czech Republic would become China’s "Gateway to the European Union," a priority of President Xi. Gilliar connected with Hunter Biden through trusted Biden family friend Rob Walker, a former Clinton administration official whose wife, Betsy Massey Walker, had been Jill Biden’s assistant when she was second lady. Gilliar emailed Walker in February 2015 to praise Hunter’s appearance in Beijing at a board meeting of the fledgling investment fund Hunter had founded with John Kerry’s son, called BHR. "Hunter was great," Gilliar wrote to Walker. "True sheikh of Washington." He emailed Hunter a few weeks later: "It has been made clear to me that CEFC wish to engage in further business relations with our group." Gilliar knew CEFC was the capitalist arm of President Xi’s Belt and Road Initiative to spread China’s influence – and debt traps – across the world. No Chinese company executed its goals more ardently than CEFC and its young chairman, who was dubbed the "Belt and Road billionaire" in the press. The White House promised to keep the identities of buyers a secret, but "many ethics experts expressed sharp disapproval of the arrangement," according to Politico’s Ben Schreckinger. Chinese President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China, is said to be China's most authoritarian leader in decades. HUNTER BIDEN'S FIRM HELPED CHINESE COMPANY PURCHASE RICH COBAL MINE IN $3.8 BILLION DEAL: REPORT Chairman Ye had built his provincial energy company into a Fortune 500 colossus virtually overnight, an achievement described by Chinese news agency Caixin as "another great enigma in the miraculous world of Chinese business." He enjoyed the support of President Xi and was former deputy secretary general of the government’s propaganda arm, the China Association for International Friendly Contacts. In a rare interview with Caixin at CEFC’s palatial marble headquarters in Shanghai’s upscale French Concession District, Ye is portrayed as a "hermit king" sitting on a golden chair in "a room that resembles a miniature Great Hall of the People." Uniformed staff members wearing earpieces glide by. "Most of them were young women wearing smart clothes and bright faces." Ye’s face was "as expressionless as a stone statue. Amidst the gilded surroundings, his canvas shoes had an eye-catching plainness. . . . "In his public activities as a private entrepreneur, Ye Jianming is always walking alongside important foreign political figures. He has been photographed with world leaders such as Israeli President Peres, Turkish President Erdogan, Chadian President Déby, and European Commission President Juncker. He has met with the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, and the Prime Minister of Bulgaria held a feast to welcome him." In the winter of 2015, Chairman Ye and CEFC Executive Director Jianjun Zang, a.k.a. "Director Zang," flew to Washington, D.C. A meeting with Ye was scheduled in Hunter’s diary for Dec. 7, 2015, in a week that was a swirl of back-to-back Christmas parties hosted by Joe and Jill at the vice president’s residence at the Naval Observatory. One of his former associates, who spoke on condition of anonymity, believes that Hunter brought Chairman Ye to meet Joe at one of those parties. There is no indication of any such meeting on the laptop, but Hunter had a pattern of introducing business associates to Joe when they came to D.C. After a frustrating experience in another Chinese deal as a minority partner in private equity firm BHR, in which the payday would not come until the end of the fund’s life, Hunter and his uncle Jim Biden wanted more control of the CEFC partnership and a regular income stream. Enter Tony Bobulinski. The naval officer turned wealthy institutional investor came highly recommended by Gilliar to build what they planned would be a world-class investment firm, called SinoHawk, named after Hunter’s late brother Beau’s favorite animal, the hawk. In December 2015, Gilliar tells Bobulinski he needs help structuring a Chinese joint venture for "one of the most prominent families in the United States." ‘MY SON HUNTER’ MOVIE RELEASES PHOTOS DEPICTING BIDEN'S SON SMOKING, PARTYING WITH SCANTILY CLAD WOMEN The plan is to "build an investment firm like Goldman Sachs," he writes in a WhatsApp message, transcripts of which were obtained separate from the laptop. "The family is the Biden family," Gilliar will soon disclose. Joe, who has announced that he will not run for president in 2016, will be actively involved once he leaves office, and the Bidens expect billions of dollars of projects to flow through the company, Gilliar says. He lets Bobulinski in on the last piece of the puzzle in March 2016: the Bidens’ Chinese partner is CEFC, which has "more money than God," he writes. "This is the capital arm of one belt one road." At about this time, Bobulinski is introduced to Rob Walker, who tells him he is "a proxy for Hunter Biden, Jim Biden and the Bidens around the world." Finally, in February 2017, Gilliar sends Bobulinski a WhatsApp message saying he wants to introduce him to his "partner." "Who is your partner?" asks Bobulinski. "Hunter Biden," replies Gilliar. Bobulinski is leery. "I understand you want me to . . . help drive things in the US, but Hunter is [already] here." Gilliar: "Money there, intent there . . . skill sets missing . . . We need to create the best deal platform in history, and they haven’t got a clue." Bobulinski doesn’t like the fact Hunter "was kicked out of US Navy for cocaine use." "But he’s super smart," says Gilliar. "Just a lot of under achievers around them using their name. Has a few demons but u are used to those, right?" Bobulinski asks: "Is he the decision maker or the Chinese?" CNN, MSNBC, ABC, CBS, NBC IGNORE NYT BOMBSHELL REPORT ON HUNTER BIDEN'S BUSINESS DEAL WITH CHINESE COMPANY Gilliar: "New platform. Best discuss face to face but I’m the driver." Later, Bobulinski asks: "Ok who is putting up the $10MM [million]?" Gilliar: "Joint vehicle – half us and then equally split – money is already in. Discuss more face to face." Three weeks after his father left office, in 2017, Hunter flew to Miami with Gilliar and Walker to meet Chairman Ye, who was there for the Miami International Boat Show. They booked into the $700 a night beachfront Nobu Hotel on Monday, Feb. 13, 2017, and scheduled lunch with the Chinese for Thursday in a private room set for 10 at the Bourbon Steak restaurant in the ritzy JW Marriott Turnberry Resort & Spa, where Ye was staying with his entourage. But Hunter flew home the day before the lunch. He already had met with Ye, over a private dinner on the Tuesday night, at which the CEFC chairman made him an offer too good to refuse: $10 million a year, for a minimum of three years, for "introductions alone," as Hunter would later assert in an imperious email to CEFC executives. Ye sealed the new alliance with a rich gift – a 3.16 carat diamond worth $80,000. Photographs of the stunning stone appear on Hunter’s laptop along with a grading report that lists it as a "round brilliant" of Grade F with prime "VS2" clarity and "excellent" cut. VIOLENCE IN SOLOMON ISLANDS RECEDS DESPITE THE GOVERNMENT SHOWING NO SIGNS IT WILL ADDRESS THE PROBLEMS The gift could not have come at a better time. Hunter was in the middle of an ugly divorce from Kathleen, and his office manager, Joan Peugh, had just sent him the latest in a series of overdue bills, a tax collection notice from the District of Columbia for $47,226.78. Hunter would tell the New Yorker’s Adam Entous that he had flown to Miami to meet Chairman Ye purely for charitable purposes, hoping to secure a donation to World Food Program USA, the nonprofit on whose board he served and which he had used before as a cover for his foreign business activities. Hunter said it was just chance that the altruistic encounter "turned to business opportunities" and claimed to be surprised when Ye gave him the diamond. He didn’t mention the happy coincidence that his business partners Gilliar and Walker were with him in Miami to clinch a business deal with CEFC. Board Chair Hunter Biden introduces Vice President Joe Biden during the World Food Program USA's 2016 McGovern-Dole Leadership Award Ceremony  on April 12, 2016, in Washington. CHINESE MEDIA APPLAUDS INTERPOL APPOINTMENT, DISMISSES INTERNATIONAL CONCERN OVER ‘OPERATION FOX HUNT’ But the diamond was just an appetizer. Nine days after Hunter’s meeting in Miami with Ye, $3 million is wired into an account for Rob Walker’s company, Robinson Walker LLC, from State Energy HK Limited, a Shanghai-based company linked to CEFC, according to the Chuck Grassley-Ron Johnson inquiry. On March 1, another $3 million is wired to Robinson Walker by the same company. Both transactions are flagged by the Department of Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement network in a "suspicious activity report," filed with the Senate committees as "Confidential Document 16." Using the document as a source, the Grassley-Johnson report of Nov. 18, 2020, says: "At the time of the transfers, State Energy HK Limited was affiliated with CEFC China Energy, which was under the leadership of Ye Jianming. In the past, State Energy HK Limited transferred funds to at least one company associated with Hunter Biden’s business associate, Gongwen Dong . . . "These transactions are a direct link between Walker and the communist Chinese government and, because of his close association with Hunter Biden, yet another tie between Hunter Biden’s financial arrangements and the communist Chinese government." The Senate report concludes it is "unclear what the true purpose is behind these transactions [$6 million from CEFC] and who the ultimate beneficiary is." We know from the laptop that Hunter received regular payments from Robinson Walker. One document lists $56,603.74 from Robinson Walker as income for Rosemont Seneca Advisors, between June and December 2017. Rob Walker paid at least $511,000 to Hunter’s firm Owasco in 2017, according to an email from Hunter’s tax accountant, Bill Morgan. Walker tells Bobulinski his role in CEFC is "being a surrogate for H [Hunter] or Jim when gauging opportunities, i.e. digging around in Texas on high speed rail with some of my republican friends . . . or hitting new countries and contacts abroad where things are lukewarm, but not hot enough for H to close or too odd for H to be present . . ." Chinese President Xi Jinping speaks during an event to commemorate the 40th anniversary of the establishment of the Shenzhen Special Economic Zone in Shenzhen in southern China, Oct. 14, 2020. BIDEN INVITES TAIWAN TO DEMOCRACY SUMMIT IN LIKELY SLAP AT CHINA On March 5, 2017, Page Six breaks the news that Hunter and his brother’s widow Hallie are an item. When Hunter doesn’t show up for a scheduled meeting three days later in New York, Gilliar tells Bobulinski it doesn’t matter: "In brand he’s imperative but right now he’s not essential for adding input to business." It is at this point that Gilliar explains to Bobulinski that the Chinese involved in CEFC are "intelligence so they understand the value added" of the Biden name. Bobulinski remains troubled by Hunter’s scandals, and Gilliar, who is in Australia with Director Zang looking for acquisitions, is worried he might pull out. So, he arranges for him to meet Hunter the following month at the Chateau Marmont, in Bobulinski’s hometown of L.A. They meet by the hotel pool in April and speak for two hours while Hunter chain-smokes. Bobulinski finds him respectful and polite. Hunter boasts that he has his father’s ear and can bypass his advisers. Hunter tells Bobulinski how the joint venture vehicle should be structured and expresses caution about U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act , a 1938 antispying law that requires anyone acting as a lobbyist for a foreign power to register with the U.S. government as a foreign agent. "No matter what, it will need to be a U.S. company at some level in order for us to make bids on federal and state funded projects," Hunter writes later. "Also, we don’t want to have to register as foreign agents under the FCPA which is much more expansive than people who should know choose not to know. "Regardless we should have a . . . company called CEFC America, and ownership should be 50 me 50 them. We then cut up our 50 [percent] in a separate entity between the 4 of us." Hunter seems focused, but Bobulinski is puzzled about Uncle Jim’s frequent meddling in CEFC business. For instance, in April 2017, Jim pulls strings at New York’s elite Horace Mann School to get Director Zang’s daughter Rouqi fast-tracked for entry, although she ends up enrolling in another school. Jim also writes a letter on behalf of CEFC to New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo requesting a meeting. "We intend to discuss potential projects and investments in New York." He lists the other attendees as Hunter, Chairman Ye, Director Zang, and an unnamed "Member of the Royal Family of Luxembourg." "What is the deal w Jim Biden as he wasn’t part of the discussion but now seems a focal point?" Bobulinski asks Gilliar. "What role does Jim see himself playing?" "Consultant is what he’s offered as [far as] I know," Gilliar replies. "He [Hunter] brought in Jim simply to leverage getting more equity for himself and family in the final hour, that is evident." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP In another WhatsApp message, Gilliar tells Bobulinski: "With H [Hunter’s] demons, could be good to have a backup, he [Jim] strengthens our USP [unique selling point] to Chinese as it looks like a truly family business, and I like the dude." With the deal progressing, Hunter tells Bobulinski it’s time for the next step. "I want Dad to meet you," he says. Excerpted with permission from "Laptop from Hell: Hunter Biden, Big Tech, and the Dirty Secrets the President Tried to Hide" , out Tuesday. Click here to read more on the New York Post.
Kamala Harris, Michelle Obama are Democrats' top 2024 picks if Biden doesn't run: poll: Biden would be 81 on Election Day in 2024 -- but would turn 82 soon after. Tomi Lahren and Lynne Patton react to Kamala Harris becoming first female president for 85 minutes Vice President Kamala Harris is the top choice for Democrats if President Biden chooses not to run again in 2024, according to a new poll. The vice president received support from 13% of respondents in The Hill/HarrisX poll despite her historically low approval ratings, according to The Hill. Former first lady Michelle Obama came in second with backing of 10%. Receiving support below 10% were a handful of former 2020 hopefuls, including Sens. Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker; billionaire former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg; businessman Andrew Yang; and Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg. President Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris greet each other on the South Lawn outside the White House in Washington, Nov. 15, 2021. The former first lady remains deeply popular within the party but has repeatedly insisted she has no plans to run for any office. Obama is the co-chair of the get-out-the-vote initiative When We All Vote, which she created. PSAKI SAYS BIDEN INTENDS TO RUN IN 2024 DESPITE PLUMMETING POLL NUMBERS In 2017, she said, "I wouldn’t ask my children to do this again because when you run for higher office, it’s not just you. It’s your whole family," according to The Independent. Another 13% of respondents said they would pick someone not listed on the poll, according to The Hill. Biden reportedly plans to run for reelection in 2024. He would be 81 on Election Day that year, but would turn 82 soon after. White House press secretary Jen Psaki reiterated last week that it was Biden’s "intention" to run as the president boarded Air Force One for an early Thanksgiving visit with troops in North Carolina. Michelle Obama has insisted she has no presidential ambitions despite her popularity among Democrats. A Biden adviser, speaking this month to The Washington Post on condition of anonymity, said, "He has told people privately that he plans to run and we will be ready for that." Biden's poll numbers have also dropped in recent months. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Former President Trump has topped most polls asking who Republicans would choose as a nominee. Trump has teased the idea of running again after his 2020 loss, hinting at it in a Thanksgiving message last week. "A very interesting time in our Country, but do not worry, we will be great again—and we will all do it together," he wrote in a statement. "America will never fail, and we will never allow it to go in the wrong direction. Too many generations of greatness are counting on us. Enjoy your Thanksgiving knowing that a wonderful future lies ahead!" He has said previously he would likely wait until after the 2022 midterms to announce a presidential bid.
Buttigieg responds to criticism over racist roads comment: ‘The point is not to make America feel guilty’: 'I don’t know why anybody would be against reconnecting people,' the transportation secretary said. ‘Fox & Friends Weekend’ co-host Will Cain discusses Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg’s comments about racism ‘built into roads,’ Biden’s poll numbers, and Kamala Harris’ trip to Europe Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg on Sunday responded to criticism over his recent comments about racist bridges and highways, saying "the point is not to make America feel guilty" but to fix what he believes are injustices in the country’s infrastructure. During an appearance on MSNBC’s "The Sunday Show," Buttigieg was asked to respond to critics who don’t believe his argument that some bridges and highways were built with racist intentions. WASHINGTON POST FACT-CHECK ADMITS IT WAS WRONG FOR 'KNEE JERKED' DEFENSE OF BUTTIGIEG'S RACIST BRIDGE COMMENTS Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg during the daily briefing at the White House on Nov. 8, 2021. "What we’re doing is we are reconnecting people who may have been disconnected or divided by discriminatory decisions in the past," the secretary responded. "That helps everybody. I don’t know why anybody would be against reconnecting people who have been divided by discriminatory decisions in the past. "And again, the point is not to make America feel guilty," he continued. "The point is to make America better and more equitable and more effective in moving people to where they need to go. The point of transportation is to connect, so if a transportation was ever used to divide, we have a responsibility, a moral one but also a very practical one, to fix it." Buttigieg raised eyebrows earlier this month after he talked about the bipartisan infrastructure bill addressing racism in highways during a White House press briefing. Pete Buttigieg speaks during the U.N. climate conference in Glasgow, Scotland, on Nov. 10, 2021. "I’m still surprised that some people were surprised when I pointed to the fact that if a highway was built for the purpose of dividing a White and a Black neighborhood, or if an underpass was constructed such that a bus carrying mostly Black and Puerto Rican kids to a beach, or that would have been in New York, was designed too low for it to pass by, that that obviously reflects racism that went into those design choices," Buttigieg said on Nov. 8. Conservatives on social media immediately doubted the story, prompting The Washington Post’s resident fact-checker Glenn Kessler to come to Buttigieg’s defense, citing a narrow passage from Robert Caro’s Pulitzer-Prize winning book "The Power Broker," a biography of New York civic planner Robert Moses. A Transportation Department official confirmed to Kessler that Buttigieg was indeed referring to Caro’s book. Pete Buttigieg looks at a Tesla Model S during an electric vehicles event outside the Department of Transportation on Oct. 20, 2021 in Washington, D.C. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Kessler later admitted that his "knee jerked" and that experts have increasingly doubted the racist bridge story in Caro's book. "Obviously this cannot be easily resolved," Kessler wrote. "Caro quotes one of Moses’ top aides as saying the height of the bridges was done for racist reasons, but increasingly that story has been questioned as not credible. Buttigieg should tailor his remarks to reflect what is historically unimpeachable – and we should be more careful to double-check on the latest views of historians. Even a Pulitzer Prize-winning book is not always the last word on a subject."
Biden's socialist Build Back Better bolstering IRS to 'spy' on Americans' bank accounts: Mace: Plan includes $80 million to hire 87,000 more IRS agents. Rep. Nancy Mace, R-S.C., argued the legislation is part of a broader movement to expand the social safety net amid massive government spending. A Republican congresswoman from South Carolina says President Biden’s Build Back Better plan includes $80 million in funding to hire some 89,000 more IRS agents who will be tasked with "spying" on Americans' bank accounts like socialist countries around the world do. Rep. Nancy Mace, R-S.C., reacted in an appearance on Fox News Channel’s "Sunday Morning Futures" to the highly contested IRS funding stipulation added to the Build Back Better Act. "It’s wrong. Eighty billion for 89,000 more agents to spy on our bank accounts. This isn’t America," Mace, representing the Lowcountry Region, said. "This kind of thing has been tried in socialist countries elsewhere. It does not work. And the fact that we’re going to continue to do this rather than reform our tax policy to make it more friendly and easier to use – either a flat tax or a consumption tax – we’re going to hire all these agents to spy on our bank accounts. It’s un-American." BIDEN'S SOCIALIST BUILD BACK BETTER OVERHAUL IS PROOF HE'S USED TO ‘SIGNING BACK OF CHECK, NOT FRONT’: MEADOWS "Republicans have a lot to run on next year, but the problem is going to be, ‘How do we reverse this bad policy if it goes through and gets passed?’" she added. The Build Back Better Act’s investments in the IRS include $80 million to hire some 87,000 more IRS agents, which would result in an estimated 1.2 million additional audits each year. Nearly half of the audits would impact families earning less than $75,000 a year. One quarter of the audits would affect Americans earning $25,000 or more per year. Mace predicted that the Build Back Better plan will only increase inflation, arguing that socialist spending will incentivize people not to work, worsening supply chain issues and raising taxes for average Americans already facing increased prices for groceries, gas and other goods. Those results will hand Republicans sweeping victories in the 2022 midterm elections, Mace predicted, arguing the GOP will gain as many as two dozen more congressional seats. But she says once Republicans do regain the majority, they’ll be tasked with undoing the Build Back Better Act’s damage should it get passed by Senate leadership this week. "This is a global effort. There’s something called ‘Build Back Better’ going on around the world. This is about social spending, providing social safety nets and paying people," she said. "One of the reasons why inflation is going to get significantly worse is because of the greater spending we have through ‘Build Back Better,’ through other COVID-19 relief programs. Spending we’ve done in the past. Taxes are going to go up. That will also affect inflation, I believe, until Republicans are in the majority in 2022." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "And I believe that will happen. It will be significant," Mace added. "At least two dozen seats or more. It will be incumbent upon us to try to reverse some of the policies that will be creating this. And that’s going to be very difficult to do if it goes through."
Omicron variant: European country bans Christmas markets, public drinking in bid to combat COVID-19 wave: The mayor of Prague called the move 'outrageous' as thousands took to the street in protest. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Thousands of protesters gathered in Prague, the capital of the Czech Republic, to protest new COVID-19 restrictions aimed at combatting the spread of the new omicron variant. Among other things, the Czech government banned the popular Christmas markets and any public consumption of alcohol, such as mulled wine, which Czechs and visitors often drink at such markets. "The government's decision to abolish the outdoor Christmas markets literally from day to day is outrageous for all market operators and the stallholders themselves, who often bought the goods on credit," Prague Mayor Zdeněk Hřib said on Facebook, according to a translation from expats.cz. "It's unbelievable that the stalls were built and now must be torn down again. The government must pay adequate financial compensation to all stallholders." CZECH PROTESTERS DEMAND 'FREEDOM' AS NEW COVID RESTRICTIONS GO INTO EFFECT FOR THE UNVACCINATED The Czech government mandated Thursday that Christmas markets – which had only just opened – shut down at 6 p.m. on Friday. It also banned the consumption of alcohol in public, clamping down on a popular activity at the markets, the consumption of mulled wine and grilled sausages. Vendors can still sell Christmas trees and fresh carp on the street, and markets that stay open all year can remain open, as well, although food and drink purchased there cannot be consumed on the spot. The government declared a 30-day state of emergency, closing the Christmas markets and mandating that bars, restaurants, nightclubs, discotheques, and casinos close at 10 p.m. A general view of a Christmas market in Old Town Square in Prague, Czech Republic, Friday, Nov. 26, 2021. Due to the high rise in COVID-19 infections, Czech government banned Christmas markets in the whole country as of the evening of Friday Nov. 26, 2021. Thousands took to the streets in Prague to protest the new restrictions, marking the third protest in the last two weeks. According to the Associated Press, participants did not wear face coverings or follow social distancing rules. They also drank beer in public, in violation of the ban. Protesters chanted "Freedom!" and "We've had enough!" while holding banners expressing opposition to vaccine mandates, such as "My body my choice." Police reportedly declined to intervene. Market organizing company Taiko also condemned the decision to close the markets. "We are shocked and we are desperate," Taiko spokeswoman Hana Tietze told Pražská Drbna. "We are surprised that the department stores will remain open, but the markets outside will close." "We have year-round costs for storage and repairs of stalls. We've hired some employees, so we'll call for compensation," Tietze added. Health workers at the Motol University Hospital take out of army helicopter one of the patients with COVID-19, who was transported to Prague from a hospital in Brno, Czech Republic, Thursday, Nov. 25, 2021. The country has set repeated records in new daily infections, hitting a record high of almost 28,000 cases on Thursday. The infection rate was at 1,191 new cases per 100,000 residents over the past seven days. Overall, the nation of 10.7 million has registered over 2.1 million cases with 32,837 COVID-related deaths. It has lower vaccination rates than many other EU nations. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Other new restrictions limit the number of spectators at cultural and sports events to 1,000 people who have been vaccinated or have recovered from COVID-19, or only 100 visitors, down from 1,000.
London headmaster resigns amid complaints after introducing Critical Race Theory in curriculum: report: The American School in London's teachings on race relations became 'so extreme,' parents said. Tony Kinnett says the more we shed light on things going on that parents should know about, the more nervous the district is getting, so they locked me out. The headmaster of an exclusive private school in London has reportedly announced her resignation amid allegations of racist and anti-Semitic incidents at the school since she introduced Critical Race Theory  into the curriculum last year. Robin Appleby is leaving her nearly $530,000-a-year position at the American School in London starting in January in order to "focus on her own wellbeing and that of her family," the school told parents in an email last week, the Daily Mail reported. INDIANA CRITICAL RACE THEORY WHISTLEBLOWER: CLASSES FOUNDED WITH 'RACIAL EQUITY PRIORITY' The reported resignation follows a deluge of complaints from parents ever since Appleby introduced CRT at the school in the wake of the George Floyd unrest last summer. The school even launched racially segregated after-school clubs, which some parents argued is illegal. Some Jewish parents also complained of a "culture of fear" at the school, saying their kids were ostracized by their peers following lessons about Israel. Loudoun County School Board meeting protest A lawyer representing 26 parents at the school recently issued a complaint to the U.K.’s Department for Education saying the school’s teaching of race relations "has already become so extreme as to amount to a serious, systemic and ongoing breach of the Independent School Standards." There are also allegations that anti-Semitic remarks were made about Jewish parents at a meeting of the school’s entire faculty of teachers earlier this month, just days before Appleby’s resignation announcement. The governing board of trustees at the school has since launched what a spokesman called the "complaints process" regarding those claims. People talk before the start of a rally against "critical race theory" CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Teachers did not refer to parents by any of the words you’ve mentioned," the spokesman told the outlet. "However, Mrs. Appleby and the school were concerned that the question contrasting the responses to racism and anti-Semitism could cause offense to members of the community, and this was addressed immediately." "We are committed to building and sustaining a diverse, equitable and inclusive school community and firmly believe this will lead to a better future for all our children," the spokesman added.
Canadian health expert’s claims of indigenous ancestry don’t check out: reports: Carrie Bourassa’s colleagues sensed something was wrong after she added more tribal claims to her story and began dressing in indigenous attire, a report said. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. She claimed to have ancestral ties to the Metis indigenous peoples of Canada, but a recent report revealed that a top health official’s kin more accurately hailed from Russia, Poland and Czechoslovakia. "My name is Morning Star Bear," Carrie Bourassa told a TED Talk audience in 2019 at the University of Saskatchewan, according to the CBC report. "I’m Bear Clan. I’m Anishinaabe Metis from Treaty Four Territory," she continued, trying to further establish her indigenous credentials. CANADIAN SCHOOL DISTRICT CANCELS SPEECH BY ISIS RAPE SURVIVOR, NOBEL WINNER DUE TO ‘ISLAMOPHOBIA’ FEARS But Bourassa’s colleagues at the university sensed something was wrong after she added more tribal claims to her story and began dressing in indigenous attire, the New York Post reported. Carrie Bourassa's claims of indigenous ancestry led to suspensions from two government roles, according to a report. When they pressured Bourassa to provide more substantive proof of her background, she changed her story, claiming to have been adopted by a Metis friend of her grandfather, the report said. Earlier this month, the Independent of Britain reported that Bourassa had been suspended from her two government jobs after the CBC’s report in October revealed she was White. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP She had served as scientific director of the Canadian Institutes of Health Research’s Institute of Indigenous People’s Health and as a professor at the University of Saskatchewan, the Post reported. Her story has drawn comparisons to previous ancestry claims made by Rachel Dolezal, a former local NAACP activist who claimed to be Black, and Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., who claimed Native American roots until her story failed to hold up.
Taiwan scrambles air force fighters to warn off 27 Chinese jets in buffer zone: The latest excursion included 18 fighter jets, five nuclear-capable H-6 bombers and a Y-20 aerial refueling jet.. Former State Department official Christian Whiton has the latest on Chinese diplomacy ahead of Xi Jinping's virtual summit with President Biden on Monday. Taiwan deployed its air force Sunday in an effort to drive back dozens of Chinese aircraft that entered its air defense space. China has repeatedly deployed aircraft into the area as part of "grey zone" warfare with the island country. Taiwanese officials fear that China executes these maneuvers to test Taiwan’s response and wear out its forces with repeated scrambles. KELLOGG: CHINA, RUSSIA MILITARY DEAL ‘TROLLING’ BIDEN, DISPLAYING ‘LACK OF RESPECT’ FOR UNITED STATES Taiwan claimed that around 150 aircraft from the People’s Liberation Army  since Oct. 1, Reuters reported. The latest excursion included 18 fighter jets, five nuclear-capable H-6 bombers and a Y-20 aerial refueling jet. The squadron flew south of Taiwan into the Bashi channel separating it from the Philippines before returning to China. ‘MORE MONEY THAN GOD:’ CHINESE TITAN LAVISHED HUNTER BIDEN WITH 3-CARAT GEM, OFFER OF $30 MILLION The Taiwanese defense ministry charted the flight and showed how close it flew into the ADIZ. FILE PHOTO: Chinese President Xi Jinping speaks at a meeting commemorating the 110th anniversary of Xinhai Revolution at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, China October 9, 2021. REUTERS/Carlos Garcia Rawlins/File Photo On Friday, a PLA spokesperson said the military carried out "naval and air force combat readiness patrol in the direction of the Taiwan Strait." COTTON DRAGS WHO FOR BEING ‘MORE CONCERNED’ ABOUT PROTECTING ‘FEELINGS’ OF CHINESE GOV. THAN PUBLIC HEALTH The maneuver follows a U.S. Congressional delegation visit to the island – the second this month in support of Taiwan, the National Review reported. Representatives Elissa Slotkin, D-Mich., Nancy Mace, R-S.C., Mark Takano D-Calif., Sara Jacobs, D-Calif., and Colin Allred, D-Texas visited the island at the same time that the PLA held a three-day military conference attended by Chinese President Xi Jinping. The PRC leader stressed the need for "military cultivation" to support and lead progress in strengthening the armed forces. Slotkin claimed on Twitter that the Chinese Embassy messaged her office about the trip and urged her to call off the trip. Rep. Elissa Slotkin, D-Mich., visited Taiwan as part of a bipartisan trip. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP President Tsai Ing-wen pledged that her country "will continue to step up cooperation with the United States in order to uphold our shared values of freedom and democracy and to ensure peace and stability in the region."
New Jersey police officer fatally struck nurse with vehicle, drove body to his mom’s house: reports: Newark police Officer Louis Santiago was charged Nov. 18 and surrendered Tuesday in connection with the Nov. 1 incident, authorities say. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A New Jersey police officer was arrested earlier this month after allegedly hitting and killing a nurse with his vehicle, then transporting the body away from the scene before ultimately returning it. Newark Officer Louis Santiago, 25, of Bloomfield, was off duty at the time of the incident, which occurred around 3 a.m. Nov. 1 near Exit 151 of the Garden State Parkway, the New York Post reported. The deceased person was identified as Damian Dymka, 29, of Garfield, according to the Essex County Prosecutor’s Office. Santiago was traveling northbound in a 2005 Honda Accord with passenger Albert Guzman, 25, when the incident occurred, the Post reported. Santiago had struck Dymka after drifting off the roadway and onto the shoulder, where Dymka was located. GEORGIA POLICE OFFICER'S SHOOTING DEATH LEADS TO 3RD ARREST, AUTHORITIES SAY Neither Santiago nor Guzman contacted 911 nor tried to assist the victim, the report said. Instead, they traveled away from the scene and back several times before loading Dymka’s body into the Accord and driving the corpse to the home of Santiago’s mother, purportedly to seek advice on how to handle the situation, according to the Post. Newark, New Jersey, police Officer Louis Santiago is facing numerous charges after allegedly killing a man with his vehicle and then moving the body, authorities say. Ultimately they drove the body back to the accident scene, the newspaper reported. Meanwhile, Santiago’s father, a Newark police lieutenant, reported his son being in the accident. When police arrived at the scene, they found the body still inside Santiago’s vehicle after he had driven back to the site, the Post reported. Santiago was charged with vehicular homicide, leaving the scene of a crash resulting in death, endangering an injured victim, desecrating/moving human remains, hindering one’s own apprehension, conspiracy to hinder prosecution, tampering with physical evidence, obstructing the administration of law, and two counts of official misconduct, the Post reported. Both Guzman and Santiago’s mother, Annette Santiago, 53, were charged with conspiracy to desecrate human remains, hindering apprehension and conspiracy to hinder apprehension and tamper with physical evidence, the report said. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP All three defendants were released pending further legal action, the Post reported. Santiago was charged Nov. 18 and surrendered Tuesday to the New Jersey State Police, WABC-TV of New York City reported. He was said to be cooperating with investigators, the report said.
NYC suspect nabbed months after attempted subway robbery that left Asian woman dead: David Robinson allegedly knocked a 58-year-old Burma woman down the stairs at Chinatown station. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A suspect the NYPD had sought for about four months for allegedly knocking an Asian woman and her adult son down subway steps during a fatal allleged robbery attempt this summer has been arrested and charged with murder. Police had publicly identified 53-year-old David Robinson on July 28 – 11 days after investigators say he approached Than Wtwe Than, 58, and her 22-year-old son at 9:40 a.m. inside the Canal Street "N" subway station in Manhattan. Police say Robinson tried to forcibly remove a bag, causing the two victims to fall down a flight of stairs at the Chinatown subway station on July 17. Authorities say a surveillance camera captured footage of the suspect at the station. SUSPECT IDENTIFIED IN ATTEMPTED NYC SUBWAY ROBBERY THAT LEFT ASIAN WOMAN DEAD NYPD identified David Robinson on July 28 as the suspect sought in a Chinatown subway station robbery attempt. The 58-year-old-female victim knocked down the stairs died 11 days later, and the case was reclassified as a homicide. Than was hospitalized in critical condition with a severe head injury. She slipped into a coma and died days later at Bellevue Hospital. Police named Robinson as the suspect hours after her death. NYPD detectives arrested Robinson Saturday on murder and manslaughter charges in connection to the incident. The New York Daily News reported a tipster spotted Robinson at Central Park and called police. According to the newspaper, Than and her son had immigrated from Burma three years ago. The two were on their way to a doctor appointment for Than when they were approached from behind at the subway station. The suspect allegedly grabbed onto her son’s backpack, sending the two tumbling down the stairs. Than and her son were attacked at a time of increased crime in New York City’s subway system. NYPD data also showed hate crimes targeting Asian victims had been on the rise since 2020, and the NYPD’s Asian Hate Crimes Task Force shared news of Robinson’s arrest on their Twitter account Saturday. The July incident prompted MTA communications director Tim Minton to call on prosecutors "to be as aggressive in court as the NYPD was in its investigation." In comments to WNBC, he also reiterated the need for more security cameras on the subways and at stations. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Our hearts go out to the family and loved ones of Than Wtwe Than. No one should have to suffer such a senseless and depraved attack," the MTA stated. "We agree there should be additional policing and additional security cameras in the subway system – which is why we have been so aggressive in efforts on both fronts. New York City Transit has accelerated installation of cameras in the subways at a historic pace, with cameras expected in every station by end of summer. For this specific incident, we are grateful our cameras captured the perpetrator, significantly aiding the NYPD investigation."
Indiana girl, 2, still missing after father rescued from submerged truck; authorities recover her coat: Emma Sweet, 2, and her father were reported missing Thursday. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Indiana authorities continued to search for a missing 2-year-old girl Saturday after discovering what they believed to be her coat downstream from where her father was found Friday morning inside his submerged truck. Jeremy Sweet was taken to a hospital for hypothermia after being pulled from the White River on Friday morning, the Bartholomew County Sheriff’s Office said. Sweet was "out on bond for unlawful possession of a firearm by a serious violent felon as well as possession of methamphetamine," the sheriff’s office said, according to FOX 41 in Louisville, Kentucky. He was found by duck hunters early in the morning near Columbus, Indiana, according to WISH-TV in Indianapolis. OHIO ARMY NATIONAL GUARD SPC. MICHAELA NELSON HAS BEEN MISSING FOR A MONTH His daughter, Emma Sweet, 2, was last seen Wednesday and was reported missing along with her father on Thursday, FOX 41 reported. Emma Sweet, 2, was last seen with her father on Wednesday. Personnel from multiple agencies were conducting the search. "All of the agencies have been working together for the common goal of which is to find Emma and bring her home to her family," Bartholomew County Sheriff Matt Myers said in a statement posted on Facebook. Jeremy Sweet told officers Emma had been with him, according to WISH. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Investigators confirmed the little girl wasn’t found inside or underneath the truck, the department said. "It broke my heart because I have five kids of my own," neighbor and volunteer Brittany Matney told WISH. "I have a 2-year-old daughter that I just look at and it just makes me want to cry because I don’t understand how it could happen to somebody, especially a little kid. It’s sad. It’s heartbreaking is what it is."
Jets' Zach Wilson throws awful interception in win over Texans: Wilson made his return under center for the first time in five weeks. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Rookie quarterback Zach Wilson led the New York Jets to a 21-14 road win over the Houston Texans on Sunday, but early in the first quarter, the BYU product may have thrown the worst interception of the NFL season. Wilson, who made his return under center for the first time in five weeks, was facing a third-and-17 play on the team’s second drive of the afternoon. After escaping pressure, Wilson ran up near the line of scrimmage and tried to throw a shovel pass to Jets running back Ty Johnson. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM New York Jets quarterback Zach Wilson passes in the first half of a game against the Houston Texans in Houston, Sunday, Nov. 28, 2021. NFL WEEK 12 SCHEDULE, SCORES, UPDATES AND MORE It would have been a good decision had Johnson turned around, but the football hit him in the back and fell into the hands of Texans cornerback Tavierre Thomas. New York Jets outside linebacker Quincy Williams  celebrates a sack in the first half against the New York Jets in Houston, Sunday, Nov. 28, 2021. The Texans scored on their ensuing drive. Despite the interception, Wilson led the Jets to victory, throwing for 145 yards and running for a touchdown in his return from a sprained right knee. The win ended New York’s three-game losing streak. New York Jets quarterback Zach Wilson  carries for a touchdown in the second half against the Houston Texans in Houston, Sunday, Nov. 28, 2021. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The Jets took an 18-14 lead with about eight minutes left in the third quarter. And with about three minutes to go in the game, New York converted two fourth-down attempts on a drive that ended with a 37-yard field goal by Matt Ammendola that made it 21-14.
Designer Virgil Abloh dead at 41 after private battle with cancer: Abloh's death was announced Sunday by the luxury group LVMH (Louis Vuitton Moët Hennessy) and the Off-White label. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Designer Virgil Abloh, a leading fashion executive hailed as the Karl Lagerfeld of his generation, has died of cancer. He was 41. Abloh's death was announced Sunday by the luxury group LVMH  and the Off-White label, the haute street wear brand Abloh founded in 2013. Abloh was the artistic director for Louis Vuitton's menswear. "We are all shocked after this terrible news. Virgil was not only a genius designer, a visionary, he was also a man with a beautiful soul and great wisdom," Bernard Arnault, chairman and chief executive of LVMH, said in a statement. A statement from Abloh's family on the designer's Instagram account said Abloh was diagnosed two years ago with cardiac angiosarcoma, a rare form of cancer in which a tumor occurs in the heart. Virgil Abloh poses for photographers upon arrival at the Nike Celebrates The Beautiful Game event, in London on Wednesday, Feb. 7, 2018.  Abloh, a leading fashion executive hailed as the Karl Lagerfeld of his generation, has died after a private battle with cancer. He was 41. "He chose to endure his battle privately since his diagnosis in 2019, undergoing numerous challenging treatments, all while helming several significant institutions that span fashion, art, and culture," the statement read. In 2018, Abloh became the first Black artistic director of men's wear at Louis Vuitton in the French design house's storied history. A first generation Ghanaian American whose seamstress mother taught him to sew, Abloh had no formal fashion training but had a degree in engineering and a master's in architecture. Fashion designer Virgil Abloh gives a thumbs up after the presentation of Off-White Men's Spring-Summer 2019 collection presented in Paris, Wednesday June 20, 2018. Abloh, a leading fashion executive hailed as the Karl Lagerfeld of his generation, has died after a private battle with cancer. He was 41. Abloh’s death was announced Sunday, Nov. 28, 2021 by LVMH Louis Vuitton and the Off White label, the brand he founded. Abloh, who grew up in Chicago, was often referred to as a Renaissance man in the fashion world. He moonlighted as a DJ. But in a short time, he emerged as one of fashion's most heralded designers. Abloh called himself "a maker." He was named one of Time magazine's most influential people in 2018. In 2009, Abloh met Kanye West — now called Ye — while he was working at a screen-printing store. After he and Ye interned together at the LVMH brand Fendi, Abloh was Ye's creative director. Abloh was art director for the 2011 Ye-Jay-Z album "Watch the Throne," for which Abloh was nominated for a Grammy. Designer Virgil Abloh walks backstage prior to his Off-White ready to wear Fall-Winter 2019-2020 collection, that was presented in Paris, Thursday, Feb. 28, 2019. Abloh's work with West served as a blueprint for future border-crossing collaborations that married high and low. With Nike, he partnered his Off-White label for a line of frenzy-inducing sneakers remixed with a variety of styles and Helvetica fonts. Abloh also designed furniture for IKEA, refillable bottles for Evian and Big Mac cartons for McDonald's. His work was exhibited at the Louvre, the Gagosian and the Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago. Abloh is survived by his wife Shannon Abloh and his children, Lowe and Grey.
Dan Hampton, former Bears great, arrested in Indiana on OWI charge: Dan Hampton was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 2002. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Dan Hampton, a Pro Football Hall of Fame defensive lineman who was a part of the Chicago Bears Super Bowl-winning team during the 1985 season, was arrested in Indiana earlier this month. Hampton was charged with operating a vehicle while intoxicated on Nov. 20, the Lake County Sheriff’s Office said. Police said he was released from the Lake County Jail on bond on Nov. 21. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Pro Football Hall of Fame member Dan Hampton is honored at halftime during the game between the Minnesota Vikings and the Bears at Soldier Field on Oct. 31, 2016, in Chicago. Hampton lives in Winfield, according to FOX32 Chicago. He and former Bears defensive end Ed O’Bradovich host "The Hamp & O’B Show" on WGN Radio. He played for the Bears from 1979 to 1990. He was a four-time Pro Bowler and was named to the First Team All-Pro after putting together a terrific season in 1984. He was on the same defense as Richard Dent, Steve McMichael, Wilber Marshall and Mike Singletary. HALL OF FAME DEFENSIVE LINEMAN CURLEY CULP DIES AT 75 Chicago Bears defensive lineman Dan Hampton during a game against the Buffalo Bills at Rich Stadium on Oct. 7, 1979, in Orchard Park, New York. His career was with riddled with injuries. He played in 157 games but 10 knee surgeries forced him to play fewer than 12 games four times during his great career. Hampton was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 2002 alongside George Allen, Dave Casper, Jim Kelly and John Stallworth. Dan Hampton was arrested in Indiana in 2021 on OWI charges. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Hampton’s had trouble with the law in the past. In 2002, he was sentenced to a week in jail after pleading guilty to drunk driving charges and was fined and ordered to attend alcohol education classes. CBC Sports reported it was his second arrest in the last five years.
Celtics' Enes Kanter to change his name amid outspoken rants against China: report: Enes Kanter is set to become a US citizen on Monday. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Enes Kanter is reportedly set to make a big change as he gets ready to become a U.S. citizen. Kanter, who has been the most outspoken NBA player on geopolitical issues concerning China’s human rights abuses, as well as Tibet, Hong Kong and Taiwan’s fight for freedom, will reportedly change his name. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Boston Celtics' Enes Kanter moves against Toronto Raptors' Isaac Bonga Oct. 22, 2021, in Boston. According to The Athletic on Sunday, Kanter is going to legally change his name to Enes Kanter Freedom. Kanter will reportedly be his middle name and Freedom his last name. The Boston Celtics center retweeted The Athletic report. Kanter has been outspoken about China, railing against the government over the treatment of Uyghur Muslims and has called for the freedom of Tibet, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Kanter has won sneakers promoting his own geopolitical initiatives. He’s also called on the International Olympic Committee  to abandon its plans to hold the Olympics in Beijing in February. He told "The Story" last week that even if much of the professional sports world remains uniformly silent on Chinese human rights abuses and other allegations against the Communist leadership there, "someone has to do it." GREGG POPOVICH PRAISES ENES KANTER FOR SPEAKING OUT ON CHINA WITHOUT MENTIONING CHINA "There’s so many athletes, so many actors, so many singers and rappers out there. They’re scared to say a word because they care too much about their money – the endorsement deals, what the teams they play for say," the Turkish-American athlete said. Enes Kanter during the Celtics home opener against the Toronto Raptors at TD Garden on Oct. 22, 2021, in Boston. "They should know one thing: It should be morals and principles over money. It shouldn’t be the opposite way. People’s life depends on this," Kanter added, noting that young people around the world look up to athletes in all sports – and therefore the players should be careful about how they conduct themselves. Host Martha MacCallum noted that Kanter has long been a critic of the Chinese Communist Party and its leader Xi Jinping, showing a photo of a pair of sneakers he wore during a recent game that depicted Xi as Winnie the Pooh with the caption "Xi is a control freak." Boston Celtics center Enes Kanter sits on the bench against the Wizards at Capital One Arena on Oct. 30, 2021, in Washington. "I do feel alone, yes. … So many people care too much about the business side of it. But to me, human rights are way more important than anything you offer me," Kanter told MacCallum. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Kanter has long made waves with his public pronouncements, previously being disowned by his family in 2016 due to his support for Fethullah Gulen – a Turkish religious cleric living in exile in the Pocono Mountains of Pennsylvania. Fox News’ Charles Creitz contributed to this report.
Jaguars mascot stunt gone wrong ahead Falcons game: Jaxson de Ville’s stunt may have been an omen for Sunday’s game. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. The Jacksonville Jaguars mascot, Jaxson de Ville, continues to risk it all this season with a thrilling bungee-jumping backflip before kickoff but on Sunday the daring cat had to be bailed out after getting stuck in the air. Video from Sunday’s game against the Atlanta Falcons showed the mascot starting off with a perfect backflip but on the way down his cord appeared to get stuck. FALCONS TAKE ADVANTAGE OF JAGUARS’ MISTAKES IN 21-14 VICTORY The Jacksonville Jaguars' mascot Jaxson de Ville jumps off the roof of the stadium during the NFL London 2021 match against the Miami Dolphins on Oct. 17, 2021, in England. Users on social media posted videos of the mascot being lowered into the stands among fans – unharmed. Jaxson de Ville’s stunt may have been an omen for Sunday’s game as the Jaguars lost their ninth game of the season with a 21-14 loss. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Jaxson de Ville performs during the game against the Arizona Cardinals at TIAA Bank Field on Sept. 26, 2021, in Jacksonville, Florida. The Falcons led 14-0 and then 21-3 on Matt Ryan’s touchdown pass to Russell Gage, but the Jags clawed their way back into the game late. Trevor Lawrence found Tavon Austin for a score and connected with James O’Shaughnessy for a 2-point conversion. Matthew Wright added a 34-yard field goal in the fourth period to make it a one-score game. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Atlanta Falcons wide receiver Russell Gage leaps over Jacksonville Jaguars cornerback Tyson Campbell and defensive end Dawuane Smoot after a reception Sunday, Nov. 28, 2021, in Jacksonville, Florida. Jacksonville forced a punt and got the ball back with 2:14 remaining, but Lawrence threw incomplete on four straight downs. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Michigan's Jim Harbaugh appears to take subtle shot at Ohio State's Ryan Day after win: Michigan snapped a long losing streak against Ohio State. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Jim Harbaugh finally got over the hurdle and led Michigan to a victory over Ohio State, likely catapulting the Wolverines into the top four of the upcoming College Football Playoff rankings. Harbaugh suggested after the 42-27 thrashing that the team was motivated by some of the trash-talking that occurred in the week leading up to the game. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Ohio State head coach Ryan Day, left, shakes hands with Michigan head coach Jim Harbaugh after the game in Ann Arbor, Michigan, Saturday, Nov. 27, 2021. "There's definitely stuff people said that spurred us on. Sometimes people that are standing on third base think they hit a triple, but they didn’t," Harbaugh said, via The Columbus Dispatch. Some believe the remark was a jab at Ohio State coach Ryan Day’s "hang 100 on them" remark he made last season. Day reportedly made the comment after he and Harbaugh got into a spat during a Big Ten teleconference. Michigan defensive end Aidan Hutchinson said the trash-talking was a big motivation. MICHIGAN SNAPS LOSING STREAK TO OHIO STATE, JIM HARBAUGH FINALLY GETS RIVALRY WIN Referees talk to Michigan head coach Jim Harbaugh in the Ohio State game Saturday, Nov. 27, 2021, in Ann Arbor. "These guys have been disrespecting us. Stepping on our jerseys. Talking about hanging a 100 on us. Doing all the rah-rah and doing all the talk. But we were about it today," Hutchinson said. Harbaugh was 0-5 against the Buckeyes since taking over as Michigan’s head coach for Brady Hoke before the start of the 2015 season. The closest he ever came before Saturday’s win was a three-point loss in 2016. The Wolverines were ranked No. 3 at the time and Ohio State was No. 2. Harbaugh can rest easy as the monkey is off his back when it comes to the claim he could never beat Ohio State. Michigan came into the game with an eight-game losing streak against Ohio State. The Wolverines haven’t beaten Ohio State since 2011 and only have one win against the Buckeyes since 2003. Michigan head coach Jim Harbaugh yells from the sideline against Ohio State, Saturday, Nov. 27, 2021, in Ann Arbor. A win for Michigan bolsters their resume for the College Football Playoff and likely ends all hope of the Buckeyes making the final four. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Michigan has never been in the playoff and barring a loss in the Big Ten Championship, the Wolverines could definitely see themselves competing to get to the national title game.
LeBron James hecklers avoid lifetime ban after being ejected from Lakers-Pacers game: report: LeBron James pointed the fans out to security and they were ejected from the game. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. The NBA said Sunday the fans who were ejected from the Indiana Pacers game against the Los Angeles Lakers after LeBron James got officials’ attention over what they allegedly said to him were removed for "violating the NBA Fan Code of Conduct." NBA spokesman Mike Bass made the revelation in a statement to The Athletic. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM An unidentified fan is removed from the arena following a disturbance involving LeBron James of the Los Angeles Lakers during the game against the Indiana Pacers  at Gainbridge Fieldhouse on Nov. 24, 2021, in Indianapolis. The fans crossed the line with their trash-talking to James, making inappropriate remarks to him but will face no lifetime ban or further consequences, The Athletic reported, citing sources. The incident occurred Wednesday when the Lakers defeated the Pacers. The fans were sent home early from the Gainbridge Fieldhouse after they allegedly said something to James that may have gone too far. James called referees and security over to eject the two fans from their courtside seats during the overtime period. 'LESNITCH' TRENDS AFTER LEBRON JAMES GETS PACERS FANS EJECTED FOR ALLEGEDLY GOING TOO FAR HECKLING LeBron James of the  Los Angeles Lakers points out fans that he had a disturbance with to security during the game against the Indiana Pacers on Nov 24, 2021, in Indianapolis. "There’s a difference between cheering on your home faithful, booing opponents, not wanting your opponents to be successful and there’s then moments where it goes outside the line with obscene gestures and words," James told reporters after getting the 124-116 victory, via USA Today. "That shouldn’t be tolerated in our game from nobody. I would never say it to a fan and a fan should never say it to a player." The woman pretended to be crying while she walked out. It wasn’t exactly clear what was said although a rumor started on social media the comments were about James' son Bronny. Los Angeles Lakers' LeBron James is defended by Indiana Pacers' Malcolm Brogdon Wednesday, Nov. 24, 2021, in Indianapolis. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP James was playing in his first game back since his one-game suspension. He was disciplined for striking Detroit Pistons center Isaiah Stewart in the eye.
Bucs' Vita Vea loses tooth, mouth bloodied in win vs. Colts: Buccaneers defensive tackle Vita Vea looks to be in some need of dental work. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Tampa Bay Buccaneers defensive tackle Vita Vea will need some dental work after Sunday. During the team’s road game against the Indianapolis Colts, Vea smashed his face into Colts offensive guard Mark Glowinski’s helmet. Vea, a four-year pro, had his own helmet come loose, which left the bottom portion of his face exposed. His mouth filled with blood and he lost a tooth. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Vita Vea of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers celebrates after beating the Chicago Bears 38-3 at Raymond James Stadium Oct. 24, 2021 in Tampa, Fla. While walking to the sideline, Vea smiled and pointed to his face. Vita Vea of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers looks on during training camp at Raymond James Stadium Aug. 28, 2020 in Tampa, Fla. "I don’t care. He’s got 30 other ones," Bucs head coach Bruce Arians joked. In nine games played this season, Vea has 19 tackles with two passes defended, one fumble recovery and one sack. Vita Vea of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers looks on during warm-ups before a game against the New York Giants at Raymond James Stadium Nov. 22, 2021 in Tampa, Fla. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The Bucs  came away with a 38-31 win over the Colts Sunday afternoon. Running back Leonard Fournette capped a four-touchdown game with a 28-yard TD run with 20 seconds left, giving Tampa Bay the come-from-behind victory.
Lincoln Riley's reported Oklahoma departure shocks college football world: Lincoln Riley reportedly decided to take the USC job. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Lincoln Riley’s reported decision to leave Oklahoma for the USC head football coach opening sent shockwaves through the college football world on Sunday. Riley decided to take the USC job after Oklahoma lost to Oklahoma State on Saturday, according to multiple reports. While fans were mostly stunned by the reaction, some wondered why Riley would take the USC job with the Sooners about to move to the SEC in a few years. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM The SEC will have at least 16 schools at the start of the summer of 2025. Oklahoma and Texas announced intentions to move to the conference earlier this year. Riley hasn’t officially been announced as the USC coach. The Trojans launched a national search after Clay Helton was dismissed earlier in the season. Head coach Lincoln Riley of the Oklahoma Sooners congratulates cornerback Woodi Washington after a fumble return for a touchdown against the Iowa State Cyclones on Nov. 20, 2021, in Norman, Oklahoma. Sports Illustrated reported USC was targeting Riley as their next coach and an announcement would come within the next 24 hours and The Athletic reported the deal was done. LINCOLN RILEY TO BOLT OKLAHOMA FOR USC: REPORTS Oklahoma's Lincoln Riley reacts after his Sooners scored a touchdown against the Baylor Bears on Nov. 13, 2021, in Waco, Texas. USC found a big name to replace Clay Helton, who was let go early in the 2021 season. The Trojans had been linked to Pittsburgh Steelers coach Mike Tomlin, but he would later shoot down any notion he was planning on leaving the NFL. Riley had previously been linked to NFL jobs and other college football positions. He shot down a rumor on Saturday that he was interested in the LSU job. He said he was "not going to be the next coach at LSU." He was right at the time, but didn’t divulge any plans about going to Los Angeles. Lincoln Riley gestures to his team on a play against the Oklahoma State Cowboys at Boone Pickens Stadium on Nov. 27, 2021. Riley took over as Oklahoma’s head coach before the 2017 season. He led the Sooners to three College Football Playoff appearances but never managed to win a game in the tournament. His teams saw the emergence of two Heisman Trophy winners – Baker Mayfield and Kyler Murray. Both players were No. 1 draft picks as well. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP He was 55-10 as a head coach and won four Big 12 championships.
Texans' Justin Reid 'shocked' by healthy scratch ahead of loss to Jets: Texans coach David Culley declined to elaborate after the game, calling it a 'disciplinary' benching. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Houston Texans safety Justin Reid was "shocked" to learn he would be a healthy scratch in Sunday’s game against the New York Jets, a matchup that ended with Houston's ninth loss of the season. Reports before the game indicated that Reid would be a healthy scratch for violating team rules but the third-year starter told FOX26 Houston that he was told it was over a "disagreement" during a team meeting earlier in the week. JAGUARS MASCOT STUNT GONE WRONG AHEAD FALCONS GAME "I thought the meeting went amicably, and then I came to practice Friday, and after practice was done he called me into his office and said he benched me for disciplinary reasons," Reid said. Justin Reid  of the Houston Texans reacts after missing an interception during the first half against the New England Patriots at NRG Stadium on Oct. 10, 2021 in Houston. "It is what it is. I’m shocked that it happened," he added. "I’m just gonna root for the guys out there and just keep cheering my teammates on. It’s always tough when you’re not playing. The best I can do is be there in spirit and root my guys on." Culley declined to elaborate on the benching after the game, calling it a "disciplinary" decision. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM "We’ll keep that internal," he said. Ben Skowronek  of the Houston Texans pursues at NRG Stadium Oct. 31, 2021 in Houston. Quarterback Tyrod Taylor echoed that sentiment when asked during his postgame presser. "It’s always tough, but coach said from day one we’re gonna hold everybody accountable for their actions," Taylor said. "He made a decision. As a team, we support our coaches and our leadership decisions, and we continue to keep moving forward." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Justin Reid of the Houston Texans during a game against the Indianapolis Colts at Lucas Oil Stadium Oct. 17, 2021 in Indianapolis. The Texans hoped to build on an upset of Tennessee last week that ended an eight-game losing skid, and it looked good early. Taylor threw two touchdown passes in the second quarter to give Houston a 14-3 lead, but the Texans couldn’t do anything offensively after that. Taylor threw for 158 yards with two touchdowns and an interception. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Prince Charles was the royal who asked about complexion of Meghan Markle, Prince Harry's firstborn, book says: Meghan Markle and Prince Harry previously made the allegation without specifying who said it during their tell-all interview with Oprah Winfrey. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. A new book about the British royals claims that Prince Charles was the one to infamously speculate about the complexion of Meghan Markle and Prince Harry’s firstborn son, Archie. In March of 2020, The Duke and Duchess of Sussex sat down for a tell-all interview with Oprah Winfrey during which they made shocking allegations about their time in the royal family. One of the most provocative was when Markle revealed a member of the royal family had "concerns" about the color of her child’s skin before he was born. At the time, Harry made sure to note that it was not Queen Elizabeth II nor Prince Philip, leaving the door open to speculation. In a new book by author Christopher Andersen, "Brothers And Wives: Inside The Private Lives of William, Kate, Harry and Meghan," a source close to the royal family claims that Charles wondered aloud about the child’s complexion during a conversation in 2017 that took place shortly after the Duke and Duchess of Sussex got engaged. "I wonder what the children will look like?" Charles reportedly told his wife, Camilla . MEGHAN MARKLE'S DAD THOMAS REACTS TO TIME 100 COVER: 'THERE ARE FAR MORE INFLUENTIAL PEOPLE' Prince Charles was accused of speculating about the skin color of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's child. Camilla was reportedly "somewhat taken aback" and noted that the child would be "gorgeous." Allegedly lowering his voice, Charles asked: "I mean, what do you think their children’s complexion might be?" Representatives for Charles did not immediately respond to Fox News’ request for comment. However, a spokesperson told The New York Post that "this is fiction and not worth further comment." The book claims that Charles was merely voicing an innocuous curiosity about what the child might look like while Markle, whose mother is Black, seemed to imply that it was more of a public relations issue of the royal family dealing with a darker-skinned member. Prince Charles has been accused of being the one who speculated about the skin color of Meghan Markle and Prince Harry's firstborn child. The outlet reports that Charles’ musings were quickly twisted by courtiers and given a much more toxic and racist spin by the time Markle and Harry heard about them. Nick Bullen, the award-winning documentarian as well as the co-founder and editor-in-chief of True Royalty TV, previously told Fox News that he believes Charles is "heartbroken" over the allegations. PRINCE CHARLES' LAST CONVERSATION WITH HIS LATE FATHER, PRINCE PHILIP, REVEALED IN NEW DOCUMENTARY "I think the Prince of Wales must be shocked and heartbroken," Bullen told Fox News last year. "Imagine if any member of your family, especially your son or daughter, goes on television and says, ‘My relationship has broken down with my father?’ Even if it’s true, the world now knows. So I think the Prince of Wales must be heartbroken." "I have no doubt in my mind the man cares about his son," Bullen added. "We’ve only really heard one side of the story. And so far, Meghan and Harry have won the PR war." Shortly after the interview aired, Buckingham Palace issued a 60-word statement on behalf of Elizabeth. Oprah Winfrey interviews Prince Harry and Meghan Markle on A CBS Primetime Special in March 2021. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER "The whole family is saddened to learn the full extent of how challenging the last few years have been for Harry and Meghan," the statement said. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "The issues raised, particularly that of race, are concerning," the statement added. "While some recollections may vary, they are taken very seriously and will be addressed by the family privately. Harry, Meghan and Archie will always be much loved family members."
Fourth-generation dairy farmer warns economic woes, climate change regulations could end family farms: Nash Farms fled California to avoid strict regulations only to face looming federal restrictions.  CHAPEL HILL, Tenn. – A fourth-generation dairy farmer warned that climate change-related regulations and a slew of economic woes could signal the end for her family's way of life after nearly a century. "We've been attacked in the dairy industry for a while now," Stephanie Nash told Fox News. "Instead of educating people through the farmer, we're educating them through people that have never farmed and we're killing off our family farmers." Rising costs, labor and supply shortages and little support – in addition to climate change and conservation regulations – are all major obstacles threatening the Nash family, which has been in the dairy farming business for 92 years. Stephanie, 28, and her father, Steven Nash, moved their almost century-old dairy farm from California's San Joaquin Valley to Tennessee in 2014 to escape the Golden State's strict farming regulations and high cost of doing business. SENATE REPUBLICANS TO SOUND ALARM ON RISING COST OF THANKSGIVING AMID INFLATION, SUPPLY CHAIN CRISIS "They regulate us on every step we make," Stephanie recalled from their time in California. "We’re constantly looked at, constantly manipulated and told what to do, and farmers, especially my dad’s age and older, they don’t want to be told how to farm." "Water rights, milk prices, feed prices, regulations on climate change … we had to fight with Los Angeles and San Francisco on every issue," she added. Her father agreed, saying the state took "an adversarial approach" when it came to dealing with farmers. "They weren't worried about farmers there," Steven, 61, told Fox News. California is the largest agricultural state in the U.S., growing roughly 40% of the country's vegetables, fruit and nuts, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. It is also the biggest producer of dairy and wine. Prone to drought, the state has implemented a state law limiting farmers’ access to water. While the move to Tennessee saved the family from bankruptcy, the Nashes are concerned with some rhetoric and proposed legislation coming from Washington, D.C., surrounding agriculture. "They’re making all these bills and regulations, and people living in the city actually believe it instead of believing in your farmers that are actually putting food on the table for you," said Stephanie, who is also a singer-songwriter and agricultural activist. She hopes her advocacy, the Nash Creamery and their new cheese plant will be enough to keep the family business afloat. "That's what everybody prays for," Stephanie told Fox News. "We pray for rain, we pray for fair prices and we pray for regulations that are not going to kill off our industry." Steven’s grandfather, Wallace Nash, began milking cows in central California in 1929. A decade later, Steven’s father, Howard, took over the farm and grew the operation from 30 to 200 cows. In 1980, Howard became ill, and 20-year-old Steven stepped in and took over the farm's daily operations. Over the next 40 years, the herd expanded from 200 to over 1,200 cows. "Dairy’s just something I’ve always liked," Steven told Fox News. "I really enjoy seeing a well-bred cow … that walks fluidly, has a nice udder and produces lots of milk. That’s my gratification." The Nashes milk their cows twice a day, grow their own feed and recently opened a creamery and a cheese plant to help supplement costs. In February, the USDA forecast the 2020 median farm household income at a loss of $1,840. On average, nearly 90% of a family farm's income is supplied by another source of income or employment. Small dairy farms are among the least sustainable type of farm today as they grapple with declining demand for cow's milk and consolidation in their industry, resulting in much larger but fewer farms, according to the USDA. Since 2003, the U.S. has lost more than half of its licensed dairy operations, down to under 32,000 operations. "The last farm bill, the dairy policy was put together without a lot of input from farmers," Steven said of the 2018 Agricultural Improvement Act. "They changed our pricing mechanism, and what that’s done is taken nearly a billion dollars out of the dairy industry, out of the farming sector, out of my segment, and moved it to processors and other people in the industry before it gets to the grocery store," he continued. At the urging of dairy processors, the 2018 farm bill changed an industry formula that determines the price of fluid milk under the Federal Milk Marketing Order system. "The change contributed to substantial market volatility last year and has led to an estimated $750 million in losses for farmers compared to the previous Class I formula," the National Milk Producers Federation said in an October statement. "Without a fix, dairy farmers will permanently bear unfair and unnecessary price risk compared to processors during times of unusual market volatility." Steven told Fox News: "It's a lot of money to lose. That has been very difficult for a lot of people, myself included." As a result of this formula change, price increases in grocery stores doesn't mean the farmer sees an increase on their end. Additionally, farmers face rising costs on gas and energy, labor shortages, high feed expenses and supply chain issues. "We are a capital-intensive business," Steven said. "We live and die on feed costs." He said those account for 55% of the farm’s expenses. "We’re not like other businesses where we can just cut back," he said. "Cows got to be fed every day, right?" He added that the labor shortage and supply chain delays were also critical issues. "We're time sensitive," he said. "We can miss our window of opportunity just because of a bearing or a tire." The National Milk Producers Federation estimated that shipping disruptions cost the U.S. dairy industry nearly $1 billion during the first half of the year from higher shipping and inventory costs, lost export volume and price deterioration. Stephanie often posts on TikTok and YouTube to voice her concerns for struggling farmers and to educate people on how some legislative bills affect the agriculture industry. Nash Family Creamery "You look at big seed companies, you look at the ethanol plants, you look at all these big investors, again, going back to politicians, what are they investing in?" she said. "Why are they putting all this funding into certain areas? Because they're going to make more money." "The farmer is going to be dead, and the family farms are going to be gone, and they're going to continue to get richer off of stuff like plant-based and climate change," Stephanie continued. RISING INFLATION SEES MAINE, NEW ENGLANDERS BLAST BIDEN ADMINISTRATION AND ‘RICH PEOPLE TRYING TO GET RICHER’ Stephanie often warns her followers about policy threats to the agriculture industry, like President Biden’s 30 by 30 plan, a federal push to conserve 30% of the nation's lands and waters by 2030. Similarly, the departments of the Interior, Agriculture and Commerce alongside the White House Council on Environmental Quality released Conserving and Restoring America the Beautiful, a preliminary report regarding conservation. It states that "federal agencies can and should advance conservation by supporting programs that incentivize voluntary conservation efforts and provide new sources of income for American farmers, ranchers, and forest stewards." Stephanie told Fox News: "There's a lot of money in Washington, D.C., and I'm really scared that money is going towards persuading people in the USDA to go plant-based, to go climate change, to fund all of this other stuff … so corporate and big- investor farm systems continue to farm and gain access to our pricing in the grocery store." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Steven, who hopes to pass on the farm to his daughter one day, said Nash Farms received aid from the federal government to help with coronavirus-related issues. "While we use them, we don’t like them," he said of the farmers aid programs. "I want a fair price that represents the work that we do." "We have a great product.," Steven continued. "Why does the government got to support us because we can't make it on our own? That's that's the fundamental issue here." Dairy farmers have received more than $3 billion, or about $1 of every $8, of the $24.4 billion disbursed to farmers and ranchers since COVID-19 payments began in May 2020, according to the USDA. "We are in a place that we could go either way," Steven said of his farm’s financial stability. "I've been there many times before, so we'll just have to see what the next few months bring." Teny Sahakian is an Associate Producer/Writer for Fox News. You can reach her at Teny.Sahakian@fox.com
Cyber Monday: Hottest coat deals for women: These stylish women’s coats are hot buys on Black Friday. Consumer and money-saving expert Andrea Woroch details her five Black Friday traps on 'America's Newsroom' Sure, winter technically starts on Dec. 21, but you’ll want to grab a coat long before then. Black Friday and Cyber Monday are the perfect excuse to update your outerwear collection. Or maybe you’re thinking of buying a practical gift that’ll be used after the holiday season. BLACK FRIDAY: A BRIEF HISTORY AND LITTLE KNOWN FACTS Here are a few coat selections for women that are on sale in time for the Christmas shopping kickoff. Original Price: $220 Cyber Monday Special: $154 Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Wool-Blend Dad Coat Stay cozy and stylish this winter with the Wool-Blend Dad Coat at Abercrombie & Fitch. The tailored wool-blend coat can be worn to work, a special event or a simple night out with its front-button closure, back vent and side pockets. The stylish coat is being discounted by $66 and is available in light brown, oatmeal plaid and taupe plaid. Calvin Klein Boxy Hooded Puffer Jacket Original Price: $149.50 Cyber Monday Special: $89.70 Calvin Klein is offering its Boxy Hooded Puffer Jacket for 40% off. The monogrammed coat reportedly provides "exceptional warmth and coverage" with stylish side pockets. Customers can snag this waist-length coat in the shades mascarpone, black, bonsai, chili and lime volt. An additional 20% discount can be redeemed if you enter the code word EXTRA at checkout. Charter Club Women's Packable Hooded Down Puffer Coat, Created for Macy's Original Price: $125 Cyber Monday Special: $49.99 If you need a coat that has a removable hood, look no further than Charter Club’s Packable Hooded Down Puffer Coat. The 26-inch long jacket was created exclusively for Macy’s and is available in 13 color variations, including terracotta, dark forest and sand. Customers who purchase this roomy puffer coat during Macy’s Cyber Week sale will get to save 60%. THE BEST BLACK FRIDAY NEW CAR DEALS Lauren Ralph Lauren Women's Faux-Fur-Trim Walker Coat, Created for Macy's Original Price: $355 Cyber Monday Special: $142 Your neck will never get cold with the Lauren Ralph Lauren Women's Faux-Fur-Trim Walker Coat, which was created exclusively for Macy’s. The luxe three-button walker coat is 37 inches long and has an attached faux-fur collar. Fashionistas who purchase the gray, black, new vicuna or cream/beige coat on Cyber Monday get to save $213. Michael Kors Quilted Nylon Packable Puffer Coat Original Price: $275 Cyber Monday Special: $110 The Michael Kors Quilted Nylon Packable Puffer Coat is designed to keep you warm with a form-fitting chevron-quilted fabric. Customers who purchase the coat on Cyber Monday will save $165. So far, the coat is available in taupe and black. BUY NOW, PAY LATER IS THE NEW LAYAWAY: WHAT ARE THE PROS AND CONS? London Fog Women’s Double-Breasted Hooded Trench Coat Original Price: $220 Cyber Monday Special: $131.99 Need a trench coat to take a walk on the town? Try this Double-Breasted Hooded Trench Coat from London Fog. The 38-inch long coat has a stylish removable belt and hood and is available in seven colors, including black, British Khaki, moss, steel blue, boysenberry, chili red and terracotta. Customers who snag this coat deal from Macy’s on Cyber Monday will save $88. The department store will throw in an additional 10% off if you enter the code CYBER at checkout. Moose Knuckles Roselawn Jacket Original Price: $785 Cyber Monday Special: $549 If you live in an area where the chilly nights get extreme, you’ll want to make sure you have something that can withstand snow or low temperatures. The Roselawn Jacket from Moose Knuckles is sure to fit the bill with its water-repellent and wind-resistant design, which has a certified 90/10 ratio of down feathers. Customers who purchase the coat on Cyber Monday will get to save $236 and can choose from the brand’s black, night sky and plein-air shades. Ted Baker Rose Wool Wrap Coat Original Price: $525 Cyber Monday Special: $315 Customers who buy Ted Baker’s Rose Wool Wrap Coat in bright blue or bright pink will save $210 with the U.K. designer’s Cyber Monday sale. The chic pea coat is also available in black, camel and gray, but the items are subject to different discount rates. Inventory varies on the U.S. and U.K. websites. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The North Face Explore Farther Jacket Original Price: $199 Cyber Monday Special: $119.40 Sporty winter wanderers can look toward The North Face’s Explore Farther Jacket. The breathable chevron-quilted coat is designed to keep you warm with "synthetic insulation" and has zippered hand pockets. The Explore Farther Jacket is available in twilight mauve, silver blue, vanadis grey and TNF black. Customers who purchase this coat on Cyber Monday save $79.60. Top Shop Riley Long Coat at Nordstrom Original Price: $115 Cyber Monday Special: $69.90 If you don’t need a super heavy coat for winter, check out Top Shop Riley Long Coat that’s in stock at Nordstrom. The retailer is offering a 39% discount on the textured longline coat, which was designed with work and weekends in mind. The coat is available in only one color – grey marl. FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS
Bride says you should keep your wedding dress secret, here’s why: Nicole Pellegrino from the Betches Brides Podcast advises soon-to-be brides not to show off their wedding dresses. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Keeping your wedding dress a secret from your guests might be the best thing you could do for your peace of mind. At least that’s what newlywed bride Nicole Pellegrino thinks soon-to-be brides should be doing, according to a recent TikTok video. Pellegrino, who’s a co-host of the Betches Brides Podcast, took to the video-sharing app to say one of her biggest "wedding regrets" came from showing off her gown before the big day. GROOM DISLIKES BRIDE'S DRESS AND ASKS REDDIT IF HE'S WRONG FOR TELLING HER: 'LITTLE DISAPPOINTED' Keeping your wedding dress a secret from your guests might be the best thing you could do for your peace of mind. "Do not show anyone your dress before the wedding day," Pellegrino said. "I was showing mine to literally anybody who asked. I'm not kidding. Whether it was a friend, a distant relative, a co-worker, I was doling photos of that dress out like hotcakes, and I regret it. People are bad liars no matter how hard they try. If they don't like your dress when you show them that photo, it will show on their face." "So, even if you truly love your dress and feel great in it, those little opinions will subconsciously start to taint your perspective of your own dress," she continued. "Instead, grab two to three people that you really trust, and you want their opinions on the dress, take them shopping with you, have them support you throughout the way. Only show them. That way, on the wedding day, it's a big surprise for everybody, all your bridesmaids see it for the first time, it's really special, and you don't have to deal with people's opinions." BRIDE GETS BACKLASH AFTER SHARING HER GRANDPA’S $4G WEDDING DRESS BUDGET ISN’T ENOUGH, WANTS TO ASK FOR MORE The 58-second clip has been viewed more than 395,100 times. Former and soon-to-be brides have largely found the piece of advice to be helpful. WEDDING PHOTOGRAPHERS SAY THERE ARE 3 SIGNS THAT A MARRIAGE WON'T LAST "Omg this happened to me. I would show people and they would be like, ‘Oh! It’s so cute…." And it would make me second guess my dress and I got so upset," one TikTok user wrote. "Yes! I can relate to this," another user shared. "I’ve had so many doubts about my dress over the past few weeks all because of one person’s comment and reaction." According to Brides magazine, the national average cost of a wedding dress is $1,631. With such a big price tag on the line, it's certainly understandable why some women experience buyer's remorse. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Pellegrino told Fox News that brides need to remember why they're getting married in the first place in order to curb fashion-focused self-doubt. Nicole Pellegrino, the co-host of the Betches Brides Podcast, offers advice on how brides can avoid wedding dress regret. "You and your partner love each other, so in the end, those are the only opinions that should matter. And really, a good partner will love you in anything you wear, so the only real opinion that matters is your own," Pellegrino said. "Once you decide on your dress, stick to your decision. Don't go looking at Pinterest and Instagram for more wedding dress inspiration, because that will only make you think: ‘Well what if I tried on one like this instead?’ Remember that you picked your dress for a reason and go with your gut instinct." FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS She added, "Keep in mind that everyone will have an opinion about anything you do, especially since everything's on social media these days. So, if you're trying to get a dress that you think other people will like, then you're only going to end up unhappy. Get a dress that fits your taste, style and personality. There will be people who don't like it no matter what, but you just have to ignore them."
Former ‘Baywatch’ cast member Donna D’Errico reveals her youthful secrets, why she became a vegan: The actress has been outspoken about her passion for animal rights. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Donna D’Errico can vividly recall the moment she decided to give up meat. It was about eight years ago after she was invited by director/producer Sam Simon, a vegan, to appear on his podcast. The former "Baywatch" star, who grew up in the South, said she wasn’t familiar with veganism or what it meant exactly. "We were chatting and then he asked me if I was vegan," she recalled to Fox News. "I grew up in Alabama and Georgia. We had barbecues, chicken, steak, venison – all kinds of meat. So he stopped the interview. And he said, ‘Would you be willing to go in the next room and watch a video?’ I thought to myself, ‘This is Sam Simon.’ And I really respected him. So I said sure. I went to the next room and he had me watch this undercover footage of a factory farm. At that time, I had no idea there were factory farms or what they were. I didn’t know what conditions these animals were in before they ended up on our plates and in grocery stores. I lived in the dark." "I watched the video," she continued. "I came back to the room where he had his podcast studio set up and I was in tears. I told him I was never going to eat meat again. He said, ‘Well, great. Let’s finish the podcast.’ And we did. But from that point on, I didn’t need meat anymore." FORMER ‘BAYWATCH’ STAR CARMEN ELECTRA REFLECTS ON HER RISQUÉ LOOKS FROM ‘90S: ‘IT WAS SHOCKING' Donna D'Errico said it was Sam Simon, co-creator of ‘The Simpsons' and a vegan, who helped turn her life around. The actress said that her journey to veganism originally began because she loved animals. However, she noticed some unexpected side effects along the way. "There were happy benefits, like clearer skin, better digestion, better sleep – but that’s not why I do it," said the 53-year-old. ‘I do it for the animals." D’Errico noted that it has gotten easier to become a vegan, no matter the reason, thanks to plenty of food options available in markets. "The vegan alternatives for meat and cheese are so much better now than they used to be," she shared. "And you don’t miss it. It’s so easy to switch over. But if it’s too hard to do that, try it in baby steps like with meatless Mondays. Take a week at a time. There are so many tasty alternatives out there to make it easier. And before you know it, you won’t miss it." CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Donna D'Errico said it has gotten easier to become a vegan. Over the years, the star has been outspoken about her passion for animal rights. And while D’Errico has been widely complimented by the press for her appearance, she hopes her message doesn’t get lost along the way. "I’m very flattered but I just feel like I’m more than that," she explained. "I understand it comes with the territory. And I understand that when you look at my social media, there’s that kind of stuff. But I think it’s very important for a lot of women, and for myself, to feel good about themselves. I like to look my best and I do that for myself. I don’t do it to be compared to other women or to be complimented. I don’t do it for those reasons. I do it for me. I do it to look and feel my best... It doesn’t feel nice to hear somebody say, ‘You look great for your age’ or ‘You still look amazing.’ Why not just say, ‘Wow you look amazing,’ and just move on? I think critiquing women based on their age is unfair. Men don’t face the same scrutiny and I don’t think they would like either. But I know it’s not going to go away because it’s part of our culture." When it comes to looking – and feeling – her best, D’Errico said she "stopped baking in the sun." "I used to do the old baby oil baking in the sun thing long ago to get super tan," she admitted. "I’ve stopped that. I’ve let myself get a little pale and I wear sunblock all the time, no matter the season. If I want a little glow, I’ll use a self-tanner or a tinted moisturizer. I want to take care of my skin the best that I can and the number one thing you can do is stay out of the sun." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Donna D'Errico said she keeps plenty of fruits, veggies and nuts stocked up in her fridge. "There’s no magic product that will fix everything," she continued. "I don’t have a special skincare regimen. I sometimes forget to take my makeup off at night which is a huge no-no. I’ll wake up with raccoon eyes from my mascara. But I like to wash my face with a gentle cleanser. And when it comes to trying new products, I’m a professional researcher. I read up on everything I can because everyone swears that the new thing works. I think we’re all guilty of falling into that. But I want to take care of myself as much as possible. I just think we shouldn’t be pressured into trying every single product that has all these claims. Use what truly works for your skin and keep it simple." As for staying healthy, D’Errico said she "grazes throughout the day" because that’s what truly works best for her. "I like to stock up on vegetables, fruits, nuts, and avocados," she shared. "I like to have things like Impossible Meat to make proper meals. But I like to have a handful of things here and there throughout the day, as opposed to three large meals. I started doing that years ago and it just suits me better. But again, that just works for me. It doesn’t make it better than anything else." These days, D’Errico said she encourages her followers to help animals in need. And one way to do just that is to adopt. ‘BAYWATCH’ ALUM PAMELA ANDERSON REVEALS SHE STILL FITS IN ICONIC SWIMSUIT, WEARS IT TO SURPRISE HER DATES Donna D'Errico encourages her followers to adopt, don't shop. "I recently adopted a dog – he’s deaf, has a bum leg and no teeth – but he’s the sweetest dog in the world," said D’Errico. "He sleeps with me every night… I think more and more people are becoming aware of animal cruelty and getting outraged by what’s still happening. I just hope I can enlighten people."
'Large, tender, and buttery' Alaska scallops with pumpkin Alfredo: Try the recipe: Make a fancy feast of pumpkin Alfredo with seared Alaska scallops – in under 30 minutes. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Something about eating at home just feels special. It’s almost like you’re having a night out on the town, but, you know, at home in comfy clothes. Here, in this pumpkin Alfredo with seared Alaska scallops, you’ll truly feel like you’re indulging in a restaurant-worthy meal. "Alaska scallops are large, tender and buttery. Combining their melt-in-your-mouth texture with seasonal ingredients like pumpkin and sage takes this classic dish to the next level, giving you an elevated fall dish in just a few simple steps," GRILLED LOBSTER TAIL KEBAB RECIPE WITH LEMON HERB BUTTER Jeremy Woodrow, executive director of Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute, tells Fox News, "To get the perfect sear, pat the Alaska scallops dry with a paper towel, place them in a hot sauté pan and leave them undisturbed for two to four minutes, flipping only once when the first side develops a golden crust." When shopping for scallops, or any seafood this holiday season, look for "Alaska" on the label or signage to guarantee that it is wild and sustainably caught, adds Woodrow. SALMON RICE BOWLS HAVE TAKEN OVER TIKTOK: TRY THE RECIPE Serves 2 to 3 Prep time: 10 minutes Cook time: 15 minutes CHORIZO GAME DAY NACHOS: TRY THE RECIPE Jeremy Woodrow, executive director of Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute, shares his Alaska scallops with pumpkin Alfredo recipe with Fox News. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR LIFESTYLE NEWSLETTER
Win $5,000 playing FOX Bet Super 6 'Quiz Show': Answer questions on football, travel, and Adele: Contestants can play for free on FOX Bet Super 6 app. Fox Nation host Tom Shillue reveals the questions for the $5,000 Quiz Show on 'Fox & Friends' this week. The FOX Bet Super 6 "Quiz Show," a weekly contest that features six multiple-choice questions on sports, stocks, movies and more, offers contestants a $5,000 grand prize. All contestants have to do each week is try to correctly answer six multiple-choice questions on topics ranging from sports to weather to entertainment to politics for a shot at the grand prize. The FOX Bet Super 6 app is free to download and the contests are free to enter. Fox Nation's Tom Shillue revealed this week's questions on "Fox & Friends," which include guessing the winner and margin of victory in the Ohio State-Michigan game, how many travelers will pass through TSA checkpoints the day after Thanksgiving, and how many Adele songs will make the top 10 of Spotify's "Top 200" U.S. daily stream chart on Friday. PLAY THE FOX BET SUPER 6 QUIZ SHOW More than $5 million has been paid out to various Super 6 contest winners so far. App users can also play other games answering questions on various sporting events, including the popular weekly "NFL Sunday Challenge" where you can win $100,000 of Terry Bradshaw's money. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP FOX Bet Super 6 is available nationwide with the exception of Washington state. FOX Bet is an online and mobile sportsbook originally developed through a first-of-its-kind national media and sports wagering partnership in the United States between The Stars Group Inc. and FOX Sports, a unit of Fox Corporation. On May 5, 2020, Flutter Entertainment Plc announced its acquisition of and subsequent merger with The Stars Group.
Omicron variant is 'cause for concern, not a cause for panic,' Biden says: Biden says his plan to fight COVID-19 this winter will not involve shutdowns or lockdowns. Fox News correspondent Jonathan Serrie reports on ‘Special Report’ the race to contain the new COVID-19 threat, the omicron variant. President Biden on Monday said the new omicron variant of coronavirus is a "cause for concern, not a cause for panic," while maintaining that his administration's plan to combat COVID-19 this winter will not involve "shutdowns or lockdowns," but rather a strategy for more widespread vaccinations. The president spoke from the White House Monday, just days after the World Health Organization designated omicron a "variant of concern," its most serious designation of a COVID-19 variant. OMICRON VARIANT POSES ‘VERY HIGH’ GLOBAL RISK, ‘UNPRECEDENTED NUMBER OF SPIKE MUTATIONS’: WHO Biden, last week, restricted travel from South Africa and seven other countries over concerns of the "heavily mutated" omicron variant of COVID-19--a move he said Monday gives the United States "time." "It gives us time," Biden said, noting that the American people need to "understand that you have to get your vaccine, you have to get the shot, have to get the booster." "Sooner or later, we're going to see cases of this new variant here in the U.S.," Biden continued. "We'll have to face this new threat like we've faced those that have come before it." The president, though, stressed that the omicron variant is a "cause for concern, not a cause for panic." "We have the best vaccine in the world, the best medicines, the best scientists, and we're learning more every single day," he said, adding that the U.S. "will fight this variant with scientific and knowledgeable action and speed – not chaos and confusion." Biden said the U.S. has "more tools today" to fight the omicron variant than the country has had before, citing vaccines and boosters for adults, and vaccines for children. The president stressed the importance of getting vaccinated, saying the shots are "the best protection against this new variant, or any out there." Amid concern that the new omicron variant could be resistant to current vaccines, the president stressed that the administration is working to accelerate development of updated vaccinations if needed. "In the event, hopefully unlikely, that updated vaccinations or boosters are needed to respond to this new variant, we will accelerate their development and deployment with every available tool," Biden said. "We do not yet believe that additional measures will be needed." CLICK FOR THE LATEST ON THE CORONAVIRUS Biden, though, said his administration is working with Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson for "contingency plans if needed," and will direct the Food and Drug Administration to get those potential vaccines approved and on the market if needed "without cutting any corners." "I am sparing no effort and removing all road blocks to keep the American people safe," Biden said. The president said that the White House plans to release an updated strategy to fight COVID-19 during the winter months – a strategy, he said, that would not involve "shut downs or lock downs," but instead, "more widespread vaccinations, testing and more." The president stressed that individuals, whether vaccinated or not, should be wearing masks and face coverings in public settings again. When pressed on why he was taking shut downs off the table, the president said: "If people are vaccinated and wearing their masks, there is no need for the lock downs." Meanwhile, Biden maintained the importance of sharing vaccination supply around the globe, saying that he will "always make sure our people are protected first," but warned that both the delta and omicron variants of COVID-19 emerged "elsewhere in the world." OMICRON VARIANT: HERE’S WHAT OFFICIALS KNOW "So we can't let up until the world is vaccinated," Biden said. Last week, the president followed the advice of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  and Dr. Anthony Fauci in his move to restrict travel from several African nations, after the identification of the variant, which officials said appears to be highly contagious among young people. Travel restrictions do not apply to American citizens and lawful permanent residents, but all international travelers must test negative prior to travel. Biden, on Monday, said his administration has no plans to extend travel restrictions to other countries at this point. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The World Health Organization said that it could take some time to get a full picture of the threat posed by omicron. Over the weekend, WHO said that it wasn't clear whether omicron is more transmissible – more easily spread between people – compared to other variants, and said it was not yet clear whether infection with omicron would cause more severe disease. Cases of the omicron variant have been detected in African countries, as well as the Netherlands, Denmark, Australia, Canada, Italy, Israel, Hong Kong, Belgium, Germany, Great Britain, and France. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Biden has no plans 'at this point in time' to visit Waukesha after Christmas parade attack: 'Any president going to visit a community requires a lot of assets,' White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said.. Matt Finn reports the latest on Darrell Brooks at he makes his first court appearance on ‘Special Report’. The White House does not have any plans to preview "at this point in time" for President Biden to visit Waukesha, Wis. after the Christmas parade attack earlier this month. White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki on Monday was asked why the president has not yet visited Waukesha, after 39-year-old Darrell Brooks Jr. allegedly plowed through a crowd of innocent people attending a Christmas parade there, killing six people including an 8-year-old boy and injuring dozens more. WHITE HOUSE STANDS BY PUSH TO END CASH BAIL IN WAKE OF WAUKESHA PARADE ATTACK "As you saw the president convey last week, our hearts go out to this community, to the people in Waukesha that we've been in touch, obviously, with officials there," Psaki said. "We're all watching as people are recovering, and this is such a difficult time of year for this to happen--it's difficult any time." Psaki, though, explained that "any president going to visit a community requires a lot of assets" and requires "taking their resources." "It's not something that I have a trip to preview at this point in time," Psaki said. "But we remain in touch with local officials and certainly our hearts are with the community as they've gone through such a difficult time." In the wake of the tragedy, Biden flew to North Carolina to celebrate a "Friendsgiving" with U.S. troops and then jetted to Nantucket for six days to celebrate Thanksgiving with his extended family. U.S. President Joe Biden speaks to the media before entering "Nantucket Bookworks" bookstore following lunch with family at the Nantucket Tap Room, in Nantucket island, Massachusetts, U.S, November 26, 2021. REUTERS/Tasos Katopodis Brooks had an extensive criminal history dating back to 1999, including multiple felonies. A convicted sex offender, Brooks posted bail twice in Wisconsin this year – despite having an active warrant for jumping bail on a sex crime charge in Nevada. Earlier this month, Milwaukee prosecutors requested just $1,000 bail for Brooks after he was arrested and charged for allegedly punching his girlfriend in the face and then running her over with his car in a gas station parking lot. Prosecutors now admit that bail was "inappropriately low." KAMALA HARRIS' SHIFTING STANCE ON CASH BAIL: SUPPORT AS DA, OPPOSITION AS POLITICIAN Brooks’ criminal history ranges from multiple firearms and battery convictions, to strangulation, to sex offenses, and drug charges on a 50-page rap sheet that spans three states. A police car is seen at Main Street in downtown Waukesha, as it's blocked off after a car plowed through a holiday parade in Waukesha, Wisconsin, U.S., November 22, 2021.  REUTERS/Cheney Orr Cash bail policies have come into the spotlight after the incident, with the White House maintaining its position to end cash bail – saying the decision to hold defendants should be based on the threat they pose to society, not their ability to pay bail. "Ending cash bail will not automatically put people charged with crimes on the streets," a White House official told Fox News. "It just means that whether you get bail should be based on the threat you pose, and not how much money you have in your bank account." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "There shouldn’t be a separate criminal justice system for wealthy Americans," the official added. "Ultimately though, this was a decision made by local courts," the official said, referring to Milwaukee county prosecutors releasing Brooks on bail.
Rep. Omar hangs up on Rep. Boebert after tense phone call: Boebert and Omar demanded each other issue public apologies. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Republican Rep. Lauren Boebert of Colorado had a tense phone call with Rep. Ilhan Omar on Monday that centered around Boebert's recent controversial remarks about the Minnesota Democrat. The phone call ended with Omar hanging up after both congresswomen demanded each other issue public apologies for past remarks, Boebert said in an Instagram video Monday. Boebert said she organized the call with Omar because she "wanted to let her know directly that I had reflected on my previous remarks." BOEBERT APOLOGIZES TO MUSLIM COMMUNITY AFTER ILHAN OMAR COMMENTS: ‘I HAVE REACHED OUT TO HER’ WASHINGTON, DC - OCTOBER 21: "Now as a strong, Christian woman who values faith deeply, I never want anything I say to offend someone's religion. So I told her that. Even after I put out a public statement to that effect, she said that she still wanted a public apology because what I had done wasn't good enough. So I reiterated to her what I had just said," Boebert continued. "She kept asking for a public apology so I told Ilhan Omar that she should make a public apology to the American people for her anti-American, anti-Semitic, anti-police rhetoric. She continued to press and I continued to press back. And then, Representative Omar hung up on me." Omar issued a statement blaming Boebert for how the call unfolded and confirming that she ended the conversation. U.S. Reps; Ilhan Omar  hold a news conference after Democrats in the U.S. Congress moved to formally condemn President Donald Trump's attacks on the four minority congresswomen on Capitol Hill in Washington, U.S., July 15, 2019. REUTERS/Erin Scott "Today I graciously accepted a call from Rep. Lauren Boebert in the hope of receiving a direct apology for falsely claiming she met me in an elevator, suggesting I was a terrorist, and for a history of anti-Muslim hate," Omar said in a statement. "Instead of apologizing for her Islamophobic comments and fabricated lies, Rep. Boebert refused to publicly acknowledge her hurtful and dangerous comments. She instead doubled down on her rhetoric and I decided to end the unproductive call." The phone call came in response to Omar accusing the Colorado congresswoman of making up an "anti-Muslim" story about her while speaking to supporters. Boebert was filmed telling supporters that she recently had a run-in with Omar in a Capitol building elevator. She said as she was getting in the elevator with a staffer when she saw a Capitol police officer running toward them "with fret all over his face" in an effort to stop the elevator door from closing. "I look to my left and there she is: Ilhan Omar. And I said, ‘Well, she doesn’t have a backpack. We should be fine,’" Boebert said, sparking cheers. "I looked over and I said, ‘Oh look, the jihad squad decided to show up for work today.’ Rep. Ilhan Omar, D-Minn., walks to the House chamber on Capitol Hill in Washington, Wednesday, Jan. 13, 2021. "Don’t worry, it’s just her staffers on Twitter that talk for her. She’s not tough in person," she added. Boebert later issued an apology to the Muslim community for her comments. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "I apologize to anyone in the Muslim community I offended with my comment about Rep. Omar," Boebert said in a Friday statement. "I have reached out to her office to speak with her directly. There are plenty of policy differences to focus on without this unnecessary distraction." Fox News' Jessica Chasmar contributed reporting.
Jussie Smollett had celebrity support from these stars after alleged attack: The former 'Empire' actor is accused of faking a hate crime. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Jussie Smollett's disorderly conduct trial begins in Chicago on Monday. The former "Empire" actor maintains he was the victim of a racist and homophobic assault in downtown Chicago on January 29, 2019, but an investigation into the hate crime revealed Smollett allegedly set up the whole incident. When the attack first made headlines, celebrities rushed to support the 39-year-old before the hoax allegations came to light. Check out the list below: Actor Terrence Howard played Smollett's father on the drama series ‘Empire’. Howard, who played Smollett's father on "Empire," shared an Instagram post at the time of Smollett playing with his son, Hero, on a private plane. "All your lil homies got you...We love the hell outta you," the actor wrote along with a heart emoji at the end. The 52-year-old also fired back when a fan criticized him for supporting Smollett. "Sorry you feel that way but that's the only Jussie I know," he posted. "The Jussie I know could never even conceive of something so unconscious and ugly. His innocence or judgment is not for any of us to decide. Stay in your lane and my lane is empathy and love and compassion for someone I've called my son for five years. It's God's job to judge and it's ours to love and hope, especially for those that we claim to have loved." CELEBRITY JUSSIE SMOLLETT SUPPORTERS GRAPPLE WITH HOAX REPORTS Taraji P. Henson played Smollett's mother on ‘Empire’. Smollett's fellow "Empire" co-star told USA Today her feelings about Smollett's alleged hate crime hoax. "I know him and I know his track record," the actress said. "I'm not going to jump on clickbait just because someone says something derogatory about a person I know and love. I'm not easily swayed like that. Those little clickbait [reports] weren't enough to deter me from his immaculate track record. I know the type of activism this young man does in his community, I know that he's a giver – he's not an attention-seeker." The 51-year-old continued: "When I know someone, there's nothing you can say to make me flip on them, and that's what we miss in this world. We need people that stand by us. Whatever happened to that? Why are we so easy to believe strangers over people we know?" CHICAGO LEADERS SLAM SMOLLETT, DEMAND APOLOGIES FROM CELEBS WHO CAME TO HIS DEFENSE Tyler Perry supported Smollett when the alleged attack first made headlines. Actor and comedian Tyler Perry has continued to stick by his pal Smollett, whom he says he's "personally spoken" with since the alleged attack. "He is adamant that he’s telling the truth. Also, everyone that I know who knows him says that he is not the kind of person who would make up such a horrible and awful thing," the 52-year-old explained in a Facebook post at the time, though he admitted the "evidence seems to state otherwise." Rumer Willis called the news of Smollett's alleged hoax "devastating." Rumer Willis, who guest-starred on "Empire" in 2018, called the news of Smollett's alleged hoax "devastating." "I just think it’s a really devastating situation for everybody involved," the actress told "Access." "I don’t really know what to say about all of it. I just think it’s really devastating." The 33-year-old added that since she hasn't been on the show "in over a year" she has been "very separate from the whole thing for a while." Actor O'Shea Jackson Jr. said Smollett is innocent until proven guilty in his eyes "Straight Outta Compton" actor O'Shea Jackson Jr. said Smollett is innocent until proven guilty in his eyes. "I stand by what I say always. I felt for him when the attack happened and the current reports have made me feel like I was being played. Straight up," he wrote early Thursday following reports that authorities approved felony criminal charges against the "Empire" star. When Smollett was officially classified as a suspect, Jackson Jr. appeared to be shocked, tweeting, "Nooooo waaaaaaaaay!!!!!!!" Cynthia Nixon tweeted her support for Smollett before the hoax accusations came to light. At the time, the "Sex and the City" actress tweeted her gratitude to Smollett for being "an out and proud artist and activist, and a hero to so many of us—no small feat in the face of racism and homophobia." She added, "Sending you love today and always." JUSSIE SMOLLETT'S LAWYERS DENY HE PLANNED ATTACK AFTER CHICAGO POLICE CLAIM HE'S NO LONGER CONSIDERED A VICTIM IN CASE Smollett is accused of lying to police about the alleged attack and has been charged with felony disorderly conduct. A class 4 felony, the crime carries a sentence of up to three years in prison. However, experts have said it is more likely that if Smollett is convicted he would be placed on probation and perhaps ordered to perform community service. Abimbola and Olabinjo Osundairo, two brothers, told police Smollett paid them $3,500 to pose as his attackers. Whether Smollett, who is Black and gay, testifies remains an open question. But the siblings will take the witness stand where they are expected to repeat what they have told police officers and prosecutors — that they carried out the attack at Smollett's behest. CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP Smollett's attorneys, Todd S. Pugh and Victor P. Henderson, vehemently denied that the attack was a hoax, previously telling the press, "As a victim of a hate crime who has cooperated with the police investigation, Jussie Smollett is angered and devastated by recent reports that the perpetrators are individuals he is familiar with. He has now been further victimized by claims attributed to these alleged perpetrators that Jussie played a role in his own attack. Nothing is further from the truth and anyone claiming otherwise is lying." The Associated Press contributed to this report.
CNN’s Chris Cuomo snooped on Ronan Farrow’s reporting on his brother, relayed 'intel' to Andrew Cuomo aide: Text exchange shows top Andrew Cuomo aide asking CNN anchor what information he had on Farrow's reporting days before it published. Fox News contributor Joe Concha slams CNN anchor Chris Cuomo's 'dishonest hubris' for claiming he couldn't cover the scandals surrounding his brother, Gov. Andrew Cuomo, despite hosting the governor as a guest on his show throughout the pandemic. CNN’s Chris Cuomo snooped into the progress of Ronan Farrow’s reporting about his brother Andrew Cuomo and relayed it to the governor's inner circle, according to a newly released transcript of his testimony to New York state investigators in July. Farrow, who famously won the Pulitzer Prize and helped launch the #MeToo movement with his reporting on disgraced Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein, also took a deep dive into alleged sexual wrongdoing by former Gov. Cuomo, the CNN anchor'solder brother. CNN’s Chris Cuomo used his media industry connections to find out the progress of Ronan Farrow’s reporting about his brother. Chris Cuomo admitted to contacting colleagues of Farrow for updates but claimed it was simply "business-as-usual" to employ such methods. Text messages released by state investigators showed top Andrew Cuuomo aide Melissa DeRosa asking about "intel the CNN anchor had about Farrow's report on March 15, to which he replied it wasn't ready for publication. Farrrow's story was eventually published on March 18. A text exchange between CNN's Chris Cuomo and top Andrew Cuomo aide Melissa DeRosa discusses Cuomo looking into journalist Ronan Farrow's reporting on his brother, then-New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo. Cuomo's admission contradicts what he told CNN viewers in August when he claimed, "I never made calls to the press about my brother's situation." According to the transcript released last week, an attorney brought up the topic by asking the "Cuomo Prime Time" host if he recalled the governor’s team discussing Farrow’s article. "They were very concerned and it kept moving. What they thought it was about was moving, when it was coming out was moving," Cuomo said. "When Ronan Farrow writes something, people in the media are going to talk about it." The CNN host was then asked if he discussed Farrow’s reporting with his big brother. "Yes," the CNN host responded before being asked to elaborate. CNN’S CHRIS CUOMO HEMORRHAGING FEMALE VIEWERS AMID SCANDAL-PLAGUED YEAR "Just asking him, you know, how he – how he felt about it, what was in it. And him asking me what did I think the impact of it was," he said. "He said that he didn't think the article was fair, that she was being propped up and – you know, that's it." The CNN host then confirmed the "she" he referenced was Lindsey Boylan, the subject of the March 18, 2021, piece written by Farrow in which she gave her first extensive interview about her claims of harassment and retaliation by the now-former governor.  Boylan's allegation made to Farrow in the New Yorker came months after her initial tweet that then-Gov. Cuomo "sexually harassed me for years." Following that accusation, multiple other women came forward to accuse him of sexual harassment. Chris Cuomo CNN’s Cuomo was then asked about a March 2021 text message in which he wrote "If Ronan has nothing better – better than Boylan, that’s a great sign," when texting with DeRosa. He was asked what exactly he meant by that comment. "The concern was that Ronan always has more people. You know, I mean, that's part of his currency as a journalist, is that people come to him to expand understandings. I know he has his critics. But, to me, that's when he's at his best," Cuomo said. "So the assumption was he must have new people if he's waiting so long to have written about this. And then he didn't. So, what the context is specifically is: I had heard that all he was writing – the only person he was writing about was Lindsey Boylan," Cuomo continued. "So that means that he didn't find more people to complain that, once again, I would have to experience this team being shocked that there was another person. Which was this never ending cycle that was very hard for a family member. That was the context." WATCH THE COLLAPSE OF CUOMO ON FOX NATION Cuomo then claimed he didn’t recall any additional conversations with members of the governor’s inner circle about additional allegations that could be reported by Farrow. An attorney then reminded Cuomo that he was asked three days before Farrow’s story was published if he had received "any more intel." "Story not ready for tomorrow," Cuomo texted back, according to the transcript. Lindsey Boylan spoke out against now-former Gov. Andrew Cuomo in an interview with Ronan Farrow. CHRIS CUOMO'S WILD RIDE: 18 MONTHS OF ROUGH HEADLINES FOR CNN'S STAR ANCHOR "They didn’t know when the Ronan piece was coming out. So I just asked people, did you hear about when the Ronan piece – we do this with him all the time. It's a really good device that he has, that his people let you know that something's coming, but they don't tell you when," CNN’s Cuomo said. "You know, so that there's this – this constant speculation game. It's really effective in driving interest for his articles." The story that CNN’s most-watched anchor then admitted he called Farrow’s colleagues to meddle in the reporting process. "I called a fellow journalist who works with Ronan a lot. And I didn't want to contact Ronan directly. I know him. He's – he's been good to me. He's been on my show. But I didn't want to – I didn't want to push up on him like that. It's not right," Cuomo said. "I was told nothing’s coming right away." Cuomo was asked if he told CNN he was contacting people to ask about articles being written that could damage his brother. "No, not specifically," Cuomo said. The attorney pressed, asking if Cuomo told CNN he was making calls on "behalf of the executive chamber or behalf of your brother to learn information" and whether that was out of the ordinary, but the CNN host claimed he didn’t see it that way. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "There was going to be an article about my brother. So I'm interested. I wasn't going to call the person writing it. I wasn't going to try to influence any of the stories. And we know that that's true because you would have read about it had I. It's not exactly a loyalty-based business," Cuomo said. "If I had tried to influence any of the reporting at CNN or anywhere else, I guarantee you people would know, and so would a lot of others. So the idea of one reporter calling another to find out about what's coming down the pipe is completely business-as-usual." Boylan, a former Cuomo aide who initially came forward in December 2020, was the first woman to accuse Andrew Cuomo of sexual misconduct. She was one of 11 accusers that were included in New York Attorney General Letitia James' investigation into Gov. Cuomo, which ultimately resulted in his resignation. CNN did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Fox News' Joseph A. Wulfsohn contributed to this report.
Democrats' rush to judgment in Smollett case could blow up in their faces: Smollett is charged with 6 counts of disorderly conduct and faces up to 3 years in prison. Criminal Defense Attorney Jonna Spilbor on the difficulty of defending Jussie Smollett after the actor fabricated a hate crime. Democrats and media figures were quick to condemn what they described as a racist and homophobic attack against actor Jussie Smollett in 2019, blaming it on a culture of hate fostered by then-President Trump, but their words may come back to bite them now that Smollett faces up to three years in prison for allegedly fabricating the assault. Smollett originally told police that on Jan. 29, 2019, two masked men attacked him outside his apartment at 2 a.m. in Chicago, hurled racist and homophobic slurs at him, threw chemicals on him, looped a noose around his neck, and told him he was in "MAGA country." Smollett spent a night in the hospital following the incident and was released without any serious injuries. TRIAL SET TO START ON CHARGES SMOLLETT FAKED RACIST ATTACK Jussie Smollett walks out of the Leighton Criminal Courthouse today after pleading not guilty to a new indictment on Feb. 24, 2020 in Chicago, Illinois. Several 2020 Democratic presidential candidates immediately condemned the alleged attack. Vice President Kamala Harris, then a California senator, and Sen. Cory Booker, D-N.J., expressed solidarity with Smollett at the time and both blasted the alleged attack as "an attempted modern-day lynching." President Biden, also a candidate at the time, tweeted, "We are with you, Jussie," and that "homophobia and racism have no place on our streets or in our hearts." "The racist and homophobic attack on Jussie Smollett is a horrific instance of the surging hostility toward minorities around the country," Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., tweeted at the time. "We must come together to eradicate all forms of bigotry and violence." "The racist, homophobic attack on @JussieSmollett is an affront to our humanity," House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., tweeted at the time. "No one should be attacked for who they are or whom they love." Now, Smollett is set to stand trial on charges that he staged the attack against himself. As Chicago police started to investigate the attack in 2019, Smollett’s story fell apart. Police alleged weeks after he made his report that Smollett paid two friends to help stage the attack because he was unhappy with his salary on the TV show "Empire." Chicago Police Superintendent Eddie T. Johnson said in late February 2019 that Smollett "took advantage of the pain and anger of racism to promote his career." Smollet was arrested at the time and charged with fabricating the attack. Conservatives slammed the left for rushing to judgment on Smollett’s story. Then-President Trump, who initially called reports of the attack "horrible," tweeted after Smollett’s arrest in February 2019, "What about MAGA and the tens of millions of people you insulted with your racist and dangerous comments!?" Actor Jussie Smollett speaks with members of the media after his court appearance at Leighton Courthouse on March 26, 2019 in Chicago, Illinois. Harris reversed course weeks after her initial tweet, saying she was "sad, frustrated, and disappointed" over the developments. "When anyone makes false claims to police, it not only diverts resources away from serious investigations but it makes it more difficult for other victims of crime to come forward," Harris said in February 2019. "At the same time, we must speak the truth: hate crimes are on the rise in America." Booker took a similar approach at the time, declining to weigh in any further on the Smollett case and instead calling attention to a nationwide rise in "vicious, horrific, cruel violence that’s motivated by bias and hate." Pelosi deleted her initial tweet supporting Smollett but refrained from commenting on the case again. Her office did not respond to Fox News Digital’s request for comment. Biden and Sanders have yet to weigh in on any new developments in the case, and their initial tweets supporting Smollett remain active on their accounts. Their offices did not respond to Fox News Digital’s requests for comment. Shortly after his initial arrest, the Cook County State Attorney’s Office on Mar. 7, 2019, filed a 16-count felony indictment against Smollett on charges that he staged the hate crime attack and made numerous false statements to police. But then just three weeks later, the CCSAO dropped those charges in exchange for 15 hours of community service and the agreement that Smollett would forfeit his $10,000 bond to the City of Chicago. Months after the prosecutors dropped the charges with little explanation, a judge appointed a special prosecutor, former U.S. attorney Dan Webb, to look into the original investigation. Webb eventually determined that Smollett "planned and participated in a staged hate crime attack, and thereafter made numerous false statements to Chicago Police Department officers on multiple occasions, reporting a heinous hate crime that he, in fact, knew had not occurred." After Webb’s investigation, a Cook County grand jury in February 2020 returned a new six-count indictment charging Smollett with making multiple false reports to Chicago police. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Smollett pleaded not guilty and his defense team filed a motion to dismiss the latest charges over double jeopardy, but a judge shot that down in June 2020. Smollett still claimed he did nothing wrong, telling TMZ he's innocent. He was charged with felony disorderly conduct. The class 4 felony carries a sentence of up to three years in prison but experts have said it's more likely that if Smollett is convicted, he would be placed on probation and perhaps ordered to perform community service. Fox News’ Paul Best and the Associated Press contributed to this report.
Liberal media bemoans Biden's poor approval rating despite 'achievements': Biden had a 36% approval rating in October, according to a Quinnipiac University national poll. In media news today, a 'Good Morning America' guest worries omicron variant could hurt Biden's economic 'progress,' CNN gets roasted for a tweet about the Waukesha parade attack, and a New York Times columnist says he has a 'high tolerance' for inflation. President Biden's approval ratings have nosedived in the past few months following inflation and supply chain crises, but the liberal media have offered different suggestions and excuses that have largely put the blame on the American people. Multiple pundits and guests on left-leaning CNN and MSNBC have suggested that one reason why Biden isn't faring well in the polls is because Americans aren't engaged enough in politics. CNN's "Reliable Sources" unpacked that idea on Sunday. Host Brian Stelter asked one of his guests, writer and photographer Chris Arnade, "what's going on" with Biden's agenda and approval ratings, suggested the numbers don't add up. Arnade answered by comparing Americans' interest in politics to those who are only interested in football when the Super Bowl comes around. CNN PANEL ON BIDEN STRUGGLES: MEDIA NOT DOING ENOUGH TO SELL AGENDA, AMERICANS PUTTING ‘FEELINGS’ OVER FACTS "I mean, I think the way we talk about politics and the way most people talk about politics - I mean, it's entirely different," Arnade said. "We're like, you know, we're like – it's like the NFL and most people treat politics like they'll tune in to the Super Bowl once every few years and that's about it. That's how they view politics as something, you know, they're not a player in it, they're just a watcher. They support teams. They support a side. But they don't feel like - it's a distance thing that really that doesn't - doesn't - they don't have a say in that much. And so, how politics affects them is very experiential." "It's not about, you know, connecting what's going on to policy and connecting policy to what's going on," he continued. "It's just not something people do. That's what we do, but that's not how people perceive things. And quite honestly, you know, as I've written, what people see right now and I've been, as you said, walking across America. I go into cities and I walk 20 miles across America and just spend time hanging out talking to people." Stelter said it was an example of people employing "feelings" over "facts." FILE PHOTO: Gas prices grow along with inflation as this sign at a gas station shows in San Diego, California, U.S. November, 9, 2021. REUTERS/Mike Blake/File Photo AT JUST 36% SUPPORT, BIDEN SLIPS TO A RECORD LOW IN A NEW POLL MSNBC's Stephanie Ruhle sounded confused Monday as to why voters were souring on Biden at a time when he got his infrastructure bill through and when the economy recovery was "very good." She asked her guests to offer an explanation as her show displayed a chyron that read, "Biden approval rating under water despite achievements." Robert Gibbs said he thinks people "aren't looking at their economic health through a jobs report" and are instead focusing on hardships in their lives that are currently front and center. President Joe Biden delivers remarks on the debt ceiling during an event in the State Dining Room of the White House, Monday, Oct. 4, 2021, in Washington. "I think they're seeing gas prices go up," Gibbs said. "I think they're seeing their turkey dinners on Thanksgiving being more expensive." "People wanted to feel a sense of normalcy going into this holiday season … Unfortunately that hasn't materialized," he continued, later saying, "I think that while a lot of the president's agenda is popular, I don't think the American people know much about it." Containers line a Port of Oakland shipping terminal on Wednesday, Nov. 10, 2021, in Oakland, Calif. Intense demand for products has led to a backlog of container ships outside the nation's two largest ports along the Southern California coast. "The process of this has overwhelmed the of specifics of the substance," he later added, urging Biden and the Democrats to do a better job talking to Americans about Build Back Better, etc. Magdi Semrau, a columnist for The Editorial Board, echoed another popular argument on "Reliable Sources": The media isn't doing a good enough job reporting on Biden's agenda. "I wrote about the disconnect between Biden's approval rating--which appears to be slumping--& approval for his agenda--which remains high. This isn't just a problem for Democrats. It's a problem for democracy. The media has a role to play," she added on Twitter, with a link to her piece on the subject entitled, "Biden’s policies are more popular than he is. For the first time in the modern era, the link between president and agenda is broken." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Is the Media to Blame for Biden's Bad Poll Numbers?" New York Magazine similarly asked. Bloomberg Opinion writer Jonathan Bernstein suggested the media's bias on the economy is showing. Other pundits like MSNBC's Joy Reid have used the approval numbers to lecture Americans for not being more grateful for the efforts of the Biden administration. "There are also a lot of Americans who despite having gotten the shots and checks are still telling pollsters that he's accomplished nothing or almost nothing, which I find amazing. I guess they spent the whole $2,000 and now they're not happy anymore," Reid said earlier this month. "Does this matter? Should we think about this in terms of those polling numbers?" Biden had a 36% approval rating in October, according to a Quinnipiac University national poll.
Gov. Noem pushes back on narrative GOP is anti-woman, says telemedicine abortions show left is 'hypocritical': Supreme Court is set to hear oral arguments in abortion case Dec. 1.. Judicial Crisis Network president Carrie Severino and pro-life activist Alison Howard Centofante discussed the case and what it could mean for Roe v. Wade. Gov. Kristi Noem railed against Democratic narratives on abortion, arguing on Monday that her party's position was consistent with being pro-woman. "This is an issue that those who are pro-choice try to dehumanize – that they try to make an argument that we don't care about women, that we don't care about these babies," Noem said during an online press briefing with the anti-abortion Susan B. Anthony  List. She added: "That's just a false narrative that we have to push aggressively back against." Kristi Noem, governor of South Dakota, speaks during the FAMiLY Leader summit in Des Moines, Iowa, on Friday, July 16, 2021. Former Vice President Mike Pence is headlining the evangelical group's 10th annual leadership summit. Noem's comments come just days before the Supreme Court is scheduled to hear oral arguments in Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health, which Noem hopes will serve as an avenue for overturning Roe v. Wade. PRO-LIFE WOMEN BLAST PSAKI'S ABORTION DEFENSE, ‘SEXISM’ TOWARD REPORTER A mother of three, Noem argued that women didn't have to choose between career success and having children. She and more than 200 other women signed onto an amicus brief challenging Planned Parenthood v. Casey's contention that women had "reliance interests" in abortion as it helped them "participate equally in the economic and social life of the nation." She also took aim at telemedicine or chemical abortions, a relatively new method that is expected to grow if the Supreme Court allows states to beef up restrictions on the procedure. A police officer maintains a watch during a demonstration by victims of gun violence in front of the Supreme Court as arguments begin in a major case on gun rights on Nov. 3, 2021, in Washington, D.C. "For years and years, we've heard liberals talk about this decision on abortion being between a woman and her doctor," she said Monday. "Now they're changing their complete argument to now this can be a decision between a woman and virtually any stranger over the phone – that she doesn't even have to prove it's a doctor … or an informed decision." Noem added that these types of abortions were more "dangerous" for women and showed the left was "hypocritical" because it allows women to "make an impromptu" and "not well-informed" decision with strangers. According to Kaiser Family Foundation, 17 states and the District of Columbia allow advanced practice clinicians, including nurses, to dispense medication abortions. Anti-abortion advocates have also raised concerns about sites like AidAccess, which provide abortion pills remotely. Governor  of South Dakota Kristi Noem speaks to reporters at the Sturgis Buffalo Chip campground after riding in the Legends Ride for charity on Aug. 9, 2021, near Sturgis, South Dakota. Chemical abortions, which Noem attempted to restrict with an executive order, have prompted intense debate as they can provide easier access but also sidestep usual medical exams. The Food and Drug Administration  is set to announce a decision on the issue later this month but previously overturned a Trump-era rule that required in-person dispensing of the pills. CHEMICAL ABORTIONS SAW 500% INCREASE IN RATE OF ER VISITS FROM 2002-2015: STUDY Janet Woodcock, the acting FDA commissioner, argued in April that existing literature doesn't indicate serious complications arising without the in-person requirement. Meanwhile, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists  has praised the Biden administration's decision as a way to protect patients and medical professionals from contracting COVID-19 during in-person visits. The American Association of Pro-Life Obstetricians and Gynecologists  has said in-person visits are critical to detecting ectopic pregnancies, which can be life threatening; ensuring accurate estimations of gestational age; and for determining whether women need the medication Rhogam, which is used to prevent complications in future pregnancies. In this screenshot from the RNC’s livestream of the 2020 Republican National Convention, Iowa Gov. Kim Reynolds addresses the virtual convention on Aug. 25, 2020. Advocates like Planned Parenthood have emphasized the importance of women's autonomy and ease of access to abortion, especially during the pandemic. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., derided Mississippi's law in September alongside an amicus brief from both chambers of Congress. "Mississippi’s draconian abortion ban – one in a heartbreaking and nationwide assault against women’s freedoms – is unconstitutional," Pelosi said. "As the brief makes clear, the constitutional right to an abortion has been resoundingly affirmed." But Noem and Gov. Kim Reynolds, R-Iowa, maintained on Monday that current precedent on abortion is wrong. "With Dobbs, the Supreme Court can strike a blow for Democratic self-government, restore constitutional integrity, and right a historic wrong," said Reynolds during a recorded message for Monday's briefing.
Top 5 states with most daily COVID cases are now blue states, bottom 5 are mostly red: Omicron variant yet to be confirmed on American soil. Fox News medical contributor Dr. Marc Siegel provides insight on the new omicron coronavirus variant. Some U.S. states are grappling with severe coronavirus outbreaks as the omicron variant is spreading around the world. Although there have not yet been any confirmed omicron COVID-19 cases on U.S. soil, Dr. Anthony Fauci said over the weekend that he would not be shocked to learn that it’s already here. "We have not detected it yet," he told NBC’s ‘Weekend Today’ show. "But, when you have a virus that is showing this degree of transmissibility and you're already having travel-related cases that they've noted in Israel and Belgium and in other places – when you have a virus like this, it almost invariably is ultimately going to go, essentially, all over." Eric Aviles, 6, receives the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine from pharmacist Sylvia Uong at a pediatric vaccine clinic for children ages 5 to 11 set up at Willard Intermediate School in Santa Ana, Calif., on Nov. 9. CORONAVIRUS OMICRON COVERAGE: LIVE UPDATES As of Monday, Michigan has the highest daily rate of new cases per 100,000 residents with 85, according to the New York Times, followed by New Hampshire with 73, New Mexico with 67, and Vermont and Minnesota both with 61. All the states in the top five voted for president Biden in the 2020 election. When looking at that statistic over a weeklong period ending this past Sunday, Minnesota leads the nation with 426 new cases per 100,000 residents, followed by Michigan with 388.6, Wisconsin with 387.7, North Dakota with 361.5 and New Hampshire with 360.2, data from the CDC shows. All the states in the top five voted for president Biden in the 2020 election. A man walks through a deserted part of Johannesburg's OR Tambo's airport in South Africa on Monday. The World Health Organization urged countries around the world not to impose flight bans on southern African nations due to concern over the new omicron variant. On the other end of the chart, Louisiana, Texas, Alabama, Hawaii and Florida round out the states with lowest daily rate of new cases per 100,000 residents, with numbers ranging from 8 to 3, the New York Times reports. All but one of the states in the bottom five voted for Donald Trump in the 2020 election. In the CDC’s weekly metric, Hawaii, Georgia, Texas, Louisiana and Florida comprise that group. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP President Joe Biden speaks about the COVID-19 variant named omicron, in the Roosevelt Room of the White House on Monday. But those states are also testing fewer residents per 100,000 compared to some that are reported to be amongst those suffering the most severe outbreaks. Texas, for example, is only testing 125 residents per 100,000 as opposed to states in the top 5 such as Minnesota and New Hampshire, which are testing 492 and 420 per 100,000, respectively, according to Becker’s Hospital Review. Fox News’ Julia Musto contributed to this report.
Brit Hume on Omicron variant: Politicians' 'cures' for COVID have been worse than the virus: Says officials 'making same kind of mistakes' in response to omicron variant. Fox News Senior Political Analyst Brit Hume on countries imposing travel bans in the wake of the new omicron variant. In the wake of the new omicron variant, Fox News senior political analyst Brit Hume told "The Brian Kilmeade Show" on Monday that since the inception of the coronavirus pandemic, the cures from politicians have been worse than the virus. OMICRON VARIANT IS 'CAUSE FOR CONCERN, NOT A CAUSE FOR PANIC,' BIDEN SAYS BRIT HUME: It looks to me like we're freaking out again and making the same kinds of mistakes that we made the first and second and third time around. There are ripple effects of that. And this has been the issue from the very beginning of the pandemic. And that is that in our efforts to stamp it out, to stop it in its tracks, which was probably never going to be possible, we undertook all sorts of efforts without ever seriously considering the side effects of our efforts. You know, Trump may have made a lot of mistakes on this, but he was right when he said, you don't want a situation where the cure is worse than the disease. When you think of the school days missed by kids, really how much that contributes to continued inequality and educational outcomes that these poor kids who you know, who many of whose parents don't even have a computer in the house or who are struggling to try to be educated in this setting where, you know, they're really not in school, they're really not getting instruction and so on. It's very serious. You have health outcomes affected by the fact that people missed appointments for screenings and treatment and so on for cancer and other diseases. The supply chain problems we’re having as a consequence of COVID and the restrictions that were placed on travel and with people out of work and so on. So we're going to be feeling the pain from those for a long time. WATCH FULL VIDEO BELOW:
Jason Rantz blasts CNN for Waukesha tweet: This is why they're not trusted: CNN panned for saying 'car drove through Christmas parade,' ignoring suspect. Seattle radio host Jason Rantz on Twitter users blasting CNN's reporting on the Waukesha tragedy and violent robberies over the Black Friday weekend. Seattle radio host Jason Rantz tore into CNN on Monday after the network was panned for a tweet that seemed to place blame for last week's Waukesha parade attack on Darrell Brooks’ SUV without mention of the career criminal suspect. "Democrats like to focus on the weapon when they don’t want to make villains out of the criminals when that criminal kind of flies in the face of the narrative that they’re missing," Rantz said during an appearance on "The Faulkner Focus." Rantz asserted that the media is quick to divert the blame away from the criminal when it suits their agenda, citing activists and media outlets that blamed San Francisco retail theft on poverty and gang violence on guns rather than criminals. CNN ROASTED FOR TWEET SAYING WAUKESHA PARADE ATTACK WAS CAUSED BY 'A CAR' THAT DROVE THROUGH PARADE "Darrell Brooks can’t be the focus because he’s not a white supremacist," Rantz added before pointing out the stark difference in media coverage between Darrell Brooks and Kyle Rittenhouse. Darrell Brooks, charged with killing five people and injuring nearly 50 after plowing through a Christmas parade with his sport utility vehicle on November 21, appears in Waukesha County Court in Waukesha, Wisconsin, U.S. November 23, 2021. The 17-year-old Rittenhouse was labeled a murderer and white supremacist by various outlets and media personalities, including CNN before the Illinois teen was acquitted of all charges in November. Many outlets also got key facts about the case wrong, including the false claim that Rittenhouse crossed state lines with a weapon. "Kyle Rittenhouse was a white supremacist with the intent to kill. It wasn’t the weapon. Darrell Brooks, we ignore him, we ignore his views, we ignore his criminal history that has been enabled by left-wing light on crime policies and then we focus on the SUV, and then of course people wonder over at CNN ‘why don’t people trust us?’ Well, look at your tweets," said Rantz. On Sunday CNN became the center of social media backlash after a tweet suggested that Brooks’ SUV was responsible for the massacre that resulted in six deaths and dozens of injuries. Police officers close a street in downtown Waukesha the morning after a car plowed through a holiday parade in Waukesha, Wisconsin, U.S., November 22, 2021. "Waukesha will hold a moment of silence today, marking one week since a car drove through a city Christmas parade, killing six people and injuring scores of others," the tweet reads. Screenshot/Twitter Fox News' Yael Halon contributed to this report.
NYC Mayor-elect Eric Adams promotes 'stop and frisk' after latest shooting that wounded 2 officers: Adams, who will be NYC's second Black mayor, promotes 'stop, question, frisk' in new op-ed. A source released video of the shooting to Fox News. New York City Mayor-elect Eric Adams reiterated support for "stop and frisk" in a new op-ed piece published Sunday reacting to last week’s Thanksgiving Eve shooting that wounded two police officers. Adams, who will be the city’s second Black mayor, praised the "professional conduct" of NYPD officers Alejandra Jacobs and Robert Holmes in their handling of suspect Charlie Vasquez in the Bronx last week. Judging by the NYPD’s account, Adams said the officers handled the situation correctly – they approached the suspect matching a 911 caller’s description and asked him to show his hands. NYC ‘CAREER CRIMINAL’ CHARGED IN BRAZEN SHOOTING THAT WOUNDED TWO OFFICERS: ‘THERE IS NO FEAR ON THE STREETS’ But Vasquez open fired. Shot in the arm, Jacobs returned fire, and then, "the threat was neutralized. One more gun off the street. One more blow against the bad guys," Adams wrote in an op-ed for the New York Daily News. "Yet there are some in our city who would say these officers should never have confronted Vasquez, that he never should have been stopped and questioned." Adams rejected his opponents’ calls to "end stop and frisk forever," making the distinction in the op-ed that the tactic "stop, question and frisk" must be reinstated because it can actually help reduce crime "without infringing on personal liberties and human rights." Brooklyn Borough President and a Democratic mayoral candidate Eric Adams greets NYPD officers as participants gather for a march through the financial district during a parade honoring essential workers for their efforts in getting New York City through the COVID-19 pandemic, Wednesday, July 7, 2021, in New York. Brooklyn Borough President and New York City mayoral candidate Eric Adams listens as President Joe Biden speaks during a meeting on reducing gun violence, in the Roosevelt Room of the White House, Monday, July 12, 2021, in Washington. Eric Adams, Brooklyn borough president and Democratic candidate for New York City mayor speaks during a debate with Republican candidate for New York City mayor Curtis Sliwa at the ABC 7 studios in New York, Tuesday, Oct. 26, 2021. "In fact, as American courts have affirmed over many years, stop, question and frisk is a perfectly legal, appropriate and constitutional tool, when used smartly, as opposed to indiscriminately against hundreds of thousands of young Black and Brown men, as it was for years in New York City," Adams wrote. "Not only that, but it is a necessary tool, whereby police approach someone who fits a witness description or otherwise appears to be carrying an illegal weapon." He continued: "The question was never whether stop, question and frisk should be allowed; it was how it should be done. Those who claimed it should be outlawed entirely reduced a nuanced issue to an either-or argument, and unwisely answered it with a blanket ban." Adams, who said he visited the officers at the hospital on Thursday, called for an end to "fighting from the extremes about public safety" and vowed to make solutions his "number one priority" in January. He also addressed arguments about stop, question and frisk, defund the police and bail reform. "The question should not be whether or not police are allowed to confront suspects; it should be about how we train them," he said. "The question should not be whether we have police; it should be how we use them. The question should not be whether judges should have the ability to protect New Yorkers from violent offenders; it should be how we let them." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP At a press conference following the shooting, both NYPD Police Commissioner Dermot Shea and a police union president, Pat Lynch, remarked about the lack of fear among criminals in the streets despite efforts to remove illegal guns. Vasquez, who was also wounded in the shooting, was charged Saturday with attempted murder and other weapons offenses.
CNN host calls for global vaccine passports to prove which brand, dosage each person has received: Fareed Zakaria lamented that countries were instead focusing on 'nationalism, protectionism, reshoring supply lines'. CNN host Fareed Zakaria on Sunday implored countries across the world to implement a global vaccine passport that would require people to prove which vaccine brand and dosage they'd received. CNN host Fareed Zakaria on Sunday implored countries across the world to implement a global vaccine passport that would require people to prove which vaccine brand and dosage they'd received. During an appearance on "CNN Newsroom," Zakaria said the coronavirus would never go away and that society would have to "learn to live" with it and its potential mutations. He also lamented that there was no global coordination or common standards in terms of fighting the virus before calling for "a common certificate or passport" that would document everything about an individual's vaccination status. "We need to fundamentally understand this thing is not going away. And so any strategy that is based on the idea that we just do one more thing and it'll go away, that's not what's going to happen," Zakaria told fellow CNN host Jim Acosta. "We are going to have to learn to live with some level of virus and some mutations in our societies, moving from a pandemic to endemic stage." CNN'S FAREED ZAKARIA COZIES UP TO WH AIDE RON KLAIN, ASSURES HE PRAISED BIDEN ADMIN DURING TWITTER EXCHANGE Fareed Zakaria and Jim Acosta discuss the Omicron variant of the coronavirus on CNN, November 28, 2021. Zakaria argued that the travel bans being instituted by President Biden and other countries against certain African nations due to growing concerns over the new Omicron variant of the coronavirus were just "band- aids" and wouldn't help very much. He added that what needed to happen was for vaccinations and MRNA technology to be ramped up across the globe and for scientists to figure out what boosters would be needed to fight each new variant. Acosta claimed that if travel restrictions were actually based on the risk of spreading the coronavirus, then other countries would want to ban travel to the U.S. He then asked at what point there needed to be a vaccine mandate for air travelers worldwide. "Wouldn’t that potentially be a better measure here than arbitrarily going after one part of the world, even though the variant is around the globe at this point?" he asked. CNN'S FAREED ZAKARIA SAYS TRUMP WAS RIGHT ABOUT ASYLUM SYSTEM, ‘PAINS ME TO SAY’ FILE PHOTO: U.S. President Joe Biden delivers remarks on the authorization of the coronavirus disease  vaccine for kids ages 5 to 11, during a speech in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building’s South Court Auditorium at the White House in Washington, U.S., November 3, 2021. REUTERS/Evelyn Hockstein/File Photo "To your first point, as you point out, the U.S. still has a massive disproportionate number of Covid cases, Covid deaths, so this is a case of somebody in a glass house throwing a lot of stones," Zakaria said. "The single biggest gap here has been the global one. We have no global coordination, no common standards, no common certificate or passport that tells you whether someone has had one dose, two doses, what vaccine it was from," he added. Zakaria claimed that it would be "trivial" to be able to create such a document system technologically, but that no wanted to cooperate internationally. "Everyone is instead talking of nationalism, protectionism, reshoring supply lines," he said. "All of that is great, but what this new variant is showing us is none of it is going to work, because at the end of the day, the world is already so connected … The only solution here is to come together, figure out a joint set of standards, joint sets of travel procedures, joint sets of vaccine stats and make a huge push to vaccinate the world." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Passengers arrive at Heathrow Airport in London, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021. The new potentially more contagious omicron variant of the coronavirus popped up in more European countries on Saturday, just days after being identified in South Africa, leaving governments around the world scrambling to stop the spread. In Britain, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said mask-wearing in shops and on public transport will be required, starting Tuesday. "It remains true that vaccinating the world, while it sounds very ambitious, Jim, it’s going to cost a fraction of the cost of these serial shutdowns, these travel shutdowns. You could vaccinate all of Africa and save yourself an enormous amount of money, because if we have to do these shutdowns again, the cost will get back into the trillions," Zakaria added.
Ghislane Maxwell's alleged victim arrives at court: Sarah Ransome reportedly told media at the Manhattan courthouse, 'I never thought this day would come'. Sarah Ransome, one of several women who have accused Jeffrey Epstein and Maxwell of sexual abuse, enters NYC courthouse. One of Ghislaine Maxwell and Jeffrey Epstein’s alleged victims arrived Monday at the New York City courthouse where the jury was selected for the trial in the long-running sex trafficking case. Two years after Jeffrey Epstein's suicide behind bars, Sarah Ransome arrived at the courthouse for the start of Maxwell's trial in New York. Wearing a matching red beret and sweater, she said little to the media that surrounded her before she ascended the courthouse steps. "I never thought this day would come," she briefly remarked to reporters, according to The Independent. JURY SELECTED IN GHISLAINE MAXWELL'S TRIAL Ransome, who was born in South Africa to British parents, claims she attempted to escape from Epstein’s private island through shark-infested waters after being raped three times in one day. She is not expected to testify. Sarah Ransome, an alleged victim of Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell, arrives at the courthouse for the start of Maxwell's trial in New York, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021. "I never thought this day would come," Sarah Ransome remarked to reporters when arriving for the start of Ghislaine Maxwell's trial in New York, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021. Sarah Ransome arrives for the start of Ghislaine Maxwell's trial in New York, where a jury was selected on Monday, Nov. 29, 2021. Sarah Ransome arrives for the trial of Ghislaine Maxwell, who is accused of acting as Jeffrey Epstein's chief enabler, in New York, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021. Sarah Ransome arrives for the trial of Ghislaine Maxwell in New York on Monday, Nov. 29, 2021. Prosecutors say there is evidence that Maxwell knew Jeffrey Epstein's victims were below the age of consent. Maxwell, who once dated Epstein, is accused of acting as his chief enabler, recruiting and grooming young girls for him to abuse. The charges against her stem from the allegations of four women who say she and Epstein victimized them as teens from 1994 to 2004. Prosecutors say there’s evidence Maxwell knew that the victims, including a 14-year-old, were below the age of consent and that she arranged travel for some between Epstein’s homes, including his estate in Palm Beach, Florida, his Manhattan townhouse and other residences in Santa Fe, New Mexico, and London. Maxwell, 58, is charged with one count of enticing a minor to travel to engage in illegal sex acts, which carries a maximum sentence of five years in prison; one count of conspiracy to entice a minor to travel to engage in illegal sex acts, which carries a maximum sentence of five years; one count of transporting a minor with the intent to engage in criminal sexual activity, which carries a maximum sentence of 10 years; one count of conspiracy to transport a minor with the intent to engage in criminal sexual activity, which carries a maximum sentence of five years; and two counts of perjury, each of which carries a maximum sentence of five years. Ghislaine Maxwell, founder of the TerraMar Project, attends a press conference at United Nations headquarters on June 25, 2013. In this courtroom sketch, Ghislaine Maxwell enters the courtroom escorted by U.S. Marshalls Monday, Nov. 29, 2021, in New York. A line of people, mostly journalists, wait to enter the courthouse for the start of the Ghislaine Maxwell trial in New York, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021. Attorneys Laura Menninger and Jeffrey Pagliuca arrive to court in New York, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021. Attorneys Laura Menninger and Jeffrey Pagliuca arrive to court in New York, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021. Twelve jurors and six alternates were selected Monday to hear Maxwell’s case. They were picked from a pool of 40 to 60 potential jurors who made it through initial questioning. The jury was sworn in after U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan sorted out potential scheduling conflicts involving two jurors. Opening statements are expected to begin later in the day. Epstein killed himself at a Manhattan federal lockup in August 2019, a month after his arrest on sex trafficking charges. Authorities charged Maxwell in July 2020, arresting her after tracking her to a $1 million New Hampshire estate where she had been holed up during the coronavirus pandemic. Maxwell has pleaded not guilty and vehemently denies wrongdoing. The 59-year-old British socialite, jailed in Brooklyn since her arrest, has called the claims against her "absolute rubbish." Maxwell's lawyers and family say she was Epstein's pawn, now paying "a blood price" to satisfy public desire to see someone held accountable for his crimes. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The wealthy, Oxford-educated Maxwell is the daughter of British newspaper magnate Robert Maxwell, who died in 1991 after falling off his yacht – named the Lady Ghislaine – near the Canary Islands. Robert Maxwell, whose holdings at the time included the New York Daily News, was facing allegations that he had illegally looted his businesses’ pension funds. Ghislaine Maxwell holds U.S., British and French citizenships and was repeatedly denied bail in the run-up to her trial. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Wikipedia page on 'Mass killings under communist regimes' considered for deletion, prompting bias accusations: 'This article has multiple issues,' a warning on the page currently states. Larry Sanger discusses how the website has become more biased on 'Tucker Carlson Tonight' Wikipedia is considering deleting a page about the mass killings committed by communist regimes throughout the 20th century over claims of bias. The page titled "Mass killings under communist regimes," which details the atrocities of dictators like Stalin, Mao Zedong and Pol Pot, risks being purged from the online encyclopedia after editors complained it did not conform to company standards. WIKIPEDIA CO-FOUNDER LARRY SANGER BLASTS SITE FOR LEFT-WING BIAS: 'THE WORD FOR IT IS PROPAGANDA' A warning on the page currently states, "This article is being considered for deletion in accordance with Wikipedia's deletion policy. Please share your thoughts on the matter at this article's deletion discussion page." Another warning on the page states, "This article has multiple issues," including that its "neutrality" and verifiability of claims is being disputed, and that some sources in the article "may not be reliable." One proponent of deleting the page wrote on Wikipedia’s discussion page that "the view that the ideology of communism is somehow inherently violent" is a "fringe theory" that pushes an "anti-communist" point of view, The Daily Telegraph reported. Another proponent of deleting the page wrote, "Proper historiography discusses events in context, and without simplistic presuppositions that events are driven by any specific ideology." Another proponent of deletion wrote that the current article exists "purely to advance extremist anti-communist narratives against political alternatives which have been embraced by hundreds of millions of people all over the world." A Soviet-sponsored youth rally in the Lustgarten in Berlin, Germany, 1st June 1950. The youth carry huge portraits of Communist leaders such as Joseph Stalin . Some editors pushed back in arguing against the article's deletion. One editor who opposes deletion wrote Thursday that deleting the article "would be truly Orwellian" and that "it’s very nomination for deletion is a political act attempting to whitewash Communism." "Stop left and woke censorship," another opponent wrote. Critics on social media blasted Wikipedia for considering the page's deletion, accusing it of left-wing bias. Others pointed out that a similar Wikipedia article, titled, "Anti-communist mass killings," is not currently being disputed. Wikipedia has no central editorial board, but administrators have the ability to delete articles and other Wikipedia pages from general view, and to restore pages that were previously deleted. Most decisions are not made by majority vote, but rather through discussions among contributors to achieve consensus, Wikipedia says. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP A note on the discussion page for the "Mass killings under communist regimes" page states that an administrator or editor started the process of closing the discussion on Monday afternoon, and that the result would be posted shortly. Wikipedia did not immediately respond to Fox News Digital's request for comment.
China’s use of refueling aircraft during recent Taiwan sortie raises concern: Beijing deployed 18 fighter jets and five H-6 bombers along with the Y-20 aerial refueling aircraft, Taiwan says. Fox News contributor Kiron Skinner weighs in on the key foreign policy challenges facing the Biden administration. China’s unusual decision to deploy a Y-20 aerial refueling aircraft during Sunday’s foray into Taiwan’s air defense buffer zone may be indicative of the country’s ambition to extend its military reach and capabilities in the region, according to a report. On Sunday, Beijing deployed 18 fighter jets and five H-6 bombers, that have nuclear capabilities, Reuters reported. The report said that the Y-20 was likely used to refuel the fighters during the mission, which could help the country extend its military reach in any possible future confrontations. ‘MORE MONEY THAN GOD:’ CHINESE TITAN LAVISHED HUNTER BIDEN WITH 3-CARAT GEM, OFFER OF $30 MILLION A Y-20 large transport aircraft of the Chinese People's Liberation Army PLA air force. Tingting Liu, a reporter for TVBS, a Taiwanese TV station, tweeted that it appears to be the first time that China deployed the Y-20 and analysts say its presence "significantly changes’ the game as fighters can stay longer mid-air now." Lucas Tomlinson, the Pentagon reporter for Fox News, also pointed out that China's decision to deploy five bombers may have been symbolic. The mission came shortly after five members of the U.S. Congress visited Taipei. KELLOGG: CHINA, RUSSIA MILITARY DEAL ‘TROLLING’ BIDEN, DISPLAYING ‘LACK OF RESPECT’ FOR UNITED STATES The Chinese aircraft flew into Taiwan’s air defense identification zone near the southern part of the island and out into the Pacific Ocean before returning to China, according to a map by Taiwan authorities. GET THE FOX NEWS APP China claims democratically ruled Taiwan as its own territory, to be brought under its control by force if necessary. It refuses to recognize the island’s government and has increasingly sought to isolate the independence-leaning administration of President Tsai Ing-wen.
Giants troll Eagles fans with 'Always Sunny in Philadelphia' theme song after loss: The Giants improved to 4-7 and kept their playoff hopes alive for another week. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. The New York Giants got a much-needed win over the Philadelphia Eagles on Sunday and didn't hesitate to take an opportunity to troll their division rivals. The Giants defense stepped up to stop second-year quarterback Jalen Hurts with three interceptions and four forced turnovers, and held Philadelphia to a season-low in points in the 13-7 beating. GIANTS’ JOE JUDGE WANTED JASON GARRETT GONE LAST SEASON, MORE CHANGES TO COME: REPORTS Jalen Hurts walks off the field after his Philadelphia Eagles lost to the New York Giants at MetLife Stadium on Nov. 28, 2021 in East Rutherford, New Jersey. While running back Saquon Barkley was being interviewed on the field, Eagles fans were subjected to the "Always Sunny in Philadelphia" theme song playing in the background at MetLife Stadium. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Social media users took joy in the Giants' "savage" troll. Sunday’s game was the first for the Giants' offense since the firing of coordinator Jason Garrett on Tuesday. With former Browns coach and senior assistant Freddie Kitchens calling the plays, the offense was held to 264 yards but had the ball 32:02, and did just enough. New York Giants' Tae Crowder celebrates his interception against the Philadelphia Eagles, Sunday, Nov. 28, 2021, in East Rutherford, New Jeresey. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Darius Slayton of the New York Giants fends off a tackle attempt by Avonte Maddox of the Philadelphia Eagles at MetLife Stadium on Nov. 28, 2021, in East Rutherford, New Jersey. The Giants improved to 4-7 and kept their playoff hopes alive for another week. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Spencer Rattler enters transfer portal amid Oklahoma shake-up: Spencer Rattler was replaced by Caleb Williams as the starting quarterback. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Oklahoma quarterback Spencer Rattler announced Monday he will enter the transfer portal after a tumultuous season that saw him lose his starting job and coach Lincoln Riley to USC. Rattler played 11 games for the Sooners in 2020 and led the team to a 9-2 record, which included a win in the Cotton Bowl over Florida. He struggled out of the gate in 2021 and eventually lost his starting role to Caleb Williams. In nine games, he had 1,483 passing yards and 11 touchdown passes. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Oklahoma Sooners coach Lincoln Riley works with quarterbacks Spencer Rattler  and Caleb Williams before a game against Texas Christian University on Oct. 16, 2021, in Norman, Oklahoma. With Riley leaving for USC and a whole host of recruits decommitting, Rattler decided to enter the transfer portal. "Thank you for allowing me to be a student-athlete at this prestigious institution. Thank you to every teammate and coach these last three seasons," Rattler said in a statement. "We won several games together and made memories that I will cherish forever. Special thanks to my family and friends for your support. Thank God for the game of football. It’s the ultimate team sport and brings people and communities together unlike anything else. Oklahoma quarterback Spencer Rattler passes against West Virginia in Norman, Oklahoma, on Sept. 25, 2021. LINCOLN RILEY'S MOVE FROM OKLAHOMA TO USC 'GENIUS,' HEISMAN TROPHY WINNER SAYS "At this time, I would like to announce that I have decided to enter the transfer portal to continue my academic and athletic career. Thank you again, Oklahoma. I will miss you." Rattler will not be around for whatever bowl game the Sooners get placed in. Oklahoma quarterback Spencer Rattler throws against Texas at the Cotton Bowl on Oct. 9, 2021, in Dallas. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP With Riley already having left for USC, Bob Stoops is set to be the interim head coach for the bowl game.
Kirk Cousins' simple explanation for lining up under wrong Vikings player: The Vikings would lose the game 34-26. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Minnesota Vikings quarterback Kirk Cousins tried to explain what was going on when he lined up under his guard instead of his center on 4th and goal while the team was trying to score against the San Francisco 49ers on Sunday. The Vikings were down 34-26 in the fourth quarter and were going for a touchdown on 4th and goal with 9:09 left in the game. Minnesota was clearly scrambling, trying to get a snap off, and Cousins ended up trying to take the snap from under his guard instead of his center. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Nov 28, 2021; Santa Clara, California, USA; Minnesota Vikings quarterback Kirk Cousins leaves the field after a loss against the San Francisco 49ers at Levi's Stadium. Alexander Mattison tried to get Cousins over to the center before the team had to burn a timeout. But it was too late. Minnesota was forced to call a timeout. "We just didn’t get lined up properly and the play clock was winding down," Cousins told reporters, via MLive.com. "I was just moving, trying to get everybody settled up and just got under the wrong guy." Nov 28, 2021; Santa Clara, California, USA; Minnesota Vikings quarterback Kirk Cousins  after a touchdown during the third quarter at Levi's Stadium. VIKINGS' KIRK COUSINS INEXPLICABLY LINES UP BEHIND GUARD TO TAKE SNAP IN BRUTAL MISTAKE After the timeout, Cousins fired a pass incomplete to Justin Jefferson and turned the ball over back to the 49ers. Minnesota would get one more chance to tie the game but turned the ball over on downs again. Kirk Cousins #8 of the Minnesota Vikings reacts after a rushing touchdown by teammate Alexander Mattison #25  in the third quarter against the San Francisco 49ers at Levi's Stadium on Nov. 28, 2021 in Santa Clara, California. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP San Francisco won, 34-26.
Tiger Woods on how close he was to having leg amputated following February crash: Tiger Woods is still recovering from injuries sustained in a February car crash. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Tiger Woods shattered bones in his right leg, needed a rod in his tibia to stabilize the injuries, and needed screws and pins in his ankle after he was involved in a crash in Los Angeles in February. About nine months after the crash, Woods revealed in an interview with Golf Digest there was a moment during the immediate aftermath that amputating his leg was a serious possibility. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Tiger Woods reacts during the final round of the Masters at Augusta National Golf Club on Nov. 15, 2020, in Georgia. "There was a point in time when, I wouldn’t say it was 50/50, but it was damn near there if I was going to walk out of that hospital with one leg. Once I  throw me something. Throw me anything," Woods told Golf Digest in a story published Monday. The recovery process was slow. He said he needed to change his mindset to get through the 2-3 hours "of hell" each day in rehab. TIGER WOODS ADMITS HE MAY NEVER BE AT THE PINNACLE OF GOLF AGAIN: 'IT’S AN UNFORTUNATE REALITY' After a rollover accident involving Tiger Woods, the vehicle rests along a road in the Rancho Palos Verdes section of Los Angeles on Feb. 23, 2021. Law enforcement officers looks over a vehicle following a rollover accident involving golfer Tiger Woods on Feb. 23, 2021, in the Rancho Palos Verdes suburb of Los Angeles. Woods started to make public appearances. He returned back to his Florida home in March to continue the recovery and in April posted a photo of himself standing upright with crutches and a walking boot. It would only get better from there. He posted a video showing him on a golf course and swinging a club earlier this month. It appeared to be the first visual evidence of him hitting a ball and swinging a club since the February crash. He still had the black compression sleeve on his right leg while he was on the course. Tiger Woods lines up a putt at the Masters at Augusta National Golf Club on Nov. 15, 2020, in Georgia. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP He had also been spotted outside a Los Angeles hotel with Herman and still walking gingerly.
George Clooney criticizes onlookers who filmed him after 2018 motorbike crash in Italy: The 'Ocean's Eleven' actor was involved in a scary accident in 2018 that changed his perspective on his own celebrity. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. George Clooney is speaking out against modern social media culture after his scary motorbike accident three years ago. In 2018, the actor was riding his motorbike on the Italian island of Sardinia when an oncoming car turned suddenly into his lane and he was thrown several yards in the air. Fortunately, despite going around 75 mph, the actor didn’t suffer any serious long-term injuries and he was able to make a full recovery. However, speaking to The Sunday Times, Clooney, 60, lamented the fact that no one seemed interested in helping him at the time. Instead, a crowd gathered around him to film the aftermath of the incident. "I was waiting for my switch to turn off," he began. GEORGE CLOONEY TALKS QUARANTINING WITH WIFE AMAL, 3-YEAR-OLD TWINS: IT'S 'BEEN AN ADVENTURE' George Clooney spoke out about his motorbike accident in 2018. "If you’re in the public eye," he continued, "What you realize when you’re on the ground thinking it’s the last minute of your life is that, for some people, it’s just going to be entertainment for their Facebook page. I’m a pretty positive guy, but that told me – clearly – that you really are here just for their entertainment." He said that he wanted to take everyone and "shake them." The actor noted that he personally tries to avoid using his phone to capture things after the incident. He noted that his reaction to his children doing something is to record it, but he now tries to remain present and in the moment with them. "People are living their lives this way and I fight against it. If my kids do something cute, I want to take a picture, but I have to say, ‘Be in the moment – you don’t have to record everything,'" Clooney mused. George Clooney discussed the new culture in Hollywood following the #MeToo movement. AMAL CLOONEY CALLS HUSBAND GEORGE CLOONEY 'WONDERFULLY ENCOURAGING AND INSPIRING' AT BOOK LAUNCH Clooney was thrown over the front of his bike and up in the air before landing on the asphalt. He hit a car windscreen head first, causing the glass to shatter before he was tossed to the ground. The media gathered at the John Paul II hospital in Olbia where Clooney was treated at the time. Elsewhere in his interview, Clooney talked about modern culture further, noting that he has been paying attention to how Hollywood is changing since the fall of Harvey Weinstein and the beginning of the #MeToo movement. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER "It’s changed in this way," he said of Hollywood. "On top of the terrible things Weinstein did, being a jerk at work is now not OK." George Clooney was involved in a car accident in Italy in 2018. The actor also cited producer Scott Rudin to make the point that such behavior is not acceptable in the workplace anymore. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Just because you’re a boss, it doesn’t mean you get to shit on people. I’ve been the boss and the guy being sh-- on," he explained. "You can’t get away with being a dick any more — you’d get ratted out. Now there’s sometimes an overcorrection, where everyone points fingers, but that will settle. It always does. And I can’t imagine some producer having a casting session alone in his hotel room with a young girl any more. It’s moving in the right direction."
Tiger Woods admits he may never be at the pinnacle of golf again: 'It’s an unfortunate reality': Tiger Woods suffered a devastating leg injury in his February car crash. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Tiger Woods admitted in a recent interview that it's unlikely he'll be as good as he once was following the Los Angeles car crash that left him with a devastating leg injury. Woods, who hasn’t played in a tournament since he teamed up with his son for the 2020 PNC Championship, told Golf Digest in an interview published Monday he’ll be fine if he doesn’t compete with some of the best on the PGA Tour again. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Tiger Woods smiles during the PGA Tour Champions PNC Championship at Ritz-Carlton Golf Club on Dec. 19, 2020, in Orlando, Florida. "I think something that is realistic is playing the Tour one day – never full time, ever again – but pick and choose, just like Mr.  Hogan did. Pick and choose a few events a year and you play around that," Woods told Golf Digest. "You practice around that, and you gear yourself up for that. I think that’s how I’m going to have to play it from now on. It’s an unfortunate reality, but it’s my reality. And I understand it, and I accept it." Woods is tied with Sam Snead for the most wins on the PGA Tour with 82 and is three behind Jack Nicklaus for most major championships of all time. Woods has 15 and Nicklaus has 18. TIGER WOODS SWINGS GOLF CLUB IN VIDEO WITH OUTSTANDING HEALTH UPDATE Tiger Woods catches a ball during the PGA Tour Champions PNC Championship at Ritz-Carlton Golf Club on Dec. 20, 2020, in Orlando, Florida. "I don’t have to compete and play against the best players in the world to have a great life. After my back fusion, I had to climb Mount Everest one more time. I had to do it, and I did. This time around, I don’t think I’ll have the body to climb Mount Everest and that’s OK. I can still participate in the game of golf. I can still, if my leg gets OK, I can still click off a tournament here or there. But as far as climbing the mountain again and getting all the way to the top, I don’t think that’s a realistic expectation of me." Woods reached the mountaintop again when he won the 2019 Masters 14 years after his last green jacket. But the February car crash threw a wrench in his plans. Tiger Woods plays his shot during the PNC Championship at the Ritz-Carlton Golf Club Orlando on Dec. 19, 2020, in Orlando, Florida. Recently, Woods posted a video showing off his swing and raising fans’ hopes he may be able to play again. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP He’s been spotted in plenty of pictures and video in recent months walking around. Earlier this month, he was seen with his girlfriend Erica Herman. Woods was walking very carefully while getting out of his car and heading into a hotel.
Remains of missing Wisconsin mom found months after disappearance, search firm says: Ashley Miller Carlson, mom of 4, had been missing since September. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A body matching the description of a Wisconsin mother missing since September has been located in Minnesota, according to a private investigation firm. Ashley Miller Carlson, a 33-year-old mother of four who was living in Burnett County, Wisconsin, was last seen on Sept. 23 near the Lake Lena community on the Mille Lacs Band’s Reservation, about 25 miles east of Hinckley in eastern Minnesota's Pine County. Her rental car was found in the same county the next day partially submerged in Grace Lake with her personal belongings left inside, authorities said. Applied Professional Services, a private investigation firm hired by the family, announced Saturday the likely remains of the missing mother were found in a wooded area not far from where Miller Carlson vanished. An autopsy has not yet been completed, and the remains have not yet been positively identified by the coroner's office. INDIANA GIRL, 2, STILL MISSING AFTER FATHER RESCUED FROM SUBMERGED TRUCK; AUTHORITIES RECOVER HER COAT "This is a sad day our family hoped would not come, and there are still many questions that need answers, but the important thing is we now have Ashley," Krista Struck, Miller Carlson's mother, said in a statement. "Our family received incredible support from the community these past many weeks, and we thank them, the Christian Aid Ministries volunteer search and rescue team, the many involved law enforcement agencies and Applied Professional Services for helping locate Ashley." Ashley Miller-Carlson’s rental car was located on Sept. 24 partially submerged, in Grace Lake in Pine County, Minnesota. A tip line created for the case received more than 70 calls, the private investigation firm said. Neither the Pine County Sheriff’s Office nor the Burnett County Sheriff’s Office released statements since the gruesome discovery Saturday by a search team made up of Christian Aid Ministries volunteers and family members. Law enforcement was also on the scene at the time, Fox 9 Minneapolis reported. In their most recent public statement on Nov. 12, Pine County Sheriff Jeff Nelson and Burnett County Sheriff Tracy Finch said their agencies, along with the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension , the Wisconsin Department of Justice, the FBI and "numerous professional and volunteer groups have been diligently working to bring Ashley home." "Exhaustive searches of the area surrounding her home and where her vehicle was recovered have been completed including aircraft, drones, sonar and divers used in the lake, and foot searches with both live-find and Human Remains Detection  K9s," their statement said. "We have collectively conducted dozens of interviews, 32 search warrants, over 15 ground searches, at least 7 drone searches and 2 searches of Grace Lake. Additional searches will be conducted as the search areas are expanded." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP A cause of death has yet to be determined. Authorities ask anyone with information about the case to contact the Pine County Sheriff’s Office at 320-629-8380, the Burnett County Sheriff’s Office at 715-349-2121 or anonymously reach out to the Crime Stoppers Hotline at 1-800-222-8477.
See it: Rhino wrecks car at safari park: Mother was separated from her child. Using artificial insemination scientists are trying to save the Northern White Rhino. New driving tip: Don't get between a mother rhino and her child. Jackson's Skoda Fabia suffered serious damage when it was rammed by the adult rhino. That's apparently what happened to a father and son whose car was rammed and damaged by an adult rhino at a drive-through safari park in the U.K. Jamie Wood told SWNS that he and his five-year-old son, Jackson, were watching two Rhinos butting each other at the Midlands Safari Park when a baby got separated from them and on the other side of the compact car when the mother made a 200-foot charge and ran her horn into the front fender. The rhinos roam freely about the park. "It happened so quickly and I didn’t know what to do, I was just in shock," wood said. "I kept telling Jackson it would avoid us and then I heard myself swear when I realized it was going to hit us. If i’d have been a bit further forward that massive horn would have gone right through me." Wardens patrol the facility in Land Rover SUVs. According to a park spokesperson, a warden trying to get the adult rhinos to break it up by spinning its tires had scared the baby away, but would not cover the $2,000 repair bill. The facility's terms of entry says that it "accepts no responsibility for damage to persons or property by animals. Under no circumstance will West Midland Safari & Leisure Park accept responsibility for damage caused to any vehicle entering or exiting the electric gates." The Skoda Fabia weighs around 2,400 pounds. Neither of the Woods were injured in the injured in the incident, but Jamie had some explaining to do, because he'd borrowed the car from his own mother. It's not the first time something like this has happened at the facility. In 2015 a woman from Northfield suffered a similar incident that included the rhino hitting her vehicle then chasing it as she attempted to get away. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Jackson's Skoda Fabia subcompact hatchback weighs less than a fully-grown rhino and things could've been much worse. Video shot a park in Germany several years ago shows a rhino using its horn to roll a vehicle that's about the same size as a Fabia.
Snowstorm strands 61 in pub in Yorkshire, England, for third night, ‘plenty of beer available’: The snowstorm made driving on roads in the area unsafe. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. The last thing guests at one pub in Yorkshire, England, will need is a cold one. A strong snowstorm stranded about 61 people on hand for a concert Friday night and there's a good chance they will not be able to leave until Monday--at the earliest. The guests were hunkered down at the Tan Hill Inn after attending the Friday concert by an Oasis tribute band called Noasis. "I’m quite chilled about being stranded, it’s quite exciting, but we’re missing our son who is with his nana," Stephanie Overton, one of the guests, told the BBC. "I am wondering how long we will be here for though." The report said the storm dumped about three feet of snow in the Yorkshire Dales, which is about 1,732 feet above sea level. Besides the snow, fallen power cables have created a dangerous situation outside. The guests are all getting along, and the report said managers set up sleeping quarters in the pub’s lounge. The New York Times reported that a man at the pub was evacuated by a local rescue group because of a previous medical condition. The guests have been passing the time by singing karaoke and watching movies like "Grease," the report said. GET THE FOX NEWS APP Nicola Townsend, the inn’s general manager, told the paper that the guests have been respectful of each other and nobody has gotten "loud and drunk." The report said that some people who were stranded were guests at the inn.
Julia Roberts celebrates twins Hazel and Phinnaeus' 17th birthday with rare photo: 'Sweetest years of life': The 'Pretty Woman' star and cinematographer Daniel Moder said 'I do' in July 2002. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Julia Roberts is reflecting on motherhood. The notoriously private actress took to Instagram on Sunday and posted a throwback photo of her twins to commemorate their 17th birthday. The Oscar winner and her husband, cinematographer Daniel Moder, share daughter Hazel Patricia and son Phinnaeus "Finn" Walter. They are also proud parents to son Henry Daniel, 14. In the pic, the actress is seen snuggling up with her twin children as newborns. JULIA ROBERTS SHARES RARE PHOTO WITH HUSBAND DANIEL MODER FOR 19TH ANNIVERSARY: ‘JUST GETTING STARTED’ Julia Roberts is notoriously private about her personal life. "17 of the Sweetest years of life," the 54-year-old captioned the adorable snap. Moder, 52, also took to Instagram and shared a rare photo of his children to commemorate the special occasion. "These rabble rousers," he wrote. "17 today. Thank you for helping me through fatherhood." CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Danny Moder and daughter Hazel Moder arrive at the premiere of 'Flag Day' during the 74th Cannes Film Festival held at the Palais des Festivals in Cannes, France. The couple met on Roberts’ 2001 film "The Mexican," where Moder served as a cinematographer. A year later, they said "I do" on the Fourth of July in 2002. In July, Roberts gave fans a rare glimpse of her continuing romance with Moder. The "Pretty Woman" performer shared a sweet selfie on Instagram as the pair rang in their 19th wedding anniversary. "19 years. Just getting started!" Roberts wrote in the caption of the post in which she dons an orange bird-logo cap pulled low over her signature blonde locks, a floral-print blouse and oversized shades. In 2018, Roberts raved about the love she shares with Moder to Extra! and called him an "awesome human being" while adding that the pair "have so much fun." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Julia Roberts and Daniel Moder celebrated their 19th anniversary this year. "If we go to work together and go home together – all that work time – when you come home and [say], 'Oh, honey, how was your day?' We did all that in the day and in the car," she explained of their working relationship while on their 2015 movie "The Secret in Their Eyes." "So when we got home we got to put that all away, which was really delightful." Fox News' Julius Young contributed to this report.
Charlize Theron stuns in yellow one-piece while being a responsible mom on vacation in Mexico: The 'Old Guard' actress was on vacation with her two daughters and her mom. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Charlize Theron showed off her beach body while vacationing with her mother and two daughters in Cabo San Lucas over the holiday weekend. While most other Americans were gaining weight over the Thanksgiving weekend, the "Old Guard" and "Atomic Blonde" actress took to the beach in Mexico with her family to show that she’s somehow keeping quite fit as the holiday season kicks off. The star was spotted in a yellow, strapless one-piece swimsuit over the weekend as she went for a dip while vacationing with her mother, Gerda, and her two adopted daughters, Jackson and August. In various snaps, the star is seen exiting the water, laughing as she splashes around with her kids. The Oscar winner takes her role as a mom to adopted kids seriously and isn’t afraid of opening up about her challenges. The star discussed how she approached the topic of racism with her two girls, who are Black, during an appearance on "The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon" in July 2020. CHARLIZE THERON NOT FOCUSED ON DATING, SAYS GWYNETH PALTROW'S SEPARATE-HOME LIVING'S 'MY KIND OF RELATIONSHIP' Charlize Theron was spotted swimming with her family in Mexico over the Thanksgiving holiday. "The day I became a parent, I vowed that I would always tell them the truth in a way that they could handle. I feel like this is such an important moment for them, for all of us," Theron, 46, said at the time, noting that kids oftentimes "have an awareness." "I wanted them to know what this was all about, what happened to George Floyd and to so many other Black bodies that have died from this violence. I wanted them to have an awareness of how unfair and how unjust all of this is," Theron added. "I know that there's a part in telling them some of that ugliness about the world that would make them grow up a little bit faster than they should have or would have normally during this period, but I think this is too important of a moment to not be completely transparent." Charlize Theron swam with her kids while on vacation in Cabo. CHARLIZE THERON SAYS IT'S 'A LITTLE HEARTBREAKING' SHE WON'T GET TO STAR AS FURIOSA IN 'MAD MAX' PREQUEL The actress said that her daughters took the information "really well," but that the conversation was "heartbreaking at first." "That is really ultimately what it is. How do we allow anything like this to happen on our watch? They really wanted to be proactive and really wanted to know, what can we do?" Theron said. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Theron previously spoke with Entertainment Tonight about raising Black children, explaining that "as a parent, it's been a difficult time." Charlize Theron dutifully keeps track of her family's boogie boards while on vacation in Cabo. "I think all parents, we want to believe we have time. And the world has kind of shaken me in a way that I realize that I don't have time," she said. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "There was a moment where I felt like a little piece of my children's innocence was taken from them during this period because I had to sit down with them and have really, really hard, honest conversations about some really ugly things in our world today that they need to know. I want them to know because I want to raise two little warriors." Fox News’ Nate Day contributed to this report.
Cyber Bronco? Unusual 2-for-1 Cyber Monday deal surfaces for Ford's 4x4 SUV: Sweepstakes raising money for Henry Ford's historic Fair Lane estate. The 2021 Ford Bronco is the first model to wear the name in 25 years. Fox News Autos Editor Gary Gastelu travelled to Texas hill country to find out if it lives up to it. Your chances of winning this raffle are probably as good as finding a Ford Bronco to buy. Tickets to win a new Bronco SUV being offered through a charity sweepstakes aimed at raising money for Henry Ford's historic Fair Lane estate museum in Michigan are available as a two-for-one deal through Cyber Monday. A $25 donation now gets you 40 tickets instead of 20, and several tiers improve the deal up to a total of 8,000 tickets for $2,000. The truck is a Bronco Big Bend customized by racer Vaughn Gittin Jr's. RTR and equipped with the outfit's signature off-road accessories plus unique interior trim that includes a plan of the Fair Lane estate on the dashboard, leather upholstery inspired by the home's billiard room, a wood shifter inlay that uses walnut from the estate and a copper dash plaque made from metal borrowed from the home's roof. The sweepstakes runs through December 20 and a winner will be drawn the same day. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The Bronco is currently one of the fastest-selling vehicles and hard to find due in part to the ongoing shortage of automotive parts that's led some dealers to mark their trucks up by as much as double the list price.
Will Smith's 'Bad Boys' 1994 Porsche 911 Turbo is being auctioned for the first time: Was originally owned by director Michael Bay. The 2021 Porsche Taycan Cross Turismo is the brand's first all-electric station wagon, but Fox News Autos Editor Gary Gastelu says its far from a retro ride. "Bad Boys" fans, whatcha gonna do about this car auction? This 1994 Porsche 911 Turbo was featured in the film "Bad Boys". The 1994 Porsche 911 Turbo driven by Will Smith’s character, Mike Lowrey, in the buddy cop action blockbuster will be crossing the block for the first time at the Mecum Auctions Kissimmee, Fla., event in January. The 911 Turbo can be seen on the movie poster. The black coupe is one of just 350 that were built that year and by far the most famous. The 911 Turbo is currently registered in Florida with a BADBYS1 license plate. It was originally owned by the film’s director, Michael Bay, then sold privately several times over the years. The 911 Turbo has 34,396 miles on it. According to Mecum, the last time it changed hands was in 2014 when the current owner purchased it for the second time, reclaiming it from a collector who bought it in 2005. The 355 hp rear-wheel-drive car is well driven with 34,396 miles showing on the odometer, and well documented with letters of certification from both Porsche and the film’s producers. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Mecum hasn’t offered a pre-sale estimate on the car, which could accelerate to 60 mph in 4.0 seconds, but it cost around $110,000 when new and the Hagerty Price Guide says it could be worth over $300,000 without the celebrity connection.
Win $5,000 playing FOX Bet Super 6 'Quiz Show': Answer questions on football, travel, and Adele: Contestants can play for free on FOX Bet Super 6 app. Fox Nation host Tom Shillue reveals the questions for the $5,000 Quiz Show on 'Fox & Friends' this week. The FOX Bet Super 6 "Quiz Show," a weekly contest that features six multiple-choice questions on sports, stocks, movies and more, offers contestants a $5,000 grand prize. All contestants have to do each week is try to correctly answer six multiple-choice questions on topics ranging from sports to weather to entertainment to politics for a shot at the grand prize. The FOX Bet Super 6 app is free to download and the contests are free to enter. Fox Nation's Tom Shillue revealed this week's questions on "Fox & Friends," which include guessing the winner and margin of victory in the Ohio State-Michigan game, how many travelers will pass through TSA checkpoints the day after Thanksgiving, and how many Adele songs will make the top 10 of Spotify's "Top 200" U.S. daily stream chart on Friday. PLAY THE FOX BET SUPER 6 QUIZ SHOW More than $5 million has been paid out to various Super 6 contest winners so far. App users can also play other games answering questions on various sporting events, including the popular weekly "NFL Sunday Challenge" where you can win $100,000 of Terry Bradshaw's money. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP FOX Bet Super 6 is available nationwide with the exception of Washington state. FOX Bet is an online and mobile sportsbook originally developed through a first-of-its-kind national media and sports wagering partnership in the United States between The Stars Group Inc. and FOX Sports, a unit of Fox Corporation. On May 5, 2020, Flutter Entertainment Plc announced its acquisition of and subsequent merger with The Stars Group.
Sotomayor compares fetus to brain dead person, says fetal movement doesn't prove consciousness: Sotomayor was slammed for the comment on Twitter. March for Life president Jeanne Mancini is ‘hopeful’ the high court will uphold the state law to ban abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy. Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor rejected the idea that a fetus that has the ability to move and react to pain is a human life that should be protected from abortion. "Virtually every state defines a brain death as death," Sotomayor, appointed by former President Barack Obama, said during oral arguments in a potential landmark abortion rights case Wednesday, as the state of Mississippi defended an abortion restriction law that directly challenges Roe v. Wade. Supreme Court Police officers erect a barrier between anti-abortion and pro-abortion rights protesters outside the court building, ahead of arguments in the Mississippi abortion rights case Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health, in Washington, U.S., December 1, 2021. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst DEM SENATOR WARNS SUPREME COURT OF 'REVOLUTION' IF ROE V. WADE IS OVERTURNED "Yet, the literature is filled with episodes of people who are completely and utterly brain dead responding to stimuli," Sotomayor continued. "There's about 40 percent of dead people who, if you touch their feet, the foot will recoil. There are spontaneous acts by dead brain people. So I don't think that a response to -- by a fetus necessarily proves that there's a sensation of pain or that there's consciousness." Sotomayor also said that she believes the idea that a fetus is a human life is a "religious view." WASHINGTON, DC - DECEMBER 01: Abortion rights advocates and anti-abortion protesters demonstrate in front of the Supreme Court of the United States Supreme Court of the United States on Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021 in Washington, DC. The Justices will weigh whether to uphold a Mississippi law that bans abortion after 15 weeks and overrule the 1973 Roe v. Wade decision. (Kent Nishimura / Los Angeles Times via Getty Images Sotomayor was criticized for her remarks by conservatives on social media including Fox News contributor Katie Pavlich. SUPREME COURT ORAL ARGUMENTS IN DOBBS PROMPT STRONG REACTIONS FROM BOTH SIDES OF ABORTION DEBATE "Justice Sotomayor is comparing babies in the womb to dead people," Pavlich tweeted. "Sotomayor is revealing just how poor the pro-Roe arguments are," Breitbart News Senior Editor Joel Pollak tweeted. "Inadvertently, of course." "Oh good grief, Sotomayor playing the ‘brain death’ card now," Ethics and Public Policy Center Director Ryan T. Anderson tweeted. "There is no dispute about whether or not an unborn the baby is in fact a baby, a living human being. It's not a debate about when the baby is viable outside a womb, it's a question about whether the baby's life matters." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP FILE - In this Aug. 17, 2019 file photo, U.S. Supreme Court Associate Justice Sonia Sotomayor, speaks at the Mississippi Book Festival in Jackson, Miss.  U.S. District Judge Esther Salas in New Jersey says the lawyer who killed her son and seriously wounded her husband also had been tracking Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor. . The case, Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health, centers on the law, which bans most abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy, much sooner than the current legal standard, which prohibits abortion bans prior to fetal viability — roughly 23 to 24 weeks into pregnancy. Throughout the arguments, the justices alternated between examining not just the legal standards for abortion laws based on interests of women and protecting potential life, but also the court’s own interest in protecting itself from losing the faith of the public. Fox News’ Ronn Blitzer contributed to this report
Michigan school shooting suspect Ethan Crumbley charged with terrorism, murder: 'Not just an impulsive act': The 15-year-old recorded videos the night before the shooting in which he talked 'about shooting and killing students,' according to law enforcement. Fox News correspondent Steve Harrigan has the latest on the charges against the Michigan school shooting suspect on 'Your World.' Ethan Crumbley, the 15-year-old suspect accused of opening fire at his Michigan high school, pleaded not guilty on Wednesday to one count of terrorism causing death, four counts of first-degree murder, seven counts of assault with intent to murder, and 12 counts of possession of a firearm in the commission of a felony. The sophomore, who is being charged as an adult, allegedly fired more than 30 rounds in the hallways of Oxford High School on Tuesday shortly before 1:00 p.m., killing four students and wounding seven others, including a teacher. He appeared in Oakland County Court by video on Wednesday, slumped over in a vest, white mask, and glasses. Ethan Crumbley is being held without bond on murder, terrorism, and other charges. Mark Keast, an assistant prosecuting attorney in Oakland County, told Judge Nancy Carniak that he doesn't "have the words to describe how horrific" the surveillance video of the shooting is. "He methodically and deliberately walked down a hallway, aimed the firearm at students and fired it," Keast said. "After children started running away from the defendant, he continued down the hallway, again at a deliberate and methodical pace, pointing and aiming inside classrooms and at students who hadn’t had the opportunity to escape." Ethan Crumbley allegedly shot and killed four students and wounded seven others at Oxford High School. Judge Carniak ordered Crumbley to be held without bond and transferred to Oakland County Jail, where he will be separated from adults. MICHIGAN HIGH SCHOOL TEEN KILLED IN SHOOTING WAS 'HERO,' CLASSMATES SAY Lt. Tim Willis told the judge that Crumbley recorded videos on his phone the night before the incident in which he "talked about shooting and killing students the next day at Oxford High School." "Further, a journal was recovered from Ethan’s backpack also detailing his desire to shoot up a school to include murdering students," Willis said. Crumbley's parents went to Oxford High School about two to three hours before the shooting to meet with their son and school officials over behavioral issues in the classroom. "The parents were brought in the morning of the shooting and had a face-to-face meeting with the school," Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard said. "The content of that meeting obviously is part of the investigation but we did not learn of that meeting, nor of the content of that meeting until after the shooting and during this investigation." Ethan Crumbley's parents appeared in court by video on Wednesday. Crumbley also had to meet with school officials the day before the shooting "over behavior in the classroom that they felt was concerning." Oakland County Prosecutor Karen McDonald noted that the terrorism count is not a "typical" charge, but she said that it is necessary to get justice for all the victims in this shooting. "The children that I have just listed and those that were injured, they’re the victims in the first-degree murder charges and assault with intent to murder," McDonald said. "But what about all these other children? What about all the children who ran, screaming, hiding under desks? What about all the children at home right now who can’t eat and can’t sleep and can’t imagine a world where they could ever step foot back in that school. Those are victims too." GUN USED IN MICHIGAN SCHOOL SHOOTING PURCHASED BY SUSPECT'S FATHER ON BLACK FRIDAY The suspect used a 9mm Sig Sauer, according to police, which the boy’s father bought on Black Friday, just four days before the shooting. A motive has not been announced. McDonald said that her office is looking at charging the parents and "that decision will be made swiftly." The suspect has declined to speak with authorities following his arrest and his parents have hired an attorney. "There is no conversation that’s going on and no cooperation at that level," Bouchard said Tuesday. Nov 30, 2021; Oxford, MI, USA; Parents wait to be reunited with their kids following an active shooter situation at Oxford High School in Oxford on November 30, 2021.  Mandatory Credit: Eric Seals-USA TODAY NETWORK Dozens of ambulances responded to the scene of the shooting on Tuesday. Officers apprehended the suspect within five minutes of the first 911 call. Nov 30, 2021; Oxford, MI, USA; Police cars line up in front of the school following an active shooter situation at Oxford High School in Oxford on November 30, 2021. Police took a suspected shooter into custody and there were multiple victims, . Mandatory Credit: Liz Shepard-USA TODAY NETWORK At least 30 shell casings were found at the scene and the suspect still had 18 live rounds when deputies apprehended him. Crumbley was apprehended by police within five minutes of the first 911 call, Bouchard said. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Four students died due to the shooting. Bouchard identified three of the students on Tuesday as 16-year-old Tate Myre, 14-year-old Hana St. Juliana, and 17-year-old Madisyn Baldwin. The fourth student died on Wednesday morning and was identified as 15-year-old Justin Shilling. Three of the injured victims – a 15-year-old male, a 17-year-old male, and a 47-year-old teacher – have been discharged from the hospital. Four injured victims are still hospitalized.
Waukesha Christmas parade alleged killer's mom blames lack of mental health services on tragedy: Dawn Woods offered her condolences to the victims of her son's deadly rampage. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. WAUKESHA, Wis. – Darrell Brooks’ mother broke her silence Wednesday in a letter to the media, blaming the tragedy on a lack of mental health services for her son, according to a press report. Brooks was living with his mom, Dawn Woods, 62, when he plowed his red Ford Escape into an annual Christmas parade Nov. 21, killing six people and injuring more than 60, according to court records. WAUKESHA CHRISTMAS PARADE SUSPECT DARRELL BROOKS JR. RECEIVED $1G BAIL DESPITE RED-FLAG WARNINGS, COURT DOCUMENTS SHOW "We are not making excuses, but we believe what has happened is because he was not given the help and resources he needed," Woods wrote in the letter, CBS58 reported. Darrell Brooks, charged with killing five people and injuring nearly 50 after plowing through a Christmas parade with his sport utility vehicle on November 21, appears in Waukesha County Court in Waukesha, Wisconsin, U.S. November 23, 2021. Brooks, 39, suffered from mental illness and was on medication since he was child, according to the letter and court papers. "Institutions that are equipped and have trained staff is what was needed as well as resources in the communities where people who suffer with mental illness live," the letter says. "Jail is not the answer, because they get released back in society sicker than what they were when they entered. We all see what a tragedy that can turn out to be." Darrell Brooks’ home in Milwaukee, Wis. Her son, a career criminal, has a sprawling rap sheet with more than two dozen arrests spanning Georgia, Wisconsin and Nevada. SHIVERING WAUKESHA SUSPECT DARRELL BROOKS HAD NO SHOES, JACKET, ASKING FOR HELP AFTER PARADE ATTACK In a widely criticized move, a junior Milwaukee prosecutor requested $1,000 cash bail after he was busted for allegedly running over his ex-girlfriend with his SUV, leaving a tire mark on her left leg. Woods posted her son's bail on Nov. 5, and 16 days later he allegedly used the same vehicle to commit the horrific attack on holiday revelers. Milwaukee District Attorney John Chisholm called the bail "inappropriately low" and launched an internal investigation into the decision.  "We as a society must take mental illness seriously by fixing a broken system or suffer the consequences, sad as it is to say what happened in Waukesha will keep happening all over this country, in one form or another with more innocent lives lost and grieving families and communities," Dawn wrote. WAUKESHA SUSPECT DARRELL BROOKS BEAT UP GIRLFRIEND FIVE MONTHS BEFORE RUNNING HER OVER WITH HIS SUV Brooks’ mom offered her condolences to the victims and the Waukesha community. "What was meant to be a joyous day became a day of tragedy and heartache — a day that we wish with all our heart would have never happened," the letter says. Five adult victims killed in the Waukesha parade attack. A sixth victim, this one a child, was announced in court Tuesday. She added that Brooks came from a "loving Christian family" and is the grandson of ministers. The trouble began when as an adult it was determined that he no longer suffered from mental illness and his treatment was terminated, according to Woods. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Instead of offering help and resources to combat the problem, a jail cell was given over and over again," she wrote.
Tom Brady makes appearance on FaceTime call with HS basketball team that misdialed Sean Murphy-Bunting: Vinny Tartaglia was adding his teammates' numbers to a group text when he accidentally added the wrong number. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A Michigan high school basketball team was organizing team practices when someone accidentally included a wrong number in the group text. What happened next is something they’ll remember for the rest of their lives. Vinny Tartaglia, a member of the Notre Dame Prep freshman basketball team, was adding his teammates' numbers to a group text last week when he accidentally added the wrong number. What he didn’t realize was that the number was Tampa Bay Buccaneers cornerback Sean Murphy-Bunting's. TOM BRADY CELEBRATES MICHIGAN VICTORY OVER OHIO STATE: ‘THE WOLVERINES ARE BACK’ Tampa Bay Buccaneers cornerback Sean Murphy-Bunting "We were trying to add people, and the last person was Luca, but I was one digit off," Tartaglia told ClickonDetriot.com. Murphy-Bunting responded by asking if the boys meant to add him to the chat and, thinking he was their teammate Luca, the group said yes. Seemingly amused by the boys’ confusion, the NFL player asked them if they knew who he was and he quickly revealed his identity. He even sent a selfie in the Bucs locker room to prove it but the team wasn’t buying it. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM "Everyone was skeptical, it’s definitely not an NFL player, right?" Tartaglia told the outlet. That’s when Murphy-Bunting decided to FaceTime the group. Tight end Rob Gronkowski, cornerback Richard Sherman and running back Leonard Fournette all hopped on the call and, eventually, Tom Brady made an appearance. "They were shocked," Fournette told ESPN Wednesday. "I think that's ... to guys in high school, Tom is the figure for them. You know what I mean? Who wouldn't want to look up to a guy like that?" "That was sweet," Brady added of the call. "I didn't know who it was. [Leonard] said, 'Here's my boy' or whatever he said. It was nice. It would have been nice for me when I had been in high school too." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP School counselor P. Jason Whalen, whose son is also on the team, took to Twitter to share screenshots of the call. In this Sunday, Feb. 7, 2021 file photo, Tampa Bay Buccaneers tight end Rob Gronkowski  celebrate their Super Bowl win over the Kansas City Chiefs in Tampa, Fla. "I can’t believe they took the time to entertain Colin and his teammates. I’m sure they had a good time laughing at the fact that the SuperBowl champs got randomly added to a freshman basketball team group chat," his tweet said. Murphy-Bunting eventually ended the call and gave the team some words of encouragement: "Ball out this season!"
Wife of legendary music executive Clarence Avant fatally shot in Beverly Hills home: She was a local philanthropist and her husband was recently inducted into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame.  Jacqueline Avant, the wife of Grammy Award-winning music executive Clarence Avant, was fatally shot early Wednesday in her Los Angeles-area home. Beverly Hills police officers responded to a home just before 2:30 a.m. where they found one person shot. Avant was taken to a hospital and died. It was unclear why the home was targeted, police Chief Mark Stainbrook told reporters on his first full day as head of the department. No suspects were found at the scene and no one else was harmed, he said. MICHIGAN SUSPECT OPENS FIRE ON BUS, WOUNDING 3; LATER KILLED BY POLICE Crime scene photos of broken window and detectives at the home of Clarence Avant wife's murder. 01 Dec 2021 Pictured: Clarence Avant. Photo credit: APEX / MEGA TheMegaAgency.com +1 888 505 6342  [Photo via Mega Agency] "The Avant family's contributions to the world of entertainment and to better communities across Los Angeles are unmatched," Stainbrook said. "There are no words to express our profound sorrow for this immense loss." A Netflix spokeswoman earlier confirmed to Fox News that the victim was 81-year-old Jacqueline Avant before authorities identified her. Avant's daughter, Nicole, is married to Ted Sarandos, Netflix co-CEO and chief content officer. "Jacqueline was an amazing woman, wife, mother, philanthropist and a 55-year resident of Beverly Hills who has made an immeasurable positive contribution and impact on the arts community," a statement from the Avant and Sarandos families said. "She will be missed by her family, friends and all of the people she has helped throughout her amazing life." Jacqueline Avant, left, and Clarence Avant appear at the 11th Annual AAFCA Awards in Los Angeles on Jan. 22, 2020. She was fatally shot early Wednesday in Beverly Hills, Calif. Stainbrook declined to release details of the shooting as the investigation is still in its infancy, he said. He said detectives will look at all possible motives but would not speculate if Avant was killed during a robbery or how many suspects were involved. The Los Angeles area has seen a wave of robberies by thieves associated with street gangs who confront victims after following them home from prime locations. Several celebrities have been targeted in recent weeks, including Terrence J and "Real Housewife" Dorit Kemsley. "I don't think it's a random attack but I can't speculate on that right now," the chief said. Avant was a local philanthropist and president of the Neighbors of Watts support group. She also served on the board of directors of the International Student Center at the University of California, Los Angeles. Her 90-year-old husband is known as the "Godfather of Black Music" and was recently inducted into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame. Former President Barack Obama and Vice President Kamala Harris were among those who paid tribute to him in a video made for the induction ceremony in October. Nicole Avant and Ted Sarandos attend the 2021 LACMA Art + Film Gala presented by Gucci at Los Angeles County Museum of Art in Los Angeles. He mentored a number of artists including Bill Withers, Little Willie John, L.A. Reid, Babyface, Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis. In 2019, Netflix released "The Black Godfather," a documentary about his career. News of Avant's death triggered a slew of tributes from celebrities and political figures, including former President Bill Clinton. "Jackie Avant was a wonderful woman, a great partner to Clarence and mother to Alex and Nicole, an active citizen & a dear friend to Hillary and me for 30 years," he wrote on Twitter. "She inspired admiration, respect & affection in everyone who knew her. We are heartbroken. She will be deeply missed." Daniel Bakewell, a lifelong friend of the Avant family and publisher of the Los Angeles Sentinel, a Black-owned weekly newspaper, conveyed his condolences in a statement released through the publication. "I cannot express how overwhelmingly pained I am at the loss of such a beautiful person as Jackie Avant. For her to be killed in such a senseless way is unfathomable," he said. "There are no 2 more kind and generous people than Clarence and Jackie and for their home and their lives to be violated in such a violent manner is unconscionable." NBA legend and former Los Angeles Lakers star Earvin "Magic" Johnson called Jacqueline Avant "the sweetest person you could ever meet." "She had a beautiful soul, kind heart, & always had a kind word for everybody. She was quiet, yet powerful, & very smart. We are crying for Clarence, Nicole, & Alex’s loss. Our thoughts & prayers go out to the entire family," he wrote on Twitter. U.S. Rep. Karen Bass, D-Calif., said she was "heartbroken" by the tragic news. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Mrs. Avant was a force of compassion and empowerment locally and nationally for decades, as well as a model of service and giving back to those who needed it most," she tweeted. "The devastating events of last night along with recent reports of brazen crime in Los Angeles rupture the expectation of safety we have for our friends, families and fellow Angelenos." A police officer walks down Maytor Place in the Trousdale Estates section of Beverly Hills, Calif., Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021. Jacqueline Avant, the wife of music legend Clarence Avant, was fatally shot in the neighborhood early Wednesday. "All of us have a right to be safe and last night was an absolute violation of that right," she added. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Biden administration to extend transportation mask requirement through mid-March: report: Federal officials expected to make a formal announcement regarding an extension through March 18. Fox News White House correspondent Peter Doocy has the details on 'Special Report.' The Biden administration will announce an extension for mask requirements for passengers on public transportation systems through mid-March, according to a report. Federal officials are expected to make a formal announcement regarding an extension through March 18 on Thursday, Reuters reported, citing sources familiar with the matter. In addition, President Biden is expected to discuss the extension during an event detailing his administration’s broader effort to combat the COVID-19 pandemic this winter. The current mask requirement was slated to expire on Jan. 18 following an extension last August. The Transportation Security Administration, which has issued guidance on previous extensions, and the White House declined Reuters' requests for comment. President Biden speaks about the COVID-19 variant named omicron, in the Roosevelt Room of the White House, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021, in Washington. as Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases listens. Public health officials have expressed concern about the omicron variant, the latest mutant strain of COVID-19. A California resident who was vaccinated against COVID-19 was confirmed as the first U.S. case of the omicron variant, which was first identified in South Africa. FILE PHOTO: Passengers wait in line inside the terminal at Newark Liberty International Airport in Newark, New Jersey, U.S., November 24, 2021. REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz The mask requirement applies to trains, planes, buses, cruise ships and other forms of transportation, as well as public transportation hubs. The TSA implemented its first security directive for the mask requirement in February 2021. The Biden administration has barred entry for most travelers from eight South African countries in response to the omicron variant. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP FILE PHOTO: Air travelers make their way past a sign mandating face masks for all during the outbreak of the coronavirus disease  at Phoenix international airport in Phoenix, Arizona, U.S. September 24, 2021. REUTERS/Mike Blake The mask requirement has contributed to a spike in altercations on flight and other forms of public transportation. Last month, Attorney General Merrick Garland ordered the Justice Department to enhance its efforts to prosecute unruly passengers.
Sen. Tom Cotton says DOJ quiet on Waukesha while actively 'chilling free speech' of parents: Cotton juxtaposed the DOJ's pursuit of parents who speak out about school policies with its silence on Waukesha. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., sent a letter to Attorney General Merrick Garland on Wednesday demanding answers regarding how the Department of Justice plans to respond to the recent mass murder in Waukesha, Wisconsin. Cotton also juxtaposed the DOJ's pursuit of parents protesting at local school board meetings with the department's silence regarding the Waukesha massacre, when 39-year-old Darrell Brooks Jr. allegedly killed six people by plowing his SUV into a Christmas parade. "The defendant in this case has spent more than two decades committing crimes, including a number of violent and sexual felonies, and had also reportedly shared anti-Semitic posts and called for violence against white people," Cotton wrote. Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., questions Attorney General Merrick Garland during a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing examining the Department of Justice on Capitol Hill in Washington, Wednesday, Oct. 27, 2021. "In October, you issued a memorandum to all United States Attorneys and to the FBI, directing them to bring a federal law enforcement presence to local school board meetings all across the country, despite a lack of any apparent federal crime or national outbreak of violence," Cotton continued. WAUKESHA PARADE SUSPECT DARRELL BROOKS SAYS HE FEELS ‘DEHUMANIZED,’ ‘DEMONIZED’ IN FIRST JAILHOUSE INTERVIEW "Yet, while you seemed to have no hesitation to prioritize chilling free speech from concerned parents, neither you nor the Department of Justice appear to have even issued a public statement about the mass murder in Waukesha. You have also issued no statements about the lenient bail policies that appear to have allowed this attack to take place," he added. Cotton concluded his letter by demanding that Garland explain what the DOJ is doing to investigate or assist in the Waukesha investigation. Cotton also asked to know if the Civil Rights Division plans to look into Brooks' alleged racist posts on social media, and he also asked if Garland has directed federal investigators to "take any actions to fill gaps in the criminal justice system left by soft-on-crime policies like the weakening or elimination of cash bail." The DOJ did not respond to Fox News' request for comment in time for publication. BIDEN HAS NO PLANS ‘AT THIS POINT IN TIME’ TO VISIT WAUKESHA AFTER CHRISTMAS PARADE ATTACK Prosecutors have charged Brooks with six counts of intentional first-degree homicide. He is being held on $5 million cash bail and faces up to life in prison if convicted on all counts. Waukesha parade suspect Darrell Brooks arrives in court for his arraignment. The White House on Monday said President Biden does not have any plans to visit Waukesha "at this point in time." "As you saw the president convey last week, our hearts go out to this community, to the people in Waukesha that we've been in touch, obviously, with officials there," White House press secretary Jen Psaki said. "We're all watching as people are recovering, and this is such a difficult time of year for this to happen—it's difficult any time." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Psaki clarified that "any president going to visit a community requires a lot of assets" and requires "taking their resources." "It's not something that I have a trip to preview at this point in time," Psaki said. "But we remain in touch with local officials, and certainly our hearts are with the community as they've gone through such a difficult time."
Omicron detected in California, first case in the US, officials say: Much remains unknown about the new variant, including whether it is more contagious than previous strains. Former Assistant Health Secretary Brett Giroir on federal judge citing ‘grave risks’ to civil liberties after shooting down vaccine mandate. A traveler who returned to California from South Africa has become the first person in the United States identified to have the omicron variant of COVID-19, officials confirmed Wednesday. Speaking to reporters at the White House, Dr. Anthony Fauci said the person returned from South Africa on Nov. 22 and tested positive on Nov. 29. He said the person was vaccinated but had not received a booster shot and was experiencing "mild symptoms." "We knew that it was just a matter of time before the first case of omicron would be detected in the United States," Fauci said. Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, speaks during the daily briefing at the White House in Washington, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021. Officials said they had contacted everyone who had close contact with the person and they had all tested negative. Later Wednesday, White House COVID REsponse Coordinator Jeff Zients urged people to get vaccinated, saying that the President's medical team "continues to believe that existing vaccines will provide some level of protection against severe illness from Omicron, and individuals who have gotten boosters have even stronger protection." OMICRON: WHAT ARE THE VARIANT'S SYMPTOMS? "This new variant is cause for continued vigilance, not panic," Zients said in a statement. "We know what it takes to limit the spread of COVID: Get vaccinated, get boosted, and take public health measures like masking and distancing." The Biden administration moved late last month to restrict travel from Southern Africa where the variant was first identified and had been widespread. Since then, scientists around the world have been scrambling to study the risks the new virus strain poses. Clusters of cases have been identified in about two dozen other countries. A flight crew walk through the terminal at Sydney Airport, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021. Authorities in Australia said Sunday, Nov. 28, 2021, that two travelers who arrived in Sydney from Africa became the first in the country to test positive for the new variant of the coronavirus, omicron. Genomic sequencing was conducted at the University of California, San Francisco and the sequence was confirmed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Matshidiso Moeti, World Health Organization  Regional Director for Africa, speaks at a press conference at the European headquarters of the United Nations in Geneva, Switzerland, on Feb. 1, 2019. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is taking steps to tighten U.S. testing rules for travelers from overseas, including requiring a test for all travelers within a day of boarding a flight to the U.S. regardless of vaccination status. It was also considering mandating post-arrival testing. Officials said those measures would only "buy time" for the country to learn more about the new variant and to take appropriate precautions, but that given its transmissibility its arrival in the U.S. was inevitable. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Much remains unknown about the new variant, including whether it is more contagious than previous strains, whether it makes people more seriously ill, and whether it can thwart the vaccine. Fauci said more would be known about the omicron strain in two to four weeks as scientists grow and test lab samples of the virus. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Supreme Court abortion case: Justices grill lawyers on precedent, fetal viability, constitutional rights: Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health case centers on Mississippi abortion law that challenges Roe v. Wade. Former assistant U.S. attorney Andrew McCarthy and constitutional law professor Jonathan Turley provide reaction and analysis as the U.S. Supreme Court hears oral arguments in a case that challenges Roe v. Wade The Supreme Court heard oral arguments in a potential landmark abortion rights case Wednesday, as the state of Mississippi defended an abortion restriction law that directly challenges Roe v. Wade. The case, Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health, centers on the law, which bans most abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy, much sooner than the current legal standard, which prohibits abortion bans prior to fetal viability — roughly 23 to 24 weeks into pregnancy. PRO-LIFE, PRO-CHOICE LAWMAKERS BRACE FOR HISTORIC SUPREME COURT ABORTION ARGUMENTS Throughout the arguments, the justices alternated between examining not just the legal standards for abortion laws based on interests of women and protecting potential life, but also the court’s own interest in protecting itself from losing the faith of the public. Pro and anti-abortion activists gather outside the Supreme Court. "[T]o overrule under fire in the absence of the most compelling reason to reexamine a watershed decision would subvert the Court's legitimacy beyond any serious question," Justice Stephen Breyer said, quoting the opinion in 1992's Planned Parenthood v. Casey. Justice Amy Coney Barrett also pointed to how Casey "very explicitly took into account" public reaction. She asked if there should be a special standard for overturning cases of particular importance. Mississippi Solicitor General Scott Stewart said there should not. He argued that while Casey was "unusual" and "a mistake," the court could say now that their legitimacy comes from standing for constitutional principles and overruling when appropriate. Breyer later pointed to Barrett’s discussion of public reaction, and warned that in watershed cases where people are "really opposed on both sides," no matter how the court rules there will be accusations of politicization. An anti-abortion activist attends a protest outside the Supreme Court building, ahead of arguments in the Mississippi abortion rights case Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health, in Washington, Dec. 1, 2021. "That’s what kills us as an institution," he said, arguing that if the court is going to overturn such a case, "you better be damn sure that the normal stare decisis" elements are analyzed with a clear conclusion that the case warrants overturning. PROTESTERS ALLEGEDLY TAKE ABORTION PILLS OUTSIDE SUPREME COURT AHEAD OF BLOCKBUSTER CASE Justice Sonia Sotomayor noted that a woman’s right to get an abortion has been "clearly set" and never challenged since Casey, and how over 50 years there have been 15 justices who ruled in favor of a right to abortion compared to four against, and that the sponsors of the Mississippi law came right out and said they were introducing the bill because there are new justices on the high court. "Will this institution survive the stench that this creates in the public perception … that the Constitution and its reading are just political acts?" she asked. Stewart said that the court’s concern about appearing political means that they should base their decision on the Constitution. Sotomayor said that Casey did this, even if Stewart does not think so. "Casey gave one paragraph to the workability of Roe," Stewart responded, adding that the decision then went into the undue burden standard, which Stewart called "the most unworkable" legal standard in history. Stewart then added that Casey did not take into account advancement in medical knowledge. When asked what advancements have taken place since Casey, he pointed to studies on fetal pain, which Sotomayor dismissed as being from "a small fringe of doctors" and not a signal of an actual advancement of knowledge. She noted that brain dead people have responded to stimuli, so a fetal response does not necessarily mean anything. Returning to the viability line, Stewart said it was "quintessentially legislative." He later argued that this line discounts the state interest in protecting human life. Pro-abortion rights activist Alicia Hurt holds a placard during a protest outside the Supreme Court building, ahead of arguments in the Mississippi abortion rights case Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health, in Washington, Dec. 1, 2021. Justice Elena Kagan questioned whether his viewpoint of when life begins is a religious one. Stewart insisted that it is not, and that regardless of when life begins, it is still a "human organism" involved. Stewart said there are difficult questions involved in the abortion debate, and that "the people should get to debate these hard issues." When asked when the interest of the woman enters the equation, Stewart said that it is always there but that Roe and Casey changed this by putting in a viability line that eliminates the unborn child’s interest pre-viability. Justice Brett Kavanaugh asked Stewart to clarify that he is not arguing for the court to make abortion illegal, but should remain neutral on the issue and let the states handle it. "Allows all interests to have full voice," Stewart said. Kagan asked how the court should handle abortion cases if the viability line was eliminated and it was just a blanket undue burden standard throughout pregnancy. Stewart admitted that this would be difficult, which is why his preference is for Roe and Casey to be overturned entirely. Julie Rikelman, representing Jackson Women’s Health, argued that an undue burden test "would not be workable" without the viability line. She also claimed that the undue burden test does not even apply to this case because the Mississippi law is not a restriction on abortions but a flat out ban after 15 weeks. Therefore, she said, the viability line is the only issue. Julia Rikelman, left, in 2018. Justice Samuel Alito asked Rikelman to defend the viability line against the argument that it is "arbitrary." Pointing to a woman’s interest in being free of the burden of pregnancy, he asked whether that interest is still there post-viability. Similarly, he argued, a fetus’ interest in life is there pre-viability. Alito asserted that this comes down to a philosophical debate. Rikelman said the viability line is good because it does not ask the court to settle that debate. Later on, she said that the viability line makes sense because once the court recognizes the woman’s interest they need a line for balancing interests — viability provides a line by giving a marker when the fetus can survive. U.S. Solicitor General Elizabeth Prelogar, who also delivered arguments Wednesday, agreed that the viability line is the most useful standard. Justice Neil Gorsuch asked whether some other standard could be used if the court did away with viability. "I don’t think there’s any line that could be more principled than viability," Prelogar said. A pro-choice activist held this sign outside the Supreme Court as oral arguments in Dobbs v. Jackson began Justice Clarence Thomas focused on the broad constitutional principles involved and what Rikelman was relying on. Early in her presentation Thomas asked her if she was relying on the theory of autonomy. She said she was looking to that as well as bodily integrity. Later on, Thomas asked what particular constitutional right protects abortion. "It’s liberty," Rikelman said. Discussing liberty with Kavanaugh, Rikelman noted that liberty has in the past been held to include marriage, child-bearing, and family. The argument is that this includes abortion as part of family decision-making. Without that, she said, women "will never have equal status under the Constitution." Throughout the hearing, Stewart emphasized the need to allow states – via the people – to decide on abortion because of its complex nature. "Abortion is a hard issue," he said at the beginning of his presentation. "Roe and Casey have failed but the people, if given the chance, will succeed." He echoed this at the conclusion of the hearing. "There are interests here on both sides," he said. "There are interests for everyone involved. This is unique for the woman, it’s unique for the unborn child too, whose life is at stake in all of these decisions. It’s unique for us as a society in how we decide if the states get to legislate on this issue, how to decide, and how to weigh these tremendously momentous issues." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Protesters gathered outside the Supreme Court on Wednesday before arguments began. Some, from the group Shout Your Abortion, staged a demonstration where they claimed to be taking abortion pills, chanting, "Abortion pills forever." The group did not immediately respond to Fox News’ request for comment on the video and protest. Pro-life protesters also gathered outside the protest, with some chanting, "Hey hey, ho ho, Roe v. Wade has got to go." Fox News' Emma Colton and Tyler Olson contributed to this report.
Christmas at Fox: Third-annual 'All-American' Christmas Tree lighting returns to Fox Square: The Fox Nation special, hosted by Abby Hornacek and Lawrence Jones will air Sunday on the Fox News Channel at 10:00 p.m. ET.. The ‘All American Christmas’ tree lighting on Fox Square will air Sunday at 10p ET. Fox News hosts will usher in the Christmas season on Sunday with a fun-filled night of music, holiday advice, and trivia as they participate in the third annual All-American Christmas Tree lighting at Fox Square, "The Five" host Jesse Watters revealed on Wednesday. The Fox Nation special, hosted by Abby Hornacek and Lawrence Jones will air at 10:00 p.m. ET. and will take an exclusive look at all the new and original Christmas content coming this month. Watters said the 50-foot tree, which has been adorned with 10,000 ornaments, and 100,000 lights took a team 21 hours to assemble. WATCH THE LIVE FEED OF THE ALL-AMERICAN CHRISTMAS TREE BELOW:
Dave Chappelle’s alma mater to name theater after star despite 'Closer' backlash: 'Stand behind our decision': The comedian was previously disinvited from a charity event for the theater-naming ceremony before it was canceled. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Dave Chappelle’s former high school will move ahead with honoring the comedian. The decision comes after students jeered and heckled him during a recent Q&A. They reportedly expected him to apologize following the backlash Chappelle received for jokes he made about the transgender community in his "Closer" special. The Duke Ellington School of the Arts in Washington, D.C., had made plans to call off the theater-naming ceremony for the performer due to the special's criticism but now says it will "stand behind" its alumnus, after all – even after Chappelle had joked that the school was "canceling stuff I didn't even want to do." "Recently, Dave Chappelle, via his Instagram page, challenged those who both support and oppose the decision to name the theatre at Duke Ellington School of the Arts after him through a fundraising contest," the institution said in a statement on Sunday. "While we appreciate Dave’s impromptu and spirited fundraising initiative, we stand behind our decision to honor the wishes of our co-founder, the late Peggy Cooper Cafritz, to name the theatre after Chappelle," it adds in part. DAVE CHAPPELLE SAYS HE'LL REJECT FORMER HIGH SCHOOL'S HONOR IF HIS CRITICS DONATE MORE THAN HIS FANS The Duke Ellington School of the Arts is moving forward with a decision to honor alum Dave Chappelle and will name its theater after the comedian. Some students at the school staged a protest just weeks after Chappelle pledged $100,000 to the arts school. Chappelle was also disinvited from a charity event for the theater-naming after he vowed to remove himself as a prospect altogether if those who criticized him put their money where their mouths were and donated more to the school than his supporters. DAVE CHAPPELLE'S NETFLIX SPECIAL FACING CANCELLATION AFTER TRANS COMMENTS LEAVE CRITICS IRATE "Chappelle cares deeply about Ellington and its students and regards them as family," the school’s memorandum states. "He made an unannounced visit before the Thanksgiving break to meet with his Ellington family and to hear directly from the few students who have concerns about his recent comedy special, ‘The Closer.’ He also wanted to directly express support for their safety in light of some disturbing online comments targeting the Ellington community. "As an art institution, we educate our students on the importance of media literacy and art as a free and open form of expression to both reflect and challenge society. Although it appears that the clear majority of students at Ellington favor naming the theater for Dave Chappelle, we are seizing this moment to demonstrate the importance of carefully listening to every voice within our diverse and inclusive community." Duke Ellington School for the Arts, Washington, D.C. Following the special, many called for it to be removed by Netflix, and a group of Netflix employees staged a walkout in October to protest. In response, Chappelle said: "To the transgender community, I am more than willing to give you an audience, but you will not summon me. I am not bending to anybody’s demands. And if you want to meet with me, I’d be more than willing to." JON STEWART SAYS DAVE CHAPPELLE NETFLIX CONTROVERSY A RESULT OF ‘MISCOMMUNICATION,’ COMIC ‘NOT A HURTFUL GUY’ He shared the message in a video posted to his Instagram, before adding certain "conditions" that needed to be met before a meeting could happen. Last week, Chappelle received a Grammy nomination for best spoken word album for "8:46," which documents a stand-up special centered on violence against Black Americans amid the angst surrounding the George Floyd protests. Dave Chappelle sits in the big green chair, a landmark on the campus of the Duke Ellington School of the Arts on September 29, 2017, in Washington, D.C. GRAMMYS NOMINATE LOUIS C.K., DAVE CHAPPELLE DESPITE SCANDALS The Recording Academy’s CEO Harvey Mason Jr. told Rolling Stone it would not "restrict the people who can submit their material for consideration" following the nominations of Marilyn Manson and Louis C.K. "We won’t look back at people’s history, we won’t look at their criminal record, we won’t look at anything other than the legality within our rules: Is this recording for this work eligible based on date and other criteria. If it is, they can submit for consideration," Mason told the publication in a statement. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER "What we will control is our stages, our shows, our events, our red carpets," he continued. "We’ll take a look at anyone who is asking to be a part of that, asking to be in attendance, and we’ll make our decisions at that point. But we’re not going to be in the business of restricting people from submitting their work for our voters to decide on."
Abortion 'saves lives,' woman says as protesters crowd around Supreme Court: Roe v. Wade 'saves lives,' one protester says.  Pro-life and pro-choice protesters who gathered outside the Supreme Court on Wednesday morning told Fox News why they came to protest, with one saying abortions save lives, while others said they kill humans. "I'm here today because I think that abortion hurts both the unborn and it hurts women," an anti-abortion activist told Fox News. In contrast, a pro-choice supporter said: "I'm here today because I believe that a woman's right to choose her future, her destiny, her reproductive health care, is a fundamental right." The anti-abortion activist said: "I think that science has come a long way and proved that the babies in the womb are alive and well." SUPREME COURT HEARING ORAL ARGUMENTS IN CASE THAT COULD OVERTURN LANDMARK ABORTION RULING IN ROE V. WADE Hundreds of protesters on both sides of the abortion debate gathered outside the court as oral arguments began in Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization, a case that could overturn Roe v. Wade. "It's critical that it is not overturned because it saves lives," one woman wearing a "Clinic Escort" face mask told Fox News. A pro-choice activist held this sign outside the Supreme Court as oral arguments in Dobbs v. Jackson began. A woman holding a "Supreme Court: Overturn Roe v. Wade" sign disagreed, saying "abortion intentionally kills human beings, and it's one of the greatest Holocausts of our time." A pro-life activist held this sign outside the Supreme Court. The woman in the "Clinic Escort" mask said abortion is the "basic floor level of human autonomy, bodily autonomy." She said she believes abortion has been in jeopardy since it was codified and worries about what overturning Roe would mean "for the rest of us who are Black, Brown, queer, indigenous – what other rights are going to be stripped away?" CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Another woman disagreed: "I want to protect LGBT children in the womb. If they ever found a gene that makes them predisposed to LGBT, I don't want them to be targeted like people with disabilities have been." A man holding a "Hands Off Roe" banner said he was there to express his concern that Roe v. Wade could be overturned. "The state has no business getting involved in a woman's intimate decision as to whether to carry a pregnancy to term," he said.
New York Dem says we are not 'in a democracy' without abortion access: Rep. Carolyn Maloney: 'We're not even in a democracy if women can't make decisions about their own bodies'. Rep. Carolyn Maloney speaks with Fox News about the Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health case in front of the Supreme Court WASHINGTON – A New York Democrat said the U.S. isn't a democracy if women can't have abortions. "We're not even in a democracy if women can't make decisions about their own bodies," Rep. Carolyn Maloney told Fox News in front of the Supreme Court on Wednesday. "We are speaking out against any efforts to roll back Roe v. Wade," Maloney, who chairs the House Oversight and Reform Committee, said as she exited her car to join a demonstration alongside other House Democrats. WATCH: The Supreme Court heard a case Wednesday regarding a Mississippi law that bans abortions after 15 weeks. The case, Dobbs v. Jackson, could upend Roe v. Wade, which in 1973 granted women the constitutional right to abortions during the first two trimesters. Anti-abortion protesters demonstrate in front of the U.S. Supreme Court Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021, in Washington. MISSISSIPPI GOVERNOR SAYS SCIENTIFIC ADVANCES HAVE BOLSTERED CHANCE ABORTION BAN WILL SUCCEED AT SCOTUS Mississippi's argument rests on the idea that existing evidence has given states enough justification to protect fetal life 15 weeks into a woman's pregnancy. CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Outside of the Supreme Court, pro-life and pro-choice groups chanted and waved signs as the court heard arguments. "Women's rights begin in the womb," one sign said. "Stop. The. Bans," read another. Sam Dorman contributed to this report.
Squad member Cori Bush says she shouldn’t have to fight for abortion access: Progressives react to abortion case before Supreme Court. Rep. Cori Bush speaks with Fox News about the Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health case before the Supreme Court. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cori Bush said women should have abortion access without a fight, the Missouri Democrat told Fox News outside the Capitol on Wednesday. "We always have to fight for the things that we shouldn't even have to ask for," Bush told Fox News after she gathered with around 35 fellow House Democrats supporting abortion rights. Among them was Rep. Diana DeGette of Colorado, a Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus co-chair who was heard shouting, "Abortion is essential." WATCH: The Supreme Court heard a case Wednesday regarding a Mississippi law that bans abortions after 15 weeks. The case, Dobbs v. Jackson, could upend Roe v. Wade, which in 1973 granted women the constitutional right to abortions during the first two trimesters of pregnancy. Pro-life and pro-choice demonstrators gathered outside the Capitol and the Supreme Court holding signs and megaphones. NEW YORK DEM SAYS WE ARE NOT 'IN A DEMOCRACY' WITHOUT ABORTION An anti-abortion activist attends a protest outside the Supreme Court ahead of arguments in the Mississippi abortion rights case in Washington, Dec. 1, 2021. "We have the freedom to make decisions about our lives, our futures and our families," one speaker said through a microphone. "Abortion is healthcare," one sign read. Pro-abortion rights activists protest outside the Supreme Court ahead of arguments in Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health in Washington, Dec. 1, 2021. CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Bush told Fox News: "How we push now is going to affect what happens, you know, what we're looking at in 10 years, in 50 years. We have to do this work now." "The Supreme Court, this cannot be a partisan thing, this cannot be a partisan decision," Bush, a member of the progressive Squad, continued. The Supreme Court, which has a 6-3 conservative majority, will likely announce its decision sometime in the spring. Fox News' Tyler Olson contributed to this report.
Best Christmas gift ever: Amazing reveals from Fox News hosts and more: From the new book 'All American Christmas,' Fox News hosts reveal their most cherished Christmas presents ever — and others share their picks as well. Fox News' Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy debut their holiday book on ‘Fox News Live.’ Some of the best gifts we've ever received for Christmas are often the simplest and most enduring, given to us by family, friends, loved ones — and of course, Santa! — and remembered for a lifetime. Or, the most memorable gifts at holiday time might be truly stunning and unexpected items we never imagined we'd actually receive. All American Christmas, the new book by Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy, contains a sparkling collection of stories and sentiments about gift-giving at holiday time, including this quote from Fox News Channel's Dana Perino: "It's a great feeling when you give the right gift to the right person." BEST GIFTS TO PASS DOWN THROUGH THE GENERATIONS So just what is that "right gift"? What's the best Christmas gift ever received? As we enter this year's Christmas season, here are some of the "best gift" picks from an array of people, including Fox News personalities and others. These stories will surprise you, charm you — even move you. "One of the best gifts I ever got [as a child] was a play kitchen, complete with an oven, pots and pans," says Dana Perino in All American Christmas. "I already had the imagination I needed to cook up delicious meals for all my dolls and stuffed-animal friends. I also had a ‘Sesame Street' playhouse that would unfold, and I was right there with Big Bird and all the other residents hanging out on the steps of the best neighborhood in the world. It was amazing to live on a block where I could have so many friends." The new book ‘All American Christmas’ by Rachel Campos-Duffy, along with her husband, Fox News contributor Sean Duffy, is available now. Dana Perino continues, "I am, still today, a list-making machine, and those toys must have been among what I'd asked for. I don't recall any really extravagant gifts or wishes, and things like getting Bonne Bell lip balm in my stocking made me very happy. Maybe that was because of all the wind and cold in Wyoming! We also got foil-wrapped chocolates and candy canes in there, and they were a real treat." WHY RACHEL CAMPOS-DUFFY FEELS ‘ALL AMERICAN CHRISTMAS’ IS PERFECT GIFT FOR ANY FOX NEWS FAN "Of course, I also love giving gifts, and when I was working on ‘The Five,’ we did a Secret Santa gift exchange," Perino says. "The best gift I ever gave during that period was for Jesse Watters. A segment of the show was called ‘Facebook Friday,’ and someone asked us via Facebook what was one gift we really wanted at Christmas that we never received. Jesse mentioned that he'd wanted a red leather Michael Jackson jacket. I had drawn Jesse's name and was joking that I would get that jacket for him. "My producer Mina Pertesis managed to track one down. We gave it to Jesse, and he still says to this day that it was one of the best Christmas gifts he ever received … The mix of surprise and delight when a gift connects with someone is worth all the time and thought that goes into it." —Dana Perino is cohost of Fox News Channel’s "America’s Newsroom" and "The Five." Her Christmas memories appear in All American Christmas by Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy. "I'd just started working at Fox’s show 'The Five,'" says Fox News Channel's Jesse Watters. "Dana Perino found out about my Michael Jackson obsession and, as part of our Secret Santa gift exchange, got me that jacket. It was worth the wait! Nothing could 'beat it.' I still have it, and it's great to think about how thoughtful a gesture that was." —Jesse Watters is host of Fox News Channel’s "Watters’ World" and cohost of "The Five." His Christmas memories also appear in All American Christmas by Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy. Jesse's childhood obsession with getting a Michael Jackson jacket would finally pay off when Dana tracked it down. "As a child, my favorite gift was a Magnus Chord Organ. My father was disabled and money was limited, so this was a miracle gift to me. I recall on Christmas Eve as a young girl the majestic sound of the plastic keys as I played ‘Silent Night,’ hoping to catch sight of the Star of Bethlehem in the dark winter sky." —Patti Garibay, founder and executive director, American Heritage Girls, Cincinnati, Ohio "My best gift was a small brown leather-covered Bible from my mother. I never knew it would be the greatest Christmas gift ever until she passed away four years after she gave it to me. This Christmas and every Christmas — every day, in fact — I feel comfort when I read my Bible and when I read the inscription from my mother to me. In the front of the book, she wrote, in her beautiful flowing script, 'God bless you for all your life. Your Loving Mother.'" —Corine G., Suffolk, Virginia THE CHRISTMAS TOY GIFTS THAT MADE PARENTS SCRAMBLE "My best Christmas gift ever was a basketball hoop game that I set up in my room. It was sort of like an arcade game. The basketballs were automatically fed back to the player, with a digital feature that kept score. I played it with one of my older brothers for hours, and we laughed so hard as we competed against each other. It was like we were in our own little bubble, staying up late and bringing snacks up to my bedroom so we could keep playing. We are 10 years apart in age, and I was eight years old at the time — and I remember being thrilled that my big brother was spending so much time with me." —James R., Greensboro, North Carolina "I received my best Christmas gift when I was a little kid, about seven years old. I had seen a nutcracker — one of those classic ‘soldier’ nutcrackers, complete with a tiny gold sword, military hat and long coattails — in the Smithsonian Institution’s gift shop when my parents took me there. I wanted that nutcracker so badly! I still remember that childlike wonder and joy I felt when I finally held it on Christmas morning, and my sense of awe that came from knowing that ‘Santa’ had read my letter and stopped his sleigh at the Smithsonian, just for me!" —Deirdre R., Reading, Massachusetts Leaders and readers alike share their ‘best Christmas gift ever’ picks with Fox News Digital as the countdown to Christmas begins. "My three sisters and I were very close. We shared a lot of great times with my mom, while my dad sometimes felt as if he were on an island all by himself, not always privy to our late-night heart-to-heart talks. When my mom passed away suddenly after a short battle with pancreatic cancer, we were all in shock — we'd lost our best friend, our confidant. It was a void my father felt pressure to fill, yet he wasn't sure how. "Not long after, he asked each of us individually if there was something special we wanted of our mother’s to remember her by. We four girls had no idea that each of us asked him for the same thing: the gold cross necklace our mother wore every day. My father showed no reaction. But he came up with a plan." What joys await this little one and all of us? The wonders of the Christmas season are here! "On Christmas morning, he presented each of us girls with a gold box tied with a white ribbon. When we opened our boxes, we were all delighted — and teary-eyed — to find Mother's gold cross inside. But we were also confused. Seeing the look on our faces, my father explained, 'I went to a jeweler and had the same cross made for each of you girls. I asked him not to let me know which one was the original. I have no idea which one is Mom’s real cross. But does it really matter?' he added. ‘She loved you all the same. She would’ve wanted each of you to have it. Please wear it and remember her.' "I will never forget that Christmas. I not only felt my mother’s presence there with me in the room, but I felt a much deeper bond with my father. Almost a decade has passed since my father joined my mother in heaven To this day, when I put on that cross, I not only think of my mother but my father, too, and the joy he brought all of us that Christmas Day." —Barbara Booth, co-founder and CEO of Go-Be, Cape Cod, Massachusetts HOW TO MAKE SURE YOUR PACKAGES ARRIVE BY CHRISTMAS "My best Christmas gift ever was my first two-wheeled bike. It was green and had a cool banana seat and high handlebars. I named it the Green Hornet. I’ll never forget my first ride on it, which sadly was a disaster! I couldn’t wait to ride it, and I slid on the ice as I took it down the driveway, crashing hard. I was seven when I got that bike, and all these years later — I’m 60 now! — I remember the joy that bike brought me." —Fred R., Boston, Massachusetts "Giving to others is a wonderful thing. I really prefer it to receiving things. One year for Christmas, I dressed up as Santa and went to a few local hospitals to visit children. I gave out candy canes to the little ones. Just looking at the kids and seeing their happy faces was very rewarding to me. That was one of the best Christmas seasons I ever enjoyed." —Richard P., Hastings-on-Hudson, New York CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "A few weeks before Christmas, I was joking with my dad about his set of golf clubs. It had been an ongoing joke for years that Dad needed to let my brother know that his clubs were going to me when he died — our humor could be a little dark! Sadly, Dad passed away suddenly and was laid to rest just a few days before Christmas. "Weeks later, as we were going through his belongings, we got to the clubs. Inside one of the pockets of the golf bag was a note to me. It read, ‘Merry Christmas, son. I hope you enjoy the clubs. Love, Dad.’ He had intended to give them to me that Christmas after all. I still have those clubs, all these years later." —John B., Hampton, Iowa What’s the best Christmas gift you've ever received? Share your thoughts with us in the comments section below.
COVID cases double over 24 hours in South Africa, where omicron variant was discovered: New confirmed cases rose to 8,561 Wednesday from 4,373 a day earlier. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. South Africa's new cases of COVID-19 nearly doubled in a day, authorities reported Wednesday, signaling a dramatic surge in the country where scientists detected the omicron variant last week. New confirmed cases rose to 8,561 Wednesday from 4,373 a day earlier, according to official statistics. Scientists in South Africa said they are bracing for a rapid increase in COVID-19 cases following the discovery of the new omicron variant. A hospital worker ensures people practice social distancing as they wait in line to get vaccinated against COVID-19 at the Lenasia South Hospital, near Johannesburg, South Africa, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021. Despite the global worry, doctors in South Africa are reporting patients with the omicron variant are suffering mostly mild symptoms so far. But they warn that it is early. "There is a possibility that really we’re going to be seeing a serious doubling or tripling of the cases as we move along or as the week unfolds," Dr. Nicksy Gumede-Moeletsi, regional virologist for the World Health Organization, told The Associated Press. "There is a possibility that we are going to see a vast increase in number of cases being identified in South Africa." OMICRON DETECTED IN CALIFORNIA, FIRST CASE IN THE US, OFFICIALS SAY South Africa had seen a period of low transmission in early November with a seven-day average of about 200 new cases per day, but in the middle of November new cases began to rapidly increase. The new cases reported Wednesday represent a 16.5% positivity rate of cases tested, up from a 1% rate early in November. South Africa's previous surge, driven by the delta variant in June and July, saw daily new cases reach a peak of more than 20,000. With a population of 60 million people, South Africa has recorded more than 2.9 million COVID-19 cases, including nearly 90,000 deaths. A woman is vaccinated against COVID-19 in Lawley, south of Johannesburg, South Africa, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021. It's too early to be certain that the omicron variant is responsible for the rise in cases, but it is very possible, say experts. Standard PCR tests can suggest that a positive case is caused by omicron, but only a full genetic sequencing can confirm it. OMICRON VARIANT: BIDEN PREPARING STRICTER CORONAVIRUS TESTING FOR ALL TRAVELERS TO US: LIVE UPDATES Labs in South Africa and Botswana are urgently doing genomic sequencing to study omicron cases in order to see if it is significantly more transmissible, causes more serious cases of COVID-19 or if it evades protection from vaccinations, said Gumede-Moeletsi. "The current data that we’re having is still very limited. So there are so many additional characteristics of this virus that the researchers are busy studying, of which transmissibility is one of them. Severity is also another," she said, adding that researchers also need to find out if current vaccines will still be effective against it. A woman is tested for COVID-19 at the Lenasia South Hospital, near Johannesburg, South Africa, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 1021. Hospitalizations for COVID-19 are rising in South Africa, but not at the dramatic rate of the new cases. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The omicron variant has been detected in five of South Africa's nine provinces and accounted for 74% of the virus genomes sequenced in November, the country’s National Institute for Communicable Diseases announced Wednesday. The earliest detection of the variant in South Africa may have been on Nov. 8 in Gauteng province, according to data released by the institute. It said until the end of October, the delta variant accounted for most genomes sequenced in the country, but in November the omicron variant overtook it.
AOC slams 'Ku Klux Klan caucus' within the House GOP: Ocasio-Cortez's comments come amid dispute between Reps. Ilhan Omar and Lauren Boebert. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez on Wednesday alleged that House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., is working with what she described as his "Ku Klux Klan caucus" to enable violent threats against Rep. Ilhan Omar, D-Minn., and other women of color in Congress. "People truly don’t understand the scale, intensity, & volume of threats targeting [Omar]," Ocasio-Cortez wrote. "Kevin McCarthy is so desperate to be speaker that he is working with his Ku Klux Klan caucus to look aside & allow violent targeting of woc members of Congress. This cannot be ignored." "While people toss out clichés like ‘we condemn all forms of racism & bigotry,’ the fact is Islamophobia is far too often tolerated and ignored. Bigotry is not made unacceptable by what one says about it, it’s made acceptable based on whether there are consequences for it or not," the congresswoman continued. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., speaks with reporters, Thursday, June 17, 2021, as she arrives on Capitol Hill in Washington. "It’s not just about nasty phone calls and e-mails," she added. "GOP are given freedom to incite without consequence. They don’t have to pay for the security required from their acts- we do. They make money off it. &They are targeting those least likely to be institutionally protected first." Ocasio-Cortez's comments were in response to a press conference Omar gave Tuesday about death threats she said she has received following high-profile criticism directed at her by Rep. Lauren Boebert, R-Colo. Omar played a recording of one of the voicemails she says she received, which called her the N-word and referred to her as a "traitor" who will "not live much longer." REP. ILHAN OMAR HANGS UP ON REP. LAUREN BOEBERT AFTER TENSE PHONE CALL Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., listens as House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., speaks during a news conference at the Capitol in Washington. The dispute between Omar and Boebert started when Boebert was secretly filmed telling supporters about a run-in she had with Omar in a Capitol elevator. She said she was getting in the elevator with a staffer when she saw a Capitol police officer running toward them "with fret all over his face" in an effort to stop the elevator door from closing. OMAR ON BOEBERT SPAT: ‘ISLAMOPHOBIA PERVADES OUR CULTURE, POLITICS AND EVEN POLICY DECISIONS’ Boebert added: "And I said, ‘Well, she doesn’t have a backpack. We should be fine.'" She also called Omar "the jihad squad." Boebert later called Omar to apologize for her comments, which ended with Omar hanging up on her. Reps. Ilhan Omar, D-Minn., and Lauren Boebert, R-Colo. During the Monday press conference, Omar was joined by Democratic colleagues Reps. Rashida Tlaib, D-Mich., Andre Carson, D-Ind., and Jamaal Bowman, D-N.Y. The term "Islamophobia" was a recurring topic. "The truth is that Islamophobia pervades our culture, our politics and even policy decisions," said Omar, who is Muslim and immigrated from Somalia as a child. "Leading politicians in the Republican Party routinely spout hateful rhetoric about a religion that includes a diverse group of more than a billion peaceful worshipers around the world. This includes falsely claiming Muslims want to replace the Constitution and implement Sharia law, portraying Muslims as inherently violent." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Omar also laid into McCarthy during the press conference, saying, "What I will say is that the silence speaks for itself. If they want to get rid of this kind of toxic, hateful behavior in their conference, they have to take action." Fox News' Andrew Mark Miller contributed to this report.
Biden repeats debunked claim he ‘used to drive a tractor-trailer’: 'I know a little bit about big trucks,' the president said. Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., on President Biden addressing supply chain issues amid the holiday season. President Biden declared Tuesday during an event in Minnesota that he "used to drive" a tractor-trailer – a claim the White House has struggled to defend in the past. Biden repeated the debunked claim during a trip to Dakota County Technical College in Rosemount, Minnesota, to tout the newly passed bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act. BIDEN RAISES EYEBROWS WITH CLAIM HE 'USED TO DRIVE' 18-WHEELER TRUCK "I used to drive a tractor-trailer," Biden said. "I know a little bit about big trucks." Biden’s claim was debunked earlier this year after the president said at a Mack Truck facility in Pennsylvania that he "used to drive an 18-wheeler." When asked at the time if the president had ever driven such a truck, a White House spokesperson pointed to a December 1973 article from the Wilmington Evening Journal that showed Biden rode in an 18-wheeler on a 536-mile haul to Ohio. President Biden speaks about the COVID-19 variant omicron at the White House, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021, in Washington. Fox News pressed the spokesperson at the time about the president’s claim – noting that riding in a truck is not the same as driving one – at which point the president's spokesperson pointed to a United Federation of Teachers post that touched on Biden once driving a school bus for a summer job. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The majority of school buses, on average, "have two axles, with the bigger models having two wheels on the front axle and four wheels on the dual axle, for a total of six wheels," according to SchoolBusFleet.com. President Biden waves as he walks to board Air Force One, at Andrews Air Force Base, Maryland, Tuesday, Nov. 30, 2021. The truck story is just one of many tales Biden has embellished over the years. Last month, he said his house burned down with his wife Jill Biden inside before he tried to correct himself to say a "significant portion" of the home burned. A 2004 report from The Associated Press, however, said it was a "small" fire caused by a lightning strike that was contained to only the kitchen. Fox News’ Houston Keene contributed to this report.
Waukesha parade suspect Darrell Brooks says he feels 'dehumanized,' 'demonized' in first jailhouse interview: Darrell Brooks Jr. spoke to Fox News Digital on Wednesday in Waukesha County Jail. Matt Finn reports the latest on Darrell Brooks at he makes his first court appearance on ‘Special Report’. WAUKESHA, Wis. – EXCLUSIVE: Darrell Brooks Jr. has spent the last 10 days locked up in a Wisconsin jail cell after allegedly mowing through the barricades and into revelers at the Waukesha Christmas parade, killing six people and injuring 62. Now he feels "dehumanized," he told Fox News Digital Wednesday in his first remarks to the media, seemingly surprised that he had visitors. "I just feel like I'm being monster – demonized," Brooks, 39, said during a brief video visit in Waukesha County Jail – a stone’s throw from where tragedy struck over a week earlier. A lineup of multiple mugshots showing Waukesha suspect Darrell Brooks over the years. Waukesha Sheriff’s Department Darrell Brooks, charged with killing five people and injuring nearly 50 after plowing through a Christmas parade with his sport utility vehicle on November 21, appears in Waukesha County Court in Waukesha, Wisconsin, U.S. November 23, 2021. Darrell Brooks, center, is escorted out of the courtroom after making his initial appearance, Tuesday in Waukesha County Court in Waukesha, Wisconsin. Waukesha parade suspect Darrell Brooks arrives in court for his arraignment. WAUKESHA PARADE SUSPECT DARRELL BROOKS' EX-GIRLFRIEND SAYS SHE IS 'DEVASTATED' BY HIS 'MONSTROUS ACT' Wearing a sleeveless green jail jumpsuit and his hair in braids, the soft-spoken accused killer offered no details about what prompted the carnage. The two Fox News reporters on the other side of the video screen marked the first visitors he’s seen since the Nov. 21 night of horror. Brooks appeared calm, lucid and took time to answer each question – even repeating reporters' questions and answers at times. "I just feel like I'm being monster – demonized…" Not even his mother has dropped by, he said. Earlier in the day, she released a statement on behalf of the family decrying Wisconsin’s criminal justice system for failing her son, a longtime felon with a 50-page rap sheet detailing domestic violence, firearms, drugs and other convictions in Wisconsin, according to documents obtained by Fox News Digital. Brooks is also a registered child sex offender in Nevada and served time in Georgia for beating his ex, records show. Waukesha County Jail in Waukesha, Wisconsin. WAUKESHA SUSPECT DARRELL BROOKS GRIPED ABOUT UNFAIR TREATMENT FROM JAIL Still, Brooks said he was "very" close with his mother. He hasn't spoken to any family since the parade attack but they talked earlier that day, he said. He said he was no longer staying at the address listed in city records as being his residence. Just over one mile from the jail, Brooks allegedly plowed his red Ford SUV through a throng of paradegoers out taking part an annual holiday celebration that had been canceled last year due to the coronavirus pandemic. After a few minutes of conversation, shortly after he learned his mother had released a statement on his mental health, Brooks put down the phone and rose from his chair. Two flanking corrections officers shielded him from view, but the sound of what may have been sobbing rattled the receiver. Brooks allegedly plowed his red Ford SUV through a throng of paradegoers out taking part an annual holiday celebration. Deadly Christmas parade in Waukesha, Wisconsin A police car is seen at Main Street in downtown Waukesha, as it's blocked off after a car plowed through a holiday parade in Waukesha, Wisconsin, U.S., November 22, 2021.  REUTERS/Cheney Orr People hold candles and embrace during a vigil in Cutler Park on November 22, 2021 in Waukesha, Wisconsin.   People hold candles and embrace during a vigil in Cutler Park on November 22, 2021 in Waukesha, Wisconsin. People hold candles during a vigil in Cutler Park on November 22, 2021 in Waukesha, Wisconsin. People hold candles during a vigil in Cutler Park on November 22, 2021 in Waukesha, Wisconsin. People hold candles during a vigil in Cutler Park on November 22, 2021 in Waukesha, Wisconsin. People hold candles and embrace during a vigil in Cutler Park on Monday in Waukesha, Wisconsin. WAUKESHA SUSPECT DODGED JAIL IN DEADBEAT DAD CASE DAYS BEFORE PARADE ATTACK Waukesha Police officials have said they were responding to what they believe was a related report of a domestic incident nearby, but were not able to fully respond before being diverted to early reports of the parade tragedy. The six victims range in age from 8 to 81 years old, and have been identified as Jackson Sparks, 8; Tamara Durand, 52; Jane Kulich, 52; LeAnna Owen, 71; Virginia Sorenson, 79; and Wilhelm, 81. During his Nov. 23 court appearance in connection with the alleged crimes, Brooks cried, and at times sobbed audibly, as Court Commissioner Kevin Costello and District Attorney Susan Opper recounted the night's horrific events. Five adult victims and one child were killed in the Waukesha parade attack. Prosecutors have charged him with six counts of intentional first-degree homicide. He is being held on $5 million cash bail and faces up to life in prison if convicted on all counts. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Only the top half of his face was visible until he ended the call and stood up. He returned to his cell. The guards shut down the monitor. Brooks had nothing more to say, but he peered out from behind his cell door until the feed cut out. A spokesperson for Brooks' attorney declined to comment.
Biden on World AIDS Day declares racism a ‘public health threat’: The new strategy was released on the annual commemoration of World AIDS Day.  President Joe Biden on Wednesday unveiled his new HIV/AIDS strategy to end the more than 40-year-old epidemic, calling for a renewed focus on vulnerable Americans — including gay and bisexual Black and Latino men, who his administration says are too often stigmatized even as they are disproportionately affected. The new strategy, which declares racism a "public health threat," was released on the annual commemoration of World AIDS Day. It is meant to serve as a framework for how the administration shapes its policies, research, programs and planning over the next three years. FAUCI SAYS COVID-19 DIVERTED RESOURCES FROM FIGHT AGAINST AIDS But Biden acknowledged that the country still needs to work to destigmatize HIV/AIDS and noted that LGBT and racial minority groups have "endured the brunt" of the epidemic that’s killed more than 36 million worldwide, including 700,000 Americans. "I want to make sure that everyone in the United States knows their HIV status, and everyone with HIV receives high-quality care and treatment that they deserve and that we end the harmful stigma around HIV and AIDS," Biden said. The North Portico of the White House is adorned with a huge red ribbon to commemorate the annual World AIDS Day, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021, in Washington. The Biden administration in its new HIV/AIDS strategy is calling racism "a public health threat" that must be fully recognized as the world looks to end the epidemic. The new strategy asserts that over generations "structural inequities have resulted in racial and ethnic health disparities that are severe, far-reaching, and unacceptable." New HIV infections in the U.S. fell about 8% from 2015 to 2019, but Black and Latino communities — particularly gay and bisexual men within those groups — continue to be disproportionately affected, according to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention data. Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra speaks before President Joe Biden at an event to commemorate World AIDS Day during an event in the East Room of the White House, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021, in Washington. Gabriel Maldonado, HIV/AIDS Advocate, CEO and Founder of TruEvolution, speaks before President Joe Biden at an event to commemorate World AIDS Day during an event in the East Room of the White House, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021, in Washington. African Americans make up about 13% of the U.S. population but accounted for more than 40% of new infections. The Latino population accounted for nearly 25% of new infections but makes up about 18.5% of the U.S. population. Historically, gay and bisexual men have been the most disproportionately affected group. They account for about 66% of new HIV infections, even though they are only 2% of the population, according to the CDC. In 2019, 26% of new HIV infections were among Black gay and bisexual men, 23% among Latino gay and bisexual men, and 45% among gay and bisexual men under the age of 35. Disparities also persist among women. Black women’s HIV infection rate is 11 times that of white women and four times that of Latina women. To reduce the disparities, the strategy includes calls for focusing on the needs of disproportionately affected populations, supporting racial justice, combating HIV-related stigma and discrimination and providing leadership and employment opportunities for people with or at risk for HIV. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi of Calif., and Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra listen before President Joe Biden at an event to commemorate World AIDS Day in the East Room of the White House, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021, in Washington. Besides addressing racism’s impact on Americans battling the virus or at risk of contracting it, the new strategy also puts greater emphasis on harm reduction and syringe service programs, encourages reform of state laws that criminalize behavior of people with HIV for potentially exposing others and adds focus on the needs of the growing population of people with HIV who are aging. VERMONT FIRST STATE TO REQUIRE ACCESS TO CONDOMS IN ALL SECONDARY SCHOOLS: REPORTS Biden expressed disbelief that some states have laws on the book that criminalize spitting in public by HIV-positive people even though it has long been proven that the virus can’t be transmitted through saliva. Thirty-five states have laws that criminalize various forms of HIV exposure, according to the CDC "We have to follow science and that means eliminating laws that perpetuate discrimination, exacerbate disparities, discourage HIV testing and take us further away from our goal," Biden said. President Joe Biden speaks to commemorate World AIDS Day during an event in the East Room of the White House, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021, in Washington. President Joe Biden speaks to commemorate World AIDS Day during an event in the East Room of the White House, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021, in Washington. The Biden administration recently announced it will host the Global Fund to Fight AIDS replenishment conference next year. The United States has contributed about $17 billion to the fund, about a third of all donor contributions. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP A giant red ribbon, a symbol of support for people living with HIV, was displayed on the North Portico of the White House to mark World AIDS Day. The two-story ribbon display has become an annual tradition at the White House since 2007.
Rep. McMorris Rodgers 'hopeful' modern science will sway public opinion against abortion: Congresswoman and mother of a child diagnosed with Down syndrome says she hopes the Supreme Court stands for life. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Washington Republican Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers told Fox News Wednesday she is "hopeful" modern developments in science and technology will help turn public opinion on abortion. "I am hopeful that as people really consider the science, the research, the technology, that more and more are going to review their position on this question," she said in answer to whether she believes the majority of Americans support overturning Roe v. Wade. "It’s the sharpest soul-searching question before us as a nation." Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers HAWLEY SAYS DEMOCRATIC RHETORIC AMID SCOTUS ABORTION HEARING ‘REALLY DANGEROUS’ The congresswoman’s comments came just hours after the Supreme Court heard arguments on the constitutionality of a 2018 Mississippi law that banned abortions after 15 weeks of pregnancy. Proponents of abortion rights argue the law infringes on protections granted under the 1973 Supreme Court decision in Roe v. Wade that federally secured a women’s right to an abortion. "We are not in the same place today as we were in 1973 when Roe v. Wade was decided," McMorris Rodgers told Fox News. "Today, because of technology, we can look into the womb, we can see the baby day by day, week by week." U.S. Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers Two-thirds of voters said they want to keep Roe v. Wade intact, according to a September Fox News poll. The 65% of poll takers opposed to overturning the 1973 landmark decision was a record in Fox News polling, up from 61% in October 2020 and barely eclipsing the previous high of 64% in June 2019. LAWMAKERS REMAIN DIVIDED AS ROE V. WADE HANGS IN THE BALANCE AT SUPREME COURT But tough questioning by the predominately conservative high court justices could spell trouble for those who oppose not only Mississippi abortion limits, but Roe v. Wade as a whole. Republicans championed Wednesday’s oral arguments. "I am encouraged," McMorris Rodgers, mother of three, told Fox News. "I hope that the court stands for life." The Washington Republican said the issue strikes home for her as her oldest child, Cole, was born with Down syndrome. "It was tough when we got that diagnosis," she said. "A team basically gave us a long list of potential challenges and struggles we would have. "And yet today I cannot imagine life without Cole, and I believe from the bottom of my heart that his life is worth living," she added. Anti-abortion rights activists protest outside the Supreme Court building ahead of arguments in the Mississippi abortion rights case Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health, in Washington, Dec. 1, 2021. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP McMorris Rodgers explained that children diagnosed with Down syndrome are living longer with life expectancies of up to 60 years, nearly triple what the life expectancy was believed to be just a few decades ago. "Science has evolved, and my hope is that we learn from this, and we will reject abortion," she told Fox News.  "Abortion doesn’t reflect the latest research or modern medicine and it’s not in alignment with American values of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness for all."
Watters blasts potential Biden orders: He 'lets COVID caravans' in but I have to quarantine after vacation: A new report said Biden may enact quarantine order for returning American travelers regardless of COVID test results.. 'The Five' panel react to Biden administration's push for strict travel testing and quarantines after the first Omicron COVID variant case in the U.S. was reported in California Jesse Watters and the panel on "The Five" reacted to the prospect of President Biden announcing new quarantine orders for traveling American citizens, amid expectations his Thursday coronavirus mitigation remarks will also include stricter testing mandates. Biden is reportedly expected to announce an extremely strict testing regimen for U.S. citizens traveling by air, as well as a potential mandatory week-long quarantine for any American citizen flying home, according to a report from the Washington Post. The quarantine would be mandatory and enforced by "fines and penalties" regardless of whether an administered test finds the subject is not infected with the virus, the Post report said. The Post clarified that the quarantine order was not in a "draft" obtained by the paper "but could be added later if the proposals win broader sign-off." U.S. President Joe Biden gives a speech in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building’s South Court Auditorium at the White House in Washington, U.S., November 23, 2021. REUTERS/Evelyn Hockstein Watters said Wednesday that he often travels to Europe on vacation and finds the potential mandatory stateside quarantine a ridiculous overreach. "If I come back … and I have vaxxed. I have been boosted and I have tested negative, I get on the plane and touch down at JFK and I have to quarantine for seven days and not go to work," he said. "It sounds… crazy. Luckily the country is not full with a lot of international travelers." "You have to be scratching your head because they’re letting COVID caravans from countries cross over [the southern border] with vax rates in the single digits."  Watters noted that many illegal immigrants are not only being let in untested and unvaccinated but that Biden is clandestinely putting them on American buses and planes and transporting them to Florida, Tennessee, New York, and elsewhere. "You can’t double-bolt your front door and leave your back door wide open. Everybody understands that except Joe Biden," he said. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP When host Dana Perino listed off the instances of Biden's previous mandates being either stayed or knocked down by federal courts – including blocking states from using American Rescue Plan funds to lower taxes, reinstituting the Trump-era Remain In Mexico policy for migrants and workplace vaccine mandates – Watters concluded it shows the president is collectively "bumbling" in his response.
Sen. Tom Cotton: Biden is in denial about what his policies have done to America: Cotton said Biden is largely shifting the blame on multiple crises. Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., reacts to Presiednt Biden downplaying the supply chain crisis in America. Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., blasted President Biden for downplaying crises in America that are leading to inflation and forcing families to make tough choices Wednesday on "America Reports." SEN. TOM COTTON: The president is still in denial about what his reckless spending policies have done to our economy. Families all across Arkansas are starting to face painfully tragic choices between paying the mortgage, heating the home, paying for gasoline, buying kids an extra Christmas present or two. That’s a direct result of Joe Biden and the Democrat's reckless taxing and spending policy. ... We’ve had this pandemic for two years. We did not have this kind of inflation though until Joe Biden and the Democrats took office. He is largely just shifting the blame. He’s not trying to come up with answers. He is blaming oil companies or OPEC for high gas prices, for instance. It was Joe Biden who shut down the Keystone pipeline on his first day in office; Who refuses to authorize other pipelines needed to move petroleum products across the country. Who is trying to charge oil producers more fees for drilling on federal lands or in federal waters? These are things that are directly contributing to inflation that is hurting American families. WATCH FULL INTERVIEW BELOW:
Utah girl with autism commits suicide, sparking outrage online over bullying, racism: The school initially defended its handling of the bullying allegations but later launched an outside investigation. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. When her 10-year-old daughter tried spraying air freshener on herself before school one morning, Brittany Tichenor-Cox suspected something was wrong with the sweet little girl whose beaming smile had gone dormant after she started the fifth grade. She coaxed out of Isabella "Izzy" Tichenor that a boy in her class told her she stank after their teacher instructed students that they needed to shower. It was the latest in a series of bullying episodes that targeted Izzy, who was autistic and the only Black student in class. Other incidents included harassment about her skin color, eyebrows and a beauty mark on her forehead, her mother said. Tichenor-Cox informed the teacher, the school and the district about the bullying. She said nothing was done to improve the situation. Then on Nov. 6, at their home near Salt Lake City, Izzy died by suicide. Her shocking death triggered an outpouring of anger about youth suicides, racism in the classroom and the treatment of children with autism, issues that have been highlighted by the nation's racial reckoning and a renewed emphasis on student mental health during the COVID-19 pandemic. In Utah, the suicide also intensified questions about the Davis School District, which was recently reprimanded by the Justice Department for failing to address widespread racial discrimination. The district, where Black and Asian American students account for roughly 1% of the approximately 73,000 students, initially defended its handling of the bullying allegations but later launched an outside investigation that is ongoing. ALABAMA STUDENTS RAISE AWARENESS FOR VETERAN SUICIDE IN MARCH FROM TUSCALOOSA TO AUBURN "When I was crying out for help for somebody to do something, nobody even showed up for her," Tichenor-Cox said this week in an interview with The Associated Press. "It just hurts to know that my baby was bullied all day throughout school — from the time I dropped her off to the time I picked her up." Brittany Tichenor-Cox, holds a photo of her daughter, Isabella "Izzy" Tichenor, during an interview Monday, Nov. 29, 2021, in Draper, Utah. Being autistic made it difficult for Izzy to find words to express what she was feeling, but her mother sensed her daughter was internalizing the messages from school. She asked her mother to get rid of the beauty mark and shave her unibrow. Her mother told her those features made her different and beautiful. She told her mother her teacher didn’t like her and wouldn’t say hi or help with schoolwork. Izzy's mother, 31, blames the teacher for allowing the bullying to happen. Prior to this year, she said, Izzy and two of her other children liked the school. Tichenor-Cox has also called out deep-rooted racism in the predominantly white state of Utah, where she said the N-word that kids called her when she was a child in the 1990s is still hurled at her children three decades later. But she doesn't want fury to be her only message. She vows to make Izzy's life matter by speaking out about bullying, racism and the importance of understanding autism so that no other parent has to suffer like she is. GEORGIA MIDDLE SCHOOL STUDENT, 11, JUMPED FROM SCHOOL BUS TO ESCAPE BULLYING: FATHER As she looked at a picture on her cellphone of Izzy smiling with fresh braids in her hair last May, Tichenor-Cox teared up as she realized that was her last birthday with her dear daughter, who dreamed of being a professional dancer. "No parent should have to bury their 10-year old," she said. "I’m still in shock. ... This pushes me to get this out there like this. Mommy is pushing to make sure that this don’t happen to nobody else." In this photo provided by Brittany Tichenor-Cox is her daughter, Isabella "Izzy" Tichenor, in 2014. Davis School District spokesman Christopher Williams declined to provide an exact timeline on the investigation, reveal the employment status of Izzy's teacher or respond to any direct accusations. He did say in a statement Wednesday that an independent investigative team is working "urgently" and that findings will be released when finished. In a previous statement from last month, when the district pledged to do an outside investigation, it said it would review its "handling of critical issues, such as bullying, to provide a safe and welcoming environment for all." The Justice Department investigation uncovered hundreds of documented uses of the N-word and other racial epithets over the last five years in the district. The probe also found physical assaults, derogatory racial comments and harsher discipline for students of color. TEXAS MOM IRATE, FINDS HICKEYS ON BULLIED 6-YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER'S NECK AFTER SCHOOL: 'SEXUAL ASSAULT' Black students throughout the district told investigators about people referring to them as monkeys or apes and saying that their skin was dirty or looked like feces. Students also made monkey noises at their Black peers, repeatedly referenced slavery and lynching and told Black students to "go pick cotton" and "you are my slave," according to the department's findings. The district has agreed to take several steps as part of a settlement agreement, including establishing a new department to handle complaints, offering more training and collecting data. Tichenor-Cox told the AP she doesn't trust the district's investigation and said the district has zero credibility. Instead, her attorney, Tyler Ayres, hired a private investigator to do their own probe as Tichenor-Cox considers possible legal action. She and Ayres also said the Justice Department is looking into what happened with Izzy. The agency would not say if it's investigating what happened to Izzy at the school but said in a statement Wednesday that it is saddened by her death and aware of reports she was harassed because of her race and "disability." The department said it is committed to ensuring the school district follows through on the plan established in the settlement agreement. Brittany Tichenor-Cox speaks during an interview Monday, Nov. 29, 2021, in Draper, Utah. Youth suicides in Utah have leveled off in recent years after an alarming spike from 2011 to 2015, but the rate remains sharply higher than the national average. The state's 2020 per capita rate was 8.85 suicides among 10- to 17-year-olds per 100,000, compared with 2.3 suicides per 100,000 nationally in 2019, the latest year with data available. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Tributes to Izzy are scattered on social media under #standforizzy. The Utah Jazz basketball team honored her at a recent game, and players Donovan Mitchell and Joe Ingles, who has an autistic son, both expressed dismay over what happened, calling it "disgusting." Other parents from the school district have sent letters to the school board calling out the district's "dismissive actions." Tichenor-Cox and her husband, Charles Cox, have five other children to focus on, so they’re doing all they can to handle the grief while trying to remember the sparkle Izzy brought to their lives for a decade. "I want her to be remembered of how kind she was, how beautiful she was, how brilliant she was and intelligent she was," Tichenor-Cox said. "Because if I keep thinking of what happened, it’s just going to put me back, and I’m trying to be strong for her."
NBC producer appears to admit ordering freelancer to tail Rittenhouse jury bus: Kenosha police video: Policeman to NBC producer: 'We can't afford anything crazy happening'. Kenosha Police Department bodycam footage shows police pulling over and speaking with an NBC freelancer alleged to be following the Rittenhouse juror bus. NBC producer Irene Byon also speaks with police over the phone to try to explain his actions. A police video of the encounter between the Kenosha, Wis., police department and NBC freelancer James Morrison last month shows an NBC producer seeming to admit she instructed Morrison to follow a vehicle holding jury members in the Kyle Rittenhouse murder trial. The video, taken on the night of Nov. 17 during deliberations in the closely watched trial, showed police questioning Morrison as to why he was following the vehicle, and reprimanding booking producer Irene Byon via phone for instructing him to do so. A sign is pictured outside NBC headquarters at Rockefeller Center in the Manhattan borough of New York City, New York, U.S., January 16, 2020. REUTERS/Carlo Allegri "So were you following a vehicle?" the officer asked Morrison in the video, after he identified himself as a "producer" for NBC. "I was trying to see – I was being called by New York going, maybe these are the people you need to follow, but I don't know, I was trying to –" Morrison said, before the officer interrupted him asking, "You were trying to what?" MSNBC DENIES FREELANCER INTENDED TO CONTACT OR PHOTOGRAPH RITTENHOUSE JURY "Just do what they told me to do," Morrison said. "New York told you to follow a vehicle?" the officer asked, to which Morrison responded, "Yes." The officer asked if it was his "offices in New York," telling him to do so, to which Morrison said, "That's right." "How did they know about this vehicle?" the officer asked. "I don't know," Morrison said. RITTENHOUSE JUDGE BANS MSNBC FROM COURTROOM AFTER PERSON ACCUSED OF TRAILING JURY BUS Morrison claimed he was intending to be discreet and wasn't trying to talk to anybody. "Just trying to find a location, that's all," he added. The officer asked for the information of the person who told Morrison to follow the vehicle, and Morrison called Byon and put her on the phone with the police officer. Kyle Rittenhouse reacts to the verdict as he sits next to one of his attorneys Corey Chirafisi during his trial at the Kenosha County Courthouse in Kenosha, Wisconsin, U.S., November 19, 2021. MSNBC BAN FROM RITTENHOUSE TRIAL SPOTLIGHTS MEDIA'S OFTEN RECKLESS COVERAGE OF CASE Notably, the officer asked Byon why she had a producer following "vehicles," without mentioning the van had the trial's jurors, but Byon said NBC wasn't trying to get in touch with "any of the jury members." "Hi officer, my name is Irene. I'm a booking producer with NBC News. We were just trying to respectfully – just trying to see if it's possible to find any leads about the case," Byon can be heard saying. "And so we were just keeping our distance, just to see where people involved in the trial are positioned. By no means were we trying to get in contact with any of the jury members or whoever is in the car. We just were trying to see where key players in the trial may be at." "You advised him to follow any vehicle? Did you know which vehicle he was following?" the officer asked. "We just had our people positioned in different areas of the courthouse to see if anyone would be able to –" Byon said before her audio started to fade in and out. The officer than admonished the pair. "Well, we're going to ask you guys to not do that. All right? That's a concern here. This is huge. We can't afford anything crazy happening, putting people in dangerous positions. This individual violated some traffic laws here doing this. So we're going to ask you guys to refrain from doing that," the officer said. KYLE RITTENHOUSE FOUND NOT GUILTY ON ALL COUNTS IN KENOSHA TRIAL Judge Bruce Schroeder alerts the attorneys that an MSNBC staffer was ticketed the previous night during Kyle Rittenhouse's trial at the Kenosha County Courthouse in Kenosha, Wis., on Thursday, Nov. 18, 2021. Both apologized to the officer and Morrison was later released after receiving a traffic citation. Following the encounter last month, an NBC spokesperson provided a statement to Fox News reading, "Last night, a freelancer received a traffic citation. While the traffic violation took place near the jury van, the freelancer never contacted or intended to contact the jurors during deliberations, and never photographed or intended to photograph them. We regret the incident and will fully cooperate with the authorities on any investigation." The following day, Judge Bruce Schroeder banned MSNBC from the courtroom over the incident. The jury went on to acquit Rittenhouse on all charges for the shooting deaths of two people and the injury of another last year during unrest in Kenosha. Rittenhouse successfully argued he acted in self-defense. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Byon and NBC News didn't respond to requests for comment.
Brian Laundrie's parents seen hiking in Myakkahatchee Creek park following son's death: Chris and Roberta Laundrie spent about three hours hiking in the North Port, Florida, park. Senior correspondent Laura Ingle reports on the Brian Laundrie autopsy results revealing the fiancé of Gabby Petito died by a self-inflicted gunshot wound. Deceased fugitive Brian Laundrie's parents, Chris and Roberta Laundrie, on Tuesday, were seen walking in the park where their son's remains were recovered in October. Chris and Roberta Laundrie spent about three hours hiking in the North Port, Florida, park where, just a month earlier, they helped law enforcement discover their son's remains and belongings after a significant amount of water had drained in the swampy area. "They go [there] to hike and mourn their son," Laundrie family attorney Steven Bertolino said. Chris and Roberta Laundrie at the Myakkahatchee Creek nature reserve Tuesday. Neighbor Charlene Guthrie told Fox News that the Laundries are away from home for hours most days since media left their neighborhood after the autopsy results were revealed. A for-sale sign that was likely a hoax briefly appeared on their lawn but was taken down. Photos also show the pair getting groceries and going about daily life after their son's death. The Florida District 12 Medical Examiner's Office revealed on Nov. 23 that Laundrie, 23, took his own life with a gunshot wound to the head. The Laundries had turned over all of the firearms in their home to the FBI – but one was missing, sources close to the investigation told Fox News Digital. Brian Laundrie as seen in bodycam footage released by the Moab Police Department in Utah. BRIAN LAUNDRIE UPDATE: FAMILY SURRENDERED GUN TO LAW ENFORCEMENT ON SEPT. 17 – BUT ONE WAS MISSING The 23-year-old fugitive was a person of interest in the disappearance and homicide of his former 22-year-old fiancée, Gabby Petito  — a tragedy that captured the nation's attention for more than a month after Petito's family reported her missing on September 11. Laundrie's parents, along with police, recovered his partial skeletal remains, along with a backpack and other personal items belonging to Laundrie, on Oct. 20 at the Myakkahatchee Creek Environmental Park, where the family frequently hiked. The following day, after a comparison of dental records, the agency confirmed the remains as Laundrie's. BRIAN LAUNDRIE FOUND: PARENTS MAY HAVE JUST MISSED DISCOVERING SON THEMSELVES The medical examiner's office conducted an initial autopsy in late October, but results came back inconclusive. The remains were then sent to a forensic anthropologist. Chris and Roberta Laundrie in the Myakkahatchee Creek Environmental Park with at least one law enforcement officer in October. Authorities also found Laundrie's notebook on Oct. 20, which police say "may be salvageable." It is unclear what is inside the notebook. BRIAN LAUNDRIE SEARCH: FBI CONFIRMS UNIDENTIFIED HUMAN REMAINS, FUGITIVE'S BACKPACK AND NOTEBOOK FOUND Laundrie had returned to his parents' home on September 1 without Petito. Petito's family reported her missing 10 days later. Laundrie's parents then reported their son missing on September 17 but clarified later that the last time they saw him was September 13. The North Port Police Department and the FBI searched the Myakkahatchee Creek park for more than a month before eventually finding Brian's remains and personal items with help from Laundrie's parents in an area that had previously been underwater. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Petito-Schmidt family attorney Richard Stafford told Fox News' Laura Ingle last week that the family "has been aware of the circumstances surrounding the suicide of the sole suspect in Gabby’s murder" and "will not be making a statement at this time due to the request of the United States Attorney’s Office and the Teton County Prosecutor’s Office."
Alec Baldwin says he did not pull the trigger in fatal 'Rust' shooting incident: 'I would never': Alec Baldwin did not deny he was holding the gun that discharged on the set of 'Rust'. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Alec Baldwin alleged that he did not pull the trigger on the gun that fired resulting in the death of cinematographer Halyna Hutchins in a preview for an upcoming televised interview on Thursday night. It was announced on Wednesday that Baldwin will sit down for his first formal interview about the fatal shooting that took place on the set of the indie-Western film "Rust." In a preview for the tell-all, Baldwin addresses the fact that he was holding a gun that was somehow loaded with a live bullet that should not have been on the set at all, let alone in an actor’s hand. During the preview, which is heavily edited for the purpose of teasing the larger interview that’s set to air Thursday evening, an emotional Baldwin states unequivocally that he did not pull the trigger. "The trigger wasn’t pulled. I didn’t pull the trigger," Baldwin told George Stephanopoulos. ALEC BALDWIN’S ROLE AS PRODUCER ON ‘RUST’ COULD PLAY A KEY ROLE IN SHOOTING INVESTIGATION: FORMER FILMMAKER He adds: "No, no, no, no, I would never point a gun at anyone and pull the trigger. Never." However, the Santa Fe Country Sheriff’s department said in a warrant that Baldwin "fired" the gun. Baldwin was holding the gun and rehearsing a scene for the movie when a live round rang out, hitting Hutchins before getting stuck in the shoulder of director Joel Souza. In the heavily edited preview clip, Baldwin does not seem to deny that he was holding the gun at the time, with the distinction seemingly being that he did not pull the trigger. Alec Baldwin spoke with reporters about the deadly on-set shooting on the movie 'Rust.' ALEC BALDWIN 'RUST' SHOOTING: SEARCH WARRANT DESCRIBES MOMENTS ARE DISCHARGE: LIVE UPDATES This is in line with previous reports that indicated that Baldwin was not scripted to fire the firearm in the scene. Representatives for the Santa Fe County Sheriff’s Department, which is leading the investigation, did not immediately respond to Fox News’ request for comment. 'RUST' MOVIE SHOOTING: DEPUTIES CONFISCATE MORE WEAPONS, AMMUNITION FROM SET The Los Angeles Times previously reported that a total of three incidents involving guns being fired accidentally happened prior to the incident involving Baldwin on Oct. 21. One involved Baldwin’s stunt double firing a blank round after he was told the gun he was holding was "cold," an industry term meaning that there were no projectiles in the firearm. This is similar to what assistant director Dave Halls told Baldwin on the day of the shooting, not realizing that a live round was in the gun he handed the actor before declaring it "cold." The outlet reports another shooting involved a woman in the props department. She was handling a gun and accidentally shot herself in the foot with a blank round, according to Lane Luper, the A-camera first assistant on "Rust." CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Elsewhere in the preview clip, Baldwin seems to focus on what the police previously said the investigation is focused on as well — how a live round got into the gun. Alec Baldwin alleged that he did not pull the trigger on the gun that killed Halyna Hutchins. "Someone put a live bullet in the gun, a bullet that wasn’t even supposed to be on the property," Baldwin says. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Indeed, the one thing that seems to be consistent throughout everyone’s account of the event is that live rounds should not have been on the set at all. However, it seems like there was confusion regarding the use of dummy rounds and blank rounds. While the latter is made to look entirely different from live rounds but simulate a gunshot when discharged, dummy rounds cannot fire but are made to look similar to real bullets for the purposes of filming. Halyna Hutchins died on the set of the movie "Rust." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Armorer Hanna Gutierrez Reed, who was one of the few people who handled the gun prior to the shooting, alleged through her attorneys that sabotage may have been at play on the set of the movie.
Alessandra Ambrosio explains why she posed nude for new photo book: ‘It was something very special’: Stewart Shining has released a new book on the former Victoria's Secret model titled 'Alessandra By Stewart Shining'. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Alessandra Ambrosio has been photographed by every top photographer – but there was one who put her completely at ease when it came to baring it all. The former Victoria’s Secret Angel teamed up with Stewart Shining for a coffee table book titled "Alessandra By Stewart Shining," which features never-before-seen shots, new editorial images, throwback snaps and more intimate nude photographs. The two met in the late ‘90s when the supermodel, then 17, came to New York City from her native Brazil, People magazine reported on Tuesday. According to the star, they "bonded from day one." The 40-year-old told the outlet that the final result of their latest collaboration is "an art book" because "you can see more intimate moments of my life, my career." SUPERMODEL ALESSANDRA AMBROSIO UNVEILS HER TONED ABS IN NEON-GREEN BIKINI DURING BEACH OUTING Alessandra Ambrosio has led a successful decades-long career as a model. Many fans still remember her as a Victoria's Secret Angel. "It was something very special for me to be able to do," the mother of two shared. According to Ambrosio, one of the main reasons she posed nude for Shining was because she "trusts him." "Even if I have been a model for a long time, there aren’t that many times that I’ve posed nude," she explained. "But with him, I decided, ‘No, let’s do it. Especially for the book.’ Because I just feel comfortable." "I know that the picture’s not going to be vulgar," she continued. "I know it’s going to be more like a piece of art than just a sexy picture. We have [a] very similar vision on what we want from our work. So I can be 100% myself when he has the camera in front of him. We can just be super natural and free in a way." CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Alessandra Ambrosio walks the runway during the 2016 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show on November 30, 2016 in Paris, France. Ambrosio also noted that her boyfriend, model Richard Lee, was a welcoming addition on set. "[He] directs very well," she said. "If he is not working and I’m doing a photo shoot somewhere that he can come we’ll do a few pictures together sometimes." Back in May 2020, Ambrosio spoke to Fox News about how she stays in camera-ready shape for any shoot. "I love to do yoga as it centers me and also at the same time keeps me in shape," she said at the time. "Since there is a lot to do around the house sometimes I don’t have much time to work out, in which case I try to do some stretching and hold a plank for five to 10 minutes." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Alessandra Ambrosio credited yoga for helping her stay in camera-ready shape. Ambrosio revealed that while she's committed to eating clean on most days, she's made a few exceptions. "I have always eaten healthy and that has not changed during the quarantine. I try to eat fresh, organic fruit and vegetables, but since I had multiple birthdays during this time there is an occasional piece of cake incorporated in my diet," she admitted. Still, she pointed out that as long as you are staying active, "there is no reason to not treat yourself with a dessert here and there." Fox News' Melissa Roberto contributed to this report.
Biden claims to have served as a 'liaison' during Six-Day War despite still being in law school at the time: Biden did meet with Meir six years after the war in 1973. President may have meant to refer to his 1973 trip to Israel President Biden said he met with former Israeli Prime Minister Golda Meir and served as a liaison between Israel and Egypt during the Six-Day War despite still being in law school at the time. The president, who spoke during a menorah lighting in celebration of Hanukkah Wednesday at the White House, appeared to be referring to a meeting he had with her just prior to the October 1973 Yom Kippur War. It's not clear what he meant by his role as a "liaison." "I have known every — every prime minister well since Golda Meir, including Golda Meir," Biden said. "And during the Six-Day War, I had an opportunity to — she invited me to come over because I was going to be the liaison between she and the Egyptians about the Suez."And I sat in front of her desk," he continued. "And she had a guy — her staff member — to my right. His name was Rabin. And she kept flipping those maps up and down. She had that bevy of maps — sort of kept it — and it was — it was so depressing what she was — about what happened. She gave me every detail." President Biden. BIDEN DITCHES TRUMP'S PRO-ISRAEL STANCE ON PALESTINIAN 'RIGHT TO RETURN' The Six-Day War, a short conflict pitting Israel against a coalition of Jordan, Syria and Egypt that completely reshaped the region, broke out in June 1967, one year before Biden graduated from Syracuse University College of Law. Meir was not elected to serve as prime minister until almost two years after the war, serving in the role from 1969-1974. Though Biden Wednesday appeared to be touting his relationship with Meir and support for Israel, a classified Israeli memo unearthed last year summarizing the meeting offered details Biden left out. The memo claims that Biden told Meir that the territories Israel had captured during the Six-Day War, which included West Bank and the Gaza Strip, amounted to "creeping annexation." October 31, 1973 file photo of Israeli Premier Golda Meir. Notes taken by an unnamed Israeli official in the meeting say that Biden told Meir that during talks in Cairo before he arrived in Israel, Egyptian officials had assured him that they accepted "Israel’s military superiority," according to a Times of Israel report last year. Biden used this contention to suggest that Israel was in a position to offer the Arabs unilateral concessions to promote peace. He tried to convince the prime minister to withdraw from areas of lesser strategic importance, a suggestion Meir rejected before lecturing the young senator about the problems Israel was facing in the region. Less than six weeks later, Meir's fears were confirmed when Egypt and Syria attacked Israel. The memo also claims that Biden was highly critical of the Nixon administration during the meeting, accusing it of being "dragged by Israel" while debate about the Middle East was bogged down in the Senate because lawmakers were fearful of offending Jewish voters. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP President Joe Biden. The official included his own notes recording his impressions of Biden at the bottom of the memo, saying he was full of respect toward Meir and assured the prime minister he was there to learn, "and yet while speaking displayed a fervor and made comments that signaled his lack of diplomatic experience." The White House did not immediately respond to a Fox News request for comment.
New York Times 'journalist' curses gun rights association in alleged voicemail: 'You f---ing a--holes': Erin Marquis: 'Aren’t you just a bit worried that there might be a hell?'. On today’s episode of ‘The Story’, Martha MacCallum speaks to students who survived the Michigan school shooting. Meanwhile, Senator Lindsey Graham weighs in on the Roe v. Wade abortion case. Newly released audio allegedly shows New York Times journalist Erin Marquis cursing the Great Lakes Gun Rights, a Michigan state affiliate of the National Association for Gun Rights, in a voice message. On Thursday, Marquis tweeted out her displeasure after receiving an email from the Great Lakes Gun Rights association. "Just got a press release from the Great Lakes Gun Rights organization about protecting gun rights from democrats in Michigan and I am literally shaking with rage. I hope there is a God and they met that God someday," she tweeted. She also posted the number and email address of Great Lakes Gun Rights for people to "make your displeasure known." FILE - In this Feb. 19, 2021, file photo, firearms are displayed at a gun shop in Salem, Ore. The first legal test of whether a wave of U.S. counties can legally declare themselves "Second Amendment Sanctuaries," and refuse to enforce certain gun laws is playing out in a rural Oregon logging county. The measure Columbia County voters narrowly approved last year bans local officials from enforcing most federal and state gun laws, which includes things like universal background checks or any prohibition on carrying guns. OXFORD HIGH SCHOOL SHOOTING SURVIVOR REMEMBERS SLAIN CLASSMATES: ‘I WANT THE WORLD TO KNOW HOW GOOD THEY WERE’ The Great Lakes Gun Rights group released a press release on Thursday that called out Michigan Democrats, including Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, for trying to pass new gun control laws in the wake of the Oxford High School shooting. "Great Lakes Gun Rights urges the Legislature to reject the politically-motivated calls for more gun control and to instead focus on life-saving policies that allow law-abiding citizens to be their own self-defense," Executive Director Brenden Boudreau said. TINLEY PARK, ILLINOIS - APRIL 08: A customer purchases a gun at Freddie Bear Sports on April 08, 2021 in Tinley Park, Illinois. President Joe Biden today announced gun control measures which included stricter controls on the purchase of homemade firearms, commonly referred to as Ghost Guns and he made a push for national Red Flag legislation and other measures. The National Association for Gun Rights later posted a video that allegedly featured a voicemail left by Marquis to Great Lakes Gun Rights. "Hi, I'm a journalist with the New York Times. I’m just calling to wonder. I have two questions. How do you sleep at night? And aren’t you just a bit worried that there might be a hell? And when you meet God, He will send you there? That’s just my only question. The third question, the only people politicizing this seems to be you because you’re the only people I got a f---ing press release from," Marquis said. She also added "Again, I am from the New York Times, and I’m letting everyone in the New York Times know what kind of f---ing a—holes you are. Congrats on being a laughing stock. You f---ing ghouls. I hope that there is a God in heaven, so He judges you when you die." The New York Times ignored 18 deaths, countless injuries and nearly $2 billion dollars in property damage nationwide as it slammed Republican bills designed to stop what the paper considered mostly "peaceful" protests. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Marquis self-described herself a journalist for the New York Times but in her Twitter biography she lists her job as lead editor for Wirecutter. Wirecutter is affiliated with the New York Times, which the Times describes as its "product recommendation service" offering consumers trusted advice on the latest merchandise being sold. Neither the New York Times or Marquis responded to Fox News when reached for a comment.
Jacqueline Avant murder suspect served time for robbery, inflicting bodily injury before Beverly Hills slaying: Beverly Hills Police Chief Mark Stainbrook said Maynor was on parole at the time of the slaying and has an 'extensive criminal history'. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. The man accused of killing Jacqueline Avant, wife of Grammy Award-winning music executive Clarence Avant, was paroled from a California prison in September after serving time for a robbery conviction and has been incarcerated for other offenses. Aariel Maynor, 29, of Los Angeles, is suspected in the shooting death of Avant, 81, at her Beverly Hills estate early Wednesday during an alleged burglary. He was arrested by Los Angeles police officers during a second burglary in which he accidentally shot himself in the foot, authorities said Thursday. At a news conference Thursday, Beverly Hills Police Chief Mark Stainbrook said Maynor was on parole at the time of the slaying and has an "extensive criminal history" before declining to elaborate. LA THIEVES GO AFTER BABY-STROLLING MOTHER Aariel Mayor, 29, was released on parole in September on convictions for robbery and grand theft. He is accused of killing Jacqueline Avant, wife of Grammy Award-winning music executive Clarence Avant, in the couple's Beverly Hills home this week. Maynor was paroled from prison Sept. 1 after receiving a four-year prison sentence for second-degree robbery in November 2018, the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation told Fox News. The sentence came with enhanced penalties because he had a prior felony conviction. "He was released to parole supervision on Sept. 1, 2021 after serving his full sentence as defined by law," a CDCR spokesman said. In 2013, he was sentenced to a five-year term for a separate second-degree robbery and inflicting great bodily injury. He received an extra 16 months for a grand theft conviction as well. He was released to parole supervision on March 16, 2018, but then "absconded" in July of that year. By August 2018, he was back on parole supervision, officials said. While on parole, he was registered as a transient, the CDCR said. In 2011, he was arrested in Santa Monica for an alleged misdemeanor offense of public intoxication. Other arrests include a robbery and burglary 2010, none of which prosecuted, according to Los Angeles County court records. Jacqueline Avant, left, and Clarence Avant appear at the 11th Annual AAFCA Awards in Los Angeles on Jan. 22, 2020. She was fatally shot early Wednesday in Beverly Hills, Calif. Investigators have not speculated on why Maynor allegedly shot Avant. They were contacted by the Los Angeles Police Department after the second burglary resembled the one that took place in Beverly Hills, officials said Thursday. "Somewhere in the night we had an astute watch commander at Hollywood  that started to put two-and-two together and reached out to Beverly Hills … and we started communicating, and there were some similarities," LAPD Deputy Chief Blake Chow said. Authorities recovered evidence related to the shooting of Avant, including an AR-15 rifle, police said. Clarence Avant and a private security guard were on the property at the time of the shooting but were not hurt. Beverly Hills Police Chief Mark G. Stainbrook, left, addresses the media during a news conference, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021, in Beverly Hills, Calif. Jacqueline Avant, the wife of music legend Clarence Avant, was fatally shot in Beverly Hills early Wednesday. Second from left is Beverly Hills Mayor Robert Wunderlich. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Maynor was taken to a hospital after shooting himself in the foot and will be booked into the Los Angeles County jail once he is medically cleared by doctors. Jacqueline Avant was a philanthropist and 55-year resident of Beverly Hills, and her 90-year-old husband was the subject of the 2019 Netflix documentary "The Black Godfather." In October, Clarence Avant was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. The couple was married 54 years.
Semitrailer drags sedan down Illinois highway in captured video footage: No injuries were reported, police said.. In the video, a person can be seen waving from inside the sedan. A tractor-trailer was captured on video dragging a sedan on an Illinois freeway earlier this week. A driver in a neighboring lane recorded the harrowing scene, which happened Tuesday on Interstate 294 northbound just outside Chicago around 11:40 a.m. The crash happened after the Honda Accord switched lanes, police said. Illinois State Police said the driver of a black 2005 Honda Accord was changing lanes when the car somehow got stuck underneath the passenger side of a red 2014 Freightliner trailer. A person can be seen waving from the passenger side of the Honda. The semitrailer dragged the Honda Accord before eventually coming to a stop. FLORIDA POLICE SEEK HELP TO ID VICTIM FROM TATTOO AFTER BODY PARTS FOUND FLOATING IN BAY The truck eventually came to a stop. The video footage shows the semitrailer appearing to keep up with the speed of other drivers without getting bogged down by the sedan underneath. Toward the end of the clip, someone can be seen waving from the driver’s seat of the sedan. Police identified the semitrailer driver as Mohamed Yousif, 52, of East Moline, Illinois, and the Honda Accord driver as Laylisha A. Gardner, 19, of Evanston, Illinois. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP No injuries were reported. State police did not provide any further information regarding possible charges.
HBO execs ‘were concerned’ about ‘Sopranos’ star James Gandolfini ‘staying alive,' book claims: James Gandolfini, who famously played Tony Soprano, passed away in 2013. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. HBO executives feared for "Sopranos" star James Gandolfini’s health on set. The claim was made in a new book titled "Tinderbox: HBO’s Ruthless Pursuit of New Frontiers" written by journalist James Andrew Miller. For the book, former Time Warner chairman and HBO CEO Jeff Bewkes spoke with Miller about execs who were allegedly worried about the actor "staying alive" during the mob drama’s six-season run. "We were concerned about Gandolfini staying alive," said Bewkes, as quoted by the New York Post on Thursday. "Occasionally he would go on a bender or a coke binge. We had to stop production." JAMES GANDOLFINI HAD A 'TANTRUM' OVER RAUNCHY 'SOPRANOS' SCENE Actor James Gandolfini in a scene from the HBO TV drama series "The Sopranos." Bewkes shared that the production delays were costly and "was hard on the other actors’ schedules." However, he "didn’t pressure" former HBO chairman Chris Albrecht about Gandolfini missing work because he "thought Jimmy was embarrassed." Albrecht, who was also interviewed for the book, claimed the network hosted an intervention at Gandolfini's New York City apartment. "The intervention wasn’t my idea," he said, as quoted by the outlet. "I think [it was] his family’s idea because his sister was there. It was definitely a crisis situation." Albrecht explained he was more concerned about how Gandolfini’s health would continue to impact production. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Actor James Gandolfini allegedly didn't take the news of an intervention too well. "I don’t remember us being worried he was going to die, but it became a real problem with shooting the show," he said. "It became a lack of respect for the other actors as well, so there were sort of problems that bubbled up." Albrecht said the intervention was "disastrous." When Gandolfini saw his loved ones waiting for him, he began to scream, "Oh, f--- this. F--- all of you." Gandolfini left the building after he dared Albrecht to fire him. In 2002, allegations of drug use by Gandolfini spilled into tabloid reports during his divorce case with his first wife, Marcy Wudarski. Gandolfini’s then publicist Dan Klores was quoted as acknowledging the actor’s prior drug and alcohol abuse, but claimed it was "a problem that existed in the past." Gandolfini starred as Tony Soprano in the hit series, which aired from 1999 until 2007. It was just one facet of his rich legacy as an actor in movies and plays. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP An autopsy on James Gandolfini found that the "Sopranos" star died of a heart attack, with no evidence of substance abuse or foul play. He suffered a fatal heart attack in 2013 while on a trip to Italy. He was 51. An autopsy found that there was no evidence of substance abuse. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Fauci blasted by PETA for using monkeys in 'horrendous HIV experiments': PETA urged Fauci to end 'horrendous HIV experiments' on monkeys. Dr. Anthony Fauci on Wednesday advised viewers of a CNN town hall to wear a mask indoors even if they've been fully vaccinated against the coronavirus and received the vaccine booster. The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals blasted Dr. Anthony Fauci in a letter Thursday for allowing the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases to continue using monkeys in HIV and AIDS vaccination experiments. The letter states that NIAID has been using macaques, a type of monkey, for experiments into a potential vaccine for HIV and AIDS for almost 40 years. "The macaque model for developing a vaccine for human immunodeficiency virus  has failed. After nearly 40 years of painful, deadly, expensive experiments — a vaccine is still not on the market," the letter states. Additionally, the letter states that HIV is human-specific, and macaques' have qualities that prevent HIV replication in their tissues and they cannot develop AIDS. PETA CALLS FOR DR. FAUCI TO RESIGN: 'OUR POSITION IS CLEAR' Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, listens during a Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee hearing in Washington, D.C. Nov. 4, 2021. The letter was released in response to Fauci’s World AIDS Day statement, which says that "finding a safe, effective and durable HIV vaccine remains an NIH priority." Lisa Jones-Engel, a senior science advisor for PETA, maintains that the experiments on macaques have proven to be an "unqualified failure." PETA cited one instance where Fauci said that a preclinical study on a cure for HIV involving monkeys "might have been a fluke" after it did not help humans infected with the virus. Jones-Engel also alleged that Fauci ignored the "presence of unintended infections" that occur in monkeys used in these experiments, citing an investigation by the Arizona Republic that shows that the presence of Valley fever in monkeys has the potential to damage the reliability of HIV research. REP. NANCY MACE DEMANDS FAUCI ANSWER FOR 'CRUEL, TAXPAYER-FUNDED EXPERIMENTS ON PUPPIES' Rhesus macaques monkey resident of a temple dedicated to the Hindu monkey god Hanuman in February 2018 in Jaipur, Rajasthan, India. "This has cost taxpayers tens of billions of dollars and condemned hundreds of thousands of monkeys to miserable lives and deaths," the PETA letter states. "And the public is still waiting for a vaccine to prevent HIV. Please stop funding and conducting HIV/SHIV/AIDS experiments on monkeys." One National Institutes of Health grant for a project in 2020 lists Fauci as the project leader and states that monkeys were used to test their hypothesis. At least $1,001,661 was given to this project by the NIH. Fauci has also been the coauthor of several studies seeking to find a cure for HIV and the simian immunodeficiency virus, which used monkeys for testing purposes. A long-tailed macaque is seen at the Pra Prang Sam Yot temple before the annual Monkey Buffet Festival in Lopburi, north of Bangkok in November 2015. Instead, PETA is pushing for Fauci to shift to "modern, human-relevant research," that reduces animal research. FAUCI UNDER FIRE OVER REPORT ALLEGING NIAID SPENT $400K ON RESEARCH INFECTING DOGS WITH PARASITES "Anthony Fauci’s agency at the National Institutes of Health has funded 36 years of horrendous HIV experiments on monkeys — and there is still no vaccine," PETA Senior Vice President Kathy Guillermo said. "Fauci has publicly stated why the monkey HIV experiments aren’t working — yet he fails, decade after decade, to stop them. He even co-led many of these experiments himself. Monkeys don’t get HIV, and Fauci needs to end experiments on them and instead fund modern, human-relevant research," . Fox News reached out to the National Institutes of Health for comment.
'Collaborating with the mullahs': Iranian dissidents warn US not to return to the nuclear deal: Ali Khamenei, wants an Iranian nuclear bomb "to guarantee his power.. Activists urge President Biden to side with Iranian protests against the regime; Fox News senior correspondent Eric Shawn has the exclusive. While Iran announced that it is escalating its nuclear program, despite the Vienna talks aimed at preventing just that, Iranian activists are speaking out to Fox News. "My message to President Biden, it is that the regime of Iran does not represent the people of Iran," said Ali, an Iranian activist who, like the others, warns of the consequences of the U.S. dropping sanctions against Iran if it re-enters the Iranian nuclear agreement. "If the U.S. goes back to the nuclear deal, that's the same thing would happen as happened back in 2015. Iran, the regime of Iran, is going to gain almost $160 billion and 1.7 billion Euros, and yet it is not going to stop its nuclear actions, and actually they even develop their ballistics and drone military drone programs." BIDEN, EUROPEANS TAKE UP IRAN NUCLEAR PROGRAM IN ROME TALKS "You asked what will happen if the United States returns to JCPOA? I say frankly that this will be a tragedy," says Sima, another activist who says the administration should not even entertain Tehran's demands about the deal, known officially as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, or JCPOA. "The message of the U.S.’s return to JCPOA to us, Iranians, is that the U.S. is collaborating with the Mullahs in suppressing and killing the Iranian people and the Mullahs’ crimes against us, that serves the dictatorship and religious fascism. How can ransom be paid to a regime that brutally kills its own people?" "After the JCPOA deal in 2015, the regime took the cash and spent it on terrorism. Our women in Iran resort to prostitution for a piece of bread," she says. "Lifting sanctions or giving cash to the regime will only prolong its life, the life of the dictatorship." TOPSHOT - This picture taken on July 4, 2017, and released by North Korea's official Korean Central News Agency  on July 5, 2017, shows the successful test-fire of the intercontinental ballistic missile Hwasong-14 at an undisclosed location. South Korea and the United States fired off missiles on July 5 simulating a precision strike against North Korea's leadership, in response to a landmark ICBM test described by Kim Jong-Un as a gift to "American bastards". For months, massive protests have spread throughout the country from people calling for the overthrow of the regime, unhappy with government policies that have led to a troubled economy, rationing, and shortages of goods. Reports say thousands of demonstrators have been arrested or killed by regime forces. Fox News is not identifying the activists whom we spoke to for their own safety. But they are united in their opposition to the regime and steadfast in their message to President Biden and the American people. "I want President Biden to be by the side of the people of Iran, the people who have been participating in different uprisings against the regime of Iran. Actually, now we are approaching the second anniversary of the November of 2019, where there was one of the biggest uprisings in the recent history of the regime. Where they could only maintain the people by killing more than 1,400 people on the streets and capturing and imprisoning more than twenty thousand people," Ali told us. "I want President Biden to know that the experience of the past 42 years has showed that the politics of appeasement does not work anymore. For instance, we saw that the nuclear deal of 2015 did not to limit Iran's actions towards achieving a nuclear weapon. Therefore, there is no time for the politics of appeasement." Iran's new President-elect Ebrahim Raisi speaks during a press conference in Tehran, Iran, on Monday. The administration has said that it will only return to the deal and lift billions of dollars in U.S. sanctions, if Tehran lives up to the agreement. But the Iranian negotiators in Vienna have demanded that the U.S. sanctions be dropped first, potentially freeing up billions of dollars in new revenue for the regime, even before the talks can consider the nuclear program. Supporters of the nuclear deal have said that it has prevented Iran from obtaining a nuclear bomb, and ensures transparency of the Iranian nuclear program for international monitors from the United Nation's IAEA, the International Atomic Energy Agency. But the activists say the agreement will pave the way for Tehran to be free to obtain nuclear weapons when the agreement ends, which is now set for October 2025. IRAN DIGS IN AT NUCLEAR DEAL TALKS, CONTRADICTING EU DIPLOMAT Some of the protestors, including the ones we talked to, are members of the largest Iranian opposition group, The National Council of Resistance of Iran. The group's leader, Maryam Rajavi, has been warning about Iran's nuclear intentions. "The IAEA believes that the regime is close to making a bomb, an outcome of the policy of complacency," Rajavi recently told the French National Assembly. "Because of the lack of a firm policy, the regime has always taken advantage of negotiations to strengthen itself and prepare itself for further aggressions." TEHRAN, IRAN - NOVEMBER 03: She says that Iran's Supreme Leader, Ali Khamenei, wants an Iranian nuclear bomb "to guarantee his power. He wants to hold world peace and security hostage to gain concessions. The only factor that can stop him is the Iranian people’s organized resistance and uprising." The group says that the regime's hold is fragile, and that the reported killing of more than 1,500 protestors during street protests two years ago is proof that the government will resort to deadly brutality to try and maintain its grip on power. "The Iranian people want the overthrow of the regime and a free and democratic society," Rajavi says. Ali, one of the activists we talked to, echoes those sentiments. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "The truth is, no one is going to hand us freedom on a silver platter. As Thomas Jefferson said, the Tree of Liberty, most from time to time be refreshed by the blood of the Patriots. We are ready and willing to pay the full price and give our lives for the future of Iran to be free."
New York confirms 5 cases of the omicron coronavirus variant: New York is the fourth state to confirm the virus. Dr. Richard Besser says there are already probably many cases of the omicron variant in the US on 'Your World.' The omicron variant of the coronavirus has been documented in the New York City area. Five cases of the variant have been confirmed in New York City, Mayor Bill de Blasio and Gov. Kathy Hochul said on Thursday evening. US President Joe Biden speaks about the administrations response to Covid-19 and the Omicron variant at the National Institutes of Health THIRD OMICRON CASE IN THE UNITED STATES DETECTED IN COLORADO Hochul said that one case was documented in Brooklyn, two in Queens, and one in Suffolk County, Long Island. "New York State has confirmed five cases of the omicron variant," Hochul tweeted. "Let me be clear: This is not cause for alarm. We knew this variant was coming and we have the tools to stop the spread. Get your vaccine. Get your booster. Wear your mask." The news came the same day it was learned that the omicron variant was present in Minnesota and Colorado. The Minnesota man who tested positive for omicron traveled to New York City for an anime convention in November. Dr. Anthony Fauci speaks about the Omicron coronavirus variant case, which was detected in California, during a press briefing at the White House in Washington, U.S., December 1, 2021. REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque FAUCI DODGES QUESTION ON ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS FOLLOWING SAME TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS AS AMERICANS: 'DIFFERENT ISSUE' Earlier this week, the first omicron case was confirmed in California. Omicron is classified by the World Health Organization as a "variant of concern" as scientists work to determine how it may compare with the predominant delta variant in terms of transmissibility and severity. Scientists also are studying the degree to which existing vaccines and therapies protect against omicron. Scientists in South Africa first reported it, but the samples came from several countries in southern Africa. And health officials in the Netherlands now say it was found there prior to the South Africa detection. A hospital worker ensures people practice social distancing as they wait in line to get vaccinated against COVID-19 at the Lenasia South Hospital, near Johannesburg, South Africa, Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021. Despite the global worry, doctors in South Africa are reporting patients with the omicron variant are suffering mostly mild symptoms so far. But they warn that it is early. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Those infected by the new variant have suffered "very mild symptoms" so far, according to a South African doctor who first reported the variant. Associated Press contributed to this report
Feminists 'in full-blown panic mode' about state of Roe v. Wade: Hegseth: The 'Fox News Primetime' host said they're 'terrified that...we the people' will have a say in 'radically alter[ing]' Roe v. Wade. Pete Hegseth says that infants are 'unformed bodies knit together by God' in his opening monologue on 'Fox News Primetime.' Fox News host Pete Hegseth celebrated the potential overturning of Roe v. Wade in his opening monologue Thursday on "Fox News Primetime." SUPREME COURT HEARS MISSISSIPPI ABORTION CASE THAT COULD OVERTURN ROE V. WADE: LIVE UPDATES PETE HEGSETH: This week, we're seeing the culmination of decades of hard work, important work and principled work after hours of oral arguments. The Supreme Court appears set to uphold a Mississippi law that bans abortions after 15 weeks, setting the stage to at least radically alter Roe's precedent and at best, yes, to overturn Roe v. Wade, the landmark decision that has led to the abortion of at least 62 million innocent American babies since 1973. A generational genocide of America's unborn. Now worshiped by the left as a savior for women, for far too long, Roe v. Wade seemed untouchable. Just 10 years ago, with Obama in the White House and a Supreme Court stacked with pro-choice justices, this day, it felt very far off. Until now, because of the endless efforts of pro-life groups, activists, educators, mothers. Because of major technological advancements that prove that even at the earliest stages of life, as King David wrote in Psalm [139], "For you created my inmost being; you knit me together in my mother's womb. I praise you because I am fearfully and wonderfully made; your works are wonderful, I know that full well. Your eyes saw my unformed body." Unformed bodies knit together by God. Not the decision of Planned Parenthood. … [D]espite what the captured corporate media tells you, most Americans are actually against what Roe v. Wade protects, even if they don't necessarily realize it. 65% of Americans, according to a Gallup poll in 2018, say abortion in the second trimester should be illegal, even though Roe v. Wade allows it. It's actually just a small, loud, angry minority of radical feminists who really support unfettered abortion. And now, today, this week, they're in full-blown panic mode. They're terrified that the states - that we the people, not nine people in black robes - will soon get a say in determining the all-important question of life, which really should be only answered by God. WATCH HIS FULL COMMENTS BELOW:
The 2024 elections will be a 'bloodbath' for Democrats and 'I'm here for it': Jesse Watters: Jesse Watters said that Democrats are reading 'the writing on the wall: Kamala is not [their] heir apparent'. 'The Five' panel discuss Jen Psaki's response to staff leaving as 'natural' and a 'very positive thing' "The Five" commented on the recent slated departures of top officials in Vice President Kamala Harris' office as well as White House press secretary Jen Psaki's attempts to minimize what is being referred to as a staff "exodus." Symone Sanders, a senior adviser to Vice President Harris and her chief spokesperson, will depart at the end of the year. She is the second top Harris aide to announce her departure in less than a month. Just two weeks ago, Harris Communications Director Ashley Etienne resigned. Psaki on Thursday tried to downplay the departures, characterizing them as a "positive … thing" that is "natural" for any administration. Left: White House press secretary Jen Psaki speaks during a press briefing at the White House, Monday, March 22, 2021, in Washington. However, the hosts on "The Five" said Thursday the departures are a sign of turmoil in the Biden-Harris administration. "Top aides can't get out of Kamala Harris' sinking ship fast enough," Katie Pavlich said. "The VP's office hit with yet another major departure after three other high-level staffers already said they are leaving. This time it's Symone Sanders, one of Harris's most trusted advisers and top spokesperson. Sanders reportedly steered Kamala's plan for handling the border crisis, but now she's hitting the road as it looks like Harris's presidential ambitions are sinking. The White House and Kamala defend that shake-up as perfectly normal." Vice President Kamala Harris speaks to members of the press as her press secretary Symone Sanders looks on at Greenville-Spartanburg International Airport before she boards Air Force Two to return to Washington, D.C., June 14, 2021 in Greer, South Carolina. Jesse Watters said that people are reading "the writing on the wall." "Kamala is not the heir apparent, right? So they're trying to get out before the Kamala stench sinks in too deeply," he said. "These people, a lot of them are about resume-building. You know … these people –  in D.C. it's about … where you went to college, who you work for in the campaign, what your title is and the VP's office. [But] the minute it looks like [Harris is] not going to be the one, they're out."SYMONE SANDERS, A TOP KAMALA HARRIS ADVISER, RESIGNING AMID SIGNS OF VP OFFICE DISARRAY "What you're now seeing is the bench is so thin with … Pete [Buttigieg] and Kamala. It's going to be like a bloodbath in a couple of years," Watters continued. "Because you have – I would say – a what, a gay White male intellectual versus a woman of color. And neither of them can win the white working-class vote, [and] neither of them can win the Black vote. So … this is going to be the most delicious, divisive drama you could ever imagine. As Dana says, 'I'm here for it.'' In recent weeks, CNN reported "entrenched dysfunction and lack of focus" in Harris' wing of the White House. The relationships between the Biden-Harris offices are reportedly strained, despite the cordial relationship between the vice president and President Biden. Following the reports of infighting, White House officials sent out tweets praising Harris. "For anyone who needs to hear it [Harris] is not only a vital partner to [Biden] but a bold leader who has taken on key, important challenges facing the country – from voting rights to addressing root causes of migration to expanding broadband," Psaki tweeted. Harris had nothing but kind words for Symone Sanders when asked about her departure. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP"I love Symone," Harris said. "I can't wait to see what she will do next … And I mean that sincerely." The panel laughed at Harris' proclaimed sincerity. Vice President Kamala Harris arrives at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland before traveling to Columbus, Ohio, on Nov.19, 2021. "When anybody says that, that means I don't mean that sincerely," Watters said. "That's like when they say, ‘With all due respect,'" Dana Perino said. "Or ‘bless your heart,’" Jessica Tarlov added.
Charles Payne on the true joy of Christmas: 'Always something you can do' for others: This Christmas season, Fox Business Network host Charles Payne shares memorable stories of selfless giving — and how this changed his family's life. ‘Fox & Friends Weekend’ co-host and her husband preview the holiday stories highlighted in the new book on ‘The Five.’ The beautiful new book, All American Christmas by Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy, shares an array of holiday traditions, emotional stories and cherished moments connected to the Christmas season, all from Fox personalities. There are plenty of surprises within this book's pages, too. BEST CHRISTMAS GIFT EVER: AMAZING REVEALS FROM FOX NEWS HOSTS Charles Payne, host of "Making Money with Charles Payne" on Fox Business Network and a contributor to Fox News Channel as well, says his Christmas memories are "wrapped up in thoughts of my beloved mother." She was, as he says in the book, "the greatest gift I ever received in my life." Sadly, Payne’s mother, Ruth, passed away four years ago. But she raised Charles and his two brothers, Clarence and Cecil, with dignity and courage, including during some very tough times in Harlem in the 1970s after his parents separated and divorced. From left, Clarence, mom Ruth holding Cecil, and Charles Payne. This photo and many others from an array of Fox News personalities appear with stories and memories in the book ‘All American Christmas.’ Today, Charles Payne explains that his happy Christmases are "due to the kind of care and devotion" that his mom and his family showered on him and his siblings, no matter how trying their circumstances. In this excerpt from All American Christmas, Payne writes about the importance of "another kind of giving and receiving" — the kind that makes this Christmas season "so important and wonderful." Charles Payne in All American Christmas: I’ve been fortunate in my career and in my personal life. I’m blessed with great kids and grandchildren, but my wife received one of the greatest gifts possible. She has had a very serious heart condition since she was a teenager. Doctors had tried numerous treatments, she’d undergone multiple procedures, and she was finally at a point when nothing was working as they hoped. It seemed as if her death was imminent. I was filling in for Stuart Varney on Fox, and during a commercial break, I noticed that I had received an email from a close friend. He was living in California then, and his daughter had died. I was stunned and saddened. He was reaching out because he wanted my wife to receive his daughter’s heart. I wasn’t sure how to respond to his kindness. I forwarded his message to my wife and finished the show. There were a lot of obstacles to overcome. "She'd been approved for the heart transplant," Charles Payne writes about his wife, describing a dramatic period in his family's life and much more. Normally hearts can’t be transported more than four hours; that and other things made the possibility of a transplant seem like a real, real long shot if not a hopeless case. A day later, my wife called, excited and crying. She’d been approved for the heart transplant; if we could get out to Los Angeles, she’d receive it. I went to the daughter’s funeral while there. It was devastating. She was only twenty-one years old, but she had the forethought at that age to sign up as an organ donor. She was thinking of others and not just herself. That young woman gave us back my wife, my kids’ mom, their kids’ grandmother. I don’t know how to describe how grateful we are. That word feels inadequate, and it seemed like there was no way to say anything or do anything to thank my friend’s family. But, of course, there was. There is always something you can do, and in this case, it took the form of paying it forward. What better way to honor their daughter than to give in a new way? THE BEST GIFTS MEANT TO BE PASSED DOWN THROUGH THE GENERATIONS For the past nine years since my wife’s recovery, we’ve gone to various stores at different times in the LA and New York/New Jersey areas, found the layaway department, and asked people if we could help them out by paying off what they owed on purchases they were in the process of making. We supplement that with other items they need. We give them some additional cash to help them. The first time we did that, when we were in Los Angeles, I was so overcome with emotion when I saw their response to us, how grateful they were. I kept thinking, "You have no idea what we’ve been given, all the blessings we’ve received." "We've had a soft spot in our hearts for anyone in need," writes Payne in ‘All American Christmas' as he shares a story of reaching out to others in "tough circumstances." I was also responding to my childhood memories. I remember my mom putting items on layaway. I knew it was stressful for her. It was a good service the stores were offering, but the closer you got to Christmas, the more you had to watch your pennies! It was a countdown to Christmas, and you wanted to be sure you could pay for the item so that you could present it as a gift and put it under the tree. I'd say 99 percent of the recipients are single moms. We’ve had a soft spot in our hearts for anyone in need, but given my mom’s situation, there’s a special section of our hearts reserved for women like her who find themselves in tough circumstances. "All American Christmas" by Rachel Campos-Duffy, along with her husband, Fox News contributor Sean Duffy, is available now. Even before this, my family and I had tried to do what we could to lift up people in need. Convent Baptist Church in Harlem played a crucial role in my life after my mom and my brothers moved to that section of the city. I could have gone a different way in life without the influence of the ministering that was done there. One year, my wife and I donated fifty backpacks  and loaded them with books and supplies. One child who received one of those told people at the church that that gift changed his life. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP He’d been led to believe that he didn’t matter to anyone outside his own family. Such a simple gesture like that changed a life. We all have a role we play in helping one another to get the most out of the time we have. Excerpted from the new book All American Christmas by Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy. To purchase your copy, click here.
Rep. Norman demands FDA release COVID vaccine data in 100 days: FDA requested 55 years to hand over data relating to coronavirus vaccine. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. South Carolina Republican Rep. Ralph Norman on Thursday introduced legislation that could force the Food and Drug Administration to release all documents relating to the coronavirus vaccine within the next 100 days. The legislation is a direct response to a request made last month by the federal agency to prolong releasing data on COVID vaccines for up to 55 years. "How does a vaccine that receives approval in 108 days now require 55 years just to release information?" Norman said to Fox News. "It sounds like the beginning of a very bad joke." Rep. Ralph Norman, R-S.C. BIDEN SAYS THE US MUST 'VACCINATE THE REST OF THE WORLD' TO BEAT COVID-19 PANDEMIC In September, a group of 30 scientists and medical professionals from the Public Health and Medical Professionals for Transparency . The FOIA request was first submitted to the federal agency after the FDA approved the Pfizer vaccine for children age 16 and up in August. The group of scientists argued that releasing data relating to the vaccine would help satisfy vaccine skeptics of its safety and encourage further vaccinations. "Reviewing this information will settle the ongoing public debate regarding the adequacy of the FDA’s review process," the group said in court filings. "Releasing this data should also confirm the FDA’s conclusion that the Pfizer vaccine is safe and effective and, thus, increase confidence in the Pfizer vaccine." FDA PLANS TO AUTHORIZE PFIZER BOOSTERS FOR ALL ADULTS BEFORE WEEK'S END: REPORTS But Justice Department lawyers representing the FDA argued the plaintiff’s request includes more than 329,000 pages of documents — all of which need to be scrubbed to ensure "trade secret[s]" are not publicly released. "The FDA does not have the personnel or resources in its FOIA office to process plaintiff’s FOIA request at a rate of more than 80,000 pages per month," the defense argued. In court documents filed last month, the DOJ said the branch responsible for reviewing and releasing the pages to the PHMPT has just 10 employees who are currently juggling 400 pending FOIA requests.  The FDA has proposed that just 500 pages a month be released instead, which means if the federal judge agrees to the agency's terms, the PHMPT can expect to receive the entirety of the information it seeks by 2076. CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP "The FDA’s only priority should be the health and safety of consumers," Norman said Thursday. "If the Biden administration is hell-bent on forcing these vaccine mandates on us then the public has every right to know how and why this vaccine got approved in such a short amount of time."
California city spending federal COVID funds on license plate readers to deter smash-and-grab mobs: Organized robberies against retail shops and malls have been sweeping California. Los Angeles Police Department's Deon Joseph and former Los Angeles County District Attorney Steve Cooley point the finger at politicians and district attorneys for creating an environment that promotes crime. San Jose has approved funding for license plate readers in an effort to address organized robberies in the city and throughout California in recent weeks. The San Jose City Council voted unanimously Tuesday to allocate $250,000 toward license plate readers. Though the details are still being worked out, the money will come from federal COVID-19 relief funds. A license plate reader scanning passing cars. Organized robberies against retail shops and malls have been sweeping California, particularly the Bay Area, with suspects often escaping with thousands of dollars in stolen merchandise from high-end stores. San Jose was hit with back-to-back robberies on Nov. 21. In the first, two male suspects stole merchandise from the Valley Fair Mall. That same day, four to six people robbed a Lululemon directly across the street, stealing $40,000 in merchandise. SAN FRANCISCO POLICE LT. BLAMES CITY'S LIBERAL POLICIES FOR TYING HER HANDS AMID SMASH AND GRAB ROBBERIES Two days later, two men – Dwayne Huntley and Raheem Lewis – who matched the description of the suspects in the first Nov. 21 robbery were arrested while attempting to rob a Macy’s. Dwayne Huntley, left, and Raheem Lewis. San Jose Mayor Sam Liccardo wrote in a memo that LPR’s will help police better deter and make arrests in armed "smash-mob" burglaries, robberies, auto thefts and drive-by shootings. San Jose mayor speaking at a press conference. "Smash-and-grab mobs are an affront to the hard work and safety of shoppers, retail workers and shopkeepers throughout the region," Liccardo said in a statement. "The expanded investment in license plate reader cameras add to the larger tool set law enforcement uses to apprehend organized burglary rings." Sgt. Christian Camarillo told Fox News that San Jose officers use similar LPR technology on their vehicles to help track down stolen cars. He clarified that the LPRs will only be used in criminal investigations. "This is not for big brother, information sharing, monitoring – you know, anything like that," Camarillo said. "This is merely to help combat and solve crimes. Whether it’s these organized robberies or any other crime." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Despite the aid of technology, Camarillo insisted that the public’s help was crucial in helping law enforcement track down criminals. "If people see something, if they notice something, please report it to the authorities," he said. Fox News’ Emma Colton contributed to this report.
Reporter confronts Psaki after saying Biden would grant more local TV hits: 'He's only done one': 'When are you going to take our questions, sir?' CBS reporter asked Biden last week. A reporter asked the White House press secretary about the president’s lack of local television interviews after Psaki told the press Biden would do more Q&A following the passing of the infrastructure bill. White House press secretary Jen Psaki was challenged Thursday over claims President Biden would regularly grant local TV interviews following passage of his infrastructure bill. As one reporter pointed out at Thursday's press briefing, Biden has only granted one local TV hit since the Nov. 6 vote. Cincinnati's Local 12 nabbed the president for an interview on Nov. 8, his first local TV interview more than 10 months into his administration. "You said one of the things the president is doing is local TV interviews – I think he's only done one so far," the reporter said to Psaki on Thursday. "Yes," Psaki said. White House press secretary Jen Psaki speaks about the Biden administration's plan to fight COVID-19 in Washington on Dec. 2, 2021. The journalist wondered if Americans would start to see his face more on local TV in the next couple of weeks. Psaki couldn't say, arguing the president's packed schedule was to blame. CBS REPORTER PLEADS WITH BIDEN: ‘WHEN WILL YOU ANSWER OUR QUESTIONS?’ "I would very much like that to happen," Psaki said. "We are always competing with time on the schedule. I'm going to be honest, his schedule has been quite packed. But he would like to do it. We would like to get it on the schedule. So, I don't have anything to predict or preview for you at this point and time, but hopefully, we will be able to add some local interviews in the next couple of weeks." White House press secretary Jen Psaki speaks during the daily press briefing at the White House on Nov. 12, 2021. Biden has frequently exited the podium after speeches and remarks without taking any questions, including when he's addressed Afghanistan, poor jobs reports, or the Democrats' reconciliation bill and what it would mean for the U.S. economy. But some White House press have begun to start sharing their frustration with the administration, as evidenced by Thursday's exchange and last week when CBS News Radio correspondent Steven Portnoy shouted at Biden following his speech on the economy ahead of Thanksigivng. Portnoy was hoping to get information on Biden's recent meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping. OUTRAGE AS BIDEN AGAIN TAKES NO QUESTIONS ON AFGHANISTAN: ‘WALKAWAY JOE’ "When are you going to answer our questions, sir?" Portnoy asked as Biden left the room. President Joe Biden announces the release of 50 million barrels of oil from the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve on Nov. 23, 2021. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Andrew Cuomo under federal investigation over sexual harassment claims: The DOJ probe into Cuomo began as an investigation into how he handled the COVID-19 pandemic. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Federal investigators are looking into the sexual misconduct allegations against Andrew Cuomo that led to the former New York governor's resignation, according to a contract released Thursday by the state Comptroller’s Office. The contract for legal services was signed in October and released in response to a Freedom of Information Act  request from the New York Post, according to the outlet. The U.S. Department of Justice seal on a podium in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Thursday, Aug. 5, 2021. The DOJ's probe into Cuomo began as an investigation into how he handled the COVID-19 pandemic, including his cover-up of nursing home deaths and the millions he was set to rake in for a pandemic-related memoir. The department is now looking into whether Cuomo's sexual harassment allegations also involved violations of civil statutes. Former New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo speaks during the daily media briefing at the Office of the Governor of the State of New York on June 12, 2020 in New York City. Cuomo spokesperson Rich Azzopardi dismissed the probe as politically motivated and instigated by New York Attorney General Letitia James. CHRIS CUOMO ADDRESSES CNN SUSPENSION: ‘IT HURTS TO EVEN SAY IT, IT’S EMBARRASSING, BUT I UNDERSTAND' "Our understanding is that the Civil Division opened an inquiry in August based upon the AG's politically motivated sham report, and we have heard nothing since," Azzopardi told the Post. James filed the report last summer that accused Cuomo of sexually harassing 11 women from 2013 to 2020 in violation of state and federal law. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo arrives to depart in his helicopter after announcing his resignation in Manhattan, New York City, U.S., August 10, 2021. REUTERS/Caitlin Ochs Cuomo slammed the report as biased and evidence of a "lack of fairness in the justice system," but he still resigned. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The DOJ did not immediately respond to Fox News' request for comment.
Washington Post mocks DCCC's tweet on gas prices: 'might be the worst defense of the Biden administration yet': 'This might be the worst defense of the Biden administration yet,' WaPo correspondent writes. PRICE Futures Group senior analyst Phil Flynn, Geltrude & Company founder Dan Geltrude and IRC Wealth CEO David Ragland discuss gas and oil prices, supply chain issues and energy stocks. Washington Post national correspondent Philip Bump wrote Thursday that the state of the country has "rarely been worse" than it is under President Biden's leadership, and scolded the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee  for what he called a "shoddy" attempt at defending the administration. "No one would argue that things are going perfectly for President Biden," Bump wrote in a column Thursday. "Many, in fact, would point out that, at least politically, things have rarely been worse…so it’s safe to say that having his allies gin up defenses as shoddy as this won’t really help much." BIDEN CLAIMS TO HAVE SERVED AS A ‘LIASON’ DURING SIX-DAY WAR DESPITE STILL BEING IN LAW SCHOOL AT THE TIME Bump referred to a wildly misleading chart posted on Twitter by the DCCC that praised Biden for lowering gas prices in an effort to quell the widespread frustration over skyrocketing prices at the pump under his presidency. "Thanks, @JoeBiden," the DCCC’s official account posted along with a graph that had no start date showing gas prices going down by two cents from November 22 to November 29. Biden speaks at the COP26 climate summit. Critics immediately pounced on the graphic, with several Twitter users speculating whether it was satire. Bump called it possibly "the worst defense of the Biden administration yet," pointing out that "Since Biden took office, the price of gas has risen more than a dollar on this same measure." "You’re not helping, DCCC," he said. "The DCCC wants to not only give Biden credit for a decline in the price of gas, they want to give him credit for a tiny decline in the price of gas. A decline that isn’t even the largest decline we’ve seen this year; over a similar period in August, the price of gas dropped more than 1 percent, more than three cents," he wrote. Bump acknowledged that it is possible the country will see a peak in the price of a gallon of gas. FILE PHOTO: Gas prices grow along with inflation as this sign at a gas station shows in San Diego, California, U.S. November, 9, 2021.  REUTERS/Mike Blake/File Photo/File Photo CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP He continued, "If so, that would certainly be good news and might even help turn Biden’s approval ratings around. But the DCCC might be advised to wait until that turnaround is a little more substantial than it currently is before boasting about how effective the president has been. Or, at least," he cautioned, "they might not want to try to prove their dubious point with a graph that makes obvious how modest the decrease has been."
NJ GOP lawmakers defy new statehouse COVID vaccine mandate, refuse to leave floor: Lawmakers forced to show either proof of vaccination or a negative COVID-19 test to enter the chamber. Senior national correspondent Rich Edson reports the latest on the White House response to the omicron variant as more people test positive with the virus. Several New Jersey Republican state Assembly members refused to comply with a new statehouse COVID-19 policy, walking past state police officers enforcing the rules and refusing to leave the Assembly floor. "We're standing up for people who haven't gotten or can't get the vaccine and those who have natural immunity," Republican Assemblyman Jay Webber, one of the lawmakers who refused to comply with the new rules, told Fox News Thursday. At issue was a new rule issued by Senate President Steve Sweeney and Assembly Speaker Craig Coughlin, both Democrats, Thursday that mandated lawmakers show either proof of vaccination or a negative COVID-19 test from up to 72 hours prior to entering the Senate or Assembly chambers. The New Jersey's State House capitol in Trenton. "The presiding officers have the authority to protect the safety of members, officers and employees of the legislature in performance of their official duties as well as that of the general public in connection with the conduct of the legislature’s official business," a document signed by Sweeney and Coughlin said. GERMANY BACKS LOCKDOWN RESTRICTIONS FOR THE UNVACCINATED But Webber called the new rule "discriminatory," arguing it created two different classes of people and treats unvaccinated people worse than vaccinated individuals. "We decided not to comply because we didn't think the commission had the authority to issue the rules," Webber said. State Police troopers were sent to the doors of the chambers to enforce the rules, sparking a dramatic standoff with GOP lawmakers that lasted over 15 minutes. But once the Republicans realized they would not be physically restrained if they entered the chamber, many breezed by officers and took their seats without showing proof of vaccination or a negative test. Webber said the drama didn't end there, noting the speaker asked police to do a security sweep about 90 minutes into the day's session. Police K-9 units perform such sweeps to check for threats before every session, Webber explained, but the call for an additional security sweep over an hour into the session was seen by Republicans as politically motivated. "Transparently political move by the speaker to request a security sweep that was unnecessary in an attempt to get us off the floor and encourage the state troopers to be less accommodating the second time we tried to take the floor," Webber said. The GOP lawmakers again refused to comply, staying in their seats instead of vacating the chamber and allowing police to perform the sweep. "There was no security concern, just a ploy to get us of the floor," Webber said. The Moderna COVID-19 vaccine. Webber said it was important for the Republicans to hold their ground, citing breakthrough infections to argue that the testing rules should apply to everyone and not discriminate against people who have chosen to forgo vaccination. "If the public health of those who are in attendance is the concern of the speaker, then everyone needs to get tested — vaccinated or unvaccinated — because vaccinated people can get infected and can transmit the virus," Webber said. Webber said Republicans would not have raised the issue if everyone was required to get tested, though he noted he believed such a policy would be "overly cautious." Instead, Webber argued Democrats were attempting to "punish" those who have not gotten a vaccine. The voting session was eventually allowed to proceed, though not before Coughlin excoriated his Republican colleagues for not complying with the new rules. "The only thing that was asked of legislators here today to do is care about the people in the chamber," Coughlin said, adding that Republicans "could not be bothered to exhibit common decency and humanity all because they would rather have a couple of minutes on TV news." Coronavirus test in doctor hands. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP A state court on Thursday stayed the new rule until a hearing could be held on the matter Dec. 13, meaning the rule has no legal force. "We plan to go about our business as usual," Webber said.
Oxford High School shooting survivor remembers slain classmates: 'I want the world to know how good they were': Authorities identified 16-year-old Tate Myre, and 17-year-old Justin Shilling as two of the students who died in the shooting. Oxford High School student Javon Pittman and family speak out on the ‘heartache’ following the tragedy on ‘The Story.’ A classmate and close friend of two of the Michigan students who were killed in the Oxford High School shooting memorialized his friends in a gut-wrenching appearance on "The Story" Thursday. Authorities identified 16-year-old Tate Myre, and 17-year-old Justin Shilling as two of the students who died when Ethan Crumbley, 15, opened fire Tuesday in the hallways of Oxford High School, killing four and wounding several others. JaVon Pittman, who was in the building at the time of the attack, told Fox News host Martha MacCallum that while many of his classmates are still in a state of "shock," he felt compelled to honor the memory of his friends publicly. "I wanted the world to know how good of friends Tate and Justin were and how they were just good kids," Pittman said. "[They] did what they had to do. Went in there, worked hard." MICHIGAN SCHOOL SHOOTING SUSPECT ETHAN CRUMBLEY CHARGED WITH TERRORISM, MURDER: ‘NOT JUST AN IMPULSIVE ACT’ Tate Myre, a junior and captain of the football team, has been described as a hero by his peers for rushing toward the shooter in an attempt to disarm him. A petition has since circulated that calls on the school to rename its Wildcat Stadium after him for sacrificing his life to save his classmates. "Tate always worked hard at practice," Pittman said. "He would always give encouraging advice. He was our captain, one of our captains for our football team … and a leader he was." Justin Shilling, a member of the school’s bowling and golf teams, was transported to the hospital but died from his injuries on Wednesday morning.  Pittman said Shilling had a "great attitude" and approach to life. "He was a good friend. He had a great smile. Always was there to make you laugh. He was such a smart kid," he said. Sheriff Mike Bouchard revealed Wednesday that Crumbley’s parents were called to the school Tuesday "for behavior in the classroom that was concerning." Their son remained in school, and the shooting occurred just hours later. Pittman said he had not seen concerning behavior from Crumbley prior to the shooting, telling MacCallum that his initial thought was, "I don’t know why he would do this. I didn’t know anything." Vontysha Pittman, who joined her son in the interview, questioned why Crumbley's parents didn't take him home from school after they were alerted about his behavior. An Oakland County Sheriff's deputy hugs family members of a student in the parking lot of Oxford High School in Oxford, Mich., Wednesday, Dec. 1, 2021. A 15-year-old sophomore opened fire at the school, killing several students and wounding multiple other people, including a teacher. "I couldn’t believe –  as a parent, as a mom, you know your kid. You know their behavior even before the dad because you carry these kids," she said. "So I just think that at that moment, being called in the previous day and that morning, I would have had to have a serious talk with my kid and say, ‘What is going on with you?’" she said. "We don’t put it on the school administration to send him home, but as parents, it’s our responsibility to know what is best for our kids and to know our kids." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "My heart goes out to his parents, too, because I couldn’t imagine what they’re going through," Mrs. Pittman continued. "That’s an awful [thing] to get a call, that your child caused this heartache and mayhem. I wish they would have taken him home that day."
Waukesha parade suspect has a disturbing history of abusing women: Darrell Brooks was accused of strangling an ex-girlfriend in a jealous rage in 2010, a decade before he allegedly ran over the mother of one of his children with an SUV. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. WAUKESHA, Wisc. — Waukesha rampage suspect Darrell Brooks allegedly strangled his girlfriend in 2010 and kicked in her door after she received phone calls from other men, according to court records exclusively obtained by Fox News. During the argument, Brooks allegedly shoved her to the ground, leaving a cut on her right eye and a bruise on her left, according to a criminal complaint.  "The defendant got on top of her when she was on the floor, grabbed her throat and squeezed," the complaint says. "This action made it extremely difficult for her to breath." WAUKESHA PARADE SUSPECT DARRELL BROOKS SAYS HE FEELS 'DEHUMANIZED,' 'DEMONIZED' IN FIRST JAILHOUSE INTERVIEW The court documents are the latest to shed light on Brooks’ lengthy criminal history that includes numerous incidents of brutal domestic violence, foreshadowing the horrific attack on holiday revelers at an annual Christmas parade Nov. 21 in Waukesha. Brooks allegedly plowed his red Ford Escape into the crowd, killing six people and injuring more than 60. The attorney representing Darrell Brooks Jr. in several other felony cases in Milwaukee County has moved to withdraw from the case, citing new conflicts of interest that arose after his client allegedly mowed down a Christmas parade in nearby Waukesha. The woman told police that the quarrel began Feb. 19, 2010, at her apartment in Nekoosa, Wisconsin, after Brooks flew into a rage over calls she’d gotten from other men, the complaint says. Brooks had been staying with her the prior week in the small Midwestern town about two and half hours north of Milwaukee, according to court papers. WAUKESHA SUSPECT DARRELL BROOKS GRIPED ABOUT UNFAIR TREATMENT FROM JAIL After he choked the woman, who was in her 20s, he fled. He returned the next morning at 9 a.m. and broke down her door to retrieve a large, black duffel bag he had left behind, prompting the ex-girlfriend to call the cops. He was arrested for strangulation and suffocation, misdemeanor battery, and criminal damage to property and held on a $5,000 cash bond, court records show. Six victims killed in the Waukesha parade attack. Two months later, Brooks pleaded no contest to the top charge in Wood County Circuit Court as part of a plea deal in exchange for 90 days in jail, three years probation, and $252 in restitution. WAUKESHA SUSPECT ALLEGEDLY RAN OVER HIS EX-GIRLFRIEND WITH SUV AFTER CATCHING HER WITH ANOTHER MAN After his release, he violated probation and was hauled back into court, where he was sentenced to another 11 months in jail. The lawyer who represented him in the case did not immediately return a request for comment. Brooks, who is a registered sex offender for impregnating a teen in 2005 in Nevada, has a lengthy rap sheet stretching back to 1999 and spanning three states.  In May, Brooks allegedly pummeled another ex-girlfriend with whom he shares a child at a motel in Georgia. He was arrested after a bystander intervened. Five months later, he targeted the same woman at the American Inn Motel in Milwaukee after he allegedly caught her with another man. WAUKESHA PARADE SUSPECT DARRELL BROOKS' EX-GIRLFRIEND SAYS SHE IS 'DEVASTATED' BY HIS 'MONSTROUS ACT' After allegedly socking her in the face, he ran over the 30-year-old woman with his red Ford Escape on Nov. 2, leaving her with tire marks on her left leg, a swollen lip and a bruise, according to police. In a widely criticized move, a junior prosecutor requested Brooks' release on $1,000 cash bail despite another pending felony case for shooting at his nephew and his girlfriend in 2020. Brooks' mother, Dawn Woods, posted the sum, and he was freed one week before the deadly rampage in Waukesha. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Milwaukee Country District Attorney John Chisholm called the bail "inappropriately low" and launched an investigation into the decision in the wake of the carnage. Moments before Brooks allegedly turned his car on the crowd, he clashed with an ex-girlfriend, who was seen by a neighbor "running away with no shoes and a black eye," according to The Sun. It wasn't clear from the report if it was the same ex he allegedly ran over with his car.
House Jan. 6 committee subpoenaing phone records of private individuals, Rep. Banks says: The panel ordered telecom companies to preserve records earlier this year. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. The House Jan. 6 Committee sent subpoenas to phone companies for the records of private individuals, Rep. Jim Banks told Fox News Thursday, as the controversial panel plows ahead with its investigation into the attack on the Capitol earlier this year. The subpoenas follow preservation orders the committee issued to telecom companies in August for a swath of data pertaining to many individuals. It isn't clear exactly whose records are being subpoenaed by the committee now, but a GOP aide also knowledgeable about the subpoenas said the committee hasn't issued any for phone records of members of Congress yet. "The committee has moved forward with issuing subpoenas to telephone companies," the GOP aide said Wednesday. "Our understanding at this point is they have not subpoenaed member information, but they are subpoenaing telephone records of private American citizens." Supporters of President Donald Trump climb the west wall of the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021, in Washington. "The fact they’re doing this in secret… is what makes this an unprecedented event in congressional history — that a rogue committee would go out and subpoena private citizens' phone records," Banks, R-Ind., told Fox News. "They sent press releases out about all of their other subpoenas. Why would they not provide full transparency about their activities on the subpoenas that they sent out… for what we know are private citizens?" Banks added. The GOP aide said the subpoenas were sent weeks ago. JUDGES DUBIUS OF TRUMP LAWYERS' CLAIMS IN MAJOR CASE ON JAN. 6 COMMITTEE DOCUMENTS: ‘ONE PRESIDENT AT A TIME’ The Washington Examiner first reported the story about the subpoenas for private citizens' phone records. The Jan. 6 Committee announced in August that it had sent preservation orders to 35 private companies, including telecom giants Verizon, T-Mobile and AT&T. For each of those companies, it demanded that they preserve "cellular location information," "cellular call data records," "stored content," and "reference documents." FILE - In this Jan. 6, 2021, file photo with the White House in the background, former  President Donald Trump speaks at a rally in Washington. The committee sent the orders primarily to social media companies like 8kun, Snap Inc., YouTube and Facebook. But major phone companies including AT&T, Verizon and T-Mobile also received preservation orders. "As Chairman Thompson previewed last week, the Select Committee today sent letters to 35 private-sector entities, including telecommunications, email, and social media companies, instructing them to preserve records which may be relevant to the Select Committee’s investigation," the committee said at the time. "I'm not gonna get too far ahead of what we're releasing. But we're gonna get – we'll be thorough, we'll get to the bottom," Jan. 6 Committee member Rep. Adam Kinzinger, R-Ill., told Fox News when asked about subpoenas for private citizens' phone records Wednesday. "I won't say anything on that yet," he added when pressed again. Ranking Member Rep. Liz Cheney, R-Wyo., simply said "no comment" when asked about subpoenas. FORMER TRUMP CHIEF OF STAFF MARK MEADOWS PROVIDING RECORDS TO JAN. 6 COMMITTEE, TO SIT FOR DEPOSITION Cheney's office did not respond when asked about subpoenas for private citizens' phone records. Neither did a spokesperson for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif. The Jan. 6 Committee declined to comment. Rep. Liz Cheney, R-Wyo., speaks to reporters on Capitol Hill in Washington, Tuesday, April 20, 2021. Cheney is one of two Republicans on the Jan. 6 committee. AT&T, T-Mobile and Verizon all did not respond to requests for comment from Fox News. After the committee issued its preservation orders to telecom companies in August, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., warned those companies not to comply with subpoenas from the committee. "Adam Schiff, Benny Thompson, and Nancy Pelosi’s attempts to strong-arm private companies to turn over individuals’ private data would put every American with a phone or computer in the crosshairs of a surveillance state run by Democrat politicians," McCarthy said at the time. "If they pursue this path, a Republican majority will not forget and will be ready to hold them fully accountable under the law." Republicans harshly criticize the Jan. 6 Committee for alleged overreach, and for the fact it only has two GOP members – Cheney and Kinzinger. Both of them were selected by Pelosi after she blocked McCarthy's picks for the committee, including Banks. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "This is an entirely partisan witch hunt. It's not at all interested in the facts surrounding what happened with the breakdown of security at the Capitol to prevent something like that from ever happening again," Banks said Thursday. Democrats, meanwhile, say the committee is running a critical investigation to hold accountable the people responsible for the mob of Trump supporters that attacked the Capitol on Jan. 6. "Let’s remember what the Select Committee has set out to do," committee Chairman Rep. Bennie Thompson, D-Miss., said Wednesday. "Provide answers to the American people about the worst attack on the legislative branch since the war of 1812, a violent attempt to halt our Constitutionally required responsibility of certifying the presidential election—and to learn everything about what led up to the day of violence." Fox News' Andrew Mark Miller contributed to this report.
'Long' COVID causes bad smells and tastes, depression for some survivors: 'Hot water smells like rotting meat': Some people can lose their sense of smell indefinitely. Paul Gigot interviews Dr. Marty Makary Katrina Haydon can’t eat, shower or brush her teeth the same way she used to six months ago because of parosmia, a smell disorder sometimes associated with COVID-19 "long-haulers," or people whose COVID symptoms last long after they test positive for the virus. Parosmia is a term used for any kind of distortion of one’s sense of smell — unlike anosmia, a term for one’s loss of their sense of smell. For Haydon, 24, it started with anosmia. She believes she contracted COVID-19 in June of 2021, though she tested negative for the virus. She had mild cold-like symptoms and lost her sense of taste and smell, as many COVID patients do. The anosmia lasted for several weeks before about 70% to 80% of her taste and smell senses returned. A healthcare worker inserts a Covid-19 rapid test into a machine at the CareNow Denver University urgent care center in Denver, Colorado, U.S., on Tuesday, Nov. 16, 2021. Photographer: Daniel Brenner/Bloomberg Then, in September, the parosmia symptoms kicked in. "Savory foods smell like rotting sewage. Hot water smells like rotting meat. Chemical cleaner and perfume smell like really sharp, overwhelming sulfur — like the smell of hair burning but concentrated and stronger. Sweets and dairy taste like perfume would taste if you sprayed it in your mouth," she told Fox News. COVID ‘LONG-HAULERS’ EXPERIENCING FISHY, SULFUR SMELLS Haydon’s aversion to the smell of heat — such as the smell of a hot shower or radiator — is perhaps the strangest aspect of her condition. "I used to take a shower more than twice a day regularly, but at least twice a day, and it has been really, really hard for me to make myself shower once a day. It's so difficult," she said. "And same thing with brushing my teeth. It’s really, really hard because even non-mint toothpastes cause a physical reaction because they just taste and smell so bad." Workers assemble a heater in an outdoor dining area at a restaurant in San Francisco, California, U.S., on Wednesday, Aug. 5, 2020. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg The experience has been isolating and even depressing. If her neighbors cook, it smells bad. Public transportation smells bad . CVS and Whole Foods smell bad. Restaurants smell terrible. It has driven her away from seeing friends in social settings. "I think everybody believes me, but I don't think they realize — I think a lot of people don't realize — the severity of it," Haydon said. "It seems like, oh, everything smells and tastes bad, that stinks, but I don’t think the extent to which it does change your day-to-day life is immediately evident to most people. I think it takes a little time to understand what that really does look like." Dr. Andrew Lane, Director of the Sinus Center at Johns Hopkins and professor of otolaryngology — head and neck surgery — at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, told Fox News that parosmia not only appears in some COVID-19 survivors, but it can also occur after people catch other viral infections or suffer brain injuries, brain tumors and Multiple Sclerosis. OMICRON: WHAT ARE THE VARIANT'S SYMPTOMS? Lane, who is studying the phenomenon in COVID-19 survivors, says it all starts in membranes located in the upper part of a person’s nose. "Your whole nose is lined with mucous membranes ... and in the upper part of the nose, there's this very specialized mucous membrane, and that's where you sense smells. And this is really a unique kind of tissue in the body," he said. "First of all, it's the only place in the body where a neuron that's coming from the brain directly contacts the outside world … and the part that sticks out in the environment can is what actually can detect an [odor molecule]. … And then and then it sends a signal like straight to the brain." Dr. Andrew Lane That unique tissue is called the olfactory epithelium. The membranes in that part of the nose remember what certain objects are supposed to smell like. But with anosmia and parosmia, those neurons, which are supposed to send signals to the brain after encountering an odor molecule and inform the brain of what it is, get lost along the way. "COVID has this ability to infect the olfactory tissue and the olfactory epithelium … and you lose a lot of neurons, sort of all at once. And if you lose a lot of it, you know, maybe all of it, then you're going to be anosmic," Lane explained, adding that it’s "not exactly clear how this happens." THIRD OMICRON CASE DETECTED IN COLORADO His recent study shows that COVID-19 cells, which latch onto and infect olfactory cells, are 700 times more prevalent in the upper part of the nose that send odor signals to the brain than they are in "the lining cells of the rest of the nose and windpipe that leads to the lungs." Usually, a person’s sense of smell returns quickly after contracting COVID-19, but sometimes it can take months; in rare cases, people can lose their smell indefinitely. Three days after testing positive for Covid-19, "everything tasted like cardboard," recalls 38-year-old Elizabeth Medina, who lost her sense of taste and smell at the start of the pandemic. When a person experiences anosmia, sometimes they can gain their sense of smell back by smelling potent foods, like grapefruit, because the brain can remember how those foods are supposed to smell. But with parosmia, neurons send the "wrong" signals to the brain, which is why Haydon and others can’t eat or walk into restaurants — because everything smells too awful. Lane says as devastating as this is for most people who experience it, it’s actually a good sign. "That means that it's coming," the professor said, "it" meaning an accurate sense of smell. "It's starting to work again, and that there may be some sorting out to do, but at least the elements are finding their way back together, getting to your brain, getting some signal when your nose is getting a smell, which is better than nothing. … The brain sorts it out, and over time, you get your sense of smell back." Haydon has turned to online forums, TikTok, YouTube and Twitter to find answers because doctors haven’t given her much to work with. WHITE HOUSE SAYS DOMESTIC TRAVEL VACCINE REQUIREMENTS ON THE TABLE DUE TO OMICRON VARIANT There are a mix of people experiencing the issue: young people, older people, men, women, vaccinated, unvaccinated. Many say they experienced mild COVID-19 symptoms before suddenly experiencing parosmia weeks or months after contracting the virus. She’s read about parents who can’t cook for their families anymore or sit with them at the dinner table. Yet for such a debilitating issue for potentially thousands of people, if not millions, globally, there is no confirmed solution. Leah Holzel, 60, a food editor who had lost her sense of smell from 2016 to 2019, now coaches people who have lost their sense of smell due to Covid-19. Haydon has read about solutions ranging from alpha-lipoic, an antioxidant found naturally in human cells, to IV drips, zinc and even chiropractic methods. "It's pretty varied," she said. "Mostly, it's people saying, ‘Have you tried this? Have you tried this?’ But most of the people I see that say, ‘Oh, I did this, and it worked,’ is the alpha-lipoic." Lane said he’s heard of using alpha-lipoic acid as a solution, but "there’s not very good evidence that [it] works." "I mean, there's a whole industry of different things that people give to people with olfactory loss, and mostly it's snake oil kind of stuff, and there’s very kind of skimpy data about it," he said. "But there is no medication that we have that restores a sense of smell." Ultimately, COVID-19 is too new. It’s only been around for about two years, so "long" COVID symptoms and long-term effects of the virus are still largely unknown. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Most of the patients Lane sees who can’t taste food or experience a bad reaction to the smell of food have to force themselves to eat because they know they’re hungry even though the act of eating seems unappealing. "It's a frustrating problem that we don't have a treatment for," he explained. "And I think we're going to see more and more patients with this problem. The answer, ultimately, is going to be research. … We've been interested in this kind of general problem of how the sense of smell works and what can go wrong. But I think that ultimately the way out of this is to understand better and how the system works and develop treatments."
CNN faces calls to enlist outside firm to probe Cuomo scandal, network mum on who will conduct review: 'It goes beyond the pale to think that an internal probe here would be appropriate,' CNN insider told Fox News Digital. In media news today, Chris Cuomo's suspension has been 'challenging' and 'divisive' for the network according to an insider, an NBC producer appears to admit ordering freelancer to tail the Rittenhouse jury bus, and the ACLU comes under fire for a tweet celebrating abortion. CNN is under pressure to enlist an outside, white-shoe law firm to investigate the scandal surrounding suspended anchor Chris Cuomo, but it is unclear if the liberal network will. Bombshell documents released late last month by New York investigators showing Cuomo's intense efforts to protect now-ousted Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo amid sexual misconduct allegations have resulted in CNN suspending the "Cuomo Prime Time" namesake. The scandal-plagued, liberal network has said Cuomo is suspended "indefinitely, pending further evaluation," but has not shed any light on who exactly will be investigating. "It goes beyond the pale to think that an internal probe here would be appropriate and satisfy an ethical response. Who would trust that? The New York State Attorney General’s Investigation speaks for itself. Chris Cuomo’s actions can’t be papered-over by a CNN probe," a CNN insider told Fox News Digital. CHRIS CUOMO’S SUSPENSION ‘CHALLENGING, DIVISIVE AND TROUBLING’ INSIDE CNN, INSIDERS SAY CNN suspended Chris Cuomo "indefinitely, pending further evaluation" after newly released documents shed new light on his role in former Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s sexual misconduct scandal. CNN did not respond when asked if an outside firm would be hired. Parent company WarnerMedia/AT&T didn’t respond to multiple requests for comment, either. Fox News Digital also emailed everyone on AT&T’s board of directors with the same question but didn’t receive any responses. "CNN needs to commission an outside investigation like they did with their Tailwind debacle if there is to be any credibility," a longtime media executive told Fox News Digital, referring to the infamous 1998 retraction of a CNN story that falsely claimed the U.S. military used nerve gas in a mission to kill American defectors in Laos during the Vietnam War. CNN enlisted an independent investigation to look into the report, and a staggering retraction was issued once the outside probe concluded CNN’s report could not be supported. But CNN has changed significantly since 1998, and then-president Tom Johnson is no longer with the company. WarnerMedia News and Sports chairman Jeff Zucker now oversees the network. "Jeff Zucker is hopelessly compromised in how he’s covered up for Cuomo’s buffoonery, lies and ethical lapses over the last two years. And this outside investigation should be focusing on Jeff just as much as it does Chris," the media executive, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said. Despite calls for an outside probe from media industry professionals, UltraViolet, prominent women’s group, doesn’t think the "Cuomo Prime Time" namesake deserves the attention. "CNN doesn’t need an outside counsel to know that Chris Cuomo should never be put on the air again. He used his position of power to help orchestrate an attack on victims of sexual abuse. CNN should fire Chris Cuomo today," UltraViolet campaign director Elisa Batista told Fox News Digital. Plenty of industry experts simply don’t think an internal probe is adequate, but Poynter Institute senior media writer Tom Jones feels an internal investigation can be effective in this case because of the overwhelming amount of public evidence. "Thanks to the New York Attorney General’s documents, it looks as if CNN has the information it needs to determine whether Chris Cuomo crossed the line," Jones told Fox News Digital. A collection of previously confidential documents revealed CNN's Chris Cuomo was more involved with his big brother’s sexual misconduct scandal than previously known. DePauw University professor and media critic Jeffrey McCall disagrees and said CNN should "absolutely" bring in an independent team to assess the Cuomo situation. "It was the CNN brass itself that took the Cuomo situation too lightly in the first place. That lack of action and transparency is largely responsible for the credibility crisis now faced by CNN," McCall told Fox News Digital. "Thus, the CNN hierarchy can hardly be counted on to do the fair and comprehensive investigation now needed. CNN needs an independent look at this as a first step to restoring credibility with all external publics." CHRIS CUOMO ADDRESSES CNN SUSPENSION: ‘IT HURTS TO EVEN SAY IT, IT’S EMBARRASSING, BUT I UNDERSTAND’ McCall feels an internal probe would "be viewed with suspicion by viewers" regardless of the findings and would only further damage the network’s dwindling credibility. "CNN has struggled with how to manage Chris Cuomo for many months now, even going back to when Chris and Governor Cuomo were doing their regular PR and comedy routines during the early days of COVID," he said. "CNN and its viewers need closure on this in a way that can stand public and professional scrutiny." Other news organizations dealing with internal issues have brought in outside investigators to make sure the appropriate people are held accountable. Transcripts of Cuomo’s interview with state investigators indicated the CNN star would reach out to media sources to find out about his brother’s accusers before they came forward publicly. Cuomo’s actions also appeared to include opposition research on his brother’s accusers during an era when the "Believe Women" mantra was at the forefront of the #MeToo movement. CNN’s Chris Cuomo used his media-industry connections to snoop around the media industry to find out the progress of Ronan Farrow’s reporting about his brother. Text messages also indicated Cuomo snooped on fellow journalists who were thought to be working on stories that would make his brother look bad, and relayed the information to governor’s aides. Another CNN insider feels Cuomo’s future is tied to whether or not he lied to Zucker about his involvement behind the scenes. Other industry insiders feel Cuomo’s fate is ultimately in the hands of high-powered Discovery executives John Malone and David Zaslav, as Discovery is set to merge with WarnerMedia in 2022. CNN'S BRIAN STELTER INDICATES CHRIS CUOMO MIGHT ONLY BE SUSPENDED FOR A FEW WEEKS Zaslav, who is expected to run the proposed, combined company, and Malone did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Discovery did not immediately respond when asked if an outside investigator should be hired by CNN prior to the merger’s completion. Meanwhile, many critics feel Cuomo’s April 2020 staged exit from COVID quarantine is an even more serious breach of journalism ethics than his role in his brother's scandal. The "Cuomo Prime Time" host famously emerged from his basement, telling viewers he had been waiting for this moment "literally for weeks" as he battled coronavirus. However, days before then, he was spotted outside his home and even got into an altercation with a bicyclist who claimed the CNN anchor was violating quarantine guidelines being enforced by his brother. Staging news used to have consequences – ABC News even reprimanded Cokie Roberts in 1994 for simply wearing a coat to pretend she was outside for a live shot conducted indoors – but Cuomo has gotten a pass for the quarantine debacle. NBC News famously suspended Brian Williams before demoting him to MSNBC for lying on late-night talk shows with no editorial oversight, whereas Cuomo misled viewers about his quarantine on CNN platforms. MSNBC AVOIDS BREAKING NEWS OF CHRIS CUOMO'S SUSPENSION, REFRAINS FROM CRITICIZING RIVAL CNN ANCHOR Cornell Law School professor William A. Jacobson thinks WarnerMedia has no choice in the matter if it wants to maintain credibility. "CNN already has shown itself to be conflicted and compromised when addressing Chris Cuomo's actions towards his brother, the former Governor. Since this is a CNN management problem in addition to a Chris Cuomo problem, only an outside, independent investigation and review can unravel the management failures," Jacobson told Fox News Digital. Whether or not Chris Cuomo lied to CNN boss Jeff Zucker will play a key role in determining his fate, according to a CNN insider. However, it’s unclear who will investigate the situation. While most reputable news organizations have enlisted outside law firms to investigate scandals, some media executives have refused. NBC News came under fire at the height of the #MeToo movement for not allowing outside counsel to investigate who knew about Matt Lauer’s sexual wrongdoings. Instead, NBC News allowed General Counsel Kim Harris to conduct the review, and she eventually declared that NBC management was completely oblivious to Lauer’s lewd behavior. The results of the NBC review were mocked by media watchdogs and NBC employees alike, while former NBC News star Ann Curry declared she did not participate despite expressing publicly to the Washington Post that she had complained to senior NBC News executives about Lauer’s behavior. The decision not to enlist an outside firm is widely considered a black mark on then-NBC News chairman Andy Lack’s legacy. He left the company in 2020. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP CNN’s initial statement declared: "The New York Attorney General’s office released transcripts and exhibits Monday that shed new light on Chris Cuomo’s involvement in his brother’s defense. The documents, which we were not privy to before their public release, raise serious questions. When Chris admitted to us that he had offered advice to his brother’s staff, he broke our rules and we acknowledged that publicly. But we also appreciated the unique position he was in and understood his need to put family first and job second. However, these documents point to a greater level of involvement in his brother’s efforts than we previously knew. As a result, we have suspended Chris indefinitely, pending further evaluation." Fox News’ Joseph A. Wulfsohn contributed to this report.
Data suggests 1 in 44 US children are affected by autism: U.S. autism numbers have been on the rise for several years. The Iowa teen has been charged with a ‘willful injury’ felony. New autism numbers released Thursday suggest more U.S. children are being diagnosed with the developmental condition and at younger ages. In an analysis of 2018 data from nearly a dozen states, researchers at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found that among 8-year-olds, 1 in 44 had been diagnosed with autism. That rate compares with 1 in 54 identified with autism in 2016. BABIES AND EAR PIERCINGS: IS IT EVER OK? U.S. autism numbers have been on the rise for several years, but experts believe that reflects more awareness and wider availability of services to treat the condition rather than a true increase in the number of affected children. Interns with ASD learn how to become digital media producers through programs like Photoshop and Adobe Premiere. A separate CDC report released Thursday said that children were 50% more likely to be diagnosed with autism by age 4 in 2018 than in 2014. "There is some progress being made, and the earlier kids get identified, the earlier they can access services that they might need to improve their developmental outcome,’’ said CDC researcher and co-author Kelly Shaw. DIGITAL MULTITASKING CAN BE DETRIMENTAL TO A CHILD'S MENTAL HEALTH, STUDY WARNS Geraldine Dawson, director of Duke University’s Center for Autism and Brain Development, said the new estimate is similar to one found in research based on screening a large population of children rather than on those already diagnosed. As such, she said it may be closer to reflecting the true state of autism in U.S. children than earlier estimates. The CDC reports are based on data from counties and other communities in 11 states — some with more urban neighborhoods, where autism rates tend to be higher. The rates are estimates and don't necessarily reflect the entire U.S. situation, the authors said. Facilitator Allison Thomlinson is using an iPad to prompt Milo if the student answered a question correctly or not. Williamston, SC. Autism rates varied widely — from 1 in 26 in California, where services are plentiful, to 1 in 60 in Missouri. Overall, autism prevalence was similar across racial and ethnic lines, but rates were higher among Black children in two sites, Maryland and Minnesota. Until recently, U.S. data showed prevalence among white children was higher. Scientists found that autism risk was higher in children whose moms had one of the three main types of diabetes that lead to complications in pregnancy. At a third site, Utah, rates were higher among children from lower-income families than those from wealthier families, reversing a longstanding trend, said report co-author Amanda Bakian, a University of Utah researcher who oversees the CDC’s autism surveillance in that state. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Bakian said that likely reflects more coverage for autism services by Medicaid and private health insurers.
Bucs' Antonio Brown suspended for 3 games following fake COVID-19 vaccine card scandal: Mike Edwards and John Franklin III were also suspended. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Tampa Bay Buccaneers wide receiver Antonio Brown has been suspended for the next three games for violating the league’s COVID-19 protocols. Bucs safety Mike Edwards and free agent receiver John Franklin III were also suspended by the NFL on Thursday, and both players are ineligible to play the next three weeks. All three players have accepted the discipline, and they will not appeal. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Tampa Bay Buccaneers wide receiver Antonio Brown  heads for the end zone for a 62-yard touchdown reception against the Miami Dolphins Sunday, Oct. 10, 2021, in Tampa, Fla. The NFL and NFLPA put out a joint statement on Thursday. "The health and safety of players and personnel is our top priority," the statement said. "The protocols were jointly developed working with our respective experts to ensure that we are practicing and playing football as safely as possible during the ongoing pandemic. The NFL-NFLPA jointly reinforce their commitment and further emphasize the importance of strict adherence to the protocols to protect the well-being of everyone associated with the NFL." The Buccaneers also put out a statement regarding the situation. "We appreciate the league’s timely handling of this matter and recognize the importance of the health and safety protocols that have been established. We will continue to implement all league COVID-19 protocols," the Buccaneers statement said. Tampa Bay Buccaneers wide receiver Antonio Brown  against the Miami Dolphins Sunday, Oct. 10, 2021, in Tampa, Fla. JON GRUDEN'S EMAIL SCANDAL WAS 'A PROFESSIONAL HIT JOB,' BRENT MUSBURGER SAYS In mid-November, the Tampa Bay Times reported that Brown was accused by his former live-in chef of acquiring a fake COVID-19 vaccination card so that he could avoid NFL protocols. Brown and Los Angeles chef Steven Ruiz had a falling out after the superstar wide receiver failed to pay a debt. Ruiz, who is the owner of "Taste ThatLA," claimed Brown owed him $10,000. In July, Ruiz said he wasn’t able to get a fake card for Brown. A few weeks later, Ruiz said, Brown showed up with fake vaccination cards that he bought for himself and his girlfriend, model Cydney Moreau. According to the chef, the cards were on Brown’s dining room table just days before the team’s training camp was set to begin. Tampa Bay Buccaneers wide receiver Antonio Brown  Sunday, Oct. 3, 2021, in Foxborough, Mass. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP That night, Alex Guerrero, a personal trainer and co-founder of the TB12 method with quarterback Tom Brady, went over to Brown’s house to help him recover from knee surgery. Ruiz said Guerrero took a picture of Brown’s vaccination card so he could help the organization document the list of vaccinated players. Ruiz, however, said that he thinks Guerrero was unaware that the card was fake. Brown suffered a foot injury during a Thursday Night Football game against the Philadelphia Eagles on Oct. 14 and hasn’t played since.
Bryson DeChambeau says he once wanted to quit playing golf: DeChambeau, who is ranked seventh in the world, has eight PGA Tour wins and a US Open title. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Bryson DeChambeau, one of the world's top golfers, recently caught up with the New York Post and said that he once considered quitting the sport. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM In this Aug. 29, 2021, file photo, Bryson DeChambeau reacts after sinking his putt on the 16th green during the final round of the BMW Championship golf tournament at Caves Valley Golf Club in Owings Mills, Md. "There was a point in time — I'm not kidding — where I just felt like I wanted to leave the game," DeChambeau said. "I just felt like, ‘I don't need any of this. Why? Why put myself through all this torture?’" Over the last year, DeChambeau had formed an interesting rivalry with Brooks Koepka. The 28-year-old DeChambeau also criticized his Cobra equipment following the first round of the British Open. DeChambeau also bashed a rules official at the 2020 Memorial, and he fieled criticism after he failed to get vaccinated and ended up missing the Olympics due to a positive COVID-19 test. Bryson DeChambeau holds the Rocket Mortgage Classic golf tournament trophy at Detroit Golf Club in Detroit in this July 2020 file photo. RORY MCILROY FIRES BACK AT QUESTIONS OVER DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP MELTDOWN: 'THIS F---ING RIPPED SHIRT' "I got hit pretty hard," DeChambeau said. "That's why I kind of walked away, because people were damaging [my] character. It was all the stuff that was going on in social media. I was like, ‘I really don't need this. I can walk away and be totally fine the rest of my life, be happy and go and hit the long ball and call it a day.’" DeChambeau, who is ranked seventh in the world, has eight PGA Tour wins and a U.S. Open Championship and he’s earned almost $26 million over his career. And even though he considered quitting golf at one point, DeChambeau appears to be motivated. Bryson DeChambeau reacts after missing a putt on the ninth green during the final round of the BMW Championship golf tournament, Sunday, Aug. 29, 2021, at Caves Valley Golf Club in Owings Mills, Md. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "I want to win Augusta, all the majors, have the career Grand Slam and continue to win events," DeChambeau said. "I've won Arnold Palmer and Jack Nicklaus' event, and that's pretty cool. I want to eventually win [Tiger Woods' Genesis Invitational], and have all three of those. That'd be cool."
'Real Housewives' star Braunwyn Windham-Burke packs on PDA with new girlfriend during beach day in Miami: The 'RHOC' star came out as gay last year. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Braunwyn Windham-Burke isn't hiding her new romance. The "Real Housewives of Orange County" star, 44, was spotted on a beach in Miami on Wednesday with her new girlfriend, Victoria Brito. For the sunny outing, the reality star donned a green one-piece swimsuit and straw fedora, while her girlfriend wore red patterned swim shorts, a black bikini top and a matching baseball cap. The two were seen swapping smooches and getting flirty in the sand. 'REAL HOUSEWIVES' ALUM BRAUNWYN WINDHAM-BURKE REVEALS 'TRIAL SEPARATION' FROM HUSBAND SEAN ‘Real Housewives of Orange County’ star Braunwyn Windham-Burke was spotted with her new girlfriend Victoria Brito in Miami. The happy couple is in town to attend this year's Art Basel events. On Wednesday, Windham-Burke shared a montage of photos and videos from her trip on her Instagram Story, featuring several shots of herself and Brito cozying up while dressed to the nines for the events. BRAUNWYN WINDHAM-BURKE AND HUSBAND SEAN SUED FOR $45,000 IN ALLEGED BACK RENT Similarly, the reality star appeared in Brito's Instagram Story a number of times. It's unclear how long the two have been together, but according to Brito's Instagram bio, she works as a dancer, model and designer. The star was seen soaking in some sun on a beach in Miami with her designer girlfriend. Windham-Burke told Page Six that she and Brito are "having fun" exploring their relationship. "I only came out a year ago and I’m enjoying being single. I really like spending time with her. A bonus is that she gets along with [my estranged husband] Sean [Burke]," the reality star added. 'REAL HOUSEWIVES' STAR BRAUNWYN WINDHAM-BURKE TALKS STATUS OF HER OPEN MARRIAGE TO HUSBAND SEAN When Windham-Burke announced that she was gay, she and Sean had no plans to divorce but have since separated. The two got flirty in the sand during their beach day. "[Sean and Brito] went to an NFT event together in New York City and share common interests … I like her," said the star. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Brito is based in New York, per the outlet, where Windham-Burke owns property, splitting her time between the Big Apple and California. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER "I really do love dating in the city," she previously told Page Six. "O.C. is very small, so it’s nice to have the separation, so when I’m at home, I’m just with the family and when I’m here, I love the fact that I get to meet amazing people."
Fox Nation's 'Christmas at the Cathedral' honors history of St. Patrick's Cathedral: Join Jonathan Morris for a behind-the-scenes look at the cathedral. Fox News contributor Jonathan Morris joined 'Fox & Friends' to discuss the Christmas special honoring the 'history and tradition' of the cathedral. Fox Nation's Christmas Special, "Christmas at the Cathedral," celebrates the history and tradition of St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York City, hosted by Fox News contributor Jonathan Morris in his first Fox Nation special. CHRISTMAS AT FOX: THIRD-ANNUAL ‘ALL-AMERICAN’ CHRISTMAS TREE LIGHTING RETURNS TO FOX SQUARE Morris appeared on "Fox & Friends" Thursday to discuss the 30-minute documentary, which is now available exclusively on Fox Nation to spur the Christmas spirit. "So two million visitors come through at Christmastime in the heart of Midtown Manhattan, but this cathedral was… finished in 1879. When they began to build this cathedral this was basically wilderness," Morris explained. "The old cathedral, in 1809, Old St Pat's was way downtown, and the Bishop at the time said, no, I think New York City's going to grow," he continued. "We're going to build a cathedral way up north. People had to take buggies, carriages, horses to get to it… It was a visionary thought, and now we're reaping the benefits." CLICK HERE TO GET FOX NATION TODAY During the special, Morris dives into the history of the church, its construction, and its breathtaking Christmastime displays for the holiday season. He also speaks with Cardinal Timothy Dolan to discuss the cathedral's special place in New York and the true meaning of Christmas. "One of the things I discovered was that St. Patrick's Cathedral not only was built by Irish immigrants, but very poor Irish immigrants," Morris said. "They built this thing stone by stone with a lot of work and hard sweat." "Christmas at the Cathedral" is available now on Fox Nation. Good things come in virtual packages. From now until January 3, everyone can get 35% off any of Fox Nation's yearly plans when they use the promo code CELEBRATE at checkout.Fox Nation programs are viewable on-demand and from your mobile device app, but only for Fox Nation subscribers. Go to Fox Nation to start a free trial and watch the extensive library from your favorite Fox News personalities.
School shooting suspect Ethan Crumbley's parents returning after manhunt underway, lawyers say: A statewide 'Be on the Lookout' (BOLO) alert was issued for James and Jennifer Crumbley Friday. Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard tells 'The Story' that the media found out about parents' charges before his office did Attorneys for the parents of Oxford High School shooting suspect Ethan Crumbley say the two are returning to the Oakland County, Michigan, area to be arraigned after authorities asked the public to be on the lookout Friday afternoon. "The Crumbleys left town on the night of the tragic shooting for their own safety. They are returning to the area to be arraigned. They are not fleeing from law enforcement despite recent comments in media reports," attorneys Shannon Smith and Mariell Lehman told Fox News. A statewide "Be on the Lookout"  alert was issued for James and Jennifer Crumbley Friday, two police departments first confirmed to FOX 2 Detroit. After Smith and Lehman told Fox News that James and Jennifer Crumbley are returning to Oakland County to be arraigned, the U.S. Marshals Service tweeted that they are working on the search for the couple in conjunction with the Oakland County Sheriff’s Office. James and Jennifer Crumbley After the Oakland County Sheriff's Office was notified by prosecutor Karen McDonald that she was going to issue charges against the parents on Friday, deputies moved "to arrest the parents," but their attorney told authorities that they "are now unresponsive," Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard told Fox News' "The Story" on Friday. MICHIGAN SCHOOL SHOOTING SUSPECT: ETHAN CRUMBLEY'S PARENTS FACING INVOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER CHARGES The BOLO alert was issued shortly after 1 p.m. CT, according to Rudy Harper, second deputy chief of media relations for the Detroit Police Department. On Thursday, an attorney for the Crumbleys told authorities that "they were going to turn themselves in." "The attorney said she would make that happen this morning," Bouchard said. Ethan Crumbley, 15, allegedly shot and killed four students and injured seven others at Oxford High School. Smith and Lehman said they "contacted the Oakland County prosecutor to discuss this matter and to advise her that James and Jennifer Crumbley would be turning themselves in to be arraigned" on Thursday evening. "Instead of communicating with us, the prosecutor held a press conference to announce charges," they said. SUPERINTENDENT SAYS ETHAN CRUMBLEY CALLED TO OFFICE BUT ‘NO DISCIPLINE WAS WARRANTED’ The two parents are each facing four counts of involuntary manslaughter after their 15-year-old son was accused of killing four students after opening fire inside Oakland High School earlier this week., according to Oakland County prosecutor Karen McDonald. "Our detectives and fugitive apprehension team and the U.S. Marshal Service and the FBI — all of us are in concert looking for them," Bouchard said. "I’m confident we’ll find these two." Ethan Crumbley's first court appearance on Wednesday. He added that the turn of events has not "played out" the way officers "would have liked it to." "We would have liked to have been given a bit of advance notice that a warrant was coming and had set up on them or done something electronically," he said. "It is what it is, and we’re going to find them." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Ethan Crumbley, allegedly fired at least 30 rounds in the hallways of Oxford High School on Tuesday, killing four classmates and injuring seven others. McDonald said the weapon recovered following the shooting – a 9mm Sig Sauer pistol -- was purchased by James Crumbley in the presence of his son at a local firearms store on Black Friday, per an employee that worked there. Fox News' Greg Norman, Adam Sabes and Louis Casiano contributed to this report.
Michigan school shooting: Ethan Crumbley’s parents facing involuntary manslaughter charges: Teen suspect accused of killing four students at Oxford High School on Tuesday. Prosecutor details allegations surrounding Ethan Crumbley's parents The parents of the teen suspect accused of killing four students after opening fire inside a Michigan high school earlier this week are now facing involuntary manslaughter charges as prosecutors on Friday revealed text messages allegedly sent to their son before and after the attack. James and Jennifer Crumbley are each facing four counts of involuntary manslaughter, according to Oakland County prosecutor Karen McDonald. Their son, 15-year-old Ethan Crumbley, allegedly fired at least 30 rounds in the hallways of Oxford High School on Tuesday, killing four classmates and injuring seven others, including a teacher. "While the shooter was the one who entered the high school and pulled the trigger, there are other individuals who contributed to the events on November 30 and it is my intention to hold them accountable as well," McDonald told reporters during a press conference. "It’s imperative we prevent this from happening again. No other parent or community should have to live through this nightmare." Ethan Crumbley, 15, allegedly shot and killed four students and injured seven others at Oxford High School. SUPERINTENDENT SAYS ETHAN CRUMBLEY CALLED TO OFFICE BUT ‘NO DISCIPLINE WAS WARRANTED’ McDonald said the weapon recovered following the shooting – a 9mm Sig Sauer pistol -- was purchased by James Crumbley in the presence of his son at a local firearms store on Black Friday, per an employee that worked there. The teen then took to social media around that date to post images of a semi-automatic handgun with the caption "just got my new beauty today [heart emoji] sig sauer 9mm any questions I will answer," according to McDonald. The next day, McDonald said Jennifer Crumbley posted on social media "mom and son day testing out his new Christmas present." In the week before the shooting, on Nov. 21, McDonald said a teacher at Oxford High School had noticed Ethan Crumbley searching for ammunition on his cell phone during class and reported the incident to administrators. His mother then was contacted by phone and email, but the school never heard back from her, McDonald says. Instead, she added, Jennifer exchanged text messages with her son about the incident, one of which said "Lol I’m not mad at you, you have to learn not to get caught." Then on the morning of the shooting, Ethan's teacher noticed an alarming note on his desk that contained drawings of a semi-automatic handgun, a bullet and a person being shot twice with the phrases "the thoughts won't stop, help me," "blood everywhere," "my life is useless" and "the world is dead" written throughout, according to McDonald. A well-wisher kneels to pray at a memorial on the sign of Oxford High School in Oxford, Mich., on Wednesday. The prosecutor said Ethan and his parents were immediately summoned to a meeting, during which they were told they were required to get their son into counseling within 48 hours. At that meeting, the parents were shown Ethan’s drawing but portions of it were scratched out by Ethan beforehand, such as the drawing of the gun and bloody figure, McDonald said. MICHIGAN STUDENT, 17, BROUGHT GUN TO SCHOOL NOT FAR FROM DEADLY MASS SHOOTING DAY EARLIER, POLICE SAY She noted that the parents resisted the idea of their son leaving school at that time and departed the building without him. He then returned to the classroom and hours later drew the weapon from his backpack and started firing, prosecutors allege. Then when news of the shooting became public, Jennifer Crumbley texted her son at 1:22 p.m., "Ethan, don’t do it," McDonald said. Fifteen minutes later, James Crumbley called 911 to report a gun missing from his house and that he believed his son might be the shooter, she added. "Further investigation revealed that the Sig Sauer 9mm handgun purchased by James Crumbley was stored unlocked in a drawer in James and Jennifer's bedroom," McDonald said. Oakland County prosecutor Karen McDonald addresses the media in her office, on Friday in Pontiac, Mich. The gun found at the scene of the shooting was the same one that James Crumbley purchased on Nov. 26, McDonald alleged. "Gun ownership is a right and with that right comes great responsibility," McDonald also told reporters during the press conference. Meanwhile, Ethan Crumbley is facing one count of terrorism causing death, four counts of first-degree murder, seven counts of assault with intent to murder, and 12 counts of possession of a firearm in the commission of a felony. The teen recorded videos the night before the shooting in which he "talked about shooting and killing students the next day at Oxford High School," Oakland County Sheriff's Office Lt. Tim Willis said Wednesday. Crumbley met with school officials on Monday as well, to address behavioral issues in the classroom, Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard said. Crumbley still had 18 live rounds when police apprehended him in the hallway just five minutes after the first 911 call, Bouchard added. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The four students who died in the shooting are 16-year-old Tate Myre, 14-year-old Hana St. Juliana, 17-year-old Madisyn Baldwin and 15-year-old Justin Shilling. At least three of the injured victims have been released from the hospital, including the 47-year-old teacher who was shot in the shoulder. Fox News’ Paul Best contributed to this report.
Kyle Rittenhouse focusing on 'moving on with my life,' attending ASU: Rittenhouse says his 'goal is to go into a Walmart and not be recognized'. Kyle describes to Tucker Carlson the message he believes is being spread by the media Kyle Rittenhouse told a virtual audience Friday that his biggest priority right now is attending college and moving forward with his life.Rittenhouse appeared Friday alongside his spokesperson, Dave Hancock, to field questions from Twitter users about his trial and subsequent legal actions being planned by his camp. During the talk on Twitter Spaces, one user asked if Rittenhouse planned any lawsuits. Hancock said lawsuits weren't being planned at the moment, while Rittenhouse said he was eager to move forward in life and was focusing on school. "Right now, no one is sitting around discussing that," Hancock replied. Hancock added that a financial dispute over donations sent to Lin Wood's Fight Back Foundation "is being worked on with Kyle's attorneys." "I'm focusing on moving on with my life and attending Arizona State University," Rittenhouse replied, adding, "My goal is to go into a Walmart and not be recognized." ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY STUDENTS PROTEST 'KILLER KYLE RITTENHOUSE AS POSSIBLE STUDENT Rittenhouse's relationship with the Arizona college has been rocky. He has previously said that he was enrolled at the university and planned to take nursing classes. However, a statement from ASU disputed this in the days after the trial. Kyle Rittenhouse says his goal "is to go into a Walmart and not be recognized." Rittenhouse pictured here at his trial. "Kyle Rittenhouse has not gone through the admissions process with Arizona State University and is not enrolled in the Edson College of Nursing and Health Innovation," the university initially said in a statement. ASU can confirm that Mr. Rittenhouse enrolled as a non-degree-seeking ASU online student for the session that started Oct. 13, 2021, which allows students access to begin taking classes as they prepare to seek admission into a degree program at the university," Rittenhouse claims he was granted compassionate withdrawal by ASU staff after the campus erupted in protest against his planned attendance. Protestors referred to Rittenhouse as a "racist murderer" Kyle Rittenhouse reacts after he is found not guilty on all counts at the Kenosha County Courthouse in Kenosha, Wis., on Friday, Nov. 19, 2021. KYLE RITTENHOUSE TELLS TUCKER CARLSON CASE HAD ‘NOTHING TO DO WITH RACE’ IN FIRST INTERVIEW AFTER ACQUITTAL According to ASU, a compassionate withdrawal request can be made during "extraordinary cases" when a "significant personal situation  prevents a student from continuing his or her classes, and incompletes or other arrangements with the instructors are not possible." "Kyle has every intention of attending school at Arizona State University," Hancock added. "The only way he will not be attending Arizona State University in the spring is if the college administrators prohibit him from attending." Kyle later touched on ASU once again, saying, "I always wanted to go to ASU," adding, "It's been my dream college ever since I was little." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP A Twitter account representing the ASU College Republicans United briefly entered the Q&A, expressing support for Rittenhouse and stating that the group was excited for him to attend classes at the school. "We'd love to have him attend ASU," the ASU College Republican account user said. "There are a lot of people who like and respect him."
Gov. DeSantis 'Florida State Guard' proposal prompts alarm from critics: DeSantis’ proposal outlines $3.5 million in funding from the state’s armed forces budget to reestablish a Florida State Guard. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Left-leaning politicians and pundits expressed alarm Friday after Republican Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis proposed the creation of a "State Guard," a civilian-military force that he would control to assist with what his office described as "state-specific emergencies." DeSantis’ proposal outlines $3.5 million in funding from the state’s armed forces budget toward the creation of a Florida State Guard. The governor’s office said the funds would "enable civilians to be trained in the best emergency response techniques" to assist in the "event of a hurricane, natural disasters and other state emergencies." The initiative drew immediate pushback from DeSantis’ critics, some of whom alleged the Florida governor was attempting to establish his own paramilitary force. DeSantis, who has frequently clashed with the Biden administration in recent months, noted a state guard was "not encumbered by the federal government." FILE - Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis speaks at the opening of a monoclonal antibody site Wednesday, Aug. 18, 2021, in Pembroke Pines, Fla. "No Governor should have his own handpicked secret police," said Rep. Charlie Christ, D-Fla., a 2022 Florida gubernatorial candidate. "Can't believe I have to say this, but Florida doesn't need a paramilitary force that only answers to @RonDeSantisFL," said Florida Agriculture Commissioner Nikki Fried, another Democratic gubernatorial candidate. "Millions of Floridians know what it's like to live under regimes like this — and came to our state to escape them. This must be stopped." "Florida governor Ron DeSantis is either openly preparing for a break from the federal government or he wants his followers to *believe* he is. Either way, it's extremely dangerous for the future of the United States," said Brandon Friedman, a former Obama administration official. The original Florida State Guard was established during World War II to replace members of the National Guard serving overseas. The entity was disbanded in 1947. LAKELAND, FLORIDA, UNITED STATES - 2021/09/07: Florida Attorney General Ashley Moody Florida will be the 23rd state with an active state guard, according to DeSantis’ office. While the guard’s primary function will be to assist with disaster relief, DeSantis spokesperson Christina Pushaw tweeted that state law allows the governor to maintain a military force to "assist the civil authorities in maintaining law and order." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "We want to be able to have a quick response capability," DeSantis said at a press conference unveiling the proposal. "Re-establishing the Florida State Guard will allow civilians from all over the state to be trained in the best emergency response techniques and have the ability to mobilize very, very quickly."
Celebrities rally around Alec Baldwin while the public criticizes him following tell-all 'Rust' interview: Baldwin sat down for an interview for the first time to discuss what happened the day of the fatal shooting on 'Rust'. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Celebrities showed their support for actor Alec Baldwin after he did his first sit-down interview about what happened during the fatal shooting that left cinematographer Halyna Hutchins dead and director Joel Souza injured. Baldwin described to viewers what happened the day he fatally shot Hutchins on the set of "Rust," from the moment he says he "let go of the hammer" and the gun went off to his interview with police at the station afterward. Following the interview, Baldwin shared a post on social media saying his life with his family is all he cares about. "No matter what happens to me. No matter what I suffer. If I win or lose, anything. Anything. No one can take away from me the joy and love you have given me, @hilariabaldwin," Baldwin began his post. "These are tough times. The world is choked with fumes of hate. But you have given me a reason to live. Our life with our family is all I care about. Nothing else. I owe that to you." ALEC BALDWIN SLAMMED FOR ‘RUST’ TELL-ALL INTERVIEW: ‘A CLOUT CHASING PERFORMANCE’ Celebrities showed their support for Alec Baldwin on social media following his first sit-down interview about the fatal shooting on the set of 'Rust.' In addition to Baldwin's wife Hilaria saying she loves the actor, the comment section of the post was flooded with support from fellow celebrities. "So beautifully said!" Marilu Henner wrote. "Omg! I love you guys so much!!!" Leslie Jordan added, "Stay strong, Alec. We love you and your beautiful family." Dina Lohan also commented, writing, "Love you and your wife and family you told me once home is where your heart is kiddo … sending love and light." "My friend, no matter what happens in our lives that we can't control. I am with you," Anne Heche wrote. "Mostly because I know the kindess of your soul." "The pain will pass," Anne Welsh added. "It's been a tough year." Amanda Kloots, Manuela Gonzalez Daza, Danielle Monaro and others added heart emojis. Baldwin described what happened, from his point of view, on the day of the shooting that left cinematographer Halyna Hutchins dead and director Joel Souza injured. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER However, some viewers of the interview clearly weren't impressed with what the former "30 Rock" star had to say. "How did Alec Baldwin’s lawyers allow him to do this interview?" one asked on Twitter. "This is nothing but a clout chasing performance. We should be centering the victim, not him." "Im side eyeing Alec..I'm not buying what he is selling," another wrote. A third critic sarcastically added, "I'm not the victim but let's talk about me for an hour." After the interview aired, Baldwin praised his wife on social media. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Other viewers chimed in and accused Baldwin of "performing" during the tell-all interview. "If Alec wasn’t such a good actor, I’d believe every word," another added. "Baldwin is one hell of an actor… ACTION!!!" said a viewer. "He’s performing baby." Fox News' Nate Day contributed to this report.
GoFundMe removes page supporting Army sergeant who shot and killed armed Black Lives Matter protester: Perry stands accused of murder after shooting an armed Black Lives Matter protester last year. On today's episode, Steve Hilton is 'Outnumbered' as we await a press conference on the Michigan school shooting. Meanwhile, President Biden says the economy is getting back on track despite November job reports. A United States Army sergeant facing a murder charge after shooting a Black Lives Matter protester who approached his vehicle with an AK-47 had his GoFundMe page removed from the site by the company. Perry’s attorneys confirmed to Fox News Digital that the GoFundMe page for their client, Army. Sgt. Daniel Perry, has been removed. '60 MINUTES' PREVIEW ON AUSTIN'S 'REIMAGINED' POLICE FORCE SHRUGS OFF RECORD HOMICIDES, POLICE EXODUS  "It’s an expensive trial to undertake with the need for expert witnesses and stuff and we had a GoFundMe site that’s been taken down and it’s been weighing on him," Perry Attorney Clint Broden told Fox News Digital, adding that Perry’s father had to pay a "significant bond" for his release and that the ordeal has taken a "significant toll" on the family. On the night of July 25, 2020, at about 9:50 p.m., authorities say Sgt. Daniel Perry was driving for Uber when he encountered a Black Lives Matter protest in downtown Austin, Texas. Perry, an active duty soldier, was stationed at Ft. Hood at the time. The protesters did not have a permit and were reportedly clogging a busy intersection. After making a right turn onto Austin’s Congress Avenue, Perry’s attorneys say he was swarmed by a group of Black Lives Matter protesters and a masked man, later identified as Garrett Foster, approached his vehicle armed with an AK-47 in the "ready position" as protesters began banging on Perry’s car and throwing bricks. A protester carries a Black Lives Matter flag shortly before the start of a dawn to dusk curfew following the killing of Andrew Brown Jr. by sheriffs last week, in Elizabeth City, North Carolina, U.S. April 27, 2021.  REUTERS/Jonathan Drake FROM SOROS TO UNIONS, THE LEFT POURED MAJOR MONEY INTO EFFORT TO DEFEAT AUSTIN'S POLICE STAFFING PROP Believing that Foster was beginning to raise the rifle and that his life was in danger, Perry fired the handgun he kept in his car console multiple times at which point another protester opened fire on him. The man with the AK-47, Garrett Foster, was fatally wounded. Roughly a year later, Perry was indicted on murder and aggravated assault charges by Travis County District Attorney Jose Garza who claimed that over 150 pieces of evidence and testimony from 22 witnesses during a three-week court hearing led to the decision to press charges. Perry’s attorneys say the shooting was a clear case of self-defense and have expressed serious concerns with how the case has been handled by Garza’s office. "Garrett Foster either intentionally or accidentally pointed his rifle at Daniel Perry’s head and Daniel Perry fired in self-defense," Perry attorney Doug O’Connell told Fox News Digital. "And as a practical matter he had no ability to retreat nor was he required to." "You have the right to defend yourself in a crowd and you feel like you’re in imminent danger of being shot," Broden added. "That’s what it’s all about. I ask people to put themselves in Sgt. Perry’s position and you have this masked man with an assault rifle ready starting to raise it. I think anybody that had access to a firearm would react the same way." Texas castle law extends to one's vehicle in some circumstances. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Austin Texas downtown cityscape skyline aerial view Veteran Detective David Fugitt of the Austin Police Department, the lead investigator on the case who has been on the Austin police force for 27 years, concluded that the shooting was justifiable homicide, but charges were filed anyway, and the veteran detective has suggested that Garza’s office committed witness tampering by preventing the grand jury from seeing exculpatory evidence. Perry’s attorneys say that those who wish to financially support Perry can still do so via the GoGetFunding crowdfunding platform. "I can confirm that this fundraiser was reviewed and found to be in violation of GoFundMe Terms of Service, and subsequently removed. GoFundMe prohibits raising money for the legal defense of a violent crime," a GoFundMe spokesperson said in a statement to Fox News Digital. The platform has previously stated multiple times that it removes pages supporting those who are accused of a "violent crime" but has declined to completely remove pages of others accused of violent crimes in the past. A trial date has not been set for the case but Perry's lawyers have a call scheduled with a judge on December 15th to review concerns with the grand jury process.
Loudoun County schools charge mom $36,000 to respond to open records request on ‘sexual assault,’ ‘rape’: 'The fact that there are potentially 100,000 documents responsive to this request is extremely concerning'. Loudoun County parent: 'The Loudoun School board is the real threat to our children, not us'. A parent filed a Freedom of Information Act  request with the Loudon County Public School District when administrators charged $36,000 to retrieve records related to possible sexual assaults. Michelle Mege, a mother in the district, wanted to search for any communications – including press releases, statements or emails – that used the words "sexual assault" or "rape" between May 1 and Oct. 18 this year. The extravagant fee derived from the hourly rate needed to review documents, which is around $72.15, according to a school official. People gather to protest different issues including the board’s handling of a sexual assault that happened in a school bathroom in May, vaccine mandates and critical race theory during a Loudoun County School Board meeting in Ashburn, Virginia, U.S., October 26, 2021. Picture taken October 26, 2021. REUTERS/Leah Millis "Retrieving these documents would take a half hour’s work by the supervisor of information technology at a cost of $36.08," Loudoun County Public Schools public information officer Wayde Byard said in an email reviewed by the Daily Caller. "Review of these documents – at the rate of 200 per hour – is estimated to take 500 hours." ANDREW CUOMO UNDER FEDERAL INVESTIGATION OVER SEXUAL HARASSMENT CLAIMS "This work would be performed by the public information officer at the rate of $72.15 per hour," he explained. "Loudoun County Public Schools estimates it would cost $36,111.68 to fulfill this request." ASHBURN, VA - AUGUST 10: Members of the Loudoun County school board listen as virtual speakers address the board on transgender rights, covid masks and a host of other issues during a school board meeting on August 10, 2021 in Ashburn, Va. Byard claimed a little over 100,000 documents could possibly relate to the request. TEXAS NANNY SENTENCED TO 30 YEARS FOR CHILD MOLESTATION Loudoun County has found itself at the center of scandal after the revelation that a male student who sexually assaulted a girl in a girls’ restroom went on to assault another student in another school after the school transferred him to that school. Heather Fruzzetti makes a public statement as people protest different issues including the board’s handling of a sexual assault that happened in a school bathroom in May, vaccine mandates and critical race theory during a Loudoun County School Board meeting in Ashburn, Virginia, U.S., October 26, 2021. Picture taken October 26, 2021. Parents have grappled with the fact that such actions could go underreported in their schools, driving them to find any information possible to understand the scope of the issue in the school district. But the cost would prove prohibitive for most parents and serve as a roadblock to any attempt a parent makes to uncover the full extent of possible sexual assault in the district, according to Ian Prior of the group Fight for Schools. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "The fact that there are potentially 100,000 documents responsive to this request is extremely concerning," Prior said. "But it is equally concerning that Loudoun County Public Schools would put up a $36,000 roadblock in front of parents trying to find out the extent of sexual assaults occurring in our schools, especially since LCPS has not been reporting those sexual assaults to the state as is required by law."
Ryan Rogers murder: Suspected killer's apparent YouTube page reveals troubled past: Semmie Williams Jr. is accused of stabbing Ryan Rogers after the teen left for a bike ride in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A disturbing and bizarre YouTube Channel attributed to Semmie Williams, the 39-year-old "homeless drifter" accused in the seemingly random stabbing death of 14-year-old Ryan Rogers of Palm Beach Gardens, appears to showcase the suspect’s severe paranoia and mental health issues. Police sources tell Fox News Digital that a YouTube Channel bearing Williams' name and image belongs to the accused killer. In hundreds of short cellphone videos, he complains that he is stalked, abused and harassed by members of the public and police – often accusing passersby of being secret police, racists and cult members. Multiple agencies are involved in the investigation, which is being led by the Palm Beach Gardens Police Department. Officials there declined to answer questions about the videos' authenticity. Semmie Williams Jr., the 39-year-old "homeless drifter" accused in the unprovoked stabbing death of 14-year-old Ryan Rogers of Palm Beach Gardens, has a 16-page rap sheet in Florida as well as charges in other states and a history of violence. RYAN ROGERS MURDER SUSPECT SEMMIE WILLIAMS HAD LENGTHY FLORIDA RAP SHEET, CONVICTIONS IN GEORGIA They are captioned and narrated ways describing scenarios that the videos do not appear to support. Many are simply titled "gang stalking," while others allege racism, "child endangerment" and "possible criminal activity." One video, posted on the night of the murder and depicting a dark street after sundown, is titled "First Blood 1982." In it, the narrator claims unknown women are following him and that police and security guards are "being violent" with him. "You know, prostitutes that set guys up to get killed," he says. "Like I don’t know these women." In another alarming clip posted on Nov. 16 – the day after Williams allegedly stabbed Ryan to death under an I-95 overpass – a video declared "my next movie is gonna be ‘Blade 3:16.’" Posts from around that time appear to show him filming landmarks in Palm Beach Gardens – about 80 miles from where authorities later picked him up in Miami. RYAN ROGERS MURDER: FLORIDA POLICE IDENTIFY ‘DANGEROUS MONSTER’ ARRESTED IN UNPROVOKED STABBING In others, he claims that police and civilians repeatedly kidnapped him and that the perpetrators were "mutilating" his face and "implanting evidence" on him. The videos often show nothing related to the claims he makes – instead capturing scenes of passing cars, grass and sidewalks. In one, he approaches a stranger and asks if the man is stalking him. The man says no. Police announced charges against Williams Thursday morning after they say their counterparts in Miami took him into custody in connection with Ryan’s death. FLORIDA KILLING: SUSPECT ARRESTED IN HOMICIDE OF 14-YEAR-OLD BOY THAT POLICE DUBBED ‘DELIBERATE ACT’ Palm Beach Gardens Police Chief Clinton Shannon accused Williams of stabbing the teen in "a random act" with no discernable motive. Ryan left his home on his bicycle at around 6:39 p.m. on Nov. 15, according to authorities. When he failed to return by 10:30, his parents reported him missing.    According to a criminal complaint, Ryan and Williams crossed paths at 7:31 p.m. Minutes earlier, surveillance video captured a man believed to be Williams approaching the I-95 overpass on Central Boulevard where Ryan's body was later found. The teen had been stabbed "numerous times in the head and face," according to the complaint. Police found headphones at the scenes that they said contained Williams' DNA. When they arrested him in Miami, he was allegedly in possession of a blood soaked bandana that tested positive for Ryan's DNA. In an interview with police, Williams denied any role in the crime. However police said they had evidence placing him in Palm Beach Gardens at the time of the attack. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Williams is being held without bail on a charge of first-degree murder. YouTube did not return calls or emails seeking comment on the video channel, which remains accessible.
Sarah Silverman slams Joy Reid as media panics about DeSantis' proposed civilian military force in Florida: The MSNBC host called DeSantis' proposal 'fascisty bananas' despite NY, CA having similar forces.  Actress Sarah Silverman took aim at MSNBC host Joy Reid for sounding the alarm on Republican Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis for a proposal for a civilian-military force in his state. DeSantis introduced a plan to re-establish what's called the Florida State Guard that can quickly aid the response to hurricanes and other emergencies. Several other states across the country including New York and California have similar civilian forces. DEBRA MESSING BLASTS MEDIA FOR DOWNPLAYING WAUKESHA PARADE ATTACK AS AN ‘ACCIDENT’ "We want to make sure that we have the flexibility and the ability needed to respond to events in our state in the most effective way possible. That will require us to have access and be able to use support in ways that are not encumbered by the federal government or don't require federal government," DeSantis said Thursday. "So I'm going to be recommending in the budget $3.5 million to re-establish the Florida State Guard. The Florida State Guard will act as a civilian volunteer force that will have the ability to assist the National Guard and state-specific emergencies." However, despite how common it is for states to create their own civilian military force, news outlets suggested DeSantis is tapping into authoritarian impulses. FILE - Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis speaks at the opening of a monoclonal antibody site Wednesday, Aug. 18, 2021, in Pembroke Pines, Fla. CNN's homepage, for example, was dominated Friday morning with the headline, "DeSantis proposes new civilian military force," something the liberal outlet stressed, "he would control." "Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis wants to reestablish a World War II-era civilian military force that he, not the Pentagon, would control," the CNN article began. "But in a nod to the growing tension between Republican states and the Biden administration over the National Guard, DeSantis also said this unit, called the Florida State Guard, would be ‘not encumbered by the federal government.’ He said this force would give him ‘the flexibility and the ability needed to respond to events in our state in the most effective way possible.’" It wasn't until the fourth paragraph that CNN acknowledged that Florida would be the 23rd state to establish such a force. SARAH SILVERMAN SLAMS DEM ‘SQUAD’ FOR OPPOSING ISRAEL'S IRON DOME: ‘NONE OF THEM TALK ABOUT HAMAS!’ But that didn't stop CNN's story from going viral and was shared by several liberal media personalities including the "ReidOut" host. "So… y’all know this is fascisty bananas, right…?" Reid tweeted. Silverman, an outspoken liberal, pushed back at the MSNBC star's hyperbolic remark. "Please read the article before you post this stuff you’re a news outlet. The truth has to matter," Silverman told Reid. Reid was far from the only one expressing sheer panic over DeSantis' proposal. "WOW: GOP Governor of Florida Ron DeSantis wants to form a personal militia like the ‘political’ leaders in Iraq have. It would be a militia that only answers to him. This is the beginning of a ‘Red Army’ as the GOP prepares for war. Literally," liberal SiriusXM radio host Dean Obeidallah reacted to the CNN report. "'And that, children, was the genesis of Florida's nuclear weapons program,'" Lincoln Project co-founder Rick Wilson wrote. "So...fascism," Daily Beast columnist Wajahat Ali tweeted. "What wannabe totalitarian, fascist, authoritarian dictators do," MSNBC analyst Fernand Amandi similarly wrote. CNN HEAVILY PROMOTED REBEKAH JONES' FAKE CONSPIRACY ACCUSING DESANTIS ADMIN OF ALTERING COVID DATA "i can never figure out how much of this is serious and how much is desantis just trying to get a headline to use to trigger the libs," New York Times opinion columnist Jamelle Bouie tweeted. Other outlets ran stories similar to CNN like Axios' "DeSantis proposes Florida civilian military force that he'd control," The Hill's "DeSantis proposes civilian Florida State Guard military force he would control" and The Guardian's "Ron DeSantis plans Florida paramilitary force outside federal control." MSNBC's "The ReidOut Blog" went even further attacking the GOP governor with a piece titled, "DeSantis wants Florida to establish its own military force. He can't be trusted."  A spokesperson for Gov. DeSantis blasted the liberal media's coverage of his proposal. "Today, ‘DeSantis’ was trending on Twitter alongside 'Gestapo.' This is a result of sensationalist false narratives pushed by irresponsible journalists," DeSantis Press Secretary Christina Pushaw told Fox News. "The fact is that 22 other states already have a State Guard, like proposed for Florida. Calling them ‘Gestapo’ is disrespectful, not only to the service members who assist states in emergencies, but also to victims of the actual Gestapo." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Corporate media’s super-spreaders of disinformation are desperate to score cheap political points against Governor DeSantis, but they aren’t fooling Floridians. Florida is the freest state in the country, because we have a governor who fights to defend our constitutional rights – even in the face of an unprecedented onslaught from the Biden Administration. Protecting citizens’ freedom to live their lives and make their own choices, as Governor DeSantis does, is the opposite of dictatorship," Pushaw added.
Alec Baldwin didn't do himself any favors with sit-down, experts say: ‘Textbook example of what not to do’: Baldwin pleaded through tears that he did not 'pull the trigger' of the gun that killed 'Rust' cinematographer Halyna Hutchins. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Alec Baldwin did himself no favors with his recent tell-all interview about the "Rust" shooting tragedy, according to crisis mitigation experts. On Thursday, the "30 Rock" actor vehemently denied ever "pulling the trigger" of the revolver that fired a live projectile into cinematographer Halyna Hutchins, killing her, while also striking director Joel Souza and wounding the filmmaker in the process. "I let go of the hammer of the gun," Baldwin recounted to ABC's George Stephanopoulos. "And the gun goes off." Baldwin and Hutchins had been setting up for a shot where the actor was supposed to draw the gun and point it at the camera. While standing next to the camera, the cinematographer was "guiding" Baldwin on where to point the gun, he said. "The gun wasn't meant to be fired in that angle," he confirmed. ALEC BALDWIN’S INTERVIEW FOLLOWING ‘RUST’ SHOOTING ‘WAS A MISTAKE,’ LEGAL EXPERTS SAY: IT 'MAY BACKFIRE' Alec Baldwin speaks out in first TV interview since the tragic shooting on the set of ‘Rust’ in which a revolver he was holding discharged, killing the film's cinematographer, Halyna Hutchins and wounding director, Joel Souza. "I didn't pull the trigger," Baldwin reiterated. "I would never point a gun at anyone and pull the trigger at them. Never." Baldwin was skewered by many at-home viewers who felt the actor attempted to dodge culpability, while crisis mitigation experts also agreed, suggesting that the performer tried to gaslight the public. ALEC BALDWIN 'RUST' SHOOTING INTERVIEW: FIVE MOST SHOCKING REVELATIONS "Baldwin's buffoonish brand strategy appeared to be to convince the American public that the gun did it all by itself like it had superpowers," Eric Schiffer, an author and leading expert in media relations and branding, told Fox News Digital. Schiffer believes Baldwin’s showing on Thursday "was a bad day for shamelessly hypocritical prima donnas in Hollywood." "Baldwin's brand was already melting down, and this heats the meltdown at a greater velocity because of self-imposed damage that is not only horrifyingly dumb, but defies gun physics itself," Schiffer pressed. "Baldwin cocked the hammer, then pointed it at someone and released the hammer with the gun going boom, yet he says he didn't do it. What planet does he think the public lives on that they would believe his communication plan? Had Baldwin taken one gun training session, he'd know how wacky his messaging strategy was." ALEC BALDWIN HITS BACK AT GEORGE CLOONEY'S RESPONSE TO 'RUST' SHOOTING: 'GOOD FOR YOU' Evan Nierman, CEO of Red Banyan Crisis PR, echoed earlier sentiments from viewers that Baldwin failed to accept accountability for the tragedy, regardless of how he recalls it went down. "His name will now be synonymous with shooting someone to death and then refusing to take responsibility," Nierman said of Baldwin, adding that despite the stain to Baldwin’s legacy, he doesn’t believe the "Saturday Night Live" actor’s career to be over. Alec Baldwin pleaded through tears that he did not 'pull the trigger' of the gun that killed 'Rust' cinematographer Halyna Hutchins "This was a textbook example of what not to do in the wake of a tragedy," the crisis fixer maintained of the primetime special. "Baldwin made this story far worse for himself by blaming the gun, totally refusing to take responsibility, and denying he pulled the trigger. His posture and comments make it virtually impossible for the public to move past this story, and all but guarantee the public will be paying even more attention as lawsuits involving him proceed." Baldwin, who became emotional discussing Hutchins, said he feels incredible sadness and regret over the Oct. 21 shooting on the New Mexico film set, but not guilt. 'RUST' SHOOTING VICTIM HALYNA HUTCHINS' HUSBAND WILL MAKE LEGAL DECISIONS 'WHEN HE IS READY,' FILM GAFFER SAYS However, even with the public tears and decree to take care of Hutchins’ family moving forward, in Nierman’s estimation, Baldwin should "stop doing interviews where you say outrageous things and quit making yourself out to be the victim." "In the meantime, have your wife put her social media shares on hold," Nierman added of Hilaria Baldwin’s continued Instagram posts. Still, in Schiffer’s eyes, Baldwin "tried for an Oscar" and came across as "fake" in his interview. "Baldwin designed his appearance to build public sympathy, but it backfired with his asininely arrogant belief that it’s OK to use the hammer instead of the trigger," Schiffer fumed. "Baldwin doesn't understand that self-deluded, whining elites crowing their innocence early in the process hurts him severely against a history of film sets where pistols don't fire themselves on a regular occurrence." CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER The expert also recognized the interview as an opportunity for "many on the right to look at Baldwin as a primetime example of one more deluded celebrity who never takes responsibility." "Some never saw Baldwin as an A-list actor and his performance became Exhibit A for them," said Schiffer. "He seemed to blame everyone but MAGA, but that may be next." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Baldwin went forth with his painfully deluded story, which suggests he is living in a bubble of Hollywood fairy tales and that he feels the American public are suckers who will believe him," the expert pressed. "Alec should not have counted on that."
Alec Baldwin's wife Hilaria pledges to 'take care of' actor, jabs critics: 'I don't want to lose you': The actor opened up about the 'Rust' shooting in a tell-all interview. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Alec Baldwin has a strong supporter in his wife Hilaria. Since the Oct. 21 shooting on the set of the actor's film "Rust," Hilaria has been an outspoken supporter of her husband despite intense media attention and scrutiny. On Thursday night, Baldwin, 63, addressed the shooting — which resulted in the death of cinematographer Halyna Hutchins — in a tell-all interview with George Stephanopoulos in which the actor said he may have taken his own life if he felt he were responsible for the ordeal. On Friday, Hilaria took to Instagram to share a photo of herself and her husband embracing and kissing, gushing over the "30 Rock" actor in the caption. CELEBRITIES RALLY AROUND ALEC BALDWIN WHILE THE PUBLIC CRITICIZES HIM FOLLOWING TELL-ALL 'RUST' INTERVIEW "'I am here, I love you, and I will take care of you.' These were the only words that came to me when we learned Halyna had died," she recalled. "I remember saying that phrase over and over again. The horrific loss, the torture to her family, and you, my husband, somehow put in this unthinkable nightmare." Hilaria Baldwin promised to ‘take care of’ her husband, Alec Baldwin, after he opened up about the fatal shooting on the set of his movie "Rust." Hilaria said that she remembers the moment well, as photographers surrounded Baldwin to capture widely spread images of the star speaking on the phone while he cried. "I couldn’t be near you to hug you, our connection over the phone, a visual for the world to see," she continued. "Our public life is one that brings great joy in connecting with amazing people and tremendous trauma when it gets dark. The opinions + monetization of us get loud and overwhelming." JOHN SCHNEIDER SAYS HE’S 'DISGUSTED’ BY ALEC BALDWIN’S ‘REFUSAL TO SHOW ANY GUILT’ FOLLOWING INTERVIEW Hilaria said she was "afraid" for Baldwin to "open up" publicly about the shooting because "I’ve seen your spirit crushed, your mental health shattered, your soul in unimaginable pain." She noted: "Sometimes I wonder how much one body, one mind can take. I don’t want to lose you." In the interview, Alec Baldwin claimed that he didn't pull the trigger of the gun that was discharged and that he may have taken his own life if he believed he was responsible for the incident. "You know yourself and wanted to speak. I am proud of you," she gushed before adding: "We become scared and crumble as some speak about us, for us, gossip, conspiracies, ALL OF THE DAMN OPINIONS. Everything gets twisted and turned, torn apart, picked at, even invented." The star said that as "media, social and ‘news’" has developed, she "lost [her] voice" and "stopped speaking because of fear," but praised Baldwin for encouraging her to "speak, use my voice, stay true." ALEC BALDWIN HITS BACK AT GEORGE CLOONEY'S RESPONSE TO 'RUST' SHOOTING: 'GOOD FOR YOU' "You were right and continue to inspire me," she stated. "You and I don’t always get it right, but we have big hearts and we love deeply. We are completely different in almost every [single] possible way, but we are united through deep caring. Alec, we are messy, unfiltered, and wear our hearts, naked, on our sleeves—this makes us targets and we are so sensitive that to hurt us is easy. As much as I want the pain to go, I can’t imagine being any other way. It just is who we are—and who we are together." The shooting resulted in the death of cinematographer Halyna Hutchins. The yoga guru circled back around to her opening phrase and said that she and her husband "honor Halyna and her family" and hope to "figure out how this happened and whatever we can do to make sure it never happens again." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "My Alec, I am here to heal any of your pain that I can," she concluded. "I am not going anywhere. Onward to being Alec and Hilaria, messy, emotions strong, but lots and lots of love—until the very end." CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Once Baldwin caught wind of the post, he shared his response in the comments. "I’m lucky. Sometimes it doesn’t seem that way to me," he wrote. "But having you and our family…I’m the luckiest guy on Earth."
New 'dark money' financial disclosures expose the political outlook and power of teacher unions: The two teachers unions have so far provided $1.3 million to Democrats and $2.,500 to Republicans. 'Irreversible Damage' author Abigail Shrier shares details on how students are being lured into joining school clubs that explore sexuality New financial disclosures further expose the political power of the nation's two largest teachers unions. Between 2020 and 2021, the National Education Association provided more than $8 million dollars to liberal, dark money groups such as the State Innovation Exchange, Strategic Victory Fund, and State Engagement Fund. The latter received over $6.5 million and exists under the umbrella of the Democracy Alliance, which was described by Politico in 2014 as, "The Left's Secret Club." AMERICA'S LARGEST TEACHERS' UNION TO VOTE ON MANDATORY COVID-19 VACCINATIONS, MASKS AND TESTING FOR STUDENTS In 2020, while parents were plagued by school closures and Congress carved out its Coronavirus Relief Package, the NEA and the American Federation of Teachers increased their contributions to Democrats and liberal groups totaling more than $65 million. President Joe Biden speaks with National Education Association President Becky Pringle at the NEA's annual meeting at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center in Washington, Friday, July 2, 2021. The partisan influence is not limited to issues that affect the classroom. In October, AFT President, Randi Weingarten issued a statement on President Biden's infrastructure and spending bills, "Congress must move forward and pass the Build Back Better Act and the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, and lead our country forward in this critical moment." U.S. President Joe Biden speaks during the National Education Association's annual meeting and representative assembly event in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Friday, July 2, 2021. Photographer: Samuel Corum/Bloomberg via Getty Images Amidst a rapidly mobilizing movement of frustrated parents in Virginia, Weingarten unsuccessfully campaigned for former Democratic Governor Terry McAuliffe. Democratic gubernatorial candidate, former Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe speaks to supporters during a rally in Richmond, Va., Sunday, Oct. 31, 2021. Both unions disclosed a combined contribution of $600,000 toward McAuliffe's campaign. CRITICAL RACE THEORY OPPONENTS TO BE TARGETED, REASEARCHED' BY NEA TEACHERS UNION According to OpenSecrets.org, donations from the two unions have long been on the rise and grew from $4.3 million in 2004 to more than $32 million in 2016. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The data also shows that in preparation of the 2022 midterms the two teachers unions have so far provided $1.3 million to Democrats and $2,500 to Republicans.
Jan. 6 Committee subpoena for private phone records requests swath of data, from call logs to IP addresses: Fox News obtained a copy of a notice sent from AT&T to a private customer whose phone records were subpoenaed by the Jan. 6 Committee. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. EXCLUSIVE – Fox News obtained a redacted copy of a notice AT&T sent to a private citizen customer after the company received a subpoena from the House Jan. 6 Committee for that individual's phone records. "The AT&T Global Legal Demand Center responds to subpoenas addressed to AT&T companies," the document, which includes a copy of the subpoena, says. "We have received the enclosed congressional subpoena directing AT&T to disclose information about you, your account or one or more phone numbers associated with you." "As a courtesy, we are sending this notice to your address on file to enable you to contest the subpoena if you wish to do so," the notice continues. It adds that the company will respond to the subpoena by Dec. 16 unless the customer takes legal action to fight the subpoena. Personal details about the recipient of the subject, including the phone number being subpoenaed, are redacted from the document obtained by Fox News. The subpoena is a broad request for electronic records associated with a specific phone number. Supporters of President Donald Trump climb the west wall of the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, Jan. 6, 2021, in Washington. This includes all the authorized users on a certain account, email addresses associated with it, the length of service with the company, every phone number on an account, electronic serial numbers, the "[a]ctivation and termination date of each device associated with the account," "[a]ny and all number and/or account number changes" and "[o]ther subscriber numbers or identities," including temporary IP addresses. HOUSE JAN. 6 COMMITTEE SUBPOENAING PHONE RECORDS OF PRIVATE INDIVIDUALS, REP. BANKS SAYS Most notably, the subpoena includes a demand for "all call, message, , and data-connection detail records associated with the phone numbers, including all phone numbers, IP addresses or devices that communicated with the phone number via delivered and undelivered inbound, outbound, and routed calls, messages, voicemails and data connections." A GOP source told Fox News this week that subpoenas were sent not just to AT&T but also to T-Mobile and Verizon. None of those companies directly replied to requests for comment. But the Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association  reached out to Fox News with a statement. "While CTIA is not privy to the specifics of any request, wireless carriers are compelled to comply with valid subpoenas and do so every day," the CTIA said. The subpoena is signed by Jan. 6 Committee Chairman Rep. Bennie Thompson, D-Miss. The committee did not immediately respond to a request for comment from Fox News. Neither did a spokesperson for Ranking Member Liz Cheney, R-Wyo. The subpoenas follow preservation orders the committee issued to telecom companies in August for a swath of data pertaining to many individuals. It isn't clear exactly whose records are being subpoenaed by the committee now, but a GOP aide knowledgeable about the subpoenas said the committee hasn't issued any for phone records of members of Congress yet. Rep. Adam Kinzinger, a Republican from Illinois, speaks during a House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing in Washington, D.C. Sept. 16, 2020. JUDGES DUBIOUS OF TRUMP LAWYERS' CLAIMS IN MAJOR CASE ON JAN. 6 COMMITTEE DOCUMENTS: ‘ONE PRESIDENT AT A TIME’ "The committee has moved forward with issuing subpoenas to telephone companies," the GOP aide said Wednesday. "Our understanding at this point is they have not subpoenaed member information, but they are subpoenaing telephone records of private American citizens." "I'm not gonna get too far ahead of what we're releasing. But we're gonna get – we'll be thorough, we'll get to the bottom," Jan. 6 Committee member Rep. Adam Kinzinger, R-Ill., told Fox News when asked about subpoenas for private citizens' phone records Wednesday. "I won't say anything on that yet," he added when pressed again. In this Jan. 6, 2021, file photo with the White House in the background, President Donald Trump speaks at a rally in Washington. Cheney simply said "no comment" when asked about such subpoenas. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The Jan. 6 Committee is tasked with investigating the attack on the Capitol by a mob of supporters of former President Donald Trump earlier this year. The attack happened after Trump falsely claimed he won the presidential election for months. Democrats say the committee is crucial to ensuring there is never a repeat of Jan. 6. Most Republicans say it is a highly partisan witch hunt meant to hurt Republicans and the former president. Fox News' Bill Mears contributed to this report.
Gov. Kay Ivey warns Biden, OSHA vaccine mandate could create 'economic damage' in Alabama: Ivey says 'economic damage likely would be great' if mandate is adopted as final standard. Certified nursing assistant Becca Pitts says that the vaccine deadline is supposed to take place on December 5. Alabama Gov. Kay Ivey has penned a letter to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, warning that President Biden's COVID-19 vaccine mandate for companies with more than 100 employees will have a negative impact on the Yellowhammer State's economy. In the letter, which was sent to Assistant Secretary of Labor Douglas Parker on Friday, Ivey urged OSHA to not adopt its COVID-19 Vaccination and Testing Emergency Temporary Standard  as a "final standard or rule" as she claims the ETS is "misguided" and that any standard based off of it would be a "mistake." BIDEN HIT WITH STRING OF LEGAL LOSSES ON VACCINE MANDATE, AS DOJ VOWS TO 'VIGOROUSLY DEFEND' IT IN COURT Republican Alabama Gov. Kay Ivey speaks to Fox News about Big Tech and her opposition to President Joe Biden's proposed coronavirus vaccine mandates. While voicing her opposition to the vaccine mandate, which is facing numerous court battles, Ivey urged OSHA to discontinue the mandate "sooner, rather than later" as it increases "vaccine skepticism in Alabama" and continues to "disrupt the State's economy." She also stated she believes a final standard based on the ETS could be "harmful to businesses in Alabama" as "significant percentages of Alabama's workforce have not received at least one dose" of the vaccine. "Given all the efforts to educate and persuade Alabamians of the vaccine's safety and effectiveness, I can only conclude that many Alabamians have profound – and sincere – medical, religious, or other reasons not to take it," Ivey wrote. "I believe that enforcement of the ETS may lead many Alabamians to quit their jobs and leave the workforce – in the middle of a substantial labor shortage, no less – or to seek work at businesses not covered by the mandate." A pharmacist prepares a syringe of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine at Queen Anne Healthcare. Ivey continued, saying that "disruption would interrupt people's careers and threaten their livelihoods and the well-being of their families" and could "damage the productivity and bottom lines of businesses statewide." "If a federal court strikes down the ETS, well and good," Ivey wrote. "If not, I ask that OSHA not continue its provisions under a final standard. The economic damage likely would be great. Ending the provisions sooner rather than later could lessen the damage likely to be caused by them." Ivey has maintained that she believes COVID-19 vaccines should not be forced on Americans by the federal government. Last May, she signed into law legislation which bans the use of vaccine passports in the state, saying then that she is "supportive of a voluntary vaccine." President Joe Biden delivers remarks on the authorization of the coronavirus disease  vaccine for kids ages 5 to 11, during a speech in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building’s South Court Auditorium at the White House in Washington, U.S., November 3, 2021. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Alabama is standing strong in our fight against the overreaching, un-American Biden vaccine mandates," Ivey said in a statement Friday. "President Trump said it well in an interview yesterday morning. The Biden Administration is driving distrust and anxieties about this vaccine." Ivey also stated that Americans "should never have to choose between getting this shot and putting food on the tables for their families" and vowed to continue "fighting these mandates every step of the way." In October, Ivey signed Executive Order 724 which prevents any agency, department, board, commission, or other state entity from imposing penalties on businesses that are not in compliance with the federal vaccine mandate.
Omicron-stricken South Africa may be a glimpse into the future of COVID-19: Even with the rapid increase, infections are still below 25,000 new daily cases. Fox News medical contributor Dr. Marc Siegel on his interview with Dr. Rochelle Walensky on the severity of omicron. Dr. Sikhulile Moyo was analyzing COVID-19 samples in his lab in Botswana last week when he noticed they looked startlingly different from others. Within days, the world was ablaze with the news that the coronavirus had a new variant of concern — one that appears to be driving a dramatic surge in South Africa and offering a glimpse of where the pandemic might be headed. New COVID-19 cases in South Africa have burgeoned from about 200 a day in mid-November to more than 16,000 on Friday. Omicron was detected over a week ago in the country’s most populous province, Gauteng, and has since spread to all eight other provinces, Health Minister Joe Phaahla said. Even with the rapid increase, infections are still below the 25,000 new daily cases that South Africa reported in the previous surge, in June and July. WHITE HOUSE SAYS DOMESTIC TRAVEL VACCINE REQUIREMENTS ON THE TABLE DUE TO OMICRON VARIANT Little is known about the new variant, but the spike in South Africa suggests it might be more contagious, said Moyo, the scientist who may have been the first to identify the new variant, though researchers in neighboring South Africa were close on his heels. Omicron has more than 50 mutations, and scientists have called it a big jump in the evolution of the virus. An Orange Farm, South Africa, resident listens to a nurse after receiving his jab against COVID-19 Friday Dec. 3, 2021 at the Orange Farm multipurpose center. South Africa has accelerated its vaccination campaign a week after the discovery of the omicron variant of the coronavirus. This undated image provided by the Botswana-Harvard Partnership shows Dr. Sikhulile Moyo. Moyo was analyzing COVID-19 samples in his lab in Botswana when he noticed they looked startlingly different from others. Within days, the world was ablaze with the news that the coronavirus had a new variant of concern called omicron, which appears to be driving a dramatic surge in South Africa. It’s not clear if the variant causes more serious illness or can evade the protection of vaccines. Phaahla noted that only a small number of people who have been vaccinated have gotten sick, mostly with mild cases, while the vast majority of those who have been hospitalized were not vaccinated. But in a worrisome development, South African scientists reported that omicron appears more likely than earlier variants to cause reinfections among people who have already had a bout with COVID-19. People who just received their jab against COVID-19 Friday Dec. 3, 2021 wait for their vaccine card to be processed at the Orange Farm, South Africa, multipurpose center. South Africa has accelerated its vaccination campaign a week after the discovery of the omicron variant of the coronavirus. People who have just received their jab against COVID-19 Friday Dec. 3, 2021 wait for their vaccine card to be processed at the Orange Farm, South Africa, multipurpose center. South Africa has accelerated its vaccination campaign a week after the discovery of the omicron variant of the coronavirus. "Previous infection used to protect against delta, and now with omicron it doesn’t seem to be the case," one of the researchers, Anne von Gottberg of the University of Witwatersrand, said at a World Health Organization briefing on Thursday. OMICRON VARIANT OF COVID-19 FOUND IN MULTIPLE US STATES While the study did not examine the protection offered by vaccination, von Gottberg said: "We believe that vaccines will still, however, protect against severe disease." The findings, posted online Thursday, are preliminary and haven’t yet undergone scientific review. A staff member is seen at the Vaccination Centre of Hope at the Cape Town International Convention Centre in Cape Town, South Africa, Friday, Dec. 3, 2021. The mass Covid-19 vaccination site is closing today after vaccinating more than 136 000 people at the Western Cape's first mass vaccination centre. South Africa’s hospitals are so far coping with the surge, even those in Gauteng province, which accounts for more than 70% of all new infections, Phaahla said. The picture could change because most of those infected thus far have been younger people who generally do not get as sick as older patients. But Moyo expressed hope that vaccines would continue to work against the variant. "I have a lot of hope from the data that we see that those vaccinated should be able to have a lot of protection," he said. That dovetails with what officials from WHO in Asia said Friday. Residents stand in the streets of Lawley, South Africa, during a visit of local government officials for the launch of the Vooma vaccination program against COVID-19 Friday Dec. 3, 2021. South Africa has accelerated its vaccination campaign a week after the discovery of the omicron variant of the coronavirus. Volunteers go door to door with vaccination information material in Lawley, South Africa, during a visit of local government officials for the launch of the Vooma vaccination program against COVID-19 Friday Dec. 3, 2021. South Africa has accelerated its vaccination campaign a week after the discovery of the omicron variant of the coronavirus. A woman receives a COVID-19 vaccine at a facility in Soweto, South Africa, Wednesday Dec. 2, 2021. South Africa has accelerated its vaccination campaign by giving jabs at pop-up sites in shopping centers and transport hubs to combat the rapidly rising new cases of COVID-19. While warning that cases could well rise quickly because of omicron, Dr. Takeshi Kasai, WHO regional director for the Western Pacific, said the measures used against the delta variant — which itself caused surges the world over — should remain at the core of the response. "The positive news in all of this is that none of the information we have currently about omicron suggests we need to change the directions of our response," Kasai said. An Orange Farm, South Africa, resident listens to a nurse after receiving his jab against COVID-19 Friday Dec. 3, 2021 at the Orange Farm multipurpose center. South Africa has accelerated its vaccination campaign a week after the discovery of the omicron variant of the coronavirus. That means continuing to push for higher vaccination rates, abiding by social-distancing guidelines and wearing masks, among other measures, said WHO Regional Emergency Director Dr. Babatunde Olowokure. While more than three dozen countries worldwide have reported omicron infections, the numbers so far are small outside of South Africa. That has led many countries to race to impose travel restrictions on visitors from Southern Africa — a move WHO officials said may buy some time, though the agency previously urged against the closing of borders. Noesqui Muanza, 33, receives a dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine at the Vaccination Centre of Hope at the Cape Town International Convention Centre in Cape Town, South Africa, Friday, Dec. 3, 2021. The mass Covid-19 vaccination site is closing today after vaccinating more than 136 000 people at the Western Cape's first mass vaccination centre. The travel restrictions have been severely criticized by South Africa, which says it is being punished for being transparent and moving so quickly to alert the world to omicron. WHO said it was notified by the country on Nov. 24 about the new variant. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "What we must reemphasize is that while our scientists and those in Botswana were the first to discover and report on the variant, no one knows where it originated," Phaahla said.
Dr. Siegel 'confident' Biden's in good health: Siegel says he does have questions about Biden's most recent exam. Fox News medical contributor Dr. Marc Siegel on his interview with Dr. Rochelle Walensky on the severity of omicron. Fox News contributor Dr. Marc Siegel said he was "confident" that President Biden is in good health, despite recent concerns about the president’s raspy voice. "I think that frequent testing of the president is a very good idea," Siegel told Fox News, adding he would hope the president was tested regularly following signs of upper respiratory congestion. BIDEN EXPLAINS COUGHING, HOARSE VOICE, SAYS GRANDSON GAVE HIM A COLD  The president’s physician, Kevin O’Connor, said in a memo Friday that Biden had been tested for 19 common respiratory pathogens that included influenza and streptococcus. "All of these tests were negative," O’Connor said, adding that Biden had also been tested for COVID-19 three times this week. "Treatment will include common over-the-counter medications for symptoms." The president dismissed questions regarding his health during a press event Friday, assuring reporters he caught a cold from his grandson. President Biden speaks about the COVID-19 variant omicron in the Roosevelt Room of the White House Monday, Nov. 29, 2021, in Washington as Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, listens. "What I have is a one-and-a-half-year-old grandson who had a cold who likes to kiss his pop," Biden said. Siegel said he was assured by the president’s overall health following a routine physical exam last month but noted he would have liked to have seen additional reports on some issues the president’s physician noted. "He had an extensive physical examination done. I was very impressed with the thoroughness of it," the top doc said. DR. SIEGEL INTERVIEWS CDC DIRECTOR ON OMICRON COVID VARIANT Siegel noted that a couple of issues did arise in the president’s examination, including the discovery of a colon polyp. The Fox News contributor said he believes this is "nothing to worry about" but serves as a good reminder for Americans to get their colonoscopies. Siegel noted the president had a neurological evaluation after his physician found Biden’s gait had altered from the previous evaluation, a caution that the Siegel said is routine. "I’m wondering, from that neurological evaluation, A: was an MRI of the spine or brain done?" Siegel said, noting there could be a correlation between the change in gait and other neurological issues. "And B: nerve conduction EMG?" Siegel asked, referring to an evaluation done to test whether muscles respond correctly to certain nerve signals. If completed, neither test was included in the publicly released report, Siegel said. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "The other thing is no sign of any cognitive testing," he added, noting it might have been a good test to include given that questions that have arisen relating to the president's cognitive abilities. "I’m confident from this physical that he seems to be in really good health," Siegel said. "But those things stand out."
Stephen Colbert declares 'we don't live in a democracy' as right-leaning SCOTUS considers abortion case: The CBS star expressed concern the court will overturn Roe v. Wade despite its popularity among Americans. Correspondent at Large Geraldo Rivera and former department assistant Attorney General John Yoo join ‘Your World with Neil Cavuto’ to discuss the case "Late Show" host Stephen Colbert offered a grim assessment of the landmark abortion case that was brought in front of the Supreme Court this week. Colbert began his monologue Thursday by knocking the "slightly less-trusted body" over concerns among the left that the lawsuit brought against Mississippi's abortion cut-off of 15 weeks into the pregnancy can result in the overturning of Roe v. Wade with a conservative-leaning court. ‘THE VIEW’ HOST WHOOPI GOLDBERG ERUPTS ON ABORTION DEBATE: HOW DARE MEN ‘TALK ABOUT WHAT A FETUS WANTS?’ "We don't know ultimately what's going to happen other than we definitely know cuz based on what we heard from the justices, it is looking rough for Roe," Colbert told his audience. The CBS star mocked Chief Justice John Roberts' inquiry during oral arguments about abortion ban precedent and suggested Associate Justice Clarence Thomas was "confused" for asking what specific constitutional "right" is at jeopardy. "He knows it's his job to interpret the Constitution, right?" Colbert jabbed the justice.  He then took shots at Justice Amy Coney Barrett for linking the subject of infringing bodily autonomy to vaccine mandates, saying it's a "false analogy" since COVID is contagious and no one is asking for "bellies" to be masked to prevent "catching baby." Colbert also warned the political consequences of the Supreme Court overturning Roe v. Wade, citing a poll showing 60% of the population supporting the precedent versus the 27% who oppose, stressing "That's more than two-to-one." SUPREME COURT ABORTION CASE: 5 KEY MOMENTS FROM ORAL ARGUMENTS "So, if it is this unpopular, why is everyone saying it's going to happen?" Colbert asked. "Well, I don’t want to get too technical but we, what’s the word, don’t live in a democracy." "Five of the nine justices were appointed by presidents who lost the popular vote, the last three confirmed by a Republican senate who now represent 41 million fewer Americans than the Democrats. In fact, Republican Senators haven't represented a majority of the U.S. population since 1996! A lot has changed since 1996. Back then, the Oscar for Best Supporting Actor went to Kevin Spacey! And the Best Director was Mel Gibson!" he added. supremecourt.gov "The View" co-host Whoopi Goldberg similarly sounded the alarm, scolding the male justices for having a say in the abortion debate. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Do any of you men have any eggs or the possibility of carrying a fetus? How dare you talk about what a fetus wants? You have no idea," Goldberg said. "I’m fine if you disagree with abortion, I have no problem with that. My problem comes when you tell me what I need to do with my doctor and my family. How dare you. How dare you!"
New Zealand to try new COVID-19 system with Auckland reopening: Auckland has a 90% vaccination rate of people age 12 or older. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Bars, restaurants and gyms reopened in Auckland on Friday as the last major parts of a lockdown that lasted more than 100 days ended. New Zealand has begun a new phase in its coronavirus response in which there won’t be lock downs, but people will be required to be fully vaccinated — and prove it with vaccine passes — in order to access many services. The government decided that vaccination rates were high enough to switch to the new system, with about 87% of people aged 12 and over fully vaccinated. In Auckland, which has been at the center of the nation’s outbreak, the rate is over 90%. Customers enjoy meals and drinks at a restaurant in central Auckland, New Zealand, Friday, Dec. 3, 2021. Bars, restaurants and gyms reopened in Auckland on Friday as the last major parts of a lockdown that lasted more than 100 days ended. New Zealand has begun a new phase in its virus response in which there won't be lockdowns, but people will be required to show vaccine passes for many services. OMCRON VARIANT: WHO CLAIMS MEASURES USED TO COUNTER DELTA VARIANT SHOULD BE USED The threat posed by the new omicron variant did not change plans for the reopening, after New Zealand on Sunday restricted travel from nine southern African countries. No cases of omicron have been found in New Zealand and officials remain confident cases will be caught at the border by the quarantine system. On Friday, there was a feeling of excitement among patrons in Auckland, some of whom visited bars the moment they were allowed to open at midnight. A man sits outside a cafe in central Auckland, New Zealand, Friday, Dec.3, 2021. Bars, restaurants and gyms reopened in Auckland on Friday as the last major parts of a lockdown that lasted more than 100 days ended. New Zealand has begun a new phase in its virus response in which there won't be lockdowns but people will be required to show vaccine passes for many services. NEW ZEALAND CAN'T ERADICATE CORONAVIRUS COMPLETELY, GOVERNMENT SAYS Michael Barnett, the chief executive of the Auckland Business Chamber, said there was a sense of relief for many business owners, who would try to make the most of the next couple of weeks before Christmas. He said many owners were trying to come to terms with new obligations to check vaccine passes. "There were lots of questions, more than anything else," Barnett said. "Questions about ‘How do I operate? What do I do? What do I ask?’ It was a bedding down day for a lot of businesses." Customers eat outside in cafes in central Auckland, New Zealand, Friday, Dec. 3, 2021. Bars, restaurants and gyms reopened in Auckland on Friday as the last major parts of a lockdown that lasted more than 100 days ended. New Zealand has begun a new phase in its virus response in which there won't be lockdowns but people will be required to show vaccine passes for many services. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Some restrictions still remain. Auckland’s border to the rest of the country does not reopen until mid-December. A new "traffic light" system is designed to indicate where outbreaks are putting pressure on the health system. A green designation imposes few restrictions, orange requires more mask wearing and distancing, and red limits gathering sizes to 100 people or fewer. Auckland and a few other areas have begun at a red light while the rest of the country has begun at orange. The government hopes to move Auckland to orange soon.
Sparks fly in 'View' clash over 'broken' Biden campaign promise concerning 'Remain in Mexico' policy: '[Biden] knows better, he needs to do better, and he did break all of his campaign promises'. In media news today, CNN stays silent on who will conduct an outside firm probe into the Cuomo scandal, Kathy Griffin calls out the liberal network for keeping Jeffrey Toobin despite firing her, and an MSNBC analyst claims Republicans oppose Fauci because they want the pandemic to continue. Sparks flew on the set of ABC's "The View" Friday as co-hosts clashed over President Biden's decision to restart the Trump-era "Remain in Mexico" policy. During a segment discussing Biden's decision, co-host Ana Navarro butted heads with Sunny Hostin and guest host America Ferrera over the policy, with the latter two excoriating Biden for breaking his campaign promise to end it, and the former arguing that the policy discouraged people from attempting to make the dangerous journey to the southern U.S. border. BIDEN ADMINISTRATION REACHES DEAL WITH MEXICO TO RE-IMPLEMENT TRUMP-ERA ‘REMAIN-IN-MEXICO’ POLICY "You can’t make an inhumane policy humane," Ferrera said after co-host Joy Behar asked if she thought the policy implementation would work. Ferrera read a previous tweet from Biden calling the policy "dangerous" and "inhumane" and vowing to end it. "I am so disappointed in Joe Biden’s decision, not only to allow it to be re-implemented but to expand on it," she added, claiming Biden was expanding the policy to include Haitian and Jamaican migrants. "Not only is this a broken campaign promise, this is an incredible disappointment that will put tens of thousands of people in real danger." Behar pointed out that Biden was acting under a court order, which came about following his ending the policy after taking office in January. A federal court order, upheld by the Supreme Court, ordered the Biden administration to re-implement the program after Missouri and Texas argued the policy had not been rescinded lawfully. "Yes, but the court order isn't for him to expand it. He’s not just implementing, he's expanding," Ferrera claimed. "The View" co-hosts Ana Navarro and Sunny Hostin debate Biden's re-implementation of the "Remain in Mexico" policy on December 3, 2021. LIBERAL DC MAYOR'S FORMER SPOKESMAN BLASTS BIDEN OVER BORDER CRISIS: WE DON'T HAVE AN IMMIGRATION POLICY' Hostin jumped in, appearing frustrated, and declared that anyone who sets foot on U.S. soil has "an automatic right to legal asylum." "[Biden] knows better, he needs to do better, and he did break all of his campaign promises," she said. "It is your right the minute you step into this country to seek asylum, and that’s what people are doing, and now Joe Biden is basically breaking the law. His administration is breaking the law." Navarro, interrupting Hostin, stated the issue wasn't as black and white as she was arguing the U.S. needed to figure out how to help people in places like Central America get more opportunities and be able to apply for asylum in their home countries, rather than attempting the trek up to the border. "What do you do when they get here? Send them back?" Hostin interrupted. The debate devolved into multiple co-hosts attempting to speak over each other before Behar said, "One at a time, girls." TEXAS, USA - SEPTEMBER 19: Migrants are seen at the Rio Grande near the Del Rio-Acuna Port of Entry in Del Rio, Texas, on September 18, 2021. BIDEN'S BORDER CRISIS – PREVENTABLE, PREDICTABLE AND DEADLY Navarro argued that some sort of balance in policies addressing immigration needed to be found, that it needed to be recognized that the Biden administration gave a multi-billion dollar commitment to invest in the region, and that Congress needed to pass comprehensive immigration reform. "We can all agree to that. The issue is when people come to this country you don’t break the law. You don’t send them back to a country where they are going to be persecuted, where they’re going to be harmed, where they’re going to be possibly killed. That is not the promise of this country. This administration is acting illegally," Hostin said. Ferrera claimed the policy was against everything America stood for as a country of immigrants before Hostin chimed in again oddly claiming, without evidence, that there was a double standard when it came to people like former First Lady Melania Trump being able to immigrate to the U.S. The conversation ended without any apparent agreement between the co-hosts. A U.S. Customs and Border Protection border patrol agent talks to people on the Mexican side of the border wall at Border Field State Park in San Diego, California, U.S., November 28, 2018. REUTERS/Chris Wattie CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Fox News' Adam Shaw contributed to this report.
Ghislaine Maxwell trial: Jeffrey Epstein had nude photos, paintings of young women inside Palm Beach home: Maxwell trial jurors shown video of nude photos, paintings inside Epstein's Palm Beach home. Maxwell faces six federal sex trafficking charges as prosecutors say the former British socialite groomed victims for billionaire sex offender. Jurors at the New York sex-abuse trial of Ghislaine Maxwell, the ex-girlfriend and longtime associate of Jeffrey Epstein, were shown a law enforcement videotape of the interior of a Florida estate where prosecutors say she and the financier exploited underage victims when the pair lived there together. The video, which was played for the panel of jurors on Friday afternoon, was shot during a 2005 raid at the Palm Beach home, which was decorated with nude photos and paintings of young women — decor that federal prosecutors in Manhattan claim is proof of a sexualized atmosphere encouraged by Maxwell, Epstein's "partner in crime." GHISLAINE MAXWELL TRIAL: HOUSEKEEPER FOUND SEX TOYS, LEATHER COSTUME AFTER EPSTEIN'S MASSAGES In this courtroom sketch, Ghislaine Maxwell is seated at the defense table while watching testimony of witnesses during her trial, Tuesday, Nov. 30, 2021, in New York. In this courtroom sketch, Ghislaine Maxwell enters the courtroom escorted by U.S. Marshalls at the start of her trial, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021, in New York. In this courtroom sketch, Lawrence Paul Visoski Jr., who was one of Jeffrey Epstein's pilots, testifies on the witness stand during Ghislaine Maxwell's sex trafficking trial, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021, in New York. In this courtroom sketch, Lead Maxwell defense attorney Bobbi Sternheim gives an opening statement while Ghislaine Maxwell, far left, listens, Monday, Nov. 29, 2021, in New York. In this courtroom sketch, Ghislaine Maxwell, far right, appears in Manhattan Federal court seated next to her attorney Bobbi C. Sternheim, second from left, along with her sister Isabel Maxwell, far left, during her arraignment on a superceding indictment, Friday, April 23, 2021, in New York. Maxwell, a British socialite, was Epstein’s onetime girlfriend and, later, employee. Prosecutors said she took the girls on shopping trips and movie outings, talked to them about their lives and encouraged them to accept financial help from him. GHISLAINE MAXWELL TRIAL: FIRST ACCUSER SAYS EPSTEIN INTRODUCED HER TO TRUMP AT AGE 14 The government also says she helped to create a sexualized atmosphere by talking with the girls about sex and encouraging them to give Epstein massages. A woman identified as "Jane" testified this week that she had sexual interactions with Epstein at age 14 with Maxwell in the room and sometimes participating. Maxwell, 59, denies the allegations against her, and her lawyers say prosecutors are going after her because they can’t try Epstein. Epstein died in a New York City federal corrections facility in 2019, while charged with sex trafficking counts that alleged he abused dozens of underage girls in New York and Florida. The case against Maxwell stems from four now-adult women who said she helped him victimize them. GHISLAINE MAXWELL WAS PART OF EPSTEIN ORGIES, SAYS FIRST ACCUSER IN TRIAL Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell attend de Grisogono Sponsors The 2005 Wall Street Concert Series Benefitting Wall Street Rising, with a Performance by Rod Stewart at Cipriani Wall Street on March 15, 2005 in New York City. Also on Friday, former Epstein housekeeper Juan Patricio Alessi returned to the witness stand on Friday to face cross-examination over his testimony that "Jane" and another woman who has accused Epstein of sexually abusing her as teens were repeated visitors at the Palm Beach mansion, where Maxwell was "the lady of the house." GHISLAINE MAXWELL WAS ‘NO. 2’ IN HIERARCHY OF EPSTEIN'S OPERATION, PILOT TESTIFIES A lawyer for the British socialite sought to discredit Alessi — who worked for Epstein from 1990 to 2002 — by confronting him with a deposition from a civil case that the defense says was inconsistent with his trial testimony. Alessi claimed on Friday that none of the many young women who visited the Florida home alerted him to any misconduct. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "I wish they would have because I would have done something," he said. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Dem pollster circulates 'wake-up call' memo after Virginia defeat: The pollster says Democrats are in trouble if they link their GOP opponents to Trump. The Fox News contributor Joe Concha discusses the president’s thin schedule as he continues to avoid one-on-one interviews with the press. A memo sent out by a Democratic pollster following Glenn Youngkin’s victory in the Virginia gubernatorial race warns Democrats that the party "has a problem" heading into the 2022 midterms and 2024 presidential election. "[I]f we are running 2022 on ‘Republican candidate = Trump,’ we’re getting killed," Democratic pollster Brian Stryker wrote in a memo last month outlining several "challenges" the party will have to win going forward. President Joe Biden delivers remarks on the debt ceiling during an event in the State Dining Room of the White House, Monday, Oct. 4, 2021, in Washington. TRUMP TO BE 'VERY INVOLVED' IN 2022 MIDTERMS, SAYS HE 'WILL STAY BUSY FOR GOOD PEOPLE' "Our weak national brand left us vulnerable. Voters couldn’t name anything that Democrats had done, except a few who said we passed the infrastructure bill," Stryker wrote. "That bill didn’t overcome their opinions that we have spent the last year infighting and careening from crisis to crisis." Stryker explained that Democrats don’t seem to understand that voters are "unhappy with the direction of the country" and "believe that the economy is bad." DEMOCRATS REELING YEAR BEFORE MIDTERM ELECTIONS – HERE'S HOW REPUBLICANS STAY ON TOP AND WIN BIG IN 2022 Virginia Republican gubernatorial nominee Glenn Youngkin speaks during his election night party at a hotel in Chantilly, Virginia, U.S., November 3, 2021. Stryker also said he believes voters view Democrats as a party that focuses too much on social issues rather than the economy. "I would tell them that we have a problem," Stryker told the New York Times. "We’ve got a national branding problem that is probably deeper than a lot of people suspect. Our party thinks maybe some things we’re saying aren’t cutting through, but I think it’s much deeper than that." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Stryker's warning comes after a Quinnipiac poll in mid-November showed President Biden's approval rating falling to a record low of 36%. FILE PHOTO: Former U.S. President Donald Trump looks on during his first post-presidency campaign rally at the Lorain County Fairgrounds in Wellington, Ohio, U.S., June 26, 2021. Those questioned in the poll said by a 46%-28% margin they would want to see the Republican Party win control of the House of Representatives if the midterm elections were held today, with 16% not offering an opinion. And by a 46%-40% margin, those surveyed said they’d like to see the GOP win the Senate majority, with 15% not offering an opinion. White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said in late November that it is Biden's "intention" to run again in 2024. Fox News' Paul Steinhauser contributed to this report
CENTCOM confirms drone strike targeted Al-Qaeda leader in Syria: CENTCOM says civilian casualties are a possibility. The House minority leader blasted Democratic leadership, saying the current policy is 'creating another Syria' in the Middle East. The United States military conducted a drone strike in Syria targeting a senior al-Qaeda leader and planner, a CENTCOM spokesperson says. "U.S. forces conducted a kinetic strike near Idlib, Syria, December 3, targeting a senior al-Qaeda leader and planner," CENTCOM spokesperson Captain Bill Urban told Fox News Digital in a statement. "The strike was conducted using a precision strike method from MQ-9 aircraft." Syria's Bashar Assad AUSTIN ORDERS INVESTIGATION OF SYRIA AIRSTRIKE THAT KILLED CIVILIANS Urban added that an "initial review of this strike indicates the potential for possible civilian casualties." "We abhor the loss of innocent life and take all possible measures to prevent them. The possibility of a civilian casualty was immediately self-reported to U.S. Central Command. We are initiating a full investigation of the allegations and will release the results when appropriate," Urban added. US MILITARY WAS TIPPED OFF ABOUT IRAN-BACKED ATTACK ON TROOPS IN SYRIA, SAVING LIVES File photo - Airman 1st Class Andrew Frano, an MQ-9 Crew Chief, at Holloman Air Force Base, N.M., Dec. 19, 2016. CENTCOM says it will reveal the results of the strike "when appropriate." The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment from Fox News Digital. News of the strike comes days after Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin ordered a renewed investigation into a 2019 airstrike in Syria that resulted in the deaths of civilians after the attack was first reported in detail by the New York Times earlier this month. U.S. Army Forces commander Gen. Michael Garrett has been assigned to conduct the investigation, which will review "reports of investigation already conducted" while also conducting "further inquiry into the facts and circumstances" of the strike, Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said Monday. Maintainers from the 386th Expeditionary Aircraft Maintenance Squadron prepare to tow an MQ-9 Reaper unmanned aerial vehicle into position for an engine test before Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance The investigation stems from a March 2019 strike on ISIS in Baghouz, Syria, in support of U.S.-allied Syrian Democratic Forces, who called for air support after they were attacked by ISIS fighters. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP While the Syrian fighters, U.S. special operations forces operating in the area, and an unmanned aerial vehicle overhead flying above the battlefield reported no civilians in the area where the strike was to be carried out, later reports from a UAV operator said there may have been civilians in the area where bombs were dropped. The New York Times report last month details that there were mostly women and children in the area the bombs were dropped, possibly resulting in the deaths of 70 civilians. Fox News’ Michael Lee contributed to this report
Alec Baldwin hits back at George Clooney's response to 'Rust' shooting: 'Good for you': Baldwin accidentally shot and killed cinematographer Halyna Hutchins and injured director Joel Souza on Western's set. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. In Alec Baldwin's first TV interview since the fatal "Rust" shooting, he addressed comments made by fellow actor George Clooney about gun safety on movie sets. The 63-year-old actor told George Stephanopoulos that any outside comments made were not going to help the situation. "How do you respond to actors like George Clooney who say that every time they were handed a gun, they checked it themselves?" the news anchor asked. "Well, there were a lot of people who felt it necessary to contribute some comment to the situation, which really didn't help the situation," Baldwin said. "At all." ALEC BALDWIN 'RUST' SHOOTING INTERVIEW: FIVE MOST SHOCKING REVELATIONS "If your protocol is you check the gun every time, well, good for you. I've probably handled weapons as much as any other actor in films with an average career. Again, shooting or being shot by someone," he continued. "And in that time, I had a protocol and it never let me down." George Stephanopoulos had the first exclusive interview with actor Alec Baldwin, following the deadly shooting on the set of the film "Rust." Clooney said on the podcast "WTF with Marc Maron" that he always personally checks a weapon after someone hands it to him on a set. "I've been on sets for 40 years and the person that hands you the gun, the person that is responsible for the gun is either the prop or the armorer, period," Clooney reflected. "Now every single time I'm handed a gun on the set, every time they hand me a gun I look at it, I open it. I show it to the person I'm pointing it to, I show it to the crew. Every single take you had to back to the armorer when you're done… You do it again and part of it is because of what happened to Brandon [Lee], everyone does it. Everybody knows and maybe Alec did that, hopefully he did do that." 'RUST' SHOOTING VICTIM HALYNA HUTCHINS' HUSBAND WILL MAKE LEGAL DECISIONS 'WHEN HE IS READY,' FILM GAFFER SAYS A rep for Clooney did not immediately return Fox News' request for comment. Baldwin explained that when he was a young actor a prop person told him not to manipulate a weapon before a scene. "The prop person said, 'Don't do that,' when I was young," he explained. "And they'd say, 'One thing you would need to understand is we don't want the actor to be the last line of defense against any catastrophic breach of safety with the gun. My job is to make sure the gun is safe and then I hand you the gun and I declare the gun is safe. The crew is not relying on you to say that it's safe. They're relying on me to say that it's safe.'" Baldwin's fist tweet after he shot and killed "Rust" cinematographer Halyna Hutchins. Baldwin reasoned, "When that person who is charged with that job handed me the weapon, I trusted them. And I never had a problem." ALEC BALDWIN PRAISES WIFE HILARIA AFTER TELL-ALL INTERVIEW: 'FAMILY IS ALL I CARE ABOUT' Stephanopoulos then asked the Emmy-winner what responsibility the actor has on the set to ensure safety. "I guess that's a tough question because the actor's responsibility going this day forward is very different than it was the day before that," Baldwin reflected. "First of all I can't imagine that I'd ever do a movie that had a gun in it again," he added. "The actor's responsibility is to do what the prop armorer tells them to do." Baldwin said he was handed the gun that discharged and killed cinematographer Halyna Hutchins and injured director Joel Souza by the film's assistant director Dave Halls who told him the gun was "cold" meaning unloaded. The gun was in fact loaded with a real bullet which should have never been on set. The church at the Bonanza Creek Ranch in Santa Fe, N.M. where cinematographer Halyna Hutchins died. The producer clarified he never pulled the gun's trigger. He was holding the gun to line up a shot as directed by Hutchins to do when Baldwin "let go of the hammer" and the gun went off. ALEC BALDWIN ‘RUST’ SHOOTING VICTIMS: WHO ARE HALYNA HUTCHINS AND JOEL SOUZA? The film's armorer, Hannah Gutierrez-Reed, said in a statement through her attorney obtained by Fox News that she doesn't know how a live round was loaded into the gun. "Never in a million years did Hannah think that live rounds could have been in the ‘dummy’ round box," one of her attorneys, Jason Bowles, said in a statement. "Who put those in there and why is the central question." "Hannah was incredibly safety conscious and took her job very seriously from the moment she started on Oct. 4," Bowles said. "She did firearms training for the actors as well as Mr. Baldwin, she fought for more training days and she regularly emphasized to never point a firearm at a person." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "She inspected the rounds that she loaded into the firearms that day," Bowles said. "She always inspected the rounds. She did again right before handing the firearm to Mr. Halls, by spinning the cylinder and showing him all of the rounds and then handing him the firearm."
Prince William had a ‘cyber relationship' with Britney Spears, Lauren Bush before Kate Middleton: book: Prince William also had a crush on supermodel Cindy Crawford, Christopher Andersen shared in his new book. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. The princess of pop could have been a British royal. The claim was made by bestselling author Christopher Andersen in his new book titled "Brothers and Wives: Inside the Private Lives of William, Kate, Harry, and Meghan." In it, Andersen alleged that Prince William, who is second in line to the throne, connected with Britney Spears and even Lauren Bush virtually before his 2011 marriage to Kate Middleton. "[William and Spears] tried to get together back when they were young, and he also had a kind of similar cyber relationship with Lauren Bush, the model and niece of President [George W.] Bush," Andersen recently told Us Weekly. PRINCE WILLIAM HASN’T RETURNED PRINCE HARRY’S PHONE CALLS FOR MONTHS, AUTHOR CLAIMS: ‘A LOT OF BAD BLOOD’ Prince William allegedly had a "cyber relationship" with Britney Spears  and Lauren Bush, Christopher Andersen alleged. "While William, 39, and Spears, 39, were in contact, Andersen noted that the relationship never escalated. "There may have been phone conversations, but I don’t recall that they ever actually managed to get together during that period," he said. The singer previously spoke about her brief counter with William in 2002. Spears told ITV she was "quite friendly" with the prince. "Yeah, it was just like, all blown out of proportion — we exchanged e-mails for a little bit and he was supposed to come and see me somewhere, but it didn't work out," Spears said at the time. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Britney Spears previously spoke out about her brief encounter with Prince William. But before Spears, Andersen said that William had his eye on another American star. "William had a huge crush on Cindy Crawford," said Andersen. "I think it’s very cute. So [Princess] Diana, being the kind of person she [was], she arranged for a meeting with him when he was, like, 14." William began dating Middleton, 39, in 2003 after meeting as students at the University of St Andrews in 2001. They announced their engagement in 2010 and said "I do" in 2011. The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge share three children: Prince George, 8, Princess Charlotte, 6, and Prince Louis, 3. In his book, Andersen explored the alleged feud between William and his younger brother Prince Harry who married former American actress Meghan Markle in 2018. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP American actress Meghan Markle became the Duchess of Sussex when she married Britain's Prince Harry. In response, a spokesperson for Buckingham Palace told Fox News that "we never comment on these sort of books." A spokesperson for Kensington Palace, which represents the household of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge had "no comment." A spokesperson for Clarence House, which represents Prince Charles and Duchess Camilla’s household didn’t immediately respond to Fox News’ request for comment. However, a spokesperson told The New York Post that "this is fiction and not worth further comment." A spokesperson for the Duke and Duchess and Sussex also didn’t immediately respond to Fox News’ request for comment. Andersen is sticking by the claims he made in his book. "I have sources that I’ve been tending to for 50 years," said Andersen, who has previously written several books on the royal family. Markle, 40, starred in the legal drama "Suits" before she became the Duchess of Sussex. She and Harry, 37, welcomed a son named Archie Harrison Mountbatten-Windsor in 2019. PRINCE CHARLES, PRINCE WILLIAM TOLD PRINCE HARRY HE WAS 'OVERREACTING' ABOUT ARCHIE'S SKIN TONE REMARKS: BOOK In his book, Christopher Andersen detailed the alleged rift between Prince William and Prince Harry. The Duke and Duchess of Sussex’s departures from royal duties began in 2020 over what they described as the British media’s intrusions and racist attitudes towards Markle. The family now resides in the coastal city of Montecito, California. In the wake of quitting royal duties, they gave an explosive TV interview to Oprah Winfrey in March, in which the couple described painful comments about how dark Archie’s skin might be before his birth. The duchess talked about the intense isolation she felt inside the royal family that led her to contemplate suicide. Buckingham Palace said the allegations of racism made by the couple were "concerning" and would be addressed privately On June 4, the couple welcomed their second child, a daughter named Lilibet "Lili" Diana Mountbatten-Windsor. The name pays tribute to both Harry’s grandmother, Queen Elizabeth II, whose family nickname is Lilibet, and his late mother. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Omicron variant of COVID-19 found in multiple US states: First known US case was found in California. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. The omicron variant of COVID-19, which had been undetected in the U.S. before the middle of this week, had been discovered in at least five states by the end of Thursday, showing yet again how mutations of the virus can circumnavigate the globe with speed and ease. Just a day after the first known U.S. case was found in California, tests showed the omicron variant had infected at least five people in the New York City metropolitan area, plus a man from Minnesota who had attended an anime convention in Manhattan in late November. NEW YORK CONFIRMS 5 CASES OF THE OMICRON CORONAVIRUS VARIANT A Colorado woman who had recently traveled to southern Africa, a Hawaii resident with no recent travel history, and another California resident who traveled to South Africa last month also were infected by the variant, officials said. Much remains unknown about omicron, including whether it is more contagious, as some health authorities suspect, whether it can thwart vaccines and whether it makes people as sick as the original strain. Health officials in each state said there was no cause for undue alarm. But the spread of the cases, some involving people who hadn’t been away from home recently, meant the variant was likely already circulating domestically in some parts of the U.S. "We gotta assume there’s a lot more behind that and that it has been here for a meaningful amount of time," New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said at a news conference with Gov. Kathy Hochul. The infected New Yorkers included a 67-year-old woman on Long Island who had recently traveled to South Africa, residents of Brooklyn and Queens and another case possibly linked to travel. At least one person had received a dose of a COVID-19 vaccine but officials did not have details about the vaccination status of the four other cases. A mobile COVID-19 vaccination and booster shot site operates out of a bus on 59th Street south of Central Park as patients wait on the sidewalk, Thursday, Dec. 2, 2021, in New York. In Minnesota, health officials said a man who had not traveled outside the U.S. began experiencing symptoms the day after attending the Anime NYC 2021 convention in New York City. Minnesota Health Commissioner Jan Malcolm said it’s likely the man contracted COVID-19 at the convention, but officials did not know for sure. Officials in New York said they were working to trace attendees of the convention, which was held Nov. 19-21 and drew about 50,000 people, according to event organizers. Attendees were required to wear masks and show proof of having received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine. It was held at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center as New York City prepared to host the annual Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade and braced for throngs of tourists to return after the U.S. opened up to vaccinated international travelers. City Health Commissioner Dave Chokshi urged people who attended the event to get tested. WHITE HOUSE SAYS DOMESTIC TRAVEL VACCINE REQUIREMENTS ON THE TABLE DUE TO OMICRON VARIANT "This is not just due to people who are traveling to southern Africa or to other parts of the world where omicron has already been identified," Chokshi said Thursday. The Minnesota man began experiencing mild symptoms Nov. 22. He had been vaccinated and received a booster shot in early November, according to health officials in his home state. He sought COVID-19 testing Nov. 24, and his symptoms have subsided, officials said. Nov. 22 was the same day the person infected in the first California case returned to the U.S. from South Africa. The California traveler, who was vaccinated, developed mild symptoms and tested positive Monday. The second person in the state didn’t need medical care and was also vaccinated. The unvaccinated adult infected with the variant in Hawaii had gotten COVID-19 a year ago. The person isn’t currently hospitalized and had "mild-to-moderate" symptoms including headache, body aches and cough, Hawaii Epidemiologist Dr. Sarah Kemble said. She wouldn’t identify the patient other to say the person lives on the island of Oahu. Omicron is classified by the World Health Organization as a "variant of concern" as scientists work to determine how it may compare with the predominant delta variant in terms of transmissibility and severity. Scientists also are studying the degree to which existing vaccines and therapies protect against omicron. Scientists in South Africa first reported it, but the samples came from several countries in southern Africa. And health officials in the Netherlands now say it was found there prior to the South Africa detection. As comfort over air travel returns, it’s inevitable that new variants like omicron will spread from country to country and state to state, said professor Danielle Ompad, an epidemiologist at New York University’s School of Global Public Health. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "We shouldn’t panic, but we should be concerned," she said. Hochul said the case involving the Minnesota visitor underlined the need for everyone who is eligible to get vaccinated against COVID-19 or receive a booster shot if they have not already. "There is one way to address this — New Yorkers, get vaccinated, get boosted, and get ready," the Democrat said.
Emily Compagno shares her dad's recipe for a delicious holiday pasta dish: Fox News cohost describes her family's Christmas traditions, including a hearty, home-cooked meal featured in the new book, 'All American Christmas'. ‘Fox & Friends Weekend’ previews Rachel Campos-Duffy and husband Sean Duffy’s ‘All American Christmas’ book ahead of the holiday season. Who among us can resist a plate of warm, delicious pasta topped with freshly grated cheese — and served up in the festive spirit of the Christmas holidays ? OK, time to dish! Tucked into the new book All American Christmas by Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy is a collection of holiday-focused recipes shared by Fox News personalities. Among the offerings is a pasta dish from Emily Compagno, a cohost of Fox News' "Outnumbered." Emily Compagno and her dog, Duchess, in front of the family's beautifully decorated Christmas tree. As she says in the book, "There's a lot of joy in the things we have, but the real joy is when they serve as reminders of family, loved ones, and Christmas joy." It's why she wanted to share some heartwarming stories of her close-knit family, which includes her mom, dad, two older sisters, and a large extended family. Here, from All American Christmas, is a helping of holiday goodness from Emily Compagno, including a recipe from her dad. It's one you may want to try making  for your own family, as it's sure to please probably the toughest crowds. Emily Compagno in All American Christmas: Our Italian-American heritage featured prominently in our Christmas traditions. On Christmas Eve, we got to open presents from our extended family. Most of my Sicilian family on my dad's side lived two hours away on the picturesque Monterey Peninsula, a place of rich Italian-American history. WHY DO WE HANG CHRISTMAS STOCKINGS? THE HISTORY OF THE HOLIDAY TRADITION My incredible grandmother Nonnie Josephine and the memory of my grandfather Nonno Giovanni; her magical two sisters, Violent and Evelyn; her brother, Joe; my beloved uncle Nino and auntie Catherine and the three best cousins in the world; my beautiful godmother, Mary Ann; and all the rest of my wonderful family celebrated Christmas and life with us every time we were together. My dear uncle  Sal was our close neighbor in Berkeley, California, and would join us for our Christmas celebration. We were very close with our family, and I loved visiting them and celebrating Christmas there every year just prior to the actual holiday. At home on Christmas Day, we’d open presents from Santa and from my immediate family. We were allowed to open our stockings instantly upon waking up but had to wait for everyone to be awake and downstairs to open the actual gifts. On Christmas mornings, Emily Compagno and her sisters had to wait for the rest of the family "to be awake and downstairs" before they could open their gifts from Santa and her immediate family. Oh, the anticipation! Every gift had a tag signed "From Santa" or "Love, Mom & Dad." And in every written "Mom," the "o" was a heart. Strong, rich coffee  with my dad’s famous homemade Café Beaujolais coffee cake was the perfect breakfast while we exchanged gifts. BEST CHRISTMAS GIFT EVER: AMAZING REVEALS FROM FOX NEWS HOSTS We enjoyed a huge Italian meal both nights, with stories, laughter, and talking around the table far into the night. My sisters and I took turns saying grace, and not one bite was had until we had all toasted to family and good health. Salute! Always we had caprese to start, presented in the il tricolore circular fashion with each layer of fresh, hand-sliced mozzarella cheese, fresh basil , and ripe red tomatoes encircling mixed or black olives in the center of the dish. "As adults," says Emily Compagno, "we've taken the same recipes and traditions from our family's two-day celebration and turned it into a three-day one!" My dad is an incredible cook, and pasta alla Siciliana or capellini with sundried tomatoes would follow, with freshly grated Parmigiano-Reggiano lightly sprinkled on top. There was also fresh, warm bread with olive oil for dipping and vegetables sauteed with just olive oil, lemon, and a bit of salt and pepper. Ingredients ¼ cup olive oil 4 cloves garlic, minced 14.5-ounce can diced or whole tomatoes 2 teaspoons dried oregano 8-10 anchovy fillets, minced 24 Nicoise or green olives, pitted and halved 2 ½ tablespoons salted capers, rinsed and chopped 1 pound penne or mostaccioli Instructions 1. Bring a large pot of salted water to boil. 2. Heat the olive oil in a large skillet over low heat. Add the garlic and saute for 1 minute. 3. Add the tomatoes and oregano, crumbling the oregano between your fingers. Cook at a gentle simmer for 10 minutes, stirring often. If it appears dry, add a bit of water. 4. Remove from the heat and stir in the anchovies, olives, and capers. 5. Add the pasta to the boiling water and cook according to the instructions on the box until al dente. Reserve 1 cup of pasta water. Drain the pasta and return it to the pot. Add the sauce and stir to coat. Add the reserved pasta water if needed. Taste and adjust seasoning. 6. Divide among warm bowls and serve immediately. Excerpted from All American Christmas by Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy. To buy your copy of the book, click here.
Jen Psaki confronted with poor jobs report live on MSNBC, says she can't comment right away: Psaki says we're seeing 'good trends' after the November jobs report fell short of expectations. In media news today, CNN stays silent on who will conduct an outside firm probe into the Cuomo scandal, Kathy Griffin calls out the liberal network for keeping Jeffrey Toobin despite firing her, and an MSNBC analyst claims Republicans oppose Fauci because they want the pandemic to continue. White House press secretary Jen Psaki was confronted with a disappointing jobs report as it broke during an MSNBC appearance Friday, before awkwardly saying she couldn't comment for almost another hour. Economists expected more than 550,000 new jobs in November, but only 210,000 were created, suggesting the labor market is still languishing from people hesitant to return to work. During her in-studio appearance on "Morning Joe," Psaki said it was obvious that economic issues were the most pressing for Americans and Democratic proposals like the nearly $2 trillion Build Back Better bill would lower costs on a variety of issues. White House press secretary Jen Psaki and President Joe Biden Co-host Mika Brzezinski then noted the November jobs number had just dropped. "210,000. So if we look at that breaking news right now, that's a number that feels a little … what? A little off?" REPORTER CONFRONTS PSAKI AFTER SAYING BIDEN WOULD GRANT MORE LOCAL TV HITS: ‘HE’S ONLY DONE ONE' "Well, I know this sounds a little archaic, but I can't comment on them until 9:30, by rules, because I work at the White House," Psaki responded. "What I will say is people can expect the president to continue to say, today, month to month, is that what we’re seeing are good trends, that we are continuing to put people back to work, that we are continuing to see participation in the workforce, that we are continuing to see the unemployment rate go down, but there’s more we need to do to address core problems that have existed long before the pandemic." Brzezinski, noting Psaki couldn't comment apparently for another hour, turned to Democratic strategist Adrienne Elrod to ask what Democrats could do more in order to "own" the economy. Despite record inflation and continued supply chain problems, Elrod said she was frustrated because the economy is "doing so well," but Democrats are still forced to play defense. PSAKI DUCKS QUESTION ON BIDEN CLAIM TRUMP RESPONSIBLE FOR ‘MANY’ COVID-19 DEATLS AS TOLL KEEPS MOUNTING Signage for a job fair is seen on 5th Avenue in Manhattan, New York City. Similar to pundits like CNN's Brian Stelter who have said Americans are putting "feelings" over "facts" when they don't feel the economy is strong, Elrod asked what Democrats could be doing to make Americans believe it was. Psaki said people don't tend to vote on or respond to "data." She also predicted Build Back Better, the sprawling social policy package currently being debated in the U.S. Senate, would be signed by President Biden by the end of the year. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "That’s why I love being a Democrat, there's a lot of wonky nerds in the Democratic Party, but we need to make it real for people," she said. "So we need to really think carefully about not getting too wonkified and making we're we talk about things in a way that is accessible."
Comedian Bill Burr rails against cancel culture: 'I also have the right to say whatever I want': The stand-up star reasoned that a comedian has to be both 'irreverent' and 'empathetic'. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Bill Burr voiced his opinion about cancel culture and how it doesn't affect his stand-up material in the slightest. The comedian appeared on The Pat McAfee show this week and shared his take on why he doesn't lose sleep worrying about being "canceled" online. "This is a time to be irreverent, and it's also a time to be empathetic," Burr reasoned. "And you have to know how to do both. These people that are on the extreme right and left, I think, only represent about 15% of the population. And any time you're hardcore or extreme, you inevitably become intolerant. I just feel like 85% of the country on the right and the left is kind of sitting there, when are dad and mom going to stop screaming at each other." "The thing is, I don't do anything in my act that's malicious," he added. "I'm not going out there to hurt anybody. But like, I also have the right to say whatever I want to say and say it the way I want to say it." GRAMMYS NOMINATE LOUIS C.K., DAVE CHAPPELLE DESPITE SCANDALS Burr admitted, "I'm not saying that I never have made mistakes, and most times I've, you know, pissed somebody off and made somebody cry. If they come up to me, and they have a legitimate thing then I'll apologize to them. But I'm not apologizing to a bunch of f--king people because I told a joke [at a show] that they weren't at." WARNING: VIDEO BELOW CONTAINS GRAPHIC LANGUAGE Others have also addressed cancel culture. Comedian Al Franken, a former Democratic Minnesota senator, recently spoke out about being canceled after he was pressured to resign from the U.S. Senate in 2018 in the wake of sexual misconduct allegations. "It was a bit of a shock when it happened," Franken said on CBS Mornings in reference to the allegations and resigning. "This is me going back to my roots." BILL BURR'S 'SNL' OPENING MONOLOGUE DRAWS MIXED REACTIONS FOR HITTING CONTROVERSIAL TOPICS Three dozen of Franken's Democratic colleagues called on him to step down without due process. Later, nine senators admitted their decision was wrong. Bill Burr admitted he doesn't worry about cancel culture when performing his stand-up comedy. When asked by cohost Nate Burleson if he believes he was canceled, Franken said, "I don't know what the vocabulary is. I believe it was just a point in time where everything came together. I think the nine [senators] have expressed exactly what I feel, which is what you should do, especially in the United States Senate, is have an ethics investigation. That's what I asked for and didn't get." CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Burleson then followed up and asked if Franken thinks comedy should be free of "cancel culture criticism," citing the backlash from Dave Chappelle's latest Netflix special as an example. "Satire has a very important place. It's meant to be provocative. It's meant to start discussions. You offend very often … it's hard to figure out where exactly the line is, and people have different ideas of where that line is," Franken said. "I think we need to be careful and understand what the role of satire is." Al Franken reasoned that "satire has a very important place. It's meant to be provocative." Lin-Manuel Miranda also addressed the concept of cancel culture, specifically regarding past criticism and complaints of colorism in his work. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The "Tick, Tick... Boom!" director sat down for a lengthy interview with The New Yorker and said he believes dissenting opinions are often misconstrued as "cancellation." Lin-Manuel Miranda apologized after receiving backlash online and being accused of colorism in his work. "Once something has success, you’re not the underdog trying to make it happen anymore. You have to graduate past the mindset of, like, ‘It’s a miracle I got something on the stage.’ Because now that is expected of me. And people go, ‘Yeah, but what about this? And what about this?’ And that’s fair! I do that with art I find lacking," he explained. "It’s not cancellation. That’s having opinions. So I try to take it in that spirit."
Omicron 3 times more likely to cause reinfection than previous COVID variants: researchers: The research has yet to be peer-reviewed. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. South African scientists say the risk of reinfection from the omicron COVID-19 variant is at least three times higher than for any previous variant. In the preliminary study, researchers looked at approximately 2.8 million positive coronavirus infections between March 2020 and Nov. 27, 2021, and 35,670 suspected reinfections were identified. From this retrospective analysis, the group said increases in primary infection were observed following the introduction of both the beta and delta variants, but no corresponding increase was observed in the reinfection hazard. NEW YORK CONFIRMS 5 CASES OF THE OMICRON CORONAVIRUS VARIANT Additionally, the estimated hazard ratio for reinfection versus primary infection was lower during COVID-19 waves driven by the beta and delta variants than for the first wave. "In contrast, the recent spread of the omicron variant has been associated with a decrease in the hazard of primary infection and an increase in reinfection hazard. The estimated hazard ratio for reinfection versus primary infection for the period from Nov. 1, 2021, to Nov. 27, 2021, versus wave 1 was 2.39," the authors wrote. Based on "population-level evidence," they concluded that the omicron mutation is "associated with substantial ability to evade immunity from prior infection." "In contrast, there is no population-wide epidemiological evidence of immune escape associated with the beta or delta variants," the study read, and the authors noted that "urgent questions remain regarding whether omicron is also able to evade vaccine-induced immunity and the potential implications of reduced immunity to infection on protection against severe disease and death." Other variants have been known to cause reinfection, and several patients reinfected with the beta variant were identified in Israel earlier this year. Juliet Pulliam, a South Africa-based epidemiologist and one of the study’s authors, tweeted Thursday that the researchers did not have information about the vaccination status of individuals in the data set and "therefore cannot make any assessment of whether omicron also evades vaccine-derived immunity." "Immune escape from prior infection, whether or not omicron can also evade vaccine-derived immunity, has important implications for public health globally, but there is still a lot we don’t know," she wrote. WHITE HOUSE SAYS DOMESTIC TRAVEL VACCINE REQUIREMENTS ON THE TABLE DUE TO OMICRON VARIANT Pulliam said the next steps include quantifying the extent of the variant of concern's immune escape for both natural and vaccine-derived immunity, as well as its transmissibility relative to other variants. "Data are also urgently needed on disease severity associated with omicron infection, including in individuals with a history of prior infection," she said. "Previous infection used to protect against delta and now with omicron it doesn’t seem to be the case," one of the researchers, Anne von Gottberg of the University of Witwatersrand, said at a World Health Organization briefing on Thursday. "We believe that vaccines will still, however, protect against severe disease," she said. The team's research was uploaded to a preprint server and has not yet been peer-reviewed. The researchers did not say what portion of the reinfections were confirmed as omicron cases — or whether they caused serious illness. The newest variant was discovered just over a week ago by scientists in South Africa and Botswana. Much remains unknown about the new variant, including whether it is more contagious, as some health authorities suspect, whether it makes people more seriously ill, and whether it can thwart the vaccine. At a White House COVID-19 response team briefing, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  Director Rochelle Walensky said Friday that omicron cases have been detected in around 40 countries. According to The Washington Post, South Africa’s National Institute for Communicable Diseases said Wednesday that omicron overtook other virus variants in November. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP New cases in South Africa have jumped from about 200 a day last month to more than 11,500 on Thursday. In the week since omicron was detected in the country’s most populous province, Gauteng, infections have surged 300%, Health Minister Joe Phaahla said Friday. The variant has also now spread to all eight other provinces, he added. Even with the rapid increase, infections are still below the 25,000 daily new cases that South Africa reported in the previous surge, in June and July. Only 6% of Africa's population has been fully vaccinated. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Stroke contributing factors may include losing temper, extreme exercise: study: Nearly 800,000 people have a stroke every year in the US. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Losing one's temper or exercising too rigorously could be contributing factors for a stroke, according to new research. In a study published Wednesday in the European Society of Cardiology's "European Heart Journal," a team of international researchers looked at more than 13,000 stroke patients in 32 countries as part of the INTERSTROKE study. 10 DIETARY TIPS TO REDUCE HEART DISEASE AND STROKE RISK, ACCORDING TO NEW RESEARCH Using a "case-crossover approach," the team determined whether a trigger within one hour of symptom onset was associated with acute stroke, versus the same time period on the previous day. "Stroke prevention is a priority for physicians, and despite advances it remains difficult to predict when a stroke will occur. Many studies have focused on medium to long-term exposures, such as hypertension, obesity or smoking. Our study aimed to look at acute exposures that may act as triggers," lead researcher and National University of Ireland Galway professor Andrew Smyth said in a statement. The research analyzed patterns in patients who suffered an ischemic stroke and the less common intracerebral hemorrhage. One in 11 survivors experienced a period of anger or upset in the one hour leading up to it, and the global INTERSTROKE study found that one in 20 patients had engaged in heavy physical exertion. The paper, co-led by the National University of Ireland Galway, suggested that anger or emotional upset was linked to around a 30% increase in the risk of stroke during one hour after an episode – with a greater increase if the patient did not have a history of depression and larger odds for those with a lower level of education. Heavy physical exertion was linked to around a 60% increase in the risk of intracerebral hemorrhage  – a rare form of stroke that causes bleeding in the brain – during that same period after heavy exertion, but not with all strokes or ischemic strokes. There was a greater increase for women and less risk for those with a normal body mass index . VEGETABLE FATS LINKED TO LOWER STROKE RISKS, REPORTS SAY "Acute anger or emotional upset was associated with the onset of all stroke, ischemic stroke, and ICH, while acute heavy physical exertion was associated with ICH only," the authors wrote. "The study also concluded that there was no increase with exposure to both triggers of anger and heavy physical exertion," Smythe said. The study pointed out that there was no modifying effect by region, prior cardiovascular disease, risk factors, cardiovascular medications, time or day of symptom onset. "Compared with exposure to neither trigger during the control period, the odds of stroke associated with exposure to both triggers were not additive," the study noted. Co-author and Galway University Hospitals consultant stroke physician Dr. Michelle Canavan said that people should practice mental and physical wellness at all ages, but added that it is "also important for some people to avoid heavy physical exertion, particularly if they are high-risk of cardiovascular, while also adopting a healthy lifestyle of regular exercise." In the U.S., the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  says that someone has a stroke every 40 seconds and someone dies of stroke every four minutes. Nearly 800,000 people in America have a stroke every year. About 87% of all strokes are ischemic strokes, in which blood flow to the brain is blocked. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Some of the best ways to prevent stroke are to maintain a healthy lifestyle, treat high blood pressure and not to smoke, but our research also shows other events such as an episode of anger or upset or a period of heavy physical exertion independently increase the short-term risk." study co-leader and National University of Ireland Galway Professor Martin O'Donnell said. "We would emphasize that a brief episode of heavy physical exertion is different to getting regular physical activity, which reduces the long-term risk of stroke," he explained. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Student's viral brain teaser revealing the different ways to spell 'empty' has TikTok amazed: The footage has been viewed more than 21 million times. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A video gone viral showing the different ways you can "spell" the word "empty" is captivating millions of viewers on TikTok. User @TheChristianTeacher63, who refers to themselves as "Just your friendly neighborhood Christian Academy Teacher," shared the post on Nov. 11 which features a "student-led brain break." VIRAL BRAIN TEASER, PREDICTING WHICH CARD YOU WILL CHOOSE, STUNS TIKTOK In the video, a student wrote the word "empty" inside a rectangle on a white board. The student first removed the letter "e" and what was left on the board still, arguably, read like "empty." Each time a certain letter is removed, the class still shouts the word "empty." At the close of the exercise, the student erases the word empty to end with an empty box. The students once again shout "empty" in awe. ##classroom ##highschool##ForzaHorizon5GO ##privateschool ##christiantiktok ##christianschool ##hype ##brainbreak "Kids were blown away by our student lead brain break," the teacher wrote on TikTok. The footage, viewed more than 21 million times, garnered thousands of comments from people who appreciated the brain teaser. "Low key genius," one TikTok-er commented. "I swear I would have been the kid to yell out "BOX" at the end," a woman wrote. "My wallet rn [right now]," joked another.
Lloyd Austin says increased China activity near Taiwan 'looks like rehearsal': China's recent military maneuvers in the region looks like them exploring 'their true capabilities,' said Austin. Defense secretary tells Fox News' Bret Baier that 'we're going to do everything in our power to prevent conflict' Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin said Saturday that China's increased military activity near Taiwan seemingly indicates a "rehearsal" of the country's future intentions. Austin made his comment during a keynote discussion with Fox News anchor Bret Baier at the Reagan National Defense Forum in Simi Valley, California. Pointing out how China has been launching multiple air operations near Taiwan in recent months, Baier asked Austin, "Do you think that these are training flights for future operations?" Austin noted that he didn't want to speculate, but said, "Certainly, it looks like them exploring what their true capabilities [are], and sure, it looks like rehearsal." LLOYD AUSTIN REACTS WITH AWKWARD SILENCE WHEN ASKED IF HE HAS REGRETS ABOUT AFGHANISTAN WITHDRAWAL FILE: In this undated file photo released by the Taiwan Ministry of Defense, a Chinese PLA J-16 fighter jet flies in an undisclosed location Austin also affirmed U.S. dominance in the Pacific, telling Baier, "China is not 10 feet tall." LLOYD AUSTIN SAYS HE HAS ‘CONFIDENCE’ IN GEN. MILLEY AMID CHINA CONTROVERSY "America is a Pacific power," Austin said. "The Indo-Pacific is a region of great opportunity and real challenges. One of those challenges is the emergence of an increasingly assertive and autocratic China." Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin holds a briefing in Tbilisi on Oct. 18, 2021. The Reagan Forum, which comes as China and Russia continue to build up aggressive defenses not seen since World War II, included remarks by foreign policy experts and lawmakers from both sides of the aisle who argue that the Biden administration's foreign policy has diminished U.S. standing on the world stage. "We’re facing a formidable challenge," the defense chief said. "In war and in peace we are always stronger when we work together with our friends." Explaining that the U.S. will not force nations to choose between ties with the U.S. or China, he said the Biden administration is looking to bolster deterrence against Chinese aggression over Taiwan, not change the status quo in the region. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Tensions between the U.S. and China have continued to escalate in the Indo-Pacific as the Chinese Communist Party  moves to "reunify" Taiwan with its mainland. Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin listens to a question during a media briefing at the Pentagon, Wednesday, Aug. 18, 2021, in Washington. Top experts warned at the Reagan Forum that the standing of the U.S. as the "partner of choice" among global allies has waned since the chaotic withdrawal from Afghanistan. Fox News' Caitlin McFall contributed to this report.
CNN terminates Chris Cuomo 'effective immediately': Cuomo's termination comes after CNN 'retained a respected law firm' to review the case. CNN issued a statement on termination of Chris Cuomo after conducting review of anchor aiding brother's defense CNN anchor Chris Cuomo was fired from the network "effective immediately" following the internal review of "a respected law firm," the company announced Saturday. "Chris Cuomo was suspended earlier this week pending further evaluation of new information that came to light about his involvement with his brother's defense," CNN said in a statement. "We retained a respected law firm to conduct the review, and have terminated him, effective immediately. "While in the process of that review, additional information has come to light. Despite the termination, we will investigate as appropriate," the statement added. Cuomo responded to his termination, saying in a statement, "This is not how I want my time at CNN to end but I have already told you why and how I helped my brother. "So let me now say as disappointing as this is, I could not be more proud of the team at Cuomo Prime Time and the work we did as CNN's #1 show in the most competitive time slot. I owe them all and will miss that group of special people who did really important work." Cuomo's firing came after CNN suspended him last week, pending evaluation of his conduct following revelations from the New York attorney general's investigation into his brother, ousted Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo. CNN’s Chris Cuomo performed prop comedy with his brother New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo during a widely panned segment in 2020. Transcripts from his interview with state investigators revealed CNN star admitting he would reach out to media sources to find out about new accusers who had yet to come forward publicly. CNN'S CHRIS CUOMO TURNED TO MEDIA SOURCES FOR INFO ON BROTHER'S ACCUSERS: ‘I HAVE A LEAD ON THE WEDDING GIRL’ "When asked, I would reach out to sources, other journalists, to see if they had heard of anybody else coming out," Cuomo told investigators. New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo speaks during the daily media briefing at the Office of the Governor of the State of New York on June 12, 2020 in New York City. "The New York Attorney General's office released transcripts and exhibits Monday that shed new light on Chris Cuomo's involvement in his brother's defense," CNN said in a Tuesday statement announcing Cuomo's suspension. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "The documents, which we were not privy to before their public release, raise serious questions. When Chris admitted to us he had offered advice to his brother's staff, he broke our rules and we acknowledged that publicly. But we also appreciated the unique position he was in and understood his need to put family first and job second," the statement added. "However, these documents point to a greater level of involvement in his brother's efforts than we previously knew. As a result, we have suspended Chris indefinitely, pending further evaluation," CNN added. Fox News' Joseph A. Wulfsohn contributed to this report.
CNN's Brian Stelter on Chris Cuomo firing: He caused 'so many headaches' for CNN, staffers were 'very unhappy': The 'Reliable Sources' host previously claimed Cuomo upheld journalistic 'boundaries' with his brother. CNN issued a statement on termination of Chris Cuomo after conducting review of anchor aiding brother's defense CNN's media correspondent Brian Stelter addressed the firing of its primetime anchor Chris Cuomo. The liberal network issued a statement Saturday evening announcing it had terminated Cuomo "effective immediately," coming just days after he was suspended pending a review of the damning revelations from the New York Attorney General's office about his involvement in protecting his scandal-plagued brother, ousted Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo. CNN TERMINATES CHRIS CUOMO ‘EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY’ "While in the process of that review, additional information has come to light. Despite the termination, we will investigate as appropriate," CNN stated. Stelter, who had previously refrained from offering any criticism of his colleague, offered a more blunt assessment about the fired anchor. Reliable Sources CNN "Chris Cuomo, one of the most popular anchors at CNN, one of the best-known names in television news, violated journalistic ethics and norms not once or twice, but many times and that’s ultimately what is the result of today’s news, Jim," Stelter told CNN weekend anchor Jim Acosta. "What we didn’t know until tonight, Jim, is that an outside law firm came in and went through the thousands of pages of text messages and sworn testimony that was released back on Monday. So there was clearly something in those documents that was found to be a serious breach of standards and practices." FLASHBACK: CNN'S BRIAN STELTER CLAIMED CHRIS CUOMO UPHELD JOURNALISTIC ‘BOUNDARIES’ DURING COLBERT INTERVIEW The "Reliable Sources" host dinged Cuomo for "acting like an unpaid staffer" for his brother based on the documents released by the AG despite how "it was known months ago" that the anchor was helping the governor. UltraViolet, a leading national gender-justice organization, called for CNN to immediately fire Chris Cuomo. Stelter told Acosta he has "no answers" as to the "additional information" CNN had learned as part of its investigation and when it would ever be made public. "I think this may be a situation where it was death by a thousand cuts, where there were just so many headaches time and time again involving Chris Cuomo that even though many viewers loved ‘Cuomo Prime Time,’ looked forward to his show, he was causing so many headaches for the network and for CNN staffers that ultimately this decision was reached," Stelter said. "I do think, you know, this is a moment where journalistic ethics are at play. I know there were many CNN staffers very unhappy with the situation, very frustrated by Chris Cuomo. At the same time, Jim, I was hearing from some fans of Chris, some viewers who said we understood he was looking out for his family." CNN'S CHRIS CUOMO TURNED TO MEDIA SOURCES FOR INFO ON BROTHER'S ACCUSERS: ‘I HAVE A LEAD ON THE WEDDING GIRL’ "This was always a very complicated situation. But I think the text messages and the documents this week, showing very deeply involved, very cozy with the governor's office, very improperly working with the aides, that was ultimately why this was announced tonight," Stelter added. BEVERLY HILLS, CALIFORNIA - OCTOBER 22: Brian Stelter, Chief Media Correspondent for CNN speaks onstage during 'Discovery Gets Cooking' at Vanity Fair's 6th Annual New Establishment Summit at Wallis Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts on October 22, 2019 in Beverly Hills, California. This marked a sharply different tone from CNN's media correspondent, who previously defended Cuomo and downplayed the journalistic ethics violations. In August, Stelter argued to "Late Show" host Stephen Colbert that Cuomo upheld journalistic "boundaries" with the governor and insisted "if we open up the journalism ethics book, there's no page for this" despite it being a textbook definition of a conflict of interest. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Stelter also previously suggested Cuomo's public scolding by CNN in May calling his communications with the governor's team "inappropriate" was enough of a reprimand. "Telling a well-off host to hang out by the pool for a couple of weeks is not a real punishment," Stelter told viewers in August as Cuomo began his "long-planned vacation" at the time. "Scolding a host in public, saying what they did was 'inappropriate,' that is an actual punishment."
Oregon Health Authority moves to implement 'permanent' indoor mask mandate: The medical director for the Oregon Health Authority said 'permanent...doesn’t necessarily mean permanent'. Infectious disease expert Dr. Amish Adalja on health officials pushing vaccination and boosters amid rise of omicron variant. The Oregon Health Authority  earlier this week to address a permanent indoor mask mandate in the state. Oregon is one of a few states that still retain one nearly two years into the pandemic. The committee included several community stakeholders, including representatives from the hospitality industry, the business sector, and faith communities, according to local ABC affiliate KATU. Dr. Paul Cieslak, the medical director for communicable diseases and immunizations with OHA, explained to KATU that OHA's potential "permanent" indoor mask mandate is not necessarily permanent because it can be repealed. "Permanent means indefinite. It doesn’t necessarily mean permanent," Cieslak said. "We can repeal it as well, but we are only allowed to have a temporary rule for 180 days, and anything that goes beyond 180 days, we cannot extend it." FOREVER MASKING? MANY GOVERNMENTS WITH MASK MANDATES DON'T HAVE A PLAN TO LIFT THEIR COVID-19 RULES The RAC reportedly met with OHA for approximately two hours. TUCKER CARLSON SLAMS OREGON GOVERNOR OVER ‘NONSENSICAL’ MASK MANDATES The public will be permitted to offer comment when OHA proposes the indoor mask rule formally, the date of which has yet to be announced. Protesters hold a rally outside the Oregon State Capitol in Salem, Ore. on Monday, Dec. 21, 2020, as legislators meet for a special session to discuss COVID-19 relief measures. Gov. Kate Brown, D-Ore., reinstated an outdoor mask mandate in the state amid the surge of the delta variant in August. The OHA repealed the outdoor mask mandate in November, but kept it in place indoors. "We continue to see a concerning pattern of COVID-19 spread throughout the state, with the heaviest concentrations found in counties with lagging vaccination rates," OHA Director Pat Allen said at the time. Other health experts, such as Johns Hopkins Professor Marty Makary, have spoken against indefinite mask mandates. Fox News contributor Dr. Martin Makary "We may have a baseline rate of COVID cases hovering around where they are now in the Southeast forever," Makary said in a November interview. "We are entering an endemic phase and the question we need to ask as a society is, do we want a perpetual society with people masked?" CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Makary added: "And the marginal benefit of masking is diminishing as the prevalence declines. Also, in many instances we're requiring masks of people at the absolute lowest risk and by insisting on throwing the kitchen sink at virus transmission we will have to pay the piper somehow. That may come in the form of a loss of human connection, more increased mental health problems, and in children a series of problems including issues in development and speech development and other downsides." Fox News' Tyler Olson contributed to this report.
Norway Christmas party may have sparked largest omicron variant outbreak outside of South Africa: She added the outbreak suggests the current COVID-19 vaccines are not preventing infections, but may prevent severe disease. Infectious disease expert Dr. Amish Adalja on health officials pushing vaccination and boosters amid rise of omicron variant. A recent Norwegian omicron outbreak at a Christmas party provides early anecdotal evidence on how the variants spreads between vaccinated people and the severity of its symptoms, according to a recent report. A renewable energy company in Norway made sure all necessary safety precautions were implemented before hosting their annual holiday party, including only inviting vaccinated employees and requiring rapid testing the day prior the party, according to Stian Tvede Karlsen, a company spokesman. CONTACT TRACING REVS UP IN SOME STATES AS OMICRON REACHES U.S. The party was held at an upscale Oslo restaurant for approximately 120 people, including several who recently traveled to South Africa, where the company has a solar panel business. A health worker takes a swab sample of a passenger entering the city to test for COVID-19 at a railway station in Ahmedabad, India, Friday, Dec. 3, 2021. India on Thursday confirmed its first cases of the omicron coronavirus variant in two people and officials said one arrived from South Africa and the other had no travel history. A top medical expert urged people to get vaccinated. Over 50% tested positive for COVID-19, with 13 confirmed to have the omicron variant, but none of the people have severe symptoms, according to the Wall Street Journal. OMICRON VARIANT OF COVID-19 FOUND IN MULTIPLE US STATES The outbreak, which appears to be the world’s biggest omicron outbreak outside of South Africa, is noteworthy because it occurred among vaccinated people in a country where more than 80% adults are fully vaccinated, the Journal added. People lineup to get vaccinated at a shopping mall in Johannesburg, South Africa, Friday Nov. 26, 2021. A new coronavirus variant has been detected in South Africa that scientists say is a concern because of its high number of mutations and rapid spread among young people in Gauteng, the country’s most populous province. Even though the outbreak spread rapidly, the conditions of the party itself may have contributed, where guests were talking and mingling in an insulated setting for hours, which are ideal conditions for a superspreader event, said Alexandra Phelan, an assistant professor of global and public health law and ethics at Georgetown University. A man uses his hand to cover his nose as he walks along a downtown street Johannesburg, South Africa, Monday, March 16, 2020. She added the outbreak suggests the current COVID-19 vaccines are not preventing infections, but may prevent severe disease. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "If they were of working age and young enough to be partying into the night, they were already probably at a low risk," Phelan said. "The big question that this is starting to add data to, at least anecdotal data, is immune evasion."
Crumbley parents charges 'absolutely warranted,' each could face 15 years, former US attorney says: The former Assistant United States Attorney said while the charges are rare, they're 'absolutely warranted'. Deputy Aaron Garcia, of the U.S. Marshals Detroit Fugitive Apprehension Team, details arrests of parents of suspected Michigan school shooter. A former Assistant United States Attorney told Fox News that the charges brought against Ethan Crumbley's parents are "absolutely warranted" and that each one could each face 10-15 years in prison if convicted. Former U.S. attorney Neama Rahmani said that while it's "very rare" for prosecutors to charge the parents of a suspect in a school shooting, the prosecution has a strong case. "What's more dangerous than buying a gun for your kid and knowing that, you know, he's making, you know, drawing these violent pictures and school officials are concerned and doing nothing about it. In my book, that's certainly creating a situation where the risk of death was very high," Rahmani said. James and Jennifer Crumbley both pleaded not guilty to four counts of involuntary manslaughter after Ethan Crumbley, their son, was accused of killing four students at Oxford High school earlier this week during a school shooting. MICHIGAN SHOOTING SUSPECT ETHAN CRUMBLEY'S PARENTS PLEAD NOT GUILTY TO INVOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER CHARGES James and Jennifer Crumbley Oakland County prosecutor Karen McDonald said that James Crumbley bought the weapon found at the scene of the shooting at a local firearms store on Black Friday. McDonald said during a press conference on Friday that the Sig Sauer 9mm handgun that James Crumbley purchased was held in an unlocked drawer in the parents bedroom. Attorneys Mariell Lehman and Shannon Smith, who represent James and Jennifer Crumbley, however, deny that the gun was in an unlocked drawer. The Crumbley parents were apprehended early Saturday morning by police officers after failing to appear for their arraignment Friday. Michael McCabe, undersheriff for the Oakland County Sheriff’s Office, told Fox News that the office spoke with the Crumbley’s attorney on Friday at 4 p.m. to set up a place for the couple to turn themselves in, and did not get a response as of 6 p.m. that day. Rahmani believes that based on what he has seen so far, the Crumbley parents will be convicted and could face a 10-15 year concurrent sentence in prison. People attend a vigil downtown to honor those killed and wounded during the recent shooting at Oxford High School on December 03, 2021 in Oxford, Michigan. The former U.S. Attorney also said that if the Crumbleys were running from law enforcement on Friday night, it could strengthen the prosecution's case against them: "Whenever a criminal defendant flees, prosecutors can introduce that flight and argue to the jurors that that shows a guilty mind or consciousness of guilt. So it's helpful evidence for the manslaughter charges as well." MICHIGAN SCHOOL SHOOTING: CRUMBLEY LAWYER SAYS GUN WAS LOCKED UP, ACCUSES PROSECUTOR OF CREATING MEDIA CIRCUS However, George Washington University law professor Jonathan Turley believes there will be "ample challenges" to the involuntary manslaughter charges. "There are ample challenges that can be made to the involuntary manslaughter charges. Absent some new evidence that the police were relying upon, as a general matter, parents are not criminally liable for the actions of their children in these types of cases," Turley said. This image from 52-1 District Court shows a Zoom arraignment for Jennifer and James Crumbley in Oakland Co., Mich., on Saturday, Dec. 4, 2021. Turley also said while he's not surprised to see charges brought against the shooter at a fast pace, the charges brought against the parents are a different story. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "I mean, it's not surprising to see the charges against the shooter. The evidence there is abundantly clear. But the charges against the parents would require a considerable level of detail as to their knowledge and actions leading up to this shooting," Turley said. Audrey Conkln, Michael Ruiz, and Brie Stimson contributed to this report.
Brian Kelly's daughter, Grace, still at Notre Dame trying to graduate: 'Ready to get booed': Brian Kelly left Notre Dame for LSU earlier this week. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Grace Kelly, daughter of new LSU football coach Brian Kelly, may be excited for her father as he left for greener pastures, but she is still trying to graduate from Notre Dame. Grace Kelly wrote on TikTok she was "ready to get booed on my way to class every morning" after her dad bolted the Fighting Irish to lead the 2019 national champions. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM "When you still have to graduate from Notre Dame in 5 months but your dad already left for LSU," she added. LSU hired Kelly as its next head coach after agreeing to part ways with Ed Orgeron. Kelly, 60, coached at Central Michigan and Cincinnati before leaving the Bearcats for the Notre Dame opening. Kelly replaced Charlie Weis before the start of the 2010 season and helped get Notre Dame back to prominence. NORTHERN ILLINOIS GOES FROM WINLESS TO MAC CHAMPS New LSU football coach Brian Kelly steps off a plane after arriving at Baton Rouge Metropolitan Airport, Tuesday, Nov. 30, 2021. Kelly, formerly of Notre Dame, is said to have agreed to a 10-year contract with LSU worth $95 million, plus incentives. In 2012, Notre Dame reached the BCS Championship only to lose to Alabama 42-14. Kelly and Notre Dame reached the College Football Playoff twice but failed to win both times. Notre Dame was also hit with NCAA penalties under Kelly's watch. In 2014, the school discovered an athletic trainer was providing impermissible benefits. The school reported the violation, and the NCAA ordered the school to vacate its 2012 and 2013 victories. New LSU football coach Brian Kelly gestures to fans after his arrival at Baton Rouge Metropolitan Airport, Tuesday, Nov. 30, 2021. Kelly led the Irish to nine bowl games during his tenure. The team failed to qualify for a bowl in only one of Kelly's seasons — 2016, when it finished with a 4-8 record. The team is 11-1 in 2021 and preparing for a major bowl game. Kelly was introduced as LSU's head coach on Tuesday. Sam Kohler  of the Notre Dame Fighting Irish sing the alma mater following a loss to the Michigan State Spartans Sept. 17, 2016 in South Bend, Ind. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "I could not be more excited to join a program with the commitment to excellence, rich traditions and unrivaled pride and passion of LSU Football," Kelly said in a statement. "I am fully committed to recruiting, developing and graduating elite student-athletes, winning championships and working together with our administration to make Louisiana proud. Our potential is unlimited, and I cannot wait to call Baton Rouge home."
Women’s group says 'good riddance' to Chris Cuomo after CNN firing: 'Perpetuating rape culture': 'Chris Cuomo used his position at CNN to orchestrate attacks on the brave survivors,' UltraViolet said in a statement. CNN issued a statement on termination of Chris Cuomo after conducting review of anchor aiding brother's defense UltraViolet, described as a national gender justice organization, ripped now former CNN anchor Chris Cuomo for his ethically questionable conduct that had been exposed little by little throughout the past year. CNN fired Cuomo on Saturday a few days after announcing an "indefinite suspension" following the release of transcripts from New York state attorney general Letitia James that revealed the extent to which he helped his brother, ex-Gov. Andrew Cuomo, handle the string of sexual harassment allegations against him. Cuomo had used his media influence to dig up dirt on his brother's accusers, the documents found. CNN'S CHRIS CUOMO TURNED TO MEDIA SOURCES FOR INFO ON BROTHER'S ACCUSERS: ‘I HAVE A LEAD ON THE WEDDING GIRL’ "Good riddance," UltraViolet communications director Bridget Todd said in a statement. "Chris Cuomo used his position at CNN to orchestrate attacks on the brave survivors who came forward to share how they had suffered sexual harassment and abuse at the hands of his brother, former Governor Andrew Cuomo." "This is a severe breach of journalistic and professional ethics - and a clearly fireable offense," the group continued. "CNN made the right decision to sever ties with Chris Cuomo. Make no mistake - when people in position of power use that power to influence coverage of, and help cover up sexual abuse - they are perpetuating rape culture. It doesn’t matter if it is your brother, your friend, or your political allies - all survivors deserve to have their stories heard, investigated, and taken seriously." UltraViolet, a leading national gender-justice organization, called for CNN to immediately fire Chris Cuomo. James's office concluded in August that Gov. Cuomo had harassed 11 women from 2013 to 2020. The findings quickly resulted in Cuomo resigning in disgrace. Lindsay Boylan, the first woman to publicly accuse the governor of misconduct, similarly took CNN's Cuomo to task after he fielded his own sexual harassment scandal in September. Veteran TV producer Shelley Ross claimed Cuomo squeezed her buttock at an event in 2005 when the two of them worked at ABC News. "@Chris Cuomo will you hold yourself accountable?" Boylan tweeted at the time. Last week she fueled some of her ire at the anchor's colleagues for being complicit in Cuomo's "abuses of power." WOMEN'S GROUP ULTRAVIOLET CALLS ON CNN TO SUSPEND CHRIS CUOMO, INVESTIGATE NETWORK'S COVERAGE OF NY GOVERNOR Sexual assault survivors and activists from UltraViolet, a leading national women’s organization, organized a rally and press conference on October 23, 2019 outside of NBC News Headquarters in New York City and deliver more than 18,500 signatures on petitions calling on the network to take immediate action to address abuses of power at the network. CNN TERMINATES CHRIS CUOMO, 'EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY' Critics have often noted how CNN did not discipline Cuomo following the initial reports he had acted as an unofficial adviser to his brother. It wasn't until mulling over last week's revelatory transcripts the network finally cut ties with him. UltraViolet had previously called for CNN to be investigated for its coverage of the ex-New York governor. "Chris Cuomo was suspended earlier this week pending further evaluation of new information that came to light about his involvement with his brother's defense," CNN said in a statement Saturday. "We retained a respected law firm to conduct the review, and have terminated him, effective immediately." "While in the process of that review, additional information has come to light. Despite the termination, we will investigate as appropriate," the statement added. CNN has said it would review the newly-released testimony. "This is not how I want my time at CNN to end but I have already told you why and how I helped my brother," Cuomo said in response. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Waukesha parade aftermath: Hundreds mourn victims Virginia 'Ginny' Sorenson and Jane Kulich: Jane D. Kulich and Virginia "Ginny" Sorenson were among the six people killed when Darrell Brooks Jr. drove his SUV through a parade crowd in Waukesha..  Hundreds paid their respects for Jane Kulich and Virginia "Ginny" Sorenson, two of the six victims tragically killed in the Christmas parade tragedy, as their memorial services were held Saturday. Bridge Church hosted a celebration of life service for Kulich, 52, followed by a memorial gathering. Kulich's loved ones spoke to a crowded and tearful Bridge Church room, with flowers lining the front. Photos of Kulich played on a slideshow to her favorite worship songs. The celebration of life ended with the room singing along to Kulich's favorite Christmas song, Silent Night, as the words played across the screen. Kulich was a beloved wife, loving mother, cherished grandmother, dear sister, and adored aunt, further survived by other loved relatives and many friends, according to an obituary posted online. A Mass card distributed at Saturday's memorial service for Jane D. Kulich WAUKESHA PARADE AFTERMATH: COMMUNITY COMES TOGETHER THROUGH FUNDRAISERS, SIGNS AND BLUE LIGHTS Gov. Tony Evers ordered flags be flown at half-staff on Dec. 4 in honor of the two victims. Gov. Tony Evers ordered flags be flown at half-staff on Dec. 4 in honor of two of the victims killed in Waukesha Christmas parade tragedy At Hales Corners Lutheran Church, a crowd streamed in for Sorenson's memorial gathering. Sorenson was a loving wife, beloved mother, proud ‘Grammy,' and dear sister, according to an obituary shared online. Three tables were filled with photos of Sorenson, alongside flowers, as well as seed packets guests could take to plant as Sorenson had a passion for gardening. A Mass card distributed at Saturday's memorial service for Virginia "Ginny" Sorenson CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP She worked in the healthcare field and "her greatest joy was dancing, especially with her best friends in the Dancing Grannies." At the memorial gathering, some came dressed in their Milwaukee Dancing Grannies sweaters that said "In loving memory of Ginny, Lee, Tamara, and Bill…Keep on dancing" on the back. "Family was everything" to Sorenson, and she also "adored carrying for furry friends." In lieu of flowers, contributions were appreciated for Operation Bring Animals Home. The four other victims have been identified as Tamara Durand, 52; LeAnna Owen, 71; Wilhelm Hospel, 81; and Jackson Sparks, 8. Another 62 people were injured.
Reagan National Defense Forum: Experts say Afghanistan withdrawal damaged US reliability with global partners: Officials warn US leaders need to better inform the American public on the importance of global ties. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Top experts warned Saturday at the Reagan National Defense Forum that the standing of the U.S. as the "partner of choice" amongst global allies has waned following the chaotic withdrawal from Afghanistan. Iowa Republican Sen. Joni Ernst joined top officials at the Regan National Defense Forum in Simi Valley, California, Saturday and stated during a panel that U.S. credibility was "jeopardized in the last year with the hasty and haphazard withdrawal of Afghanistan." Experts are concerned that a global power shift could be at play if other world leaders are skeptical about the reliability of the U.S. to act as a strong partner. SEN. JONI ERNST: CRISIS IN AFGHANISTAN – BIDEN MUST BE CLEAR ABOUT THREAT, NEVER FORGET US TROOPS' SACRIFICES The Biden administration received swift backlash at home and abroad after the Taliban swiftly took over Kabul as the U.S. concluded the 20-year war in Afghanistan over the summer. Ernst said that during the Halifax International Security Forum last month "many of our traditional allies and partners" pulled her aside and questioned what happened in August. "They are not turning to us and seeing leadership at this moment in time," she said. "We can’t just continue to promise to be the partner of choice. "We have to have action in this area and show the rest of the world that we are the partner of choice," Ernst added. WASHINGTON, DC - SEPTEMBER 28: Sen. Joni Ernst The Iowa senator was not alone in her concerns. Former Deputy Chief of Staff to President George W. Bush, Karl Rove, said during the panel Saturday that the last two administrations failed to inform the public on the U.S. mission in Afghanistan. "There’s a bias on the American public to trust their leaders," Rove said pointing to a Regan National Defense Forum poll that found 1 in every 5 Americans were not sure the U.S. should have left Afghanistan. BIDEN REAFFIRMS US COMMITMENT TO NATO, CITES 'NEW CHALLENGES' WITH RUSSIA, CHINA "What would have happened if we had had a description over the last several years of what actually our mission was – that we’d ended the combat mission, that we were providing intelligence and air support and training?" he questioned. Rove argued that had the American public known why the U.S. was still in Afghanistan there would have likely been more public support to keep a military presence in the region. "This is a reflection of less on where the American people are and more on the failure of their leadership to be heard on these important questions, like saying we need allies, we need to be engaged in the world," he added. BEVERLY HILLS, CALIFORNIA - APRIL 29: Karl Rove participates in a panel discussion during the annual Milken Institute Global Conference at The Beverly Hilton Hotel  on April 29, 2019 in Beverly Hills, California. Ernst, who served in the military, agreed with Rove’s argument and said, "It should always be America first but not America only." The panelists' sentiments show a stark break by the Biden administration from the Trump administration’s centrist policies that cut international ties and focused solely on U.S. interests. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "We have to do a better job at explaining why America needs to engage globally," Ernst said. "And we haven’t seen that for maybe a few decades now." "I think if the public knew and we had more transparency on why we are in certain areas of the world they would be a lot more supportive," she added.
Florida police shoot, kill armed Florida Tech student who 'lunged' at officers: Authorities say the student, Alhaji Sow, lunged at officers with an 'edged weapon'. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Florida police shot and killed a knife-wielding suspect on the Florida Tech campus Friday night after he chased a number of students into dorms. Melbourne police responded at around 10:50 p.m. to a report of a male armed with a knife assaulting students at the Florida Institute of Technology campus. Campus security cornered the suspect in a building and confronted him before police arrived. Florida Tech warned students via Facebook to steer clear of the Residence Quad during the incident. MICHIGAN SCHOOL SHOOTING: TIPSTER LED DETROIT POLICE TO PARENT OF SUSPECT WITH $10K REWARD ON OFFER Police attempted to arrest the suspect, but he lunged at an officer. The officer and a campus security officer both fired their weapons, hitting the suspect. Police wait outside Florida Tech dorms as the investigation into an incident involving a knife-wielding student continues. Officers attempted life-saving measures, but the suspect died at the scene. TEXAS POLICE OFFICER KILLED IN SHOOTOUT WITH SUSPECT Authorities identified the suspect as Alhaji Sow, an 18-year-old student and tutor at the university, Florida Tech spokesperson Wes Sumner told Fox News. Sow had entered his sophomore year and studied aeronautical science.  Florida Tech President T. Dwayne McCay told students in an email sent out Saturday that "The safest university campuses are the ones where students, staff, faculty and others look out for one another." "I want every member of this university community to know that we will get through this, together," McCay wrote, saying he mourned "any loss of life" while thanking the "men and women who invest their lives in protecting us." "Counseling and support services will continue to be available for the entire campus community in the coming days. We will learn from this, together. And we will be the stronger for it." RYAN ROGERS MURDER: SUSPECTED KILLER'S APPARENT YOUTUBE PAGE REVEALS TROUBLED PAST A student told Spectrum News 13 he was "very surprised" by the incident. "Sometimes I’m out late at night doing stuff, like playing basketball or walking around, skateboarding," Matthew Hanvey said. "I never thought of an issue where I’d ever get injured." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Saturday's "Test Fest" was canceled to "accommodate that support," Sumner added. An investigation is ongoing.
Martha Stewart confirms she is dating someone, but won't say who: 'I'm not going to tell': Stewart has only been single since 1990, when she and her first husband divorced. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Check out what clicked this week in entertainment. Martha Stewart confirmed she has a new love interest in her life. Stewart, 80, was asked about her love life by host Andy Cohen during a recent episode of "Watch What Happens Live with Andy Cohen" . When asked if she was seeing anyone, Stewart answered "no." However, she quickly clarified saying, "I shouldn't say no. I mean yes, but I'm not going to tell you." Martha Stewart revealed she is dating someone new. Stewart's admission came after the two talked about her infamous thirst trap photo the celebrity chef shared in the summer of 2020. Stewart revealed she got "quite a few" men in her direct messages following that post. However, she didn't take any of them up on their offers. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER However, the celebrity chef decided to keep the identity of the mystery man a secret. Stewart previously said she had to "ignore all of them" because she is a "busy person." "I got so many proposals and so many propositions," she said. "But I had to ignore all of them. I'm a very busy person." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Martha Stewart has been single since she and her first husband divorced in 1990. Late last year, Stewart said that the sultry snap was an accident. "I took a pool selfie photo by mistake," she explained in an interview with People magazine. "I was trying to take a picture of the beautiful turquoise planter at the end of the pool, but the camera was on me, so I just snapped it. It looked so good, so I posted it." In the now-iconic photo, Stewart could be seen lounging by the pool wearing frosty pink lipstick, shimmery eyeshadow and mascara, with slightly puckered lips and her head cocked back.
Chris Cuomo firing from CNN prompts swift reaction: 'So glad we will never see this again': Fox News' Janice Dean said she's 'so glad' there will never be another interview with Chris and Andrew Cuomo on CNN. CNN issued a statement on termination of Chris Cuomo after conducting review of anchor aiding brother's defense After CNN anchor Chris Cuomo was fired from the scandal-plagued liberal network on Saturday night, many on Twitter were quick to give their reaction. Cuomo was fired after "a respected law firm" conducted an internal review of his involvement in helping his brother, disgraced former New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, in his defense regarding sexual harassment allegations. CNN's announcement noted that during the internal review "additional information" was found. Reaction poured in moments after the announcement was made. "So glad we will never see this again," Fox News' Janice Dean, whose in-laws died following Andrew Cuomo's COVID nursing home scandal in 2020, tweeted following the announcement. Conservative political strategist Caleb Hull tweeted that Cuomo should have been fired "a long time ago." "Chris Cuomo should have been fired a long time ago when he tested positive for COVID, left his house anyway, got into a fight with a cyclist, and then making a spectacle of him leaving quarantine for the ‘first time' when we all knew the truth," Hull said. Washington Examiner reporter Jerry Dunleavy said on Twitter that Cuomo used the statement to "brag" about his ratings on the show. CNN TERMINATES CHRIS CUOMO 'EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY' CNN suspended Chris Cuomo "indefinitely, pending further evaluation" after newly released documents shed new light on his role in former Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s sexual misconduct scandal. Siraj Hashmi, a former staffer for the Washington Examiner, responded to Cuomo's statement by sending it to the infamous "List," where bad tweets are highlighted. Ken Klippenstein, investigative reporter at The Intercept, responded to Cuomo's statement, saying that he might want to change his Twitter biography. "Can’t wait for the eventual ABC special ‘The Cuomo Brothers: One Year Later’ and the eventual Netflix docuseries simply titled ‘Cuomo,' Business Insider Reporter Grace Panetta tweeted. CNN's Chris Cuomo during a televised townhall with Democratic 2020 U.S. presidential candidate Senator Elizabeth Warren  dedicated to LGBTQ issues in Los Angeles, California, U.S. October 10, 2019. CNN'S BRIAN STELTER ON CHRIS CUOMO FIRING: HE CAUSED 'SO MANY HEADACHES' FOR CNN, STAFFERS WERE 'VERY UNHAPPY' Krystal Ball, host of the "Breaking Points" podcast pointed out that Cuomo's statement responding to the CNN announcement contained no apology. Chris Cuomo on CNN. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The Daily Wire's Michael Knowles said that "The House of Cuomo is no more."
Indonesia’s volcano spews ash, gas; 1 dead, dozens hurt: Indonesia is prone to earthquakes and volcanic activity because it sits along the Pacific 'Ring of Fire'. The home improvement and lifestyle expert provides his tips and tricks on day 4 of his ‘Always Be Prepared’ series The highest volcano on Indonesia’s most densely populated island of Java spewed thick columns of ash, searing gas and lava down its slopes in a sudden eruption triggered by heavy rains on Saturday. At least one villager died from burns and dozens were hospitalized. Mount Semeru’s eruption in Lumajang district in East Java province left several villages blanketed with falling ash. GIRL DROWNS AFTER HER LIFE JACKET TRAPS HER IN CAPSIZED BOAT A thunderstorm and days of rain, which had eroded and finally collapsed the lava dome atop the 3,676-meter  Semeru, triggered an eruption, said Eko Budi Lelono, who heads the geological survey center. Ash covers the street in the Lumajang District in Indonesia, on Saturday, Dec. 4, 2021 after Mount Semeru’s eruption.   Indonesia's highest volcano on Java island has spewed thick columns of ash, searing gas and lava down its slopes in a sudden eruption triggered by heavy rains. An injured man, covered in ash, is placed on a small truck to be taken to the hospital in the Lumajang District in Indonesia, on Saturday, Dec. 4, 2021 after Mount Semeru’s eruption.   Indonesia's highest volcano on Java island has spewed thick columns of ash, searing gas and lava down its slopes in a sudden eruption triggered by heavy rains. He said flows of searing gas and lava traveled up to 800 meters  from the crater’s mouth, the agency said. "Thick columns of ash have turned several villages to darkness," said Lumajang district head Thoriqul Haq. Several hundred people were moved to temporary shelters or left for other safe areas, he said, adding that power blackout hampered the evacuation. WILDFIRES TORCHED UP TO A FIFTH OF ALL GIANT SEQUOIA TREES The debris and lava mixed with the rainfall formed thick mud that destroyed the main bridge connecting Lumajang and the neighboring district of Malang, as well as a smaller bridge, Haq said. Remains of a bridge in a slope, destroyed by the flowing lava, is shown in the Lumajang District in Indonesia, on Saturday, Dec. 4, 2021 after Mount Semeru’s eruption.   Indonesia's highest volcano on Java island has spewed thick columns of ash, searing gas and lava down its slopes in a sudden eruption triggered by heavy rains. A house covered by ash is shown in the Lumajang District in Indonesia, on Saturday, Dec. 4, 2021 after Mount Semeru’s eruption.   Indonesia's highest volcano on Java island has spewed thick columns of ash, searing gas and lava down its slopes in a sudden eruption triggered by heavy rains. Despite an increase in activity since Wednesday, Semeru’s alert status has remained at the third highest of four levels since it began erupting last year, and Indonesia’s Volcanology Center for Geological Hazard Mitigation did not raise it this week, Lelono said. Villagers rest at a temporary shelter after evacuating their homes following the eruption of Mount Semeru in Lumajang, East Java, Indonesia, Saturday, Dec 4, 2021. The highest volcano on Indonesia's most densely populated island of Java spewed thick columns of ash high into the sky on Saturday, triggering panic among people living nearby. There were no immediate reports of casualties. One man died from severe burns, and 41 others were hospitalized with burn injuries, said Indah Masdar, the deputy district head. She said two villagers were reported missing, and several sand miners were trapped in isolated areas along the village river. Entire houses in Curah Kobokan village were damaged by volcanic debris, Masdar said. Villagers rest at a temporary shelter after evacuating their homes following the eruption of Mount Semeru , in Sumberwuluh village, Lumajang, East Java, Indonesia, Saturday, Dec.  4, 2021. The highest volcano on Indonesia’s most densely populated island of Java has spewed thick columns of ash high into the sky, triggering panic among people living nearby. There were no immediate reports of casualties. Television reports showed people screaming and running under a huge ash cloud, their faces wet from rain mixed with volcanic dust. The last time Semeru erupted in January, there were no casualties. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Indonesia, an archipelago of more than 270 million people, is prone to earthquakes and volcanic activity because it sits along the Pacific "Ring of Fire," a horseshoe-shaped series of fault lines.
Democratic lawmakers renew calls to add seats to the Supreme Court after abortion oral arguments: In light of the arguments in Dobbs this week, Democratic lawmakers are renewing calls to expand the court and add more liberal justices. Fox News correspondent Gillian Turner reports on startling observations of Roe v. Wade decision on ‘Special Report’. The growing push by some Democrats to reshape the Supreme Court reignited this week as the court heard oral arguments in the Mississippi 15-week abortion ban case that has the potential to limit abortion access across the U.S. The court heard arguments in Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization on Wednesday, and legal analysts have suggested the conservative majority will strike down decades of precedent following Roe v. Wade, the landmark ruling that limited government restrictions on abortion. If it does, it would open the door for state legislatures to pass laws banning abortions prior to fetal viability. IF ROE V. WADE IS OVERTURNED, HERE'S WHAT HAPPENS Former President Trump appointed three justices who were confirmed to the high court, shifting the makeup to six GOP-appointed justices and three Democrat-appointed justices. As a result, Democratic lawmakers have called to remove the Senate filibuster requiring 60 votes to pass legislation to add more seats to the court. An anti-abortion activist holds a baby doll during a protest outside the Supreme Court building ahead of arguments in the Mississippi abortion rights case Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health, in Washington Dec. 1, 2021. Republicans have characterized efforts to expand the Supreme Court as "court-packing" and a political power play by Democrats. In light of the arguments in Dobbs this week, Democratic lawmakers are renewing calls to expand the court and add more liberal justices to offset what they see as partisan gains by the GOP. "A ‘conservative’ court would uphold precedent. But a ‘partisan’ court may not — and this may be the most partisan court in history," Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., said in reference to Democratic demands to expand the Supreme Court. "We must protect a woman’s right to choose." SUPREME COURT HEARING ORAL ARGUMENTS IN CASE THAT COULD OVERTURN ROE V. WADE Sen. Tina Smith, D-Minn., tweeted on the day of the Supreme Court oral arguments in support of expanding the court over the abortion case. Rep. Judy Chu, D-Calif., urged Congress to pass the Judiciary Act, introduced in the spring, to expand the number of seats on the court. She claimed in a tweet on Friday that the court has been "manipulated to protect GOP political goals," despite the fact that every justice confirmed under Trump went through the proper constitutional process. Sen. Edward J. Markey, D-Mass., tweeted Wednesday after oral arguments, "9 is not a magic number … We have to talk about expanding the Court now. #ExpandTheCourt" In April, Markey and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Rep. Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y., introduced The Judiciary Act of 2021 to expand the number of Supreme Court justices to 13. "This bill would restore balance to the nation’s highest court after four years of norm-breaking actions by Republicans led to its current composition and greatly damaged the Court’s standing in the eyes of the American people," the Democratic lawmakers reasoned. "In order for the Court to fulfill its duty to deliver equal justice under the law and protect the rights and well-being of millions of Americans, the legislation expands the Court to restore balance, integrity and independence to it." Sen. Ed Markey, D-Mass., talks about his legislation to expand the Supreme Court on April 15, 2021. Other Democratic senators have not committed to backing the expansion of the court, with Sen. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va., saying he will not vote to pack the court or to end the Senate filibuster. Similarly, Sen. Krysten Sinema, D-Ariz., poured cold water on her colleagues' court-packing push, saying through a spokesperson in October that she opposes an expansion. THE POLITICS OF COURT-PACKING At the start of his presidency, Biden created a commission to study potential changes to the Supreme Court. But, in a blow to progressives, the preliminary report on the future of the court released in November declared that expanding the size and scope wouldn’t attain balance. The 203-page draft said "the risks of Court expansion are considerable." The report suggested concepts such as term limits for the Supreme Court, perhaps staggered, 18-year terms on the court. The panel argued that the idea "would advance our Constitution’s commitments to checks and balances and popular sovereignty." According to a poll conducted from Oct. 15-18 by the New York Times and Siena College, the majority of Americans oppose a court-packing push by Democrats. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Among likely voters, 58% said Democrats should not look to increase the size of the Supreme Court. Just 31% said they were in favor of court-packing, while 11% of responders were undecided. "The public is overwhelmingly against court-packing. President Biden called this a boneheaded idea," George Washington University law professor Jonathan Turley previously said. Abortion rights activist Alicia Hurt holds a placard during a protest outside the Supreme Court building ahead of arguments in the Mississippi abortion rights case Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health, in Washington, Dec. 1, 2021. REUTERS/Evelyn Hockstein "It hasn't changed. It’s still a boneheaded idea. But what is really fascinating to watch is the number of members of Congress and law professors who are saying that we have to pack the court because it's not reading the Constitution the way we read the Constitution," said Turley. "Packing the court and tearing down the institutions that protect our rights is fundamentally wrong," Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, previously said. Fox News' Chad Pergram and Sam Dorman contributed to this report.
Harris faces staff exodus as questions on her leadership style emerge: 'This is a sinking ship': White House officials maintain that the departures of several staffers does not signal that Harris is a bad boss. Fox News contributor Joe Concha reacts to aides resigning from Vice President Kamala Harris’ office. Reports of a toxic work environment have plagued Vice President Kamala Harris since she took up the post less than a year ago and the recently announced exodus of her chief spokesperson has only prompted more questions. The White House said this week that senior adviser to the vice president and chief spokesperson Symone Sanders will be departing the vice president's office by year's end. Vice President Kamala Harris speaks to members of the press as her press secretary Symone Sanders looks on at Greenville-Spartanburg International Airport before she boards Air Force Two to return to Washington, D.C., June 14, 2021 in Greer, South Carolina. KAMALA HARRIS' STAFFERS LEAVING WHITE HOUSE IN PART BECAUSE THEY FEAR BEING LABELED 'HARRIS PERSON': REPORT "I love Symone, and I can't wait to see what she will do next, and I know that it's been a, you know, it's been three years of a lot of jumping on and off planes and going around the country, and she works very hard, and I can't wait to see what she'll do next, and I mean that sincerely," Harris told reporters this week. But the vice president declined to comment when she was pressed on whether Sander’s departure was a part of a great internal shakeup. "Well, I've told you how I feel about Symone. Next question," Harris said. Fox News contributor Joe Concha on Saturday called Harris' office a "sinking ship" during commentary on Sanders' departure. "I guess when your boss' approval ratings are at 28% and she's polling even lower on her number one job, the U.S. southern border where migrants continue to flow over, two million passing over this year. I guess I would leave too, because this is a sinking ship," said Concha. Sanders' decision to leave the vice president’s office not only raised eyebrows because she is the second high-level staffer to announce her bid farewell in less than a month, but because the spokesperson was previously harsh on vice president dropouts. PSAKI DEFENDS HARRIS' OFFICE AMID DEPARTURES, CITING 'GRUELING' WORK Following reports of low morale in Harris’ office this summer, Sanders defended the reportedly toxic workplace and called individuals who anonymously spoke to the press "cowards." NEW YORK, NY - SEPTEMBER 23:  Symone Sanders speaks onstage during Global Citizen Week: At What Cost? at The Apollo Theater on September 23, 2018 in New York City. "People are cowards to do this, this way," she told Politico in July. "We are not making rainbows and bunnies all day. What I hear is that people have hard jobs, and I’m like, ‘welcome to the club,’" Sanders said. "We have created a culture where people, if there is anything anyone would like to raise, there are avenues for them to do so," she added. News that Ashley Etienne, Harris' communications director, had resigned was also announced just one week before Thanksgiving. In addition, reports have surfaced this week that two other communications staffers – Peter Velz and Vince Evans – are also leaving Harris’ team, but those reports have not been confirmed by the White House. Vice President Kamala Harris waves as she departs after speaking at the Tribal Nations Summit in the South Court Auditorium on the White House campus, Tuesday, Nov. 16, 2021, in Washington. White House officials maintain that the departures of several staffers does not signal that Harris is a bad boss. Press secretary Jen Psaki said the White House has a history of seeing departures by high-level staffers and described the work as "grueling" when she was pressed by reporters on the work environment in the vice president's office. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Working on a presidential campaign…and working in the first year of a White House is exciting and rewarding, but it is also grueling and exhausting," Psaki told reporters this week. "It’s all of those things at once." Fox News could not immediately reach the White House for comment.
Model Gisele Bundchen saves trapped sea turtle in new video: 'I felt relieved': Bundchen has been a public advocate of the environment since 2009, when she joined the United Nations as a goodwill ambassador. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Check out what clicked this week in entertainment. Model Gisele Bundchen shared a video of herself saving a sea turtle trapped in a fishing net Saturday on Instagram. Bundchen, who is married to football star Tom Brady, can be seen in the video untangling the turtle from a green net. The model was wearing a workout outfit along with tennis shoes. Model Gisele Buendchen shared a video of herself saving a sea turtle from a fishing net with fans on social media. She revealed she had come across the turtle while on a walk with her dog. "Early this morning I was walking on the beach and Onyx started barking at a pile of ocean trash that had washed during high tide," Bunchen explained. "When I came closer I saw this beautiful turtle turned upside down with a look of hopelessness and exhaustion in her eyes, her body knotted and entangled in a fishing net." TOM BRADY PRAISES WIFE GISELE BUNDCHEN ON HER BIRTHDAY, SAYS LOVE FOR HER HAS ONLY GROWN OVER TIME "I immediately started to free her from the net that was strangling her, but even after we got her untied, she was too tired to make her way back to the ocean," the model added. "I didn’t think twice, I just picked her up and carry her to the water. I felt relieved and so happy to see her swim away freely, grateful that I was there and able to help." Bundchen emphasized the need to protect all animals in her post. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER The model went on to encourage her followers to remember that an "opportunity to change begins with a single act." "Today I was reminded that we must become more aware of our ways as a species and help protect all animals, it's our choice," she said. "I pray that we can all rise and remember that the opportunity to change begins with a single act." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Bundchen became a goodwill ambassador for the United Nations in 2009. Bundchen has been a public advocate for the environment. In 2009, the model joined the United Nations as a goodwill ambassador. "We must act now, so future generations have the same opportunity," she said at the time . "Mother Earth is our fundamental life-support system, and by becoming aware and responsible now, we can assist in preserving the planet."
Michigan school shooting: Crumbley lawyer says gun was locked up, accuses prosecutor of creating media circus: The defendants' attorneys said they did not hear back from the prosecutor's office on Friday. Jennifer and James Crumbley made their first court appearance on charges of involuntary manslaughter. Attorneys Mariell Lehman and Shannon Smith, representing the parents of Michigan high school shooting suspect Ethan Crumbley, said Saturday the gun that the 15 year old allegedly used was "locked" before Tuesday's tragedy. James Crumbley, 45, purchased the weapon recovered following the shooting – a 9mm Sig Sauer pistol – at a local firearms store on Nov. 26, Oakland County prosecutor Karen McDonald said earlier this week, adding that Ethan Crumbley had access to the gun at home before he allegedly brought it to Oxford High School. "That gun was actually locked, so when the prosecution is stating that this child had free access to a gun, that is...absolutely not true," Lehman said Saturday morning during the couple's arraignment. Crumbley arraignment on Dec. 4, 2021. The attorneys defending James and Jennifer Crumbley, 43, also accused McDonald of creating a media "spectacle" on Friday after authorities issued a "be on the lookout"  alert for the pair, who did not show up to an arraignment apparently scheduled for Friday. McDonald charged them with four counts of involuntary manslaughter each during a Friday press conference. MICHIGAN PROSECUTOR HIGHLIGHTS TEXTS FROM SCHOOL SHOOTING SUSPECT'S PARENTS SENT TO SON BEFORE TRAGEDY Local authorities, with assistance from the U.S. Marshals Service, eventually located them in a commercial building in Detroit early Saturday morning. "Unlike the prosecution, we weren't attempting to make this a media ... spectacle. This case is absolutely the saddest, most tragic, worst case imaginable," Lehman said Saturday. "There is absolutely no doubt. But our clients were absolutely going to turn themselves in. It was just a matter of logistics, and all the prosecution had to do was communicate with me about it." James and Jennifer Crumbley. Lehman and Smith, who previously represented convicted child molester Larry Nassar, argued that they were going to "make arrangements" to have their clients turn themselves in on Friday and tried to contact the prosecutor's office multiple times on Friday "but never got a call back." MICHIGAN SHOOTING SUSPECT PARENTS PLEAD NOT GUILTY TO INVOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER CHARGES: LIVE UPDATES "The prosecutor's office, instead of getting back to us in any way, decided to have a press conference, and as Miss McDonald admitted, try to find a way to act to surprise our clients and catch them off guard when it was so unnecessary," Lehman said. "And last night and throughout the day, we were in contact with our clients. They were scared. They were terrified. They were not at home. They were figuring out what to do. Getting finances in order." McDonald refuted the defense lawyers' claim, saying the Crumbleys "didn't turn themselves in" on Friday. "We were told they were out of town, except that yesterday morning they withdrew $4,000 from an ATM in Rochester Hills," she said. People attend a vigil downtown to honor those killed and wounded during the recent shooting at Oxford High School on December 03, 2021 in Oxford, Michigan. She added later: "The whole country knew that these charges were coming. And lastly, to suggest that this anyone is somehow using this incident to create press — there's a lot of attention here because four children were murdered, and seven others were injured, and that that is on the mind of every single person in this country." MICHIGAN SCHOOL SHOOTING: ETHAN CRUMBLEY'S PARENTS FACING INVOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER CHARGES James and Jennifer Crumbley, parents of the 15-year-old suspect, pleaded not guilty to four counts of involuntary manslaughter Saturday. Ahead of the arraignment, Smith and Lehman issued the following statement: "We understand that our clients were apprehended last night, although we fully intended to turn them in first thing this morning for arraignment, contrary to the misinformation that has been rampant in the media." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP They continued: "While it’s human nature to want to find someone to blame or something to point to or something that gives us answers, the charges in this case are intended to make an example and send a message. The prosecution has very much cherry-picked and slanted specific facts to further their narrative to do that. We intend to fight this case in the courtroom and not in the court of public opinion. We know that in the end the entire story and truth will prevail." The four students who died in the shooting are 16-year-old Tate Myre, 14-year-old Hana St. Juliana, 17-year-old Madisyn Baldwin and 15-year-old Justin Shilling. Fox News' Greg Norman and Paul Best contributed to this report.
Brian Kelly has already fired someone at LSU: Kelly bolted Notre Dame for LSU earlier in the week. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. It seems new LSU head football coach Brian Kelly is getting straight to work. The Athletic‘s Bruce Feldman reports Kelly let go of LSU’s longtime strength and conditioning coach Tommy Moffitt — his tenure began in 2000 and Feldman reports that he is the first LSU staffer who has been informed he’s out. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM New LSU football coach Brian Kelly gestures to fans after his arrival at Baton Rouge Metropolitan Airport, Tuesday, Nov. 30, 2021, in Baton Rouge, La. Kelly, formerly of Notre Dame, is said to have agreed to a 10-year contract with LSU worth $95 million plus incentives. Larry Brown Sports’ Dan Benton reports that after spending the past 21 years at LSU, Moffitt is beloved by players and coaches and helped lead LSU to three national championships. DEION SANDERS BRINGS MODEL BRITTANY RENNER TO OFFER WISDOM TO JACKSON STATE TEAM Moffitt, who was originally hired by Nick Saban, survived three different staff changes. New LSU football coach Brian Kelly gestures to fans after his arrival at Baton Rouge Metropolitan Airport, Tuesday, Nov. 30, 2021, in Baton Rouge, La. Kelly, formerly of Notre Dame, is said to have agreed to a 10-year contract with LSU worth $95 million plus incentives. He was named College Strength and Conditioning Coach of the Year by America Football Monthly in 2003 and was given the College Coach’s Choice Award by Strength Performance in 2011, per LBS. While turnover is common when a new head coach is brought in, Kelly wasted no time showing the first individual the door. BATON ROUGE, LOUISIANA - DECEMBER 01: Brian Kelly speaks after being introduced as the head football coach of the LSU Tigers during a news conference at Tiger Stadium on December 01, 2021 in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. But Kelly’s departure from South Bend and arrival in Baton Rouge hasn’t been without criticism. Former Notre Dame quarterback Brady Quinn blasted Kelly hours after word spread that he was leaving sixth-ranked Notre Dame for a Bayou-sized paycheck, and his newly developed southern accent became a trending topic. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP If you haven’t already read, here are five things to know about Kelly, who decided to leave his job as Notre Dame’s coach Monday night for $95 million over 10 years.
Austin targets China in security forum address: 'China is not 10 feet tall': Austin says 'America is a Pacific power'.  Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin targeted China in his address Saturday at the Reagan National Defense Forum, telling Fox News’ Bret Baier, "China is not 10 feet tall." "America is a Pacific power," Austin said. "The Indo-Pacific is a region of great opportunity and real challenges. One of those challenges is the emergence of an increasingly assertive and autocratic China." REAGAN NATIONAL DEFENSE FORUM: EXPERTS SAY AFGHANISTAN WITHDRAWAL DAMAGED US RELIABILITY WITH GLOBAL PARTNERS Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin holds a briefing in Tbilisi on Oct. 18, 2021. Austin joined other top leaders in the defense industry Saturday to express the importance of strengthening ties between the U.S. and allied nations, not only in the Pacific but globally. Experts have been sounding the alarm on the threat that China and Russia pose as both nations continue to build up aggressive defenses not seen since World War II. "We’re facing a formidable challenge," the defense chief said.  "In war and in peace we are always stronger when we work together with our friends." Austin said the U.S. will not force nations to choose between ties with the U.S. or China. The Biden administration is looking to bolster deterrence against Chinese aggression over Taiwan, not change the status quo in the region, the defense secretary said. Tensions between the U.S. and China have continued to escalate in the Indo-Pacific as the Chinese Communist Party  moves to "reunify" Taiwan with its mainland. CHINA COULD WIN 'TRUMP CARD' OVER GLOBAL ECONOMY BY TAKING OVER TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING Chinese naval fleet passes through naval mine threat area during the China-Russia 'Joint Sea-2021' military drill near the Peter the Great Gulf on October 15, 2021 in Russia. Taiwan identifies as a sovereign nation, but it is officially recognized by China, the United Nations and the U.S. as part of the "one-China" policy under the Taiwan Relations Act, the three Joint Communiques, and the Six Assurances. Officials repeatedly said Saturday that the U.S. is continuing to adhere to the one-China policy while remaining devoted to backing Taiwanese defenses. "We’re clear-eyed about the challenge China presents," Austin told Fox News. "But China’s not 10 feet tall – this is America." China’s defense ambitions have spread outside its expansion into the Indo-Pacific. The CCP has continued its efforts to expand their nuclear program and ballistic missile testing – prompting greater cause for concern amongst security officials regarding U.S. defense capabilities. Freshmen take part in a military training at Southeast University on October 22, 2021 in Nanjing, Jiangsu Province of China. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "We have the greatest innovators in the world, and we’re going to do what’s necessary to create the capabilities that help us maintain the competitive edge going forward," he added. "We’re in competition with China, but we don’t have to be in a conflict," Austin said.
Football Hall of Famer Claude Humphrey dies as age 77: . Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Pro Football Hall of Famer Claude Humphrey, one of the NFL's most fearsome pass rushers during the 1970s with the Atlanta Falcons but long overlooked on mostly losing teams, has died at the age of 77. Humphrey, who also reached the Super Bowl with the Philadelphia Eagles, died unexpectedly Friday night in his hometown of Memphis, Tennessee, according to the Hall of Fame, which was informed of his death by his daughter. No cause was given. Humphrey was the No. 3 overall pick by the Falcons out of Tennessee State in 1968 and went on to play 11 years with the team, earning the last of six Pro Bowl appearances as a member of the famed "Grits Blitz" defense in 1977. He moved to the Eagles in 1979 and served as a designated pass rusher on the 1980 team that reached the Super Bowl. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Humphrey retired after the 1981 season, before sacks became an official stat, but he was credited with 130 sacks over 13 seasons . Humphrey was inducted in the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 2014. "The entire Pro Football Hall of Fame family mourns the passing of Claude Humphrey," Hall of Fame President Jim Porter said. "Known as a hard worker and a reliable teammate, Humphrey was always willing to help the team out wherever needed and knew success was achieved collectively. His humble spirit guided him on and off the field." The Hall of Fame flag outside the museum in Canton, Ohio, will be flown at half-staff in Humphrey's honor, Porter added. Humphrey played on losing teams during much of his career in Atlanta, which likely contributed to the 33-year wait before he was finally selected for the Hall of Fame. The Falcons honored Humphrey in 2008 by placing him in their Ring of Honor. He also is a member of the Tennessee Sports Hall of Fame. "We are saddened by the passing of Claude Humphrey and send our prayers out for his family and friends in this difficult time," Falcons owner Arthur Blank said in a statement. "Claude made an indelible impression on so many from Memphis to the Falcons and across the NFL with his leadership and tenacious approach on the field. His Falcons legacy was cemented as a forever memory with induction into our Ring of Honor and he will be greatly missed." Humphrey was drafted by the Falcons after leading Tennessee State to a 35-3-1 record from 1965-67. He put up hall-worthy numbers in Atlanta, terrorizing opposing quarterbacks as a dynamic edge rusher. Humphrey had double-figure sacks nine times in his career, along with two interceptions, a fumble recovery for a touchdown and two safeties. The NFL defensive rookie of the year in 1968, he earned first-team All-Pro honors five times. In 1977, Humphrey was a key player on a defense that allowed just 129 points — the NFL’s fewest ever in a 14-game season. But the team struggled offensively and finished just 7-7, missing the playoffs. "He was a great athlete," said longtime Falcons linebacker Greg Brezina, who joined the team the same year as Humphrey. "One of the best things about him was his winning attitude. He was a team player and, of course, he’s probably one of the best defensive ends that there was out there. It’s just a shame he played so long with a team that didn’t win much. He didn’t get the recognition." Humphrey, who was just the second Falcons players after Deion Sanders to be elected to the Hall of Fame, insisted that he had even more sacks than he was given credit for. "Before they started keeping records of sacks, man, I was getting sacks left and right," he said. "The thing about me, I didn’t care so much about getting the sack. A sack was just a tackle back then. Tackling the quarterback or tackling the ball carrier on a running play was all the same." Humphrey temporarily retired after four games in 1978 — missing his only chance at the playoffs with the Falcons. He returned the next season with the Eagles and finally reached the Super Bowl in the 1980 season, when he had 14 1/2 sacks. The favored Eagles lost to the Raiders 27-10, but Humphrey got his long-awaited chance to play in the biggest game after so many losing seasons in Atlanta. "It was the most exciting thing that could have ever happened to me," he said in a 2014 interview. "I went to Philadelphia to try to get on a winning team and experience what I experienced in college at Tennessee State. We were  national champions two years in a row." The Falcons had only two winning seasons before Humphrey stepped away ahead of their first playoff appearance. "In Atlanta, I never got used to losing," Humphrey said. "It made me play harder. I used to say to myself: ‘Well, if we lose the game, the guy who lined up in front of me won’t have anything to be excited about. When he looks at the film, he’s not going to like what he sees of himself. I’m going to go out there and try to wear him down.’ That was the only thing that kept me motivated." Humphrey was a finalist for the Hall of Fame in 2003, 2005 and 2006, but he failed to get in each time. He finally was elected as a senior candidate in February 2014. "I’m not glad that it took so long," he said before the induction ceremony, "but I’m glad I got in when I can smell the flowers."
Joel Osteen’s Houston church had $600K inside wall from 2014 robbery, plumber claims: A caller told a Houston radio station that he found 500 envelopes full of cash and checks behind a toilet in the church. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A Texas plumber was stunned when he found nearly 500 envelopes full of cash inside Lakewood Church in Houston, where Joel Osteen is the pastor. The plumber told the story Thursday when he called in to Houston radio station KILT-FM, according to the city's KPRC-TV. "Morning Bullpen" host George Lindsey told the TV station he was shocked by the caller's account. "There was a loose toilet in the wall, and we removed the tile. Went to go remove the toilet and I moved some insulation away and about 500 envelopes fell out of the wall," the caller said. "I was like ‘Oh wow.’ I got my flashlight, shined up in there." CALIFORNIA’S ZERO-BAIL POLICY SETS FREE 14 SMASH-GRAB ROBBERY SUSPECTS, LAPD CHIEF SAYS Lakewood Church pastor Joel Osteen is seen at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles. The envelopes were filled with cash and checks, according to the caller. Afterward, the plumber said he reported the find to the maintenance supervisor. "I went ahead and contacted the maintenance supervisor that was there, and I turned it all in," the caller said. In March 2014, Lakewood Church reported that $200,000 in cash and $400,000 in checks had been stolen, in addition to some credit card information. Lakewood Church in Houston. At the time, the church said the missing money had been insured. Since then, no arrests have been made in relation to the theft. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Lakewood Church said in a statement that cash and checks were discovered recently during work being done on the church, but did not add how much money was found and did not directly confirm what the plumber said. "Lakewood immediately notified the Houston Police Department and is assisting them with their investigation. Lakewood has no further comment at this time," the church said in a statement. Pastor Joel Osteen. Houston police said in a statement Friday that officers were dispatched to the church after the discovery was made. Police claim that the recovered checks suggest that the money found in envelopes is related to the 2014 theft. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Maryland homeowner accidentally burns house down in effort to fight snake infestation: Fire resulted in estimated $1 million in damages. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A Maryland homeowner accidentally burned down a house in November while attempting to use smoke to get rid of a snake infestation. Pete Pringer, Montgomery County Fire and Rescue Service's public information officer, and other first responders were at the property Thursday to investigate.  WILDFIRES TORCHED UP TO A FIFTH OF ALL GIANT SEQUOIA TREES "The homeowner was using smoke to manage a snake infestation. It is believed that the heat source was too close to the combustible that caused the fire in the walls and ceiling area, unbeknownst to the homeowner at the time," Pringer said in Friday's recorded voice note of the incident. The fire began in the basement. By the time firefighters extinguished the flames at the large single-family home, an estimated $1 million in damage had been done.  CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Pringer said an investigation into the fire continues, adding no injuries were reported.
Eight Georgia college students arrested after hazing incident: The students have since resumed class, according to the university. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Eight people have been arrested on various criminal charges after they were allegedly involved in a hazing incident at a fraternity at Georgia College and State University, officials said. One college student was hospitalized for alcohol-related sickness after the Nov. 10 incident at the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity house in Milledgeville, according to The Union-Recorder. KYLE RITTENHOUSE FOCUSING ON ‘MOVING ON WITH MY LIFE.’ ATTENDING ASU The student has since resumed classes, Georgia College President Cathy Cox said. The Milledgeville Police Department said in a statement that the college asked the department to take over the investigation into alleged underaged drinking and hazing. "During the course of the investigation, over 10 people were interviewed and provided information into the events," the statement said. OREGON UNIVERSITY STUDENT GOVERNMENT WANTS CRITICAL RACE THEORY GRADUATION ‘REQUIREMENT' It said eight people were arrested and charged with supplying alcohol to minors, and one was charged with hazing. Both crimes are misdemeanors. Cox wrote in an email to students and faculty that the national Sigma Alpha Epsilon organization and Georgia College have both suspended the chapter and that students have been ordered to cease chapter activity until the issue is resolved. "There is no time and no place at which hazing activity is acceptable or tolerable on or around the GCSU campus or involving GCSU students," Cox wrote. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP She said the school is also considering internal discipline against students and said counselors have offered aid to new members of the fraternity. Cox said the college will expand anti-hazing efforts.
Blink-182 bassist Mark Hoppus' cancer diagnosis announcement was actually an accident: Hoppus has been cancer-free since September. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Check out what clicked this week in entertainment. Blink-182 bassist Mark Hoppus' public announcement about his cancer treatment was actually an accident. Hoppus took the internet by surprise when he posted a photo of him receiving chemotherapy to his Instagram story in June. The musician told GQ magazine that the post was actually an accident, and he had meant to only share it using the "close friends" feature on Instagram. Mark Hoppus revealed his original cancer diagnosis announcement was actually an accident. "Throughout the day as I'm getting chemotherapy and more bags of chemicals are being dripped into my body, other people are reaching out, and they're like, ‘Dude, what's going on?’" Hoppus said during an interview with the outlet. Hoppus was quickly contacted by his manager asking if the musician had meant to post the news. Shortly after, Hoppus began receiving messages from friends and family he hadn't told yet. However, he couldn't respond to the messages due to the chemotherapy. BLINK-182 BASSIST MARK HOPPUS SAYS HE'S ‘CANCER FREE’ Hoppus had shared a photo of himself preparing for a round of chemotherapy to his Instagram story instead of to just his "close friends" list on the app. "Chemo is like being on the worst international, overnight flight where you can't sleep or get comfortable," he told GQ. Later that day, Hoppus wrote out a formal statement that he shared on social media. "For the past three months I've been undergoing chemotherapy for cancer," he wrote at the time. "I have cancer. It sucks, and I'm scared, and at the same time I'm blessed with incredible doctors and family and friends to get me through this." CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Hoppus had been diagnosed with an aggressive blood cancer, stage 4 diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. Hoppus revealed he went through a dark time after finding out about his diagnosis. The musician used therapy to help get through the first weeks after finding out the news. "I had a really dark time after finding out," he told GQ. Hoppus announced he is cancer-free in September. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "I went through this whole period of like, not why me, but of course me. Why wouldn't it be me? We've had so much good luck and good fortune, and things have kind of fallen into place for me specifically for so long, that of course I was due. I was due for something tragic." Hoppus is now cancer-free. "Just saw my oncologist, and I’m cancer free!!" the Blink-182 rocker wrote in an Instagram post in September. "Thank you, God and universe and friends and family and everyone who sent support and kindness and love."
Former football coach fired for removing Black Lives Matter poster alleges First Amendment rights violated: Suit alleges coach was fired because 'he did not toe the party line' regarding BLM. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A former Illinois State University  assistant football coach has sued the team's head coach and the school's former athletic director, alleging his First Amendment rights were violated after he removed a Black Lives Matter poster from his door and replaced it with a different one. The suit, according to the Chicago Tribune, claims Kurt Beathard, the former offensive coordinator for ISU, was dismissed by head coach Brock Spack and terminated by former athletic director Larry Lyons in September 2020.  BLACK LIVES MATTER CALLS FOR MONTH-LONG BOYCOTT OF ‘WHITE COMPANIES’ The Tribune also reports the suit, filed earlier this week in U.S. District Court, alleges First Amendment retaliation and viewpoint discrimination against Beathard and claims he was fired because "he did not toe the party line regarding Black Lives Matter." A protester waves a Black Lives Matter flag during a demonstration. According to Beathard, a Black Lives Matter poster was placed on his door while he was on leave following the death of his wife, who had breast cancer. Once he returned to work, Beathard replaced the poster with a new one that said, "All Lives Matter to Our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ," according to the suit. The poster remained on Beathard's door for two weeks. The poster was removed before he was fired and after Spack asked Beathard to remove it, the suit claims. The lawsuit also alleges that Spack once referred to the Black Lives Matter movement as "freaking nuts," and that Lyons held a Zoom meeting to encourage unity during which he said, "All Redbirds Lives Matter." The school's mascot is a redbird.  CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The suit noted that Lyons was forced to issue an apology for his statement and that he retired from the university roughly a month later in October 2020. Fox News reached out to ISU about the claims made in the suit but did not receive an immediate response.
Lincoln Riley interview drowned out by SEC chants from Georgia-Alabama fans: Oklahoma will join the SEC in a few years. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. New USC football coach Lincoln Riley was trying to talk about recruiting in one of his first interviews since joining the Trojans, but fans gearing up for the SEC Championship wouldn’t have it. While Georgia and Alabama fans are likely to be yelling at each other during the conference title game later Saturday, the two sides agreed to troll Riley who departed Oklahoma for USC last weekend, years before the Sooners will join the SEC. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM New USC football coach Lincoln Riley  during a news conference in the 1923 Club at the Los Angeles Coliseum Nov. 29, 2021. The fans chanted "SEC! SEC! SEC!" and drowned out Riley’s interview with ESPN’s Rece Davis on "College Gameday." Riley’s move to USC came at a peculiar time. The team announced its move to the SEC months before Riley’s decision, and he had just emphatically denied being tied to the LSU gig after losing in Oklahoma’s rivalry game against Oklahoma State. GEORGIA NOT WORRIED ABOUT THE PAST, AS KIRBY SMART LOOKS TO FINALLY BEAT THE ALABAMA BUG A large billboard at the Los Angeles Coliseum displays a photo of new USC football coach Lincoln Riley with downtown Los Angeles as a backdrop. Riley was officially introduced as USC coach Monday. "When [the USC brass] first came to me with interest on this position, the first thing that I noticed is they were about what they felt what USC football could be, what they felt like that we needed to do to make up the gap, and they were totally united on doing anything and everything possible to help get us to that point," Riley said at his introductory press conference. "As a football coach — to have that support behind you from some of the most influential people in this university, from your bosses, from people [that are] going to make big decisions — it said everything that I needed to hear. Thank you all for this opportunity. It means the world to me. New USC football head coach Lincoln Riley speaks at a news conference in the 1923 Club at the Los Angeles Coliseum Nov. 29, 2021. "We're going to put out a football team that hopefully you're proud of on the field, but you're proud of what they do in the classroom, you're proud of what they do in the community and that we represent you well and then we work incredibly well together. I cannot wait to meet all of you and be a part of your family." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Riley has already flipped some 2023 recruits who committed to Oklahoma to go to USC.
Christmas and what it really means: Tips for keeping us rooted in faith: In 'All American Christmas,' Fox News personalities share the real focus of the joyous holiday season. Fox News’ Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy debut their holiday book on ‘Fox News Live.’ Christmas decorations have been up for weeks and holiday tunes can be heard everywhere. Yet as the new book "All American Christmas" makes clear, as important as secular traditions are to so many of us all over the country — and as much as they keep us connected with our loved ones — we need to remind ourselves why we're really celebrating this month. We are wise to focus on "the role that religion plays" in the "celebrations of the Savior’s birth" during the Christmas season, as Fox News Channel's Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy note in the introduction to their new book. "In our secular culture, it's easy to forget that Jesus is the reason for the season," says Campos-Duffy. CHARLES PAYNE ON CHRISTMAS JOY: ‘ALWAYS SOMETHING YOU CAN DO’ FOR OTHERS Check out more of this important inspiration related to Christmas, all drawn from the stories, traditions, and memories that are featured throughout "All American Christmas." There is, in fact, a blessed and profound reason that Christians all over the world celebrate Christmas. That clear focus — the emphasis on God's great gift — can calm us, cheer us, encourage us, and help us stay rooted in what really matters. "Sean and I share a real passion for Christmas, and we fully embrace the whole holiday season from Advent  all the way through to Epiphany, or Three Kings’ Day, which is on January 6, when we celebrate and open gifts again. On January 6, our children put their shoes under our family altar table in the living room. Instead of leaving cookies and milk like they did for Santa, they fill their shoes with sugar for the camels. In the morning, the Three Wise Men have left each of them three gifts, just as they brought the baby Jesus three gifts — frankincense, gold, and myrrh."—Rachel Campos-Duffy, cohost of "Fox and Friends Weekend," host of "Moms" on Fox Nation, and co-author of the new book Some of the Duffy children are shown honoring the true meaning of the Christmas season. This sweet photo and many others appear in ‘All American Christmas.’ "Christmas plays a large part in our lives. It is the day Jesus was born, and our family enjoys celebrating that very necessary and important holiday. He was born on Christmas and rose from the dead on Easter. His birth, death, and resurrection are the ultimate gift, and God the ultimate giver. We have only to receive with grateful hearts … The way in which we celebrate may be different, but the spirit of Christmas endures forever."—Ainsley Earhardt, cohost of "Fox & Friends" GIFTS MEANT TO BE PASSED DOWN THROUGH THE GENERATIONS "My parents instilled in us the idea that even if you don’t have much, you can still give. Among the meals we prepared at Christmas, many were reserved to help feed the homeless in our church community. My mama became a minister, and for her, one of the most important things you could give, something that didn’t cost you a thing but time, was a prayer or a kind word … The lesson was clear: just get out there and be of service to those in need."—Lawrence Jones, enterprise reporter at "Fox & Friends" This beautiful Christmas manger scene shows figurines representing Jesus, Mary, Joseph, the Three Wise Men and more. "God gave us the gift of His son to show us the way toward salvation. That’s why we celebrate Christmas, that’s why we go home to be with family, that’s why we go to God’s house to celebrate with Him. And there, in our homes and in our churches, we lift up our voices in song to Him who is our Savior, our Redeemer."—Lauren Green, Fox News Channel's chief religion correspondent based in New York "As a child I would say ‘Merry Christmas’ to everyone, everywhere I went. I liked saying it and I liked seeing people’s reactions. I still do. But as I got older, and as I grew more firm in my Roman Catholic beliefs, it became more and more important to me to try to remember each step of the way what it’s really all about. It’s like Linus says in ‘A Charlie Brown Christmas’: ‘I can tell you what Christmas is all about.’ He asks someone to turn on a spotlight. He then launches into Luke’s Gospel of the Nativity story. ‘The angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid …’ Now he’s got all his unruly friends’ attention, and they listen, rapt, to the true meaning of Christmas. Keeping that true meaning the focus is important."—Martha MacCallum, anchor and executive editor of "The Story with Martha MacCallum" ‘All American Christmas’ by Rachel Campos-Duffy and her husband, Fox News contributor Sean Duffy, is available now. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Excerpted from the new book All American Christmas by Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy. To purchase your copy, click here.
‘Little House on the Prairie’ star Karen Grassle gets candid on sobriety, making peace with Michael Landon: Actress details her friendship with Michael Landon, battle with alcoholism in new memoir. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Karen Grassle, who famously played Caroline "Ma" Ingalls on "Little House on the Prairie," is getting candid about her journey to sobriety. The actress recently wrote a memoir titled "Bright Lights, Prairie Dust: Reflections on Life, Loss, and Love from Little House’s Ma." where she detailed her upbringing and struggles with alcoholism as well as the alleged troubled relationship she had on set with her former co-star and boss Michael Landon. He played her on-screen husband, Charles Ingalls. Former co-stars didn’t immediately respond to Fox News’ request for comment regarding the allegations made in Grassle's book about Landon. Despite their ups and downs, Grassle insisted she made peace with the actor before he passed away in 1991 at age 54 from pancreatic cancer. 'LITTLE HOUSE ON THE PRAIRIE' STAR CHARLOTTE STEWART RECALLS DAYS WITH JIM MORRISON, ELVIS AND BILL MURRAY Karen Grassle has written a book titled "Bright Lights, Prairie Dust: Reflections on Life, Loss, and Love from Little House’s Ma." Grassle, 79, spoke to Fox News about writing her book now, and what it was like bringing the beloved series to life, as well as the moment she realized it was time to get sober. Fox News: What inspired you to write this memoir now?Karen Grassle: This book has taken years and years. I started after I moved here to the Bay Area. I was semiretired and I didn’t have as many friends as I did in Los Angeles. All of these memories began to surface. So I started writing them down. I thought that maybe one day, my son would be interested to read them. And I just kept writing. And the truth is, I had to let my guard down. I’m quite a private person. So I had to be willing to share a lot of my vulnerabilities about my family, my alcoholism, the trials that I went through doing "Little House." A lot of things that I’ve never really discussed publicly. But it felt freeing. And I’m glad that I did it. Karen Grassle  with her mom backstage during a theatrical performance. Fox News: It’s been said that you got the role of Caroline Ingalls at a very crucial point in your life. Is that true?Grassle: Very. I was so broke and so discouraged about my career. I was thinking, "I better go back to school and learn to do something else." And I couldn’t figure out how in the world I was going to pay to go back to school. I had friends in Los Angeles who were doing television. I saw what they were getting paid. So I thought, "I’ll try to get some TV work." I thought it could help me pay my way to go back to school. So my agency started sending me on auditions. And I think it was two or three months later when I got the call about this new series called "Little House on the Prairie." CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Fox News: But you initially weren’t a fan of your character?Grassle: Oh sure. When I first read the script, I thought, "Oh, she’s kind of a downer. She’s prudish." I hadn’t read the books, so I had a lot of catching up to do. And there wasn’t the same kind of research about the Ingalls that we have today. So I got the work. But as I started doing the role and interacting with the children, I gained a new perspective for my character. She’s a woman who’s so brave and loyal heading into the wilderness with her little girls. She wanted to create a better life for them. I began to experience the nobility of the character and what she truly represented. Fox News: Michael Landon, to this day, is still viewed as a beloved father figure. Grassle: And he earned that image. He was one of the favorites on television and had one of the longest careers. He created this show and we’re still talking about it today, nearly 50 years later. He deserves a tremendous amount of credit for that. Karen Grassle said she initially wasn't impressed by the role of Ma. Fox News: But you also witnessed a completely different side to him.Grassle: We all worked really hard. I didn’t think it was all that tough because we were all worker bees. There was nobody on that set who was slacking around. Where it really got tough for me was when it was time for the second season. If you were on a hit series, it was common to renegotiate your contract based on its popularity. Michael did not want to give me a raise. He began to diminish my part, my value. I was a professional. I had just done a year of Shakespeare in England. I had been on Broadway. I really liked the children and I built a good relationship with them. You don’t get that with everybody. So I felt that I had some value. And I stuck to my guns. This went on for months and months. I think it went on over a year where I didn’t say, "I’m sick and I can’t come in to work." I made the decision that I would show up to work and do my job every day. But it was tough because people knew he was annoyed with me. And he showed it in many ways. So I had to go through that. But I also didn’t want to give up on myself. I worked hard to become the actress I was. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Fox News: Why do you think Michael Landon was so hesitant to give you a raise?Grassle: I don’t know. And to my dying day, I will never really understand why he dug his heels and refused as he did. After a year and a half or so, I did get an excellent contract that was appropriate for the time. It meant a lot to me, but I paid a heavy price for it. I just wanted a fair wage. Karen Grassle alleged that Michael Landon didn't want to give her a raise despite the show's success. Fox News: How did that impact your relationship with him on set?Grassle: It was so hard to go to work and know he was annoyed with you. You could cut the tension with a knife. And you felt he was probably saying things about you behind your back. He had a sense of humor and if he wanted to make fun of you, boy, you were skewered. He was very clever. I didn’t know what was going to happen. But I kept going to work. Fox News: You worked on stages and sets before the #MeToo era. What was your experience like with sexism in the workplace?Grassle: I was very lucky in a way because by the time I got to New York, I had already trained in England. I was already a professional. A lot of young women arrived in New York or Los Angeles with very little experience. They became very, very vulnerable. But I did not have a problem with anyone ever assaulting me or anything like that. If somebody made an inappropriate pass, I learned long before how to pretend that I didn’t notice that they were doing it or to laugh it off. What happened at the "Little House" set was… Mike decided to humiliate me while we were doing the scenes in the bed. This was so awful for me. This was so unbearable and I just tried to get through it. You know, he made these terrible jokes about the female anatomy, made a woman’s body parts sound so disgusting. I just sat there with all these men standing around laughing at his jokes and I couldn’t do anything. We didn’t even have a word for sexual harassment. 'KUNG FU' STAR RADAMES PERA EXPLAINS WHY THE SERIES ENDED, WHAT 'LITTLE HOUSE ON THE PRAIRIE' WAS LIKE Karen Grassle was candid about her battle with alcoholism. Fox News: You were also very candid about your struggles with alcoholism. When did you first realize that you needed to get help?Grassle: I resisted help for a long time. I tried to keep everything under control for a long time. I did not realize the extent to which my alcohol problem was playing a negative part in my life, but this is very common… The one thing [alcoholics] don’t want to do is not drink. We think of many rationalizations for why things are going bad in our lives. But we don’t want to look at the key item. That seems to be how the disease works. My friend Toni, who I’ve known since we were 7 years old, confronted me and told me I needed help. There was no way for me to wriggle out of it. She knew me… I couldn’t fight the truth of what she was saying. After our conversation, it just took one more bad night where I fought with a friend – a very dear friend of mine. Karen Grassle said her friend Toni helped her realize that she needed to get clean. I went home sobbing full of self-pity. I felt everything in my life was wrong and everyone was turning against me. The next morning, I woke up and said, "I must never take another drink, no matter what happens." I did think that my life would fall apart. I thought I might lose my job. I definitely might lose my boyfriend. I thought I was never going to go to a nice restaurant again. How can you go to a nice restaurant and not drink? How can you go get Mexican food and not have a beer? I thought my life was over. But it was such a blessing. Fox News: It seems like you were a high-functioning alcoholic. Grassle: Oh yes. I’m glad you brought that up. My dad was the same too. He went to work every day. He worked hard. He paid his bills. And alcoholism killed him. ‘LITTLE HOUSE ON THE PRAIRIE’ STAR ALISON ARNGRIM SHARES MEMORIES OF CO-STARS STEVE TRACY, MICHAEL LANDON For me, I got up every day with a terrible hangover. I went to work, I pulled myself together, I worked hard and I concentrated all day long. And when they said, "That’s a wrap," I either took a drink from the prop table or had one when I got home and started again. I thought I was under control because I was working. I hadn’t lost my job. It gave me even more rationale for continuing the way I was. Karen Grassle said she got sober in 1977. Fox News: When did you get sober?Grassle: It was 1977 in June. It’s so meaningful because everything changes from that day. I looked at life in an entirely new way. I was able to truly discover who I was and what I wanted in life. And boy, it was a lot of work. And it was all worth it. Fox News: Do you remember the last time you spoke to Michael Landon?Grassle: Oh yes, very well. I wrote him a letter just to say hello and catch him up with what was going on in my life. He wrote me back the nicest note. I remember he said, "Give me a call so we can discuss the old times before we forget them." So I did give him a call. He told me about his family. We had a nice chat about some of the people we worked with. But we mended fences. And I just felt there was a lot of forgiveness from both sides. We were remembering the better parts of our relationship. And I was so grateful for that because it was a very short time after that Mike was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer. ‘LITTLE HOUSE ON THE PRAIRIE’ ACTRESS WENDI LOU LEE SAYS SHE RELIED ON GOD TO HELP HER FACE BRAIN TUMOR Karen Grassle said she made peace with Michael Landon before his death. Fox News: It’s good to hear that the both of you made peace before he passed away.Grassle: You know, we established a very nice working relationship in the first year. And after the contract got settled, we had a lot of good days, too. Lots of laughs. Lots of scenes where we played together and enjoyed each other’s talents… He was perhaps more human. He was very complicated and came from a difficult childhood. So I think for a person who comes to the table with a lot of issues and somehow be able to turn that into a creation that serves other people deserves a lot of credit. Fox News: Today you’re recognized as one of TV’s most beloved moms. How do you feel about that title?Grassle: I feel honored. I based the character mostly on my mother. And I didn’t realize until later how much people truly love this character. I initially didn’t understand the depths of people’s affections for her. But people still reach out to me and express how much they love her. It’s been very gratifying. And I’m awfully lucky.
Christmas gift idea: This coffee company helps veterans, first responders, and more: On "Fox & Friends Weekend," the CEO and founder of Got Your Six Coffee Co. shared a delicious tip for holiday shopping this year. Fisher Space Pen's Joshua Skidmore, Popilicious Popcorn co-founders Maria Bailey and Madison Bailey Mengueme, and Got Your Six Coffee founder Eric Hadley showcase the best gifts for this holiday's shopping season During an appearance on "Fox & Friends Weekend" on Saturday morning, a number of leaders of American-based companies that are producing American-made products shared their wares just in time for Christmas shopping this year — and all of these products are noteworthy. And guess what? You may have just discovered the answer to the age-old holiday dilemma around this time of year, which goes something like this: "I have no idea what to buy for [Mom, Dad, my sister, my brother, my aunt, my best friend, my neighbor, my grandparents] for Christmas!" So help is here. And as a bonus, you'd be helping others as well. Got Your Six Coffee, out of Springfield, Missouri, is dedicated to assisting our veterans and many others who put their lives on the line day in and day out to serve and protect their fellow Americans.  "Our mission," the company says, "is service to those who serve." It also explains, "Through the sale of freshly roasted, award-winning gourmet coffee and amazing relationships with incredible companies, sponsors, and partners, we can do just that." As CEO and veteran Eric Hadley of Got Your Six Coffee told "Fox & Friends Weekend" cohost Pete Hegseth on Saturday morning, "We use coffee as a catalyst to support nonprofit organizations that are helping first responders, veterans, health care professionals, and their families." Hadley said, "We're lending a hand out into the community." A US Army veteran in a wheelchair is shown in this image. Scores of veterans, first responders, and many others across our nation are helped through the good work of veteran-owned business Got Your Six Coffee Co. "It's about coffee but then again, it's not about coffee," added Hadley. "It's about so much more." Got Your Six Coffee products are sold both online and in retail establishments. CHRISTMAS AND WHAT IT REALLY MEANS: TIPS FOR KEEPING US ROOTED IN FAITH The company uses its net profits to support EMTs, law enforcement, firefighters, veterans, and their families "through various nonprofit organizations. We rely on great coffee and hard-used gear to make this a reality," it explains on its website. The term "Got your six" means "I've got your back" — tapping into the loyalty and dedication among our military members. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP By the way, if you're looking for a yummy dessert to serve up with this coffee , Fox News Digital is showcasing 25 days of Christmas desserts as we count down to Dec. 25. You can see all of them when you click here.
This 'weekend brisket' recipe is perfect for Hanukkah: Online spice, extract and sauces shop Savory Spice shared this recipe with Fox News. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. There's something about brisket during the winter holidays that just soothes the soul. This Hanukkah, make this satisfying brisket recipe crafted by the flavor connoisseurs at Savory Spice, an online spice, extract, and sauces shop. "A flavorful rub, a few hours in the oven, and a little patience are all it takes to make this easy braised brisket at home," says Michael Kimball, Savory Spice product and food media manager. "To make sure your brisket stays tender and juicy, don't skip the resting period after it comes out of the oven. Resting is essential for large cuts of meat to retain their moisture." Savory Spice’s Weekend Brisket COOKIE DOUGH-STUFFED SUFGANIYOT FOR HANUKKAH DESSERT: TRY THE RECIPE Makes 6 servings Prep time: 10 minutes Cook time: 4 hours Ingredients: 1 Tbsp. sea salt 1 Tbsp. black pepper 1 tsp. Onion & Garlic Tableside Sprinkle or onion and garlic seasoning of choice 1 Tbsp. Seasoning of choice, such as Flat Irons Prime Rib Rub, Native Texan BBQ Rub, Pikes Peak Butcher's Rub, Red Rocks Hickory Smoke Seasoning 2 Tbsp. honey 2 Tbsp. yellow mustard 1  trimmed brisket flat 1 Tbsp. vegetable oil 1 yellow onion, halved and thinly sliced 6 garlic cloves, chopped 1 cup beef broth CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR LIFESTYLE NEWSLETTER Directions: 1. Stir together salt, pepper, onion and garlic tableside sprinkle, seasoning of choice, honey, and mustard. 2. Rub mixture all over brisket. Set seasoned brisket in a large baking dish, fat side up, and let sit at room temperature for one hour. Meanwhile, preheat oven to 250 °F. 3. Heat oil in a large skillet. Add onion and cook until softened, about 5 min. 4. Add garlic and cook  for one more min. 5. Remove from heat and stir in broth. 6. Spoon onion-broth mixture over brisket. 7. Cover dish tightly with foil. Bake for four-to-five hours, or until the brisket reaches 195 °F and is fork tender. 8. Remove from oven, replace foil, and rest brisket for 50 to 60 min before slicing thinly across the grain. 9. Serve with onions and juice spooned over the top. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
House Republican Rep. Devin Nunes to resign: Fox News has confirmed that Nunes plans to retire. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif., will resign from Congress at the end of the year. Fox News has confirmed that Nunes plans to leave, with a source saying the lawmaker "got a job offer that he can’t refuse" as CEO of a newly established Trump media organization. "Trump Media & Technology Group today announced that Congressman Devin G. Nunes has been selected to join the Company as Chief Executive Officer," the organization said in a statement. "Mr. Nunes will be leaving the U.S. House of Representatives and will begin his new role as Chief Executive Officer of TMTG in January 2022."Donald Trump, Chairman of TMTG, commented in the statement: "Congressman Devin Nunes is a fighter and a leader. He will make an excellent CEO of TMTG. Devin understands that we must stop the liberal media and Big Tech from destroying the freedoms that make America great." NUNES CALLS FOR NEW CRIMINAL REFERRAL OVER PETER STRZOK TEXTS WASHINGTON, DC - JUNE 29: U.S. Rep. Devin Nunes. Nunes became one of the most outspoken defenders of former President Donald Trump, being awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Trump just two weeks before the inauguration of President Biden. Trump praised Nunes' "courageous actions" in being a vocal critic of special Counsel Robert Mueller's investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election, crediting him with helping "thwart a plot to take down a sitting United States president." "Devin’s efforts led to the firing, demotion, or resignation of over a dozen FBI and DOJ employees," the White House said in a statement at the time. "He also forced the disclosure of documents that proved that a corrupt senior FBI official pursued a vindictive persecution of General Michael Flynn — even after rank and file FBI agents found no evidence of wrongdoing." AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster) The veteran lawmaker in 2018 released the "Nunes Memo," which alleged federal surveillance abuses by the Obama administration's Department of Justice. "He had the fortitude to take on the media, the FBI, the Intelligence Community, the Democrat Party, foreign spies, and the full power of the Deep State," the White House statement said. Nunes will next be at the head of Trump's yet-to-released social media platform, TRUTH Social. Trump announced the launch of the social media platform in October, which is slated for full release in 2022. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "I created TRUTH Social and TMTG to stand up to the tyranny of Big Tech. We live in a world where the Taliban has a huge presence on Twitter, yet your favorite American President has been silenced. This is unacceptable," Trump said in a press release at the time. "I am excited to send out my first TRUTH on TRUTH Social very soon. TMTG was founded with a mission to give a voice to all. I'm excited to soon begin sharing my thoughts on TRUTH Social and to fight back against Big Tech. Everyone asks me why doesn’t someone stand up to Big Tech? Well, we will be soon!" he added. Nunes was first elected to represent California's 22nd congressional district in 2003. He served as Chair of the House Intelligence Committee from 2015 to 2019 and remains the top Republican on the committee. The California lawmaker would have been next in line to chair the powerful House Ways and Means Committee after the retirement of Rep. Kevin Brady, R-Texas., if the GOP were to regain control of the House after the midterm elections. Fox News' Chad Pergram contributed to this report.
South Carolina high schooler arrested for allegedly threatening to shoot up schools: The arrest comes less than a week after a school shooting in Oxford, Michigan. A 17-year-old student from Oxford High School has becomes the fourth victim of the deadly school shooting after succumbing to his injuries in the hospital. South Carolina sheriff’s deputies arrested a 14-year-old male high school student Monday on charges that he threatened to shoot up schools in his county, authorities said. The Lexington County Sheriff’s Office said the Gilbert High School student made a "threatening statement" while on the bus last Thursday, and another student overheard them. Gilbert HS The student told school administrators that he heard the other student allegedly talking about wearing a trench coat the next day and shooting up an elementary school and a middle school, according to an incident report cited by the sheriff’s office. The student's alleged comments about a shooting were overhead by another student on the bus, police said. "The student who came forward should be commended for doing the right thing," Lexington County Sheriff Jay Koon said. "They heard something and reported all the details to someone who could immediately step and take action to make sure everyone stayed safe. COLORADO SHERIFF'S SANTA PHOTO STOKES OUTRAGE ON SOCIAL MEDIA, OFFICE APOLOGIZES "While there was never any imminent danger to students, teachers or anyone else on a campus, this is another example of how we and Lexington School District share in the responsibility to protect those who learn and work at school." Ethan Crumbley, 15, allegedly shot and killed four students and injured seven others at Oxford High School. The student, whose identity has not been publicly released, was released from custody after he was charged, the sheriff’s office said. He is due to appear in a Lexington Family Court at a later date. The Lexington School District sent out a message to families. The district said a GHS administrator had notified law enforcement, which investigated and determined there was no immediate danger to students or staff. The district said it has suspended the student, and he faces expulsion. "We are proud of the student who came forward to report the threat," the district said. "This situation is another example of how we must work together to keep each other safe. We take threats seriously and take swift and stern action against those making threats against our schools." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The student’s arrest came less than a week after a 15-year-old allegedly opened fire at his high school in Oxford, Michigan, killing four fellow students and wounding six others, including a teacher. He has been charged as an adult with murder, terrorism, and other crimes in the attack.
Texas AG fires back at Biden admin's 'absurd lawsuit' over redistricting: The Biden administration alleges Texas violated Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act.. On 'America's Newsroom,' Texas attorney general says Texans would love to see a wall built and discusses the questions surrounding the legitimacy of the migrants in the caravan. Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton blasted the Biden administration's recently announced voting rights lawsuit, alleging that the suit was a "preposterous attempt to sway democracy." "The Department of Justice's absurd lawsuit against our state is the Biden Administration's latest ploy to control Texas voters," tweeted the Texas attorney general's office on Monday. "I am confident that our legislature's redistricting decisions will be proven lawful, and this preposterous attempt to sway democracy will fail." BIDEN JUSTICE DEPARTMENT SUES TEXAS OVER REDISTRICTING MAPS The lawsuit alleges the districts drawn by Texas lawmakers violate the federal Voting Rights Act by diluting the voting strength of minority voters. "The department’s career voting law experts have assessed Texas's new redistricting plans and determined that they include districts that violate the Voting Rights Act," Attorney General Merrick Garland said at a press conference announcing the lawsuit. U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland announced a voting rights lawsuit against Texas on Monday. Garland pictured here  on July 23 in Chicago, Illinois. "This is not the first time that Texas has acted to minimize the voting rights of its minority citizens," Associate Attorney General Vanita Gupta added during the conference. "Decade after decade, courts have found that Texas has enacted redistricting plans that deliberately dilute the voting strength of Latino and Black voters and that violate the Voting Rights Act." Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton speaks outside the U.S. Supreme Court on November 01, 2021 in Washington, DC. Paxton on Monday fired back at the Biden administration's redistricting lawsuit. Monday's lawsuit is just the latest the Biden administration has brought against the state of Texas. It recently challenged another voting bill and sued over the state's controversial abortion ban. The DOJ pointed to Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act, which prohibits practices of procedures that discriminate on the basis of race. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act requires that state voting laws – including laws that draw electoral maps – provide eligible voters with an equal opportunity to participate in the democratic process and elect representatives of their choosing," Garland said in a statement. "The complaint we filed today alleges that Texas has violated Section 2 by creating redistricting plans that deny or abridge the rights of Latino and Black voters to vote on account of their race, color or membership in a language minority group." Fox News' Jessica Chasmar contributed to this report.
Colorado sheriff's Santa photo stokes outrage on social media, office apologizes: Twitter users pointed out the ill-timing of the post. Dr. Jeff Gardere, a board certified clinical psychologist and associate professor at the Touro College of Osteopathic Medicine, weighs in on the case of 15-year-old Ethan Crumbley, the Michigan teen suspect accused of killing four students. A Colorado sheriff’s department caused a stir over the weekend for what many deemed an inappropriate photo: Santa applying for a concealed carry permit. The El Paso County Sheriff’s Office posted the photo on its Twitter page. A white-haired bearded man decked out in Christmas attire can be seen sitting at a desk. Santa applying for a concealed carry permit. "Guess who came in to receive his Concealed Handgun Permit today?" the office tweeted along with a "Santa" emoji. The sheriff’s office said it had issued nearly 50,000 concealed handgun permits, with another 2,560 waiting to be issued. The post caused an immediate backlash, with many pointing out the ill-timing given a school shooting in Oxford, Michigan, just three days prior. OXFORD SCHOOL OFFICIALS COULD BE CHARGED IN DEADLY MICHIGAN SHOOTING: PROSECUTOR The suspected shooter, 15-year-old Ethan Crumbley, allegedly opened fire, killing four fellow students and wounding six others, along with a teacher. He has been charged as an adult with murder, terrorism and other crimes in the attack. Ethan Robert Crumbley, 15, charged with first-degree murder in a high school shooting, poses in a jail booking photograph taken at the Oakland County Jail in Pontiac, Michigan. Oakland County Prosecutor Karen McDonald has also filed involuntary manslaughter charges against Crumbley’s parents, Jennifer and James Crumbley, for their supposed failure to intervene on the day of the shooting despite becoming aware of a drawing a teacher found on their son's desk that included a bullet and the words "blood everywhere." MICHIGAN SUPERINTENDENT ANNOUNCES INDEPENDENT INVESTIGATION OF ACTIONS LEADING UP TO OXFORD HIGH SHOOTING Amid backlash of its "Santa-concealed carry permit" photo, the sheriff’s office said in another tweet that the initial post was not meant to be insensitive, merely to highlight its staff in the Concealed Handgun Permit Office. El Paso County Sheriff's Office Post "Santa correlates to the month of December and we thought he would help to recognize our hard working staff," the sheriff’s office wrote. But the follow-up post failed to extinguish the anger that the initial post had caused. One Twitter user accused the El Paso County Sheriff’s Office of having "completely missed the mark." CRUMBLEY SEARCH: MICHIGAN DETECTIVES TO INTERVIEW MAN SAID TO BE NAMED ‘PERSON OF INTEREST’ "[E]specially since the alleged shooter in Michigan was given a handgun as a Christmas present," the user wrote. "Also, little kids are now wondering why Santa needs to carry a concealed weapon." "I’m sitting here in downtown Oxford, MI, waiting for the candlelight vigil to start to pay tribute to 4 students who were murdered by a handgun smuggled into the school," another user wrote. "But by all means, tell kids Santa carries a concealed weapon." The sheriff's office told Fox News it received "a number of requests" after the post on how to obtain a concealed handgun permit. The sheriff's office said it would not be deleting the post because any comments posted are protected by First Amendment rights. "EPSO does not want to risk chilling the open communication between citizens and their elected officials by deleting the post, and thereby closing commentary," the sheriff's office said. "However, we have temporarily suspended comments due to inappropriate commentary between citizens which violate our social media commentary policies." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The sheriff's office also said that, contrary to some assumptions, the Santa was not purchased for a photo-op. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Psaki dodges question about Hunter Biden's sale of Chinese assets: Psaki pointed the reporter toward attorneys for the president’s son.. Former White House press secretary compares how the media treated her during Trump administration to the media's questions to Psaki on 'Sunday Night in America White House press secretary Jen Psaki dodged a question about Hunter Biden’s sale of Chinese assets during Monday's press briefing. Psaki was asked by a reporter during the daily press briefing if the White House would commit to basic transparency regarding the younger Biden's sale of the foreign assets. Psaki immediately dodged the question, pointing the reporter toward attorneys for the president's son. HUNTER BIDEN, FOREIGN AGENT PLOTTED INVESTMENT MEETING WITH SERBIAN PRESIDENT AND OLIGARCHS, EMAILS SHOW "Well, on the first [question], the president’s son is not an employee of the federal government, so I’d point you to his representatives," Psaki answered. Psaki was also asked if she could confirm the laptop reported on in the new book "The Laptop from Hell" by Miranda Devine was real and not Russian disinformation. "As it relates to the book, I have neither had the time nor interest in exploring or reading the book," Psaki said. The younger Biden recently divested from his assets with Bohai Harvest RST Equity Investment Fund Management Co. through Skaneateles LLC. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP His attorney announced the divestiture around the time of President Biden’s virtual talk with Chinese President Xi.
Biden administration will not send any official representation to 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing, Psaki says: White House press secretary Jen Psaki said the U.S. 'will not be contributing to the fanfare of the games'. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. The Biden administration will not send any "diplomatic or official representation" to Beijing for the 2022 Winter Olympics, White House press secretary Jen Psaki confirmed Monday, amid the People’s Republic of China’s "ongoing genocide and crimes against humanity" in Xinjiang. Beijing is set to host the 2022 Winter Olympic Games in February. Human rights activists and congressional Republicans have called for a boycott of the event amid international criticism of China’s treatment of Uyghur Muslims in the northwest region of Xinjiang, its crackdown on protesters in Hong Kong, and its policies toward Tibet and Taiwan. CHINA THREATENS ‘FIRM COUNTERMEASURES’ IF US PROCEEDS WITH DIPLOMATIC BOYCOTT OF BEIJING OLYMPICS During a White House press briefing, Psaki said the athletes on Team USA "have our full support," but an official delegation will not travel to the games. "The Biden administration will not send any diplomatic or official representation to the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics and Paralympic Games, given the PRC’s ongoing genocide and crimes against humanity in Xinjiang and other human rights abuses," Psaki said. CHINA CONCERNED ABOUT OMICRON EFFECT ON BEIJING WINTER GAMES "The athletes on Team USA have our fully support, we will be behind them 100% as we cheer them on from home," Psaki said. Psaki added that the United States "will not be contributing to the fanfare of the games." "U.S. diplomatic or official representation would treat these games as business as usual in the face of the PRC’s egregious human rights abuses and atrocities in Xinjiang, and we simply can’t do that," Psaki said. She added: "As the president has told President Xi, standing up for human rights is in the DNA of Americans." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Psaki noted that the Biden administration has a "fundamental commitment to promoting human rights," and feels "strongly in our position." "We will continue to take actions to advance human rights in China and beyond," Psaki said. The Biden administration in March sanctioned Chinese government officials over the "serious human rights abuse" against ethnic minorities in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, and warned, at the time, that China would continue to face consequences should the "atorocities" continue. Congressional Republicans, for months, had urged the Biden administration to discuss moving the Olympic Games out of Beijing. State Department spokesman Ned Price on Monday also doubled down on the White House's announcement, saying that the move "does not modulate at all our support for team USA." "We will be behind them 100% We will be cheering them on. But of course, we will not have any official or diplomatic representation that would send a signal that these games represent anything akin to business as usual, in the face of these ongoing atrocities, crimes against humanity in the ongoing genocide," Price said. The State Department said that its "top priority" is the "safety and security of the American people," and said it intends to provide "consular and diplomatic security services to ensure our athletes, coaches, trainers, staff associated with the U.S. Olympic team, that they are secure, that they have access to American citizen services, that we provide as a routine matter to all Americans overseas," but maintained that is a "separate matter from official diplomatic representation." CHINA THREATENS 'FIRM COUNTERMEASURES' IF US PROCEEDS WITH DIPLOMATIC BOYCOTT OF BEIJING OLYMPICS As for other nations following suit, Price said the decision is a "sovereign decision that each country needs to make." "We fully expect that other countries will announce their decision in the coming days and weeks," Price said. "What we know today is that there are many countries around the world, including many of our closest allies, who share these concerns." Prior to the Biden administration's formal announcement, China threatened to take "firm countermeasures" should the United States proceed with its diplomatic boycott of the Olympic games. Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian accused U.S. politicians of grandstanding over the issue of not sending dignitaries to attend the events that China hopes will showcase its economic development and technological prowess. Speaking to reporters at a daily briefing, Zhao said such a move would be an "outright political provocation," but gave no details on how China would retaliate. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
New travel restrictions take effect, requiring COVID testing for vaccinated travelers entering U.S.: All air travelers, even Americans and even vaccinated people, must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter the U.S.. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. President Biden's latest COVID-19 rule goes into effect Monday, requiring all international travelers, including Americans, to test negative for COVID-19 the day before their departure to the United States – whether or not they are vaccinated. The White House announced Thursday that the U.S. will "tighten pre-departure testing protocols by requiring all inbound international travelers to test within one day of departure globally, regardless of nationality or vaccination status." A senior administration official confirmed to Fox News Friday that the restriction will go into effect Monday. President Biden delivers remarks on the debt ceiling during an event in the State Dining Room of the White House, Monday, Oct. 4, 2021, in Washington. NYC BUSINESS OWNER SLAMS ‘RIDICULOUS’ VACCINE REQUIREMENT FOR PATRONS: 'DOING MORE HARM THAN GOOD' "This tighter testing timeline provides an added degree of public health protection as scientists continue to assess the Omicron variant.," the White House added. Biden announced this requirement among a swath of other actions, including the extension of mandatory masking on public transportation and in airports until March 18, creating "Winter COVID emergency response team[s]," buying a stockpile of coronavirus therapeutics, and working to provide more at-home virus tests. "We’re going to fight this variant with science and speed, not chaos and confusion, just like we beat back COVID-19 in the spring and more powerful variant — delta variant in the summer and fall," Biden said Thursday as he unveiled his "COVID-19 Winter Plan." Travelers queue at a check-in counter at OR Tambo International Airport in Johannesburg, South America, on Nov. 27, 2021, after several countries banned flights from South Africa following the discovery of a new COVID-19 variant omicron. Biden also said Friday that he does not believe the White House will have to go beyond these measures to institute a vaccine requirement for domestic travel – at least "at this point." "The measures that I announced yesterday are — we believe are sufficient to deal with the proper medical precautions to deal with the spread of this new variant," he said. "But we do require for travel — we’re going to continue to require people to have masks on — masks on — and in public places, and — and federal buildings." Biden added: "I continue to rely on the scientists and asking them whether or not we have to move beyond what we did yesterday. Right now, they’re saying no." Surgeon General Vivek Murthy delivers remarks during a news conference with White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki at the White House in Washington, July 15, 2021. Republicans argue that the vaccine requirements and masking rules the Biden administration is pushing are doing little but infringing on the freedom of Americans and hurting the economy. But Democrats and administration health advisers continue to say these steps are necessary to curb virus spread. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "What we've been seeing actually since the summertime is that if you are vaccinated or unvaccinated and gathered with people outside your household in indoor spaces, that wearing a mask is the recommended step to take to help reduce the potential for spread," Surgeon General Vivek Murthy told "Fox News Sunday." "These are strong measures we put in place and, you know, I think we've continually shown a desire to use every lever we have to make sure that people are protected, they're vaccinated, and we get to the end of this pandemic as quickly as we can," he added. Fox News' Edward Lawrence contributed to this report.
Chris Cuomo announces he's leaving SiriusXM radio show in wake of CNN firing: Cuomo touts 'thick skin' but says he must step back and focus on future. In media news today, a women's group says 'good riddance' to Chris Cuomo after CNN firing, Brooke Baldwin calls on the liberal network to replace Cuomo with a woman, and an MSNBC anchor appears to downplay Bob Dole's accomplishments because of his support for Trump. Chris Cuomo announced Monday he would leave his SiriusXM radio show in the aftermath of his termination from CNN. "The way my time ended at CNN is hard," he said in a statement. "While I have a thick skin, I also have a family, for whom the past week has been extraordinarily difficult. So, right now, I have to take a step back and focus on what comes next. That means I will no longer be doing my SiriusXM radio show. I am extremely grateful for the support I have received from SiriusXM throughout my time there. I also want to express my sincere appreciation for my loyal listeners. I will miss our conversations a great deal – but I look forward to being back in touch with you all in the future." SiriusXM confirmed Cuomo's exit in a statement to Fox News Digital. "Following Chris Cuomo’s statement that he is leaving his SiriusXM show, Let’s Get After It will no longer air. We thank Chris for his work at SiriusXM," a SiriusXM spokesperson said. CUOMO BROTHERS CANCELED – HERE'S HOW THEY TURNED MOURNERS' GRIEF INTO RAGE Cuomo was absent from Monday's Sirius show, with Law and Crime correspondent Brian Ross filling in. He began hosting "Let's Get After It" on SiriusXM in 2018, the same year CNN moved him from co-hosting its morning show "New Day" to his primetime slot, aptly named "Cuomo Prime Time." Former CNN host Chris Cuomo. The pugnacious, liberal host was fired by CNN on Saturday, just days after the scandal-plagued network indefinitely suspended him over the depth of his involvement in the political machinations of his brother, former New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, D. The younger Cuomo aided his older brother behind the scenes in combating sexual harassment allegations, texting and strategizing with top aides, investigating accusers, and snooping on other journalists writing about the claims. CNN also reportedly learned of a new accusation of sexual misconduct against Chris Cuomo, unrelated to his brother, by a former colleague at another network. He'd already apologized earlier this year after a former ABC News colleague, Shelley Ross, said he grabbed her backside without permission at a bar in 2005. JEFF ZUCKER PROTECTED CHRIS CUOMO, ‘HIS MAN,’ UNTIL THE NEW DETAILS PROVED TOO DAMAGING: HOWARD KURTZ CNN did not reprimand Cuomo earlier this year when his involvement with his brother's political aides first came to light, but new documents released late last month by New York state investigators showed he had misled the network and his audience about how much he aided his brother. Since his firing, CNN and Cuomo have traded barbs. CNN fired Chris Cuomo on Saturday, leaving its primetime lineup with a huge hole. Cuomo was CNN's highest-rated anchor this year, although he finished behind dozens of rival cable offerings despite his 9 P.M. ET show. He was routinely beaten by direct time slot competitors Sean Hannity of Fox News Channel and Rachel Maddow at MSNBC. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP His firing has rocked the media industry and leaves CNN with a hole in the middle of its struggling primetime lineup. As of last month, CNN is the only one of three major cable news outlets to have an all-male lineup in the most-watched hours of the day.
Don Lemon accuser says CNN is ‘predator protecting machine,’ happy to see ‘some accountability’ with Cuomo: Dustin Hice told Fox News Digital, 'They’re a network rife with predators and perverts'. 'MediaBuzz' host Howard Kurtz reports on fired CNN anchor facing sexual misconduct allegations. The man who accused CNN host Don Lemon of a sexually charged assault said the liberal network is "a predator protecting machine" but he’s happy to see accountability with the dismissal of Chris Cuomo. It’s been over two years since Dustin Hice filed a lawsuit against Lemon – who is openly gay – accusing the CNN host of sexually charged assault and battery at a bar on New York's Long Island during the summer of 2018. The case is expected to end up in court early next year after a prolonged legal process. Meanwhile, CNN terminated Cuomo – a good friend of Lemon's – on Saturday amid a series of sexual misconduct-related scandals of his own. DON LEMON’S ASSAULT ACCUSER SAYS HE’S TURNED DOWN THREE SETTLEMENT OFFERS "They’re a network rife with predators and perverts," Hice told Fox News Digital. "Lemon will have to testify under oath in the near future, but it’s good to see that there’s finally some accountability happening." Dustin Hice says CNN host Don Lemon assaulted him during the summer of 2018. Hice maintains he is looking for closure and peace of mind after what he says is a horrific encounter that included Lemon allegedly putting his hand down the front of his shorts, "vigorously" rubbing his genitalia, and shoving the same hand into Hice’s mustache area while asking a vulgar question. CNN has stood by Lemon, much like the liberal network stood by Cuomo until damning revelations from the New York attorney general's office about his involvement in protecting his brother, former New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, finally forced CNN to take action. CNN also reportedly learned about a new sexual harassment allegation against Chris Cuomo, unrelated to his brother, before making the decision to terminate the "Cuomo Prime Time" namesake after months of keeping him on air amid multiple scandals. "This is who they are. They’re a predator-protecting machine, they slander and smear victims with impunity," Hice added. Hice – who says he turned down multiple settlement offers – feels CNN and Lemon are doing whatever it takes to protect one of the network's most prominent anchors. "They’ve tried to grind me down, they’ve attempted to intimidate witnesses in my case, they’ve released confidential information about me in attempt to doxx me. They are complicit. This is who they are," Hice said. CNN'S BRIAN STELTER ON CHRIS CUOMO FIRING: HE CAUSED ‘SO MANY HEADACHES’ FOR CNN, STAFFERS WERE ‘VERY UNHAPPY’ CNN did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Don Lemon and Chris Cuomo are known to be extremely close and regularly expressed admiration for each other during their nightly, on-air handoff between their two programs. "In response to Mr. Hice’s baseless allegations, I encourage people to review the public filings, which show that Mr. Hice’s claims have been steadily eroding when they have been exposed to the civil litigation process. Mr. Hice’s fanciful and salacious allegations against Mr. Lemon have collapsed of their own weight. Unlike Mr. Hice, Mr. Lemon has litigated, and will continue to litigate this case in the courtroom, not the press. We look forward to the approaching trial so he can finally put this case behind him," Lemon’s attorney, Caroline J. Polisi, told Fox News Digital. Hice’s lawsuit filed Aug. 11, 2019, in Suffolk County Court alleged Lemon "intensely pushed his fingers against Plaintiff’s face under Plaintiff’s nose, forcing Plaintiff’s head thrust backward as Defendant repeatedly asked Plaintiff, ‘Do you like p---y or d--k?’" The suit also said Lemon "continued to shove his fingers into Plaintiff’s face with aggression and hostility" throughout the confrontation. In an answer to the complaint, Lemon denied all wrongdoing and called the suit "frivolous." Lemon and Cuomo are known to be close and regularly expressed admiration for each other during their nightly, on-air handoff between their two programs. The playful banter between the two CNN hosts was among the network’s most popular segments on nightly basis. "The blessing is that we're actually friends. A lot of stuff in the media is phony. A lot of couples that you see on news shows, they are friendly for the purpose of the show, and that's neither good nor bad. It is not the case with us," Cuomo said about Lemon earlier this year. Cuomo and Lemon also co-hosted a podcast together before the former was terminated by CNN. JANICE DEAN REACTS TO CHRIS CUOMO FIRING, DEMANDS APOLOGY FROM CNN CNN issued a statement Saturday evening announcing it had terminated Cuomo "effective immediately," coming just days after he was suspended pending a review of the damning revelations from the New York attorney general's office about his involvement in protecting his brother. "While in the process of that review, additional information has come to light. Despite the termination, we will investigate as appropriate," CNN stated. In a memo to staffers, CNN president Jeff Zucker wrote, "Today I let Chris know that we are ending his employment at CNN," adding, "It goes without saying that these decisions are not easy, and there are a lot of complex factors involved. But, as always, it was important to me to be upfront with each of you." Cuomo released his own statement reacting to his firing. "This is not how I want my time at CNN to end, but I have already told you why and how I helped my brother," Cuomo wrote. "So let me now say as disappointing as this is, I could not be more proud of the team at Cuomo Prime Time and the work we did as CNN's #1 show in the most competitive time slot. I owe them all and will miss that group of special people who did really important work." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Hice also previously told Fox News Digital the alleged "vile, disgusting, lewd and inhumane" attack by Lemon would be treated much differently if Hice were a woman. The alleged incident occurred at Murf’s Backstreet Tavern, in the prestigious Sag Harbor town of the Hamptons area east of New York City in July 2018. Fox News’ Joseph A. Wulfsohn contributed to this report. This article was updated with comment from Lemon's attorney.
Kamala Harris staffer gets ribbed after insisting he loves his job: 'Blink twice if you need help': Some jokingly suggested Harris was holding the staffer hostage. In media news today, a women's group says 'good riddance' to Chris Cuomo after CNN firing, Brooke Baldwin calls on the liberal network to replace Cuomo with a woman, and an MSNBC anchor appears to downplay Bob Dole's accomplishments because of his support for Trump. A tweet sent by one of Vice President Kamala Harris' staff members claiming he loved his job became the focus of intense mockery Monday as critics joked that he was tweeting while "under duress." "Hi. My name is David Gins. I work for Vice President Harris on behalf of the American people as Deputy Director for Operations and absolutely love my job. Just thought some of you should know," wrote Gins, who has worked as Harris' Deputy Director of Operations since April according to his LinkedIn profile. THIESSEN ON KAMALA HARRIS STAFFERS QUITTING: ‘SHE’S NOT SUCCEEDING IN HER JOB' Gins' tweet came in the aftermath of reports of disarray inside Harris' office. It was announced last week that Symone Sanders, a top advisor to Harris, would be stepping down from her role at the end of the year amid the reports, and just weeks after Harris' communications director left her post. According to Politico, more Harris staffers could also be "eyeing the exits." Vice President Kamala Harris speaks to members of the press as her press secretary Symone Sanders looks on at Greenville-Spartanburg International Airport before she boards Air Force Two to return to Washington, D.C., June 14, 2021 in Greer, South Carolina. Critics relentlessly mocked Gins' tweet, with many jokingly imploring the staffer to "blink twice" if he needed to be rescued, and others suggesting he only sent the tweet after being threatened by Harris. Some critics jokingly suggested Gins was being held hostage by Harris, while others revisited previous comparisons of the Vice President to fictional incompetent Vice President Selina Meyer from the hit HBO series, "Veep." Vice President Kamala Harris and fictional Vice President Selena Meyer MORE KAMALA HARRIS AIDES REPORTEDLY ‘EYEING THE EXITS’ AS RESIGNATIONS STACK UP Another critic referred to the tweet as "the saddest PR move" he had ever seen, while another suggested it was "weird" for a subordinate to have a picture of their boss on their office wall. Kamala Harris speaks to children in a widely mocked video produced by NASA. KAMALA HARRIS' STAFFERS LEAVING WHITE HOUSE IN PART BECAUSE THEY FEAR BEING LABELED 'HARRIS PERSON': REPORT CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Senate set to vote on bill barring Biden vaccine mandate, likely to pass with Manchin support: Legislative efforts to block Biden vaccine rules face uphill battle in Democrat-controlled Congress. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. The Senate is set to vote this week on a resolution to nullify President Biden's vaccine mandate for private companies, as Republicans and at least one Democrat push back on the administration's rule requiring vaccines or inconvenient testing rules for workers at large businesses. All 50 Senate Republicans, led by Sen. Mike Braun, R-Ind., backed a challenge to the vaccine mandate last month under the Congressional Review Act . That law allows Congress to officially disapprove of an executive branch regulation via a resolution passed through each chamber. Sen. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va., said last week he also supports the Braun resolution. "I do not support any government vaccine mandate on private businesses," Manchin said Thursday after voting against an amendment to a government funding bill that would roll back public and private vaccine mandates. Sen. Mike Lee, R-Utah, and a handful of other Republicans forced that vote in exchange for expediting passage of the funding bill, but they got no Democrat support. Sen. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va., speaks to reporters outside of his office on Capitol Hill on Oct. 6, 2021 in Washington. SENATE PASSES FUNDING BILL DESPITE VACCINE MANDATE FLAP, AVERTING SHUTDOWN Republicans also think Sen. Kyrsten Sinema, D-Ariz., may vote for the Braun resolution. She declined to say whether she will vote for it in an interview with CNN last week. Sen. Steve Daines, R-Mont., is also pushing his Democrat counterpart from Montana, Sen. Jon Tester, to "join[] me in my efforts to block all of Biden's mandates." The Braun resolution only needs a simple majority to pass the Senate, which means the bill will likely succeed. Rep. Fred Keller, R-Pa., is leading companion legislation in the House of Representatives, which his office said Friday has 206 cosponsors. But House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., said Friday it is unlikely the bill could come for a vote in the House with Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., in charge. "The challenge is how you bring it up on the floor," he told reporters. "We're not in the majority. We don't control it." Even if Republicans and potentially a handful of Democrats manage to force a House vote on the CRA resolution, such resolutions are subject to a presidential veto. And it's highly unlikely Biden would sign a bill canceling a rule he ordered his administration to make. Sen. Mike Lee. R-Utah, said Thursday Republicans will continue pushing back against President Biden's vaccine mandates. "It'll come up likely again next week with the Congressional Review Act resolution of disapproval," Lee said Thursday. "That's insufficient, of course. One of the defects with the CRA is that Congressional Review Act resolutions of disapproval are subject to presidential veto. So, the same president who abuses his executive power as this President has with these mandates, is certain to veto." White House press secretary Jen Psaki said last week that the White House believes Biden's vaccine mandate for private companies is on solid ground "based on a 50-year-old law that Congress put into place 50 years ago …. We're going to continue to press forward with these requirements." Psaki also said the administration's mandate should be called "vax or test" as employees who do not get vaccinated can instead wear masks to work every day and submit to regular COVID-19 testing. Lee said Republicans will continue to force the issue as Biden's vaccine mandates also face numerous challenges in federal courts. He said Republicans plan to bring up amendments defunding vaccine mandates in any future vote-a-rama, which Democrats will face this month if they move their reconciliation spending bill on schedule. "It'll come back up in any future vote-a-rama," Lee said. "It's gonna come up again … and it should." President Joe Biden delivers remarks during an event in the State Dining Room of the White House, Monday, Oct. 4, 2021, in Washington. Biden can veto any Congressional Review Act resolution, which means it's almost certain Congress can't roll back the federal vaccine mandate for private businesses. Lee added that some Republicans may again threaten to block a government funding bill and cause a shutdown in February when the current continuing resolution runs out, "in the unfortunate event that the president persists in keeping this in effect, in threatening the American people this way." But R Street Institute resident senior fellow for governance James Wallner said any votes on future legislative efforts against vaccine mandates are unlikely to have any actual effect. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "Whatever does happen either now or in the new year is going to be choreographed. It's going to be something that's set up in the Senate, almost always with unanimous consent between the two leaders," Wallner said. "I would imagine that you will see, for instance, votes in the Senate that create the illusion that something like a vaccine mandate ban could pass before you'll see an actual policy like that pass." He added: "They'll set like 60-vote thresholds on them, they'll structure the process. If they can't block the vote entirely, then they'll create a process whereby… the price of getting your vote is that you lose." Fox News' Brooke Singman and Jason Donner contributed to this report.
Hawaii governor urges Navy to suspend operations at World War II-era fuel tank amid water contamination: Navy service members recently reported smelling fuel in their drinking water. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Hawaii Governor David Ige and congressional leaders from the state urged the U.S. Navy to suspend operations at a World War II-era underground fuel tank facility after petroleum was detected in drinking water in the Pearl Harbor area. "Test results confirming contamination of drinking water at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam show that the Navy is not effectively operating the World War II-era facility and protecting the health and safety of the people of Hawaii," Gov. Ige said in a statement Sunday evening, along with U.S. Senators Mazie Hirono and Brian Schatz, and U.S. Reps. Ed Cases and Kaiali’i Kahele. "We are calling for the Navy to immediately suspend operations at Red Hill while they confront and remedy this crisis." This photo shows a tunnel inside the Red Hill Underground Fuel Storage Facility in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii on Jan. 26, 2018. The state of Hawaii says a laboratory has detected petroleum product in a water sample from an elementary school near Pearl Harbor. The Red Hill fuel storage facility consists of 20 underground steel-lined tanks that can hold up to 250 million gallons of fuel. Construction on the facility started in 1940 after the Roosevelt administration expressed concerns about the vulnerability of above-ground tanks. HIKER DISCOVERS ALCOHOLIC STREAM IN HAWAII The Navy ran tests on its water distribution system last week after nearly 1,000 military households complained that their water smelled like fuel and was making them sick. One test showed "petroleum hydrocarbons roughly four to ten times below the Hawaii Department of Health Environmental Action Level" and another test "confirmed vapors." "Based on the findings, the Navy will work with DOH to revise the public health guidance and develop the way ahead so our families and other impacted people can return to a normal life with a safe, reliable water source," the Navy said in a statement on Dec. 3. Navy ships are anchored in the waters of Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam on July 14, 2011, at the entrance to the Pacific Ocean. In this Dec. 27, 2016, file photo, USS Arizona Memorial, part of the World War II Valor in the Pacific National Monument, at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, Hawaii. The Honolulu Board of Water Supply shut down its largest water source on Oahu, Halawa Shaft, after the Navy reported that petroleum was detected. "We are deeply concerned that we were not notified immediately by the Navy regarding the shut down of their Red Hill water source," Chief Engineer Ernest Lau said in a statement on Dec. 3. "We have data that shows when they stop pumping at Red Hill, water starts moving in the direction of our Halawa Shaft due to our pumping." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The U.S. Navy is providing temporary lodging to service members and civilians affected by the water crisis at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam.
Chris Cuomo spox claims there were ‘no secrets’ between fired star helping brother, CNN boss Jeff Zucker: ‘This reinforces why he was terminated for violating our standards and practices, as well as his lack of candor,’ CNN shot back. Network failed to act before suspension CNN and former anchor Chris Cuomo have turned on each other, issuing scathing statements in the wake of the liberal network firing the now-former "Cuomo Prime Time" host. CNN announced Saturday evening it had terminated Cuomo effective immediately, just days after he was suspended pending a review of revelations about his involvement in protecting his scandal-plagued big brother, former New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, D., from sexual misconduct claims. A spokesperson for Chris Cuomo said the former anchor and CNN boss Jeff Zucker had "no secrets" regarding his involvement in protecting his scandal-plagued big brother, former New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo. Transcripts from Cuomo’s interview with investigators show the now-former CNN star admitting he would reach out to media sources to find out about new accusers who have yet to come forward publicly. Prominent attorney Debra S. Katz also informed CNN she is representing a woman who accused Chris Cuomo of sexual misconduct, unrelated to the allegations against his brother. The younger Cuomo has also admitted to an incident in 2005 when he squeezed the buttock of an ABC News colleague without her permission. CNN TERMINATES CHRIS CUOMO ‘EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY’ Last week, when Cuomo was suspended for his action but not yet fired, a longtime high-level CNN insider told Fox News that the star anchor’s fate would ultimately be tied to whether or not he lied about or downplayed his role to CNN boss Jeff Zucker. Zucker had largely stood by Cuomo before suspending him last week when the documents revealed Cuomo’s involvement was much larger than previously known. The day after Zucker decided to fire Cuomo following an external review, the two sides bickered via statements to the press. The beginning of the end for Chris Cuomo at CNN began last week when the New York Attorney General's office released documents from its sexual harassment investigation into ousted Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo. A spokesperson for Cuomo sent a text message to Wall Street Journal reporters declaring there were "no secrets" between Zucker and the former "Cuomo Prime Time" host. "Mr. Cuomo has the highest level of admiration and respect for Mr. Zucker. They were widely known to be extremely close and in regular contact, including about the details of Mr. Cuomo’s support for his brother. There were no secrets about this, as other individuals besides Mr. Cuomo can attest," Cuomo’s spokesperson said, according to the Wall Street Journal. CNN'S BRIAN STELTER ON CHRIS CUOMO FIRING: HE CAUSED 'SO MANY HEADACHES' FOR CNN, STAFFERS WERE 'VERY UNHAPPY' CNN told Fox News Digital that Cuomo has "made a number of accusations that are patently false" and are disappointed with his characterization of events. CNN fired Chris Cuomo on Saturday. "This reinforces why he was terminated for violating our standards and practices, as well as his lack of candor," CNN said. Cuomo announced on Monday that he would also quit his SiriusXM radio gig. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "The way my time ended at CNN is hard," he said in a statement. "While I have a thick skin, I also have a family, for whom the past week has been extraordinarily difficult. So, right now, I have to take a step back and focus on what comes next. That means I will no longer be doing my SiriusXM radio show. I am extremely grateful for the support I have received from SiriusXM throughout my time there. I also want to express my sincere appreciation for my loyal listeners. I will miss our conversations a great deal – but I look forward to being back in touch with you all in the future." Fox News’ Joseph A. Wulfsohn contributed to this report.
White House warns art world rife with money laundering as Hunter Biden sells paintings for $500,000: The Biden administration released a national strategy to counter corruption. The Fox News contributor says that President Biden is ‘basically compromised’ when it comes to China and Russia. The White House is warning that the art world is fertile ground for money laundering and other financial crimes as the president's son, Hunter Biden, is raising eyebrows by selling paintings for up to half a million dollars — despite lacking any formal art experience. The Biden administration released on Monday a national strategy to counter corruption, which it noted is the first of its kind. The White House document touches on the corruption-rife art world, noting that the "markets for art and antiquities — and the market participants who facilitate transactions — are especially vulnerable to a range of financial crimes." PSAKI DODGES QUESTION ABOUT HUNTER BIDEN'S SALE OF CHINESE ASSETS Hunter Biden, the son of President Biden, attends his father's inauguration as 46th president on Jan. 20, 2021, at the U.S Capitol in Washington, D.C. "Built-in opacity, lack of stable and predictable pricing, and inherent cross-border transportability of goods sold, make the market optimal for illicit value transfer, sanctions evasion, and corruption," the strategy reads. The White House's acknowledgement of money laundering in art world comes as the administration has taken criticism from ethics experts over the art sales involving the younger Biden's work. Carrying price tags between $75,000 and $500,000, scrutiny has plagued Biden's first foray into the art world particularly due to his lack of formal art experience. The White House has long stated that it has an ethics plan in place for the president’s son to ensure that he is kept in the dark on who is buying his art. Then-Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden and his son Hunter celebrate onstage at his election night rally. Hunter has faced scrutiny for selling high-priced art despite no formal art experience. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP That plan appears to largely have been in name only, as Biden has appeared at his art shows where potential buyers lurked. The White House did not immediately return Fox News’ request for comment.
Putin sets world on edge amassing Russian troops along Ukraine border: US credibility at stake in Biden's handling of Putin during Tuesday call, experts say. Gen. Jack Keane, Ret., offers analysis on 'The Story' Russian President Vladimir Putin has the whole world anticipating his next move as he builds up a massive military presence along his country’s border with Ukraine, with U.S. officials anticipating an imminent invasion early next year. The White House said over the weekend that President Biden and Putin will sit down for a video conference this week, where Biden will raise concerns about Russia’s military activity and "reaffirm the United States’ support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine." SATELLITE IMAGERY INDICATES RUSSIAN MILITARY ACTIVITY ON UKRAINE BORDER President Joe Biden and Russian President Vladimir Putin meet in Geneva, Switzerland, on June 16, 2021. Satellite imagery obtained by Fox News on Sunday highlights several locations within western Russia, as well as one location in Crimea, where Russian tactical battle groups containing troops and equipment have been deployed. "The plans involve extensive movement of 100 battalion tactical groups with an estimated 175,000 personnel, along with armor, artillery and equipment," a Biden administration official told Fox News. Biden said he plans to have a "long discussion" with Putin on Tuesday and outline a "meaningful set of initiatives" that will make it "very, very difficult," for Russia to invade Ukraine. State Department spokesperson Ned Price said Monday the administration is prepared to impose "high impact economic measures that we've refrained from using in the past" if Russia fails to deescalate or moves forward with any plans to invade Ukraine. President Joe Biden hosts the Kennedy Center honorees reception at the White House in Washington on Dec. 5, 2021. James Anderson, president of the Institute of World Politics and former deputy undersecretary of defense for policy, told Fox News that the administration’s "tough talk is fine," but that a "robust package" of measures is needed in order to deter Russia from escalation, including providing Ukraine with the lethal weaponry it needs to defend itself. "They’re saying a lot of the right things, but they need to back that up with, I think, a credible package that is going to enhance deterrence," Anderson said. "The United States should really consider a robust package of defensive weapons. "The weapons should be delivered as promptly as possible," he continued. "And the good news here is we have the capacity to deliver equipment in short order, and we should do exactly that. It should be largely visible so that Putin sees that we are assisting in a defensive manner, and it should be meaningful. It should be substantive assistance in a defensive way." Anderson said the U.S. could also provide non-lethal weapons and "some measure of intelligence" to Ukraine to aid in its defense. Meanwhile, Putin is expected to demand that the U.S. and its allies in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization  rule out any expansion into Ukraine, which is not a NATO country. Biden quickly dismissed Putin’s demands when asked about them Friday. "I don’t accept anyone’s red line," the president said. Anderson told Fox News that Biden should "unequivocally reject" any suggestion that Ukraine should be prevented from becoming a member of NATO. "Russia should never be allowed to have a veto over NATO membership," he said. "So that should be a clear non-starter." The last known call between Biden and Putin was in July, when Biden pressed Putin to rein in Russia-based criminal hacking gangs launching ransomware attacks against the United States. Biden said the U.S. would take any necessary steps to protect critical infrastructure from attacks. Russian President Vladimir Putin holds a video conference in Moscow, Russia, on Dec. 4, 2021. Anderson told Fox News that the implications of Tuesday’s call between the two leaders are much broader than just the situation in Ukraine. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "If [Putin] senses weakness on behalf of Biden, I think that will, unfortunately, increase the chances of miscalculation or aggression," he said. "This is in the context of questions about U.S. credibility following the disastrous withdrawal from Afghanistan a few months ago," he said. "We can be confident that despots in both the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region, for example, will be watching this very closely. And that is to say if the administration shows weakness and a lack of resolve, that is going to impact our credibility elsewhere around the world." Fox News’ Jon Brown and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Putin views Biden as weak world leader amid potential Russian invasion into Ukraine: Gen. Jack Keane: Moscow may lean on Belarus to help strategically and 'undermine NATO', the general said.. Gen. Jack Keane, Ret., offers analysis on 'The Story' New satellite imagery showing Russian President Vladimir Putin amassing troops and resources on the Russia-Ukraine border is sparking fears of an invasion of the former Soviet state, with the possibility of war being a likely byproduct of President Biden's perceived weakness on the world stage, according to retired Army Gen. Jack Keane, Keane, a former undersecretary of the Army under Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush, told Fox News host Martha MacCallum that Russia is "absolutely poised" to attempt a military invasion of Ukraine – after forcibly annexing its Crimea region during the Obama years. "We’ve been tracking this at the Institute for the Study of War now for a couple of months. They have finally moved in the artillery units, logistical infrastructure, major command headquarters that they would need to sustain an invasion. So he’s poised to do that," Keane said on Monday's installment of "The Story." PSAKI DODGES QUESTION ABOUT HUNTER BIDEN'S SALE OF CHINESE ASSETS With neighboring Belarus being controlled by authoritarian President Alexander Grigoryevich Lukashenko, Keane suggested Moscow might call on the country to accommodate additional troops, giving the ex-KGB agent even more breadth along the Ukrainian border. Russia's President Vladimir Putin addresses the media during a press conference after the U.S.-Russia summit with U.S. President Joe Biden at Villa La Grange in Geneva, Switzerland, Wednesday, June 16, 2021. Belarus, Keane noted, also shares a border with NATO-member Poland, which would complicate matters, he claimed. "The other option certainly is just take control of the country, go in to the unoccupied spaces, so to speak where there’s no conflict taking place and go for Kiev. That I think is unlikely," he said. Putin might not go that extreme route because it could bog the Russians down in an extended conflict "for decades", he said. President Biden is scheduled to talk with Putin Tuesday to discuss the unfolding situation. "This meeting [between Putin and] President Biden is very important, because I’m convinced that the reason why we have acceleration from China, from Iran and from Russia [is] there’s a perception that this presidency and this administration is more about accommodation and appeasement than about confronting and countering the strategic objectives of these three adversary countries," Keane added. PUTIN SETS WORLD ON EDGE AMASSING RUSSIAN TROOPS ALONG UKRAINE BORDER "People may disagree with the rhetoric associated with [Trump], but the policies were firm. Our adversaries understood that. I believe the reason for this is they see weakness here," he said. "I don’t like saying that, but that is the conclusion one must draw in terms of what is happening here." Keane added that the amassing of troops on the Ukrainian border is only one aspect of Putin's increasingly confrontational behavior – pointing ot how he is "enabling" Lukashenko to escalate its own behavior toward Poland in the form of "weaponizing migration" – as well as building leverage over Europe's energy supply. Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko speaks during a meeting with Commonwealth of Independent States officials in Minsk on May 28, 2021. CLICK TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Keane offered his advice on what the Biden administration should have done throughout the year. "What [the U.S.] should have done early in the year when Putin began to get more aggressive with Belarus and began to get more aggressive with moving troops in to the vicinity of the Ukraine, we should have moved NATO forces in to Poland and make certain that Putin is getting the message that we’re not going to permit any undermining of NATO," he said. "We should have put a large package of lethal weapon capability in to Ukraine. We gave them some things, but nowhere near what they’re asking for in terms of lethality that makes a difference if Putin comes in. That’s something that his leaders would pay attention to."
Jim Banks: Biden projecting weakness, Putin sees opportunity in Ukraine: Critics tell Biden Ukraine could be worse than Afghanistan. Rep. Jim Banks, R-Ind., on critics having fears that Ukraine situation could be worse than Afghanistan. Rep. Jim Banks, R-Ind., told "America Reports" on Monday that President Biden is projecting weakness and Russia sees it as an opportunity to invade Ukraine. SATELLITE IMAGERY INDICATES RUSSIAN MILITARY ACTIVITY ON UKRAINE BORDER JIM BANKS: Sadly, so many ways we have been here before though. Remember, history is repeating itself. When Russia invaded Crimea under Barack Obama, there were no repercussions. ... We have already seen these empty threats and phone calls between Putin and Joe Biden. Remember when the Russian hackers struck the colonial pipeline, it wreaked havoc in America. Joe Biden didn’t do anything about it. And Putin is seeing this as an opportunity for them to strike again and to accomplish many of their goals. They know that Joe Biden is projecting weakness on the world stage. Maybe worse than we have ever seen it before, an opportunity for them to strike and no repercussions. WATCH FULL VIDEO BELOW:
Sen. Scott requests meeting with Adam Silver on NBA's 'unsettling' China issues: Enes Kanter Freedom has been the most vocal NBA player when it comes to China. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Sen. Rick Scott, R-Fla., requested to meet with NBA Commissioner Adam Silver in a letter on Monday to talk about a litany of the senator’s concerns regarding the league’s relationship with China. In his letter, Scott mentioned his criticism of the NBA regarding how it handled Daryl Morey’s pro-Hong Kong tweet, the reported abuses at an NBA academy in China, and the failure of the league to insert itself into the geopolitical conversation when it comes to human rights abuses regarding Uyghur Muslims. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM NBA Commissioner Adam Silver speaks during a press conference on Feb. 15, 2020, in Chicago, Illinois. "Mr. Commissioner, I want to be very clear – the issues I have outlined are neither speculative nor subject to debate. These are facts. The NBA has done nothing to stand up to Communist China, and in some ways has taken actions that seem to have no purpose other than to please General Secretary Xi's murderous and tyrannical Communist Chinese government," Scott wrote. "What I find most unsettling about the NBA's inaction and silence on issues involving Communist China is that the league has a history of strong support for activism when it comes to social challenges. Both now and in the past, the NBA has stood by and unquestionably supported players who advocate for equality and justice, yet you have utterly failed to carry this practice forward when it comes to the gross injustice we are seeing in Communist China. How can the NBA, in good conscience, claim to support equality and justice when you’re picking and choosing to do so based on political convenience?" REP. GALLAGHER SLAMS NBA, OLYMPIC OFFICIALS FOR NOT STANDING UP TO CHINA: ‘SHAME ON ALL THESE COWARDS’ Sen. Rick Scott speaks during a television interview at the Russell Senate Office building in Washington on Nov. 11, 2020. Scott wrote that organizations like the NBA have a responsibility to speak out on human rights abuses and called on the league to be a "powerful voice of human rights." The Republican wrote that he spoke with Boston Celtics center Enes Kanter Freedom and acknowledged his admiration for him as the player speaks out against China. "Players like Enes, who recently became an American citizen, should be celebrated by the NBA and held up as an example of courageous advocacy for the common good. It's been incredibly disappointing to see the NBA fail to provide the same level of support to Enes and the causes for which he stands and fights. I hope this will soon change," Scott wrote. Scott said the NBA can "be an immensely powerful force for good." Boston Celtics center Enes Kanter reacts to an official's call against the Toronto Raptors on Nov. 28, 2021, in Toronto, Ontario. The NBA did not immediately respond to Fox News’ request for comment. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Freedom has been the most vocal NBA player when it comes to criticizing China. He’s called out other athletes, including LeBron James, for staying silent. He’s also blasted Muslim leaders for staying silent when it comes to the abuses of Uyghur Muslims. Fox News’ Chad Pergram contributed to this report.
British woman speaks out against Ghislaine Maxwell during trial: The woman said she has a huge amount of humiliation and shame. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. A British woman testified Monday that Ghislaine Maxwell pressured her into giving Jeffrey Epstein sexual massages when she was still a teenager, assuring her she would have "fun" with him. The woman — testifying at Maxwell’s sex-abuse trial in New York City using the pseudonym "Kate" to protect her privacy — described one episode during the mid-1990s at Epstein’s Palm Beach, Florida estate where Maxwell left out a schoolgirl’s outfit with a pleated skirt for her to wear for the financier. "I thought it would be fun for you to take Jeffrey his tea in this outfit," the witness recalled Maxwell telling her. VIRGINIA GIUFFRE ACCUSES PRINCE ANDREW OF ‘BASELESS, DEFAMATORY ATTACKS’ IN CIVIL LAWSUIT In this sketch, Ghislaine Maxwell, seated left speaks to her defense attorney Christian Everdell prior to the testimony of "Kate,"during the trial of Ghislaine Maxwell, Monday, Dec. 6, 2021, in New York. After a sexual encounter that followed, the British socialite "asked me if I had fun" and told her, "You are such a good girl," she said. The witness was the second woman to take the witness stand against Maxwell in federal court in Manhattan. But unlike the first, she was at the age of consent in Great Britain and the United States during her sexual contact with Epstein, so the judge barred her from detailing specific sex acts. Maxwell, 59, has denied charges she groomed girls as young as 14 for Epstein, who killed himself in jail in 2019. Her lawyers say the government is making her a scapegoat for Epstein’s alleged sex crimes. The woman who testified on Monday said she met Maxwell at age 17 through a friend of hers she had dated on and off, and was eager to be friends with the British socialite. Maxwell told her Epstein, then her boyfriend, was a philanthropist who could help her with her singing career, she said. In this sketch, a witness testifies under the pseudonym "Kate," as Judge Alison Nathan seated far left, listens. A photo of Ghislaine Maxwell is shown on the screen, far right, during testimony in the sex-abuse trial of Maxwell, Monday, Dec. 6, 2021, in New York. GHISLAINE MAXWELL TRIAL: JEFFREY EPSTEIN HAD NUDE PHOTOS, PAINTINGS OF YOUNG WOMEN INSIDE PALM BEACH HOME Maxwell also told her that Epstein was "demanding" when it came to sexual massages, saying it was "very difficult to keep up" with his needs, the witness said. After agreeing to give him massages in London, she was later flown on commercial flights to Florida, where she said the interactions continued when she was 18. Maxwell’s demeanor was "almost like a schoolgirl," she said. "Everything was fun. Everything seemed to be like a fun, silly joke." She said she resisted "disengaging" from Maxwell and Epstein "because I had witnessed how connected they both were and I was fearful," she said. Asked about wanting to testify anonymously, she said, "I have a huge amount of humiliation and shame around the events that took place" and wanted to protect her child. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP On cross-examination, a lawyer for Maxwell got the witness to acknowledge instances where she had spoken out publicly about Epstein and Maxwell using her real name. She also asked whether her history of drug and alcohol abuse affected her memory. "It has not had an impact on the memories I have always had," she said.
New York Times op-ed widely mocked for fearing her free little library is contributing to gentrification: The author said she felt resentment after a White couple browsed her library.. In media news today, a women's group says 'good riddance' to Chris Cuomo after CNN firing, Brooke Baldwin calls on the liberal network to replace Cuomo with a woman, and an MSNBC anchor appears to downplay Bob Dole's accomplishments because of his support for Trump. A New York Times opinion piece was widely mocked on Twitter Monday for after the author said she was upset after a White couple browsed her little library and said the incident was contributing to gentrification. On Saturday, journalist Erin Aubry Kaplan published an opinion piece titled "Is My Little Library Contributing to the Gentrification of My Black Neighborhood?" In the article, she recounted her decision to build a freestanding library box in front of her lawn, so any neighbors or visitors to take or leave a book on their own discretion. However, one White couple that browsed her library caused Kaplan to rethink her library box and whether it was contributing to gentrification. YOUNG BLACK CONSERVATIVES PUSH BACK ON NARRATIVE OF ALL BLACK AMERICANS BEING PROGRESSIVE A Little Free Library has been turned into a small pantry with household items like toilet paper and canned foods near Franklin High School during the coronavirus disease  outbreak in Seattle, Washington, U.S. March 30, 2020. REUTERS/Lindsey Wasson "Then one morning, glancing out my front window, I saw a young white couple stopped at the library. Instantly, I was flooded with emotions — astonishment, and then resentment, and then astonishment at my resentment. It all converged into a silent scream in my head of, Get off my lawn!" Kaplan wrote. She compared the experience to gentrification and also suggested that the White couple damaged "the integrity of a Black space" by looking at her public library box. "What I resented was not this specific couple. It was their whiteness, and my feelings of helplessness at not knowing how to maintain the integrity of a Black space that I had created. I was seeing up close how fragile that space can be, how its meaning can be changed in my mind, even by people who have no conscious intention to change it. That library was on my lawn, but for that moment it became theirs. I built it and drove it into the ground because I love books and always have. But I suddenly felt that I could not own even this, something that was clearly and intimately mine," Kaplan wrote. The New York Times selectively edited misinformation spread by Civil rights attorney Ben Crump from a report about the fatal police shooting of 16-year-old Ma’Khia Bryant. Reporters and commentators responded to Kaplan's piece by calling it a "regressive" and almost satirical take on little free libraries. "This is one of the most hilarious op-eds I've ever read. If you wanted to satirize this mentality, you could not do better," independent journalist Glenn Greenwald tweeted. Fox News contributor Katie Pavlich wrote, "This woman is very upset white people stopped by her little library." "Sometimes a good thing is just a good thing. What have we done to ourselves??," Pluribus editor Jeryl Bier said. "The ongoing struggle to convince the left to stop filtering all existence through the framework of race and instead compel them to filter all existence through the framework of class," Commentary editor Noah Rothman tweeted. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The New York Times recently faced similar backlash after it published a guest essay that criticized Justice Amy Coney Barrett for highlighting adoption during a Supreme Court case on abortion. The essay claimed abortion is "often just as traumatic as the right thinks abortion is."
Handcuffing police response creating a local mental health crisis: Since HB 1310 went into effect July 25, backlog of cases has more than doubled in King County. President of the Seattle Police Officer Guild Mike Solan discusses the reform which includes limited use of force, no tear gas, no car chases, among other ‘accountability’ regulations Mental health officials in Washington state are worried about a mental health crisis that has grown steadily during the COVID-19 pandemic and is now getting even worse because of a new state law aimed at reducing use of force by law enforcement. Since HB 1310 went into effect July 25, the backlog of cases has more than doubled in King County as many agencies no longer send officers on mental health calls unless a crime has been committed. Snohomish County Sheriff Adam Fortney says the police reform law makes it too risky for his deputies even when a judge has signed an order for a person’s involuntary commitment. "There comes a point in time when a deputy sheriff has to make a split-second decision," Fortney says, "We can no longer use force unless there is probable cause for someone’s arrest. Nobody is under arrest with a person in a mental health crisis." Lacey Police Officer Ken Westphal, center, an instructor at the Washington state Criminal Justice Training Commission, works with cadets during an exercise July 14, 2021, in Burien, Washington. Frank Crouch, the involuntary commitment coordinator for King County, says designated crisis responders typically have about 60 cases pending. But now the backlog is hitting nearly 140 cases. That means fewer people are being evaluated by behavioral specialists when family members call with concerns. It also has led to a drop in involuntary commitments, reserved for those experiencing severe mental crisis who might pose a danger to themselves or others. WA SERGEANT ON WHY NEW POLICE REFORM LAW CAUSED DEPUTIES TO CALL OFF K9 SEARCH FOR MURDER SUSPECT HB 1310 was part of sweeping police reform laws passed by the Washington state legislature in 2021 in response to Black Lives Matter protests. The Democratic-controlled government did not define force, but did indicate officers should consider leaving the scene "if there is no threat of imminent harm and no crime has been committed, is being committed, or is about to be committed." Democratic State Rep Roger Goodman is one of the key architects of the police reform laws. "Nothing the legislature did prevents police from responding to any calls, mental health crises or any other type of call," Goodman says, "And the public expects the police to respond to calls." But Goodman does admit there is confusion surrounding use of force when it comes to people needing mental health treatment. He vows the legislature will take up clarifying bills in the next session, which starts in January. "There might be a couple marginal adjustments to policy to make sure police can do their jobs, but that we don’t have needless injuries and deaths and use of force," Goodman said. "I think we can thread that needle." Seattle police officers confer after taking part in a public roll call at Hing Hay Park in the city's Chinatown-International District on March 18, 2021. WASHINGTON’S POLICE-REFORM LAW BANS MILITARY-STYLE EQUIPMENT, MISTAKENLY INCLUDING LESS-LETHAL FORCE Meanwhile, there have been avoidable tragedies and near tragedies. One police department changed its policy on suicidal subjects so officers will no longer be dispatched if the person is "in their residence and doesn’t present a threat to anyone else." Nine hours after a 911 suicide threat was called in by a girlfriend, a man took his own life in his apartment. Police did not send an officer to the initial call for help. In Snohomish County, deputies did respond to a parent’s call about his son hearing voices and being agitated. When they arrived at the home, the teenager walked away. Sheriff Fortney defends the deputy’s decision to let him walk. "We have to weigh the risk versus reward," said Fortney, "The way they wrote this legislation, the risk now far outweighs the reward for a law enforcement officer to even be involved with a person in a mental health crisis." Police look over the scene of a shooting at Third Avenue and Pine Street on Jan. 22, 2020, in Seattle, Washington. That teenager walked through the woods to another house, which he entered through an unlocked front door. Eric Bellabiod was home with his children and stunned to see the now naked teen in his living room. He grabbed a kitchen knife and ordered the young man to get on his knees. Luckily, the teenager complied and no one was hurt. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Bellabiod says the use of force law needs to be changed. "What’s the point in calling the police if they can’t act?" asks Bellabiod. Some police reform activists don’t blame the law, but rather the police. Davitta Briscoe, whose brother was shot and killed by Seattle police, says cops are weaponizing a law they don’t like. "This does not help, to protest or to say we’re not going to show up at all," said Briscoe, "It doesn’t help repair the relationship with those communities, it doesn’t help build trust."
Geraldo Rivera on Christmas: 'It can't get any more American than' this: Correspondent at large for Fox News shares the classic toy he wanted most as a child in the new book, 'All American Christmas'. Correspondent-at-large Geraldo Rivera discusses his Catholic and Jewish upbringing as part of Rachel Campos-Duffy's new book 'All American Christmas' Roaming correspondent at large for Fox News Channel Geraldo Rivera says his childhood Christmas and Hanukkah memories are focused around one classic American toy. It's a selection that many other Americans will appreciate and relate to, not just at holiday time but all year long. "Every year for a number of years, I had one of those steel-and-iron Lionel toy trains on the top of my list," Rivera shares in the new book All American Christmas by Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy. "All American Christmas" by Rachel Campos-Duffy, along with her husband, Fox News contributor Sean Duffy, is available now. "Nothing made me happier," says Rivera, "than talking about the Lionel train I finally got." Not that every holiday season for him as a kid evoked perfectly "smiling faces and expressions of pleasure." In a moving essay, Rivera reveals the struggles he had as a child in finding "just the right balance" between his strong Catholic heritage from his father's side of the family — and his equally strong Jewish heritage from his mother's side. HOW PEOPLE CELEBRATE HANUKKAH AROUND THE WORLD Rivera's dad, Cruz Rivera, was one of seventeen children. The elder Rivera came to the United States in 1940 from Puerto Rico, "literally on the United Fruit Company banana boat that stopped once a week in San Juan and then came to New York Harbor." His hardworking bilingual dad was the first person in his "huge family to graduate high school," writes Geraldo Rivera. "My dad was also religious and a lay deacon in the Catholic Church, which meant he could perform some ministerial functions." Meanwhile, his mother, Lily Friedman, was one of eight children from Newark, N.J. "She was from a conservative religious Jewish family who practiced their faith with real devotion," he says. "So my mom and dad came from two wildly different worlds." CHRISTMAS AND WHAT IT REALLY MEANS: TIPS FOR KEEPING US ROOTED IN FAITH Eventually, it all got sorted out, as his parents "were both determined to provide us with a good life … Our Christmases may not bring up visions of a typical Christmas-card scene, but they do reflect who we are and our family's history. Those days are filled with a lot of expressions of love, and that's really what the spirit of the season is all about." In that spirit, Geraldo Rivera describes with joy the one toy he wished for as a child — and why. Geraldo Rivera in All American Christmas: It can't get any more American than having a toy train circling the tree. I remember that for years, the other kids would come back to school after the Christmas break telling us what they got. I didn't get to do that for quite a while, but when I did, nothing made me happier than talking about the Lionel train I finally got. CHARLES PAYNE ON THE TRUE JOY OF CHRISTMAS: 'ALWAYS SOMETHING YOU CAN DO' FOR OTHERS I loved the design of trains, and every year for a number of years, I had one of those steel-and-iron Lionel toy trains on the top of my list. [See the video above about Lionel toy trains from "Fox & Friends" a few years ago.] My dad never earned much. [An Army veteran who served in World War II, Cruz Rivera worked several jobs to support his family, including in restaurants and as a cab driver.] I think he likely never made more than ten thousand dollars a year, so it took a long time before he and my mom were able to make my wish of a Lionel train come true. What little kid doesn't expect big things at Christmas time, as a young Geraldo Rivera did? His story is one of many that grace the pages of ‘All American Christmas.’ I ran the hell out of that train, setting up tracks that took it on tours of the living room, around the tree, under the couch. For a few years after getting that first set, I'd always get a couple more cars. GET THE FOX NEWS APP HERE I think I was as excited as anyone when I was able to buy a set for my oldest grandson, Jace. What a joy that was. —Geraldo Rivera, roaming correspondent at large for Fox News Channel Excerpted from the new book All American Christmas by Rachel Campos-Duffy and Sean Duffy. To purchase your copy, click here.
Tunnels to Towers Foundation honors FOX News Media CEO Suzanne Scott for work with veterans, first responders: 'At Fox News, we are always most proud to tell the stories of true American heroes like the first responders,' Scott said when accepting the honor. Tunnel to Towers CEO Frank Siller discusses the nonprofit's annual gala, where Fox News Media CEO Suzanne Scott was honored for her contributions to Gold Star families. The Tunnels to Towers Foundation honored FOX News Media CEO Suzanne Scott with the Let Us Do Good Award "for her extraordinary dedication and positive impact in the lives of our veterans and first responders" on Friday at their fourth annual Footsteps to the Future Gala. Tunnel to Towers CEO Frank Siller’s foundation was started in honor of all the lives lost and the heroic sacrifices that were made on September 11, 2001. Promising to "do good and never forget," the foundation’s In the Line of Duty and Never Forget Programs honor our military, first responders and their families. FOX NEWS CHANNEL THUMPS CNN, MSNBC DURING JAM-PACKED NOVEMBER "At Fox News, we are always most proud to tell the stories of true American heroes like the first responders," Scott said when accepting the prestigious award. The Tunnels to Towers Foundation honored FOX News Media CEO Suzanne Scott with the Let Us Do Good Award "for her extraordinary dedication and positive impact in the lives of our veterans and first responders" on Friday at their fourth annual Footsteps to the Future Gala. "Frank, I know this was said earlier, but it's worth repeating. You embody the words of Saint Francis of Assisi, ‘While we have time, let us do good.’ We celebrate Frank 20 years of doing that," Scott said. "Frank's brother, Stephen Siller, was one of those heroes. And as we've learned, he strapped 60 pounds of gear on his back and ran through the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel to the Twin Towers to save people." DONATE TO TUNNEL TO TOWERS HERE Fox News has worked closely with the Tunnels to Towers Foundation, which builds specially adapted smart homes for catastrophically injured veterans and first responders, while providing mortgage-free homes to fallen first responders and Gold Star families with young children. Fox News Media CEO Suzanne Scott and Tunnel to Towers CEO Frank Siller. "Tonight, all of us at Fox News are humbled by being honored, but we know the true honorees are the heroes of 9/11. When it comes to honoring those heroes and their sacrifice, Frank doesn't just talk the talk. You literally walk the walk. A 500-mile journey, The Never Forget Walk to honor his father and all first responders is another kind of heroism. We are proud at FOX News to show Frank on this journey on the walk that helps others heal," Scott added. Each September, the Tunnel to Towers 5K Run & Walk in New York symbolizes Stephen Siller’s final footsteps from the foot of the former Brooklyn Battery Tunnel to the Twin Towers and pays homage to the 343 FDNY firefighters, law enforcement officers, and thousands of civilians who lost their lives on September 11, 2001. Proceed from the Tunnel to Towers 5K Run & Walk support the Foundation’s programs, including those benefiting first responders, and catastrophically injured service members. The nonprofit also organizes a variety of other events to benefit veterans and first responders, including fundraisers and mentorship initiatives. FOX News Media CEO Suzanne Scott, Frank Siller, Fox News Morning Programming VP  Gavin Hadden and "Fox and Friends" co-host Steve Doocy. Fox News contributor and former USMC bomb technician Johnny Joey Jones served as the event’s emcee. Fox News stars Pete Hegseth, Steve Doocy, Dana Perino, Jeanine Pirro, Maria Bartiromo, Janice Dean and her husband FDNY Battalion Chief Sean Newman, Lawrence Jones, Dr. Nicole Saphier, and Dr. Marc Siegel were also in attendance, along with several network executives. Tunnel to Towers CEO Frank Siller, FOX News Media CEO Suzanne Scott and "Fox and Friends Weekend" co-host Pete Hegseth. "We celebrate Tunnel to Towers and their incredible contribution to gold star families and first responders by providing mortgage free homes as well as building smart homes for injured veterans and first responders. Frank is a wonderful partner and friend to us at Fox News Media. We will continue to use all of our platforms to share his story and the stories of all first responders," Scott said. "We are so grateful for our audience for their enthusiastic and unwavering support of this cause and the passionate loyalty and enthusiasm for our brand and business. As Frank often says, ‘Your loyal audience makes all this possible.'" CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Scott concluded her touching comments: "Now, as we celebrate this holiday season, this time of giving with our families and loved ones, let us all follow Frank's example in the words of Saint Francis, ‘While we have time, let us do good.’" Fox News Media’s COO and CFO Joe Dorrego, EVP of Human Resources Kevin Lord, FOX News Digital EVP & Editor in Chief Porter Berry, FOX Corp President of Ad Sales Marianne Gambelli, FOX News Media Ad Sales EVP Jeff Collins and SVP Dom Rossi, Tech Ops & Engineering EVP Warren Vandeveer and Morning Programming VP Gavin Hadden were among Scott’s colleagues to attend the gala.
Texas plumber who found cash in Lakewood wall 'upset' with Joel Osteen: 'Should have heard something': 'I feel like, at this point, I should have heard something,' the plumber who found cash in the Lakewood Church's walls said. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. The Texas plumber who found cash in a wall in preacher Joel Osteen’s Lakewood Church said he’s "upset" that no one from the church has contacted him. "I wanted to hear [Joel Osteen] say, ‘You know, Justin, what you did was right. We understand what you did and what you could have done,’" the man said after attending a service held by Osteen on Sunday, according to Click 2 Houston. The man has only been identified as Justin. JOEL OSTEEN’S HOUSTON CHURCH HAD $600K INSIDE WALL FROM 2014 ROBBERY, PLUMBER CLAIMS "I feel like, at this point, I should have heard something," he said. "I’m just a little upset." The plumber found the cash in a wall of the church in about 500 envelopes. Houston police said the money is in connection to a 2014 robbery at the church, where $200,000 in cash and $400,000 in checks were stolen from a church safe. Pastor and best-selling author Joel Osteen gives the invocation before Annise Parker is publicly sworn in as mayor of the United States' fourth largest city in Houston January 4, 2010. Houston on December 12, 2009 became the first major U.S. city to elect an openly gay mayor, Parker, after a hotly contested run-off election that gave gay and lesbian supporters a symbolic victory following defeats over legalizing same-sex marriages in California and Maine.  REUTERS/Richard Carson "There was a loose toilet in the wall, and we removed the tile," the plumber said on 100.3 FM’s morning show. "We went to go remove the toilet, and I moved some insulation away and about 500 envelopes fell out of the wall." The church also released a statement saying police were contacted after the discovery was made. JOEL OSTEEN ENLISTS KANYE WEST, MARIAH CAREY AND TYLER PERRY FOR EASTER SUNDAY AMID CORONAVIRUS PANDEMIC "Recently, while repair work was being done at Lakewood Church, an undisclosed amount of cash and checks were found," the church said. "Lakewood immediately notified the Houston Police Department and is assisting them with their investigation. Lakewood has no further comment at this time." Service at Lakewood Church in Houston, where Pastor Joel Osteen preaches to some 25,000 people each week. There are currently 842 mega churches that host an excess of three million people on any given Sunday. Mega churches are loosely defined as non-Catholic churches with at least 2,000 weekly attendants. The discovery, however, has left some parishioners with more questions following the 2014 robbery. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "I was discouraged the first time," longtime parishioner Benito Rodriguez told Click 2 Houston, referring to the 2014 theft. "I was discouraged and now I am more discouraged because they found it. It doesn’t make any sense."
Ron Rivera delivers passionate speech after Washington's fourth straight victory: The end of the season will feature five divisional games. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Ron Rivera is hoping to keep the momentum going after the Washington Football Team won their fourth straight over the Las Vegas Raiders on Sunday. Feeling amped up, head coach Ron Rivera entered the locker room and delivered a fiery speech with a simple message. RAIDERS’ KENYAN DRAKE CALLS OUT NFL AFTER SEASON-ENDING INJURY: ‘LET’S GET THE PRIORITIES TOGETHER' "I told you guys, everything we need is in this room," Rivera yelled in a video posted to the team’s Twitter. "Understand this more than anything else: We can do what we want. We can be what we want. It's up to us!" The players reacted with loud cheers, rightfully so after newbie Brian Johnson kicked the go-ahead 48-yard field goal with 37 seconds remaining to win the game. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM "They are resilient and they bounce back and as I said the one thing that they seem to feel and believe is that if you give us a chance, we’ll see what happens and that’s the biggest thing we saw today," Rivera told reporters of his team after the game. Head coach Ron Rivera of the Washington Football Team and his players prepare to take the field before the game against the Las Vegas Raiders at Allegiant Stadium on Dec. 5, 2021 in Las Vegas, Nevada. Washington dropped four straight before turning things around after their bye week. The end of the season will feature five divisional games with the first-place Dallas Cowboys up first. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Quarterback Taylor Heinicke #4 of the Washington Football Team gets ready to run a play against the Las Vegas Raiders during their game at Allegiant Stadium on Dec. 5, 2021 in Las Vegas, Nevada. The Washington Football Team defeated the Raiders 17-15. "We gotta take it one at a time," Rivera continued. "We need everybody, all hands on deck. Let’s roll."
Kentucky Derby winner Medina Spirit dies suddenly at Santa Anita Park: Medina Spirit is latest horse to die at Santa Anita Park, which saw spate of deaths over last 2 years. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Medina Spirit, the controversial winner of the 2021 Kentucky Derby, died suddenly Monday after a workout at Santa Anita Park in California. Amr Zedan, the owner of the thoroughbred, told Thoroughbred Daily News the horse suffered an apparent heart attack after workout. California Horse Racing Board equine medical director Jeff Blea told the website he saw a video of the workout and it appeared the colt had trouble breathing. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM John Velazquez atop Medina Spirit, center left, leads the pack out of the gates during the 146th Preakness Stakes horse race at Pimlico Race Course, Saturday, May 15, 2021, in Baltimore. Blea said by the time a veterinarian reached Medina Spirit, the horse had already died. Santa Anita spokesman Mike Willman also confirmed the horse’s death. The horse's trainer Bob Baffert added: "It is with great sadness that I am reporting Medina Spirit passed away today from a heart attack at Santa Anita following a workout. My entire barn is devastated by this news. Medina Spirit was a great champion, a member of our family who was loved by all, and we are deeply mourning his loss. I will always cherish the proud and personal memories of Medina Spirit and his tremendous spirit. Our most sincere condolences go out to Mr. Amr Zedan and the entire Zedan Racing Stables family. They are in our thoughts and prayers as we go through this difficult time." Medina Spirit had won the Kentucky Derby in May but a failed drug test put the Derby win in question and led to the suspension of Baffert. The horse was found to have tested positive for 21 picograms of betamethasone, which is permitted unless it is found in the horse’s blood on race day. Baffert explained on May 11 that 21 picograms of betamethasone in the post-race Derby sample may have come from a fungal ointment meant to treat dermatitis. KNICKS GO WINS BREEDERS' CUP CLASSIC; DUBAI, JAPAN WIN BIG Kentucky Derby winner Medina Spirit is walked to be groomed after a morning exercise at Pimlico Race Course ahead of the Preakness Stakes horse race, Tuesday, May 11, 2021, in Baltimore. Last week, Baffert’s lawyer Craig Robertson said a testing of a split urine sample was completed and showed that betamethasone in the horse’s system came from a topical ointment and not an injection. "In other words, it has now been scientifically proven that what Bob Baffert said from the beginning was true – Medina Spirit was never injected with betamethasone and the findings following the Kentucky Derby were solely the result of the horse being treated for a skin condition by way of a topical ointment – all at the direction of Medina Spirit's veterinarian," Robertson said, via the Courier-Journal. The California Horse Racing Board will implement a full necropsy. John Velazquez riding Medina Spirit crosses the finish line to win the 147th running of the Kentucky Derby at Churchill Downs in Louisville, Kentucky, on May 1, 2021. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Santa Anita Park came under fire in 2019 after dozens of horse deaths at the track. The park suspended racing for more than three weeks in March 2019. In 2020, about 15 horses died at the park. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Raiders' Kenyan Drake calls out NFL after season-ending injury: 'Let’s get the priorities together': Drake took a shot at the league’s focus on taunting penalties this season. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Las Vegas Raiders running back Kenyan Drake called out the NFL on Sunday for poor officiating after sustaining a season-ending injury in the 17-15 loss against the Washington Football Team. Drake was carted off the field in the second quarter after being brought down from behind by defensive tackle Daniel Wise, who appeared to roll over his right ankle causing him to be ruled out for the remainder of the game. Drake broke his ankle and the injury is considered season-ending, the NFL Network reported. WASHINGTON RALLIES FOR 4TH STRAIGHT WIN, 17-15 OVER RAIDERS Running back Kenyan Drake of the Raiders is taken off the field on a cart after he was injured on a play against the Washington Football Team during on Dec. 5, 2021, in Las Vegas, Nevada. The former Alabama standout later took to Twitter to call for a rule change to protect players from these types of injuries. "The NFL needs to look at this specific style of tackling," he wrote, sharing the graphic video of his injury. "They are throwing flags for taunting and protecting qbs from getting touched but this is my 2nd straight season being injured by a guy pulling me back and using his body weight to roll up my legs." CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Drake took a shot at the league’s focus on taunting penalties this season, arguing there are more important things officials should be watching for to protect the players. Las Vegas Raiders' Kenyan Drake broke his ankle and the injury is considered season-ending. "If the emphasis is to protect the players this should be an illegal form of tackling like a horse collar," he said in a separate tweet. "We lose players weekly to high ankle sprains and broken bones but the league would rather flag players for erroneous taunting penalties. Let’s get the priorities together." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Defensive back Keisean Nixon of the Raiders tries to tackle wide receiver DeAndre Carter of the Washington Football Team on Dec. 5, 2021, in Las Vegas, Nevada. The Raiders are seriously depleted at running back with the absence of Josh Jacobs, Peyton Barber, and Jalen Richard. Interim coach Rich Bisaccia told reporters after the game that Drake’s injury is now "a little bit of an issue."
Pearl Harbor survivor recounts harrowing attack, 80 years later: 'Something I'll never forget': Jack Holder recalled seeing wave of Japanese bombers over Hawaii on December 7, 1941. . Fox News correspondent William La Jeunesse reports on veteran Jack Holder's push for awareness PEARL HARBOR, Hawaii – Eighty years ago, most Americans had never heard of Pearl Harbor, let alone were able to find it on a map. Yet the attack on an island 2,500 miles from the mainland came to define the ‘Greatest Generation’ and America itself, which avenged the attack just four months later, bombing Tokyo, and, shortly after, winning a decisive naval victory at Midway. One man who witnessed both was 19-year-old Texas farm boy Jack Holder. On the morning of December 7th, 1941, Holder had just finished morning roll call inside a hangar on Ford Island when his squadron heard planes approaching, assuming they were American, until the first explosion. "We ran outside and seen all the aircraft in with Rising Sun insignia and that explained it all," said Holder. "I remember it like it was yesterday. It’s something I’ll never forget." Sailors standing among wrecked airplanes at Ford Island Naval Air Station as they watch the explosion of the USS Shaw in the background, during the Japanese surprise attack on Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, on December 7, 1941. Holder recalls seeing a wave of Japanese planes descend on battleship row, raining down bombs and bullets. Exposed on the tarmac, his squadron sought cover in a sewer ditch. "One of their pilots had seen us and staffed the ditch with machine-gun fire missing us by 3 feet," he said. Holder will be among 150 World War II vets, including 20 Pearl Harbor survivors, expected to attend Tuesday’s 80th commemoration ceremony in Hawaii. For many it will be a bittersweet reunion, arriving with suitcases full of memories of youth and friends lost. HOLDER ASKS FOR CARDS FOR HIS 100TH BIRTHDAY Holder received many awards for his service. "I'd seen seamen jumping in the water covered with oil that was on fire," and most of them died in the water, he said. To honor those who died and remember their sacrifice, Holder shares his story several times each year with high school students. Last month we joined him on a visit to Highland High in Gilbert, Ariz. "We learn so much in history, but it's a completely different feeling having someone actually talk to you about it and tell you their own personal stories," said student Audra Lockheed, following Holder’s 90-minute presentation. CLICK HERE FOR COMPLETE FOX NEWS PROUD AMERICAN COVERAGE "It definitely made me feel kind of like a pride for our country," added student Casey Moss. A small boat rescues a USS West Virginia crew member from the water after the Japanese bombing of Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, in December 1941. For many attending Tuesday ceremonies on Oahu, the trip brings them full circle. Anyone who enlisted after the attack, would be at least 98 years old. Holder turns 100 next week. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP In his presentation, Holder makes note of how the attack transformed the U.S. from a largely isolationist country protected by two oceans, to a global superpower. By the end of the war, 12% of the U.S. population had served in the armed forces. That shared common purpose is something he wants today’s generation to appreciate. His advice: "They need to stay in school. And remember two things: treasure the flag and remember that they live in the greatest country in the world."
Dave Chappelle and Netflix working together again after outrage over comedy special: Comedian caught backlash for comments he made in 'The Closer' about the transgender community. Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. Check out what clicked this week in entertainment. Netflix confirmed it's working with Dave Chappelle again after receiving intense backlash for the comedian's latest stand-up special "The Closer." The streaming platform announced on Monday a new 11-day stand-up comedy festival titled "Netflix Is A Joke: The Festival," in Los Angeles featuring over 130 artists, including the Emmy-winning Chappelle. The event will take place on April 28-May 8, 2022, and feature comedians such Ali Wong, Amy Poehler, Amy Schumer, Aziz Ansari, Bill Burr, Chelsea Handler, Chris Rock, Conan O’Brien, David Letterman, Ellen DeGeneres, Hasan Minhaj, Iliza Shlesinger, Jane Fonda and Lily Tomlin, Jerry Seinfeld, John Mulaney, Jonathan Van Ness, Ken Jeong, Kevin Hart, Larry David, Margaret Cho, Maya Rudolph, Nicole Byer, Patton Oswalt, Pete Davidson, Ray Romano, Sandra Bernhard, Seth Rogen, Tig Notaro, Tina Fey, Wanda Sykes and many more. The event was delayed from 2020 due to the pandemic. DAVE CHAPPELLE DEFENDS J.K. ROWLING, DABABY IN NETFLIX SPECIAL 'THE CLOSER': 'GENDER IS A FACT' Dave Chappelle performing during his special "The Closer" on Netflix. "It's absolutely thrilling for Netflix to be hosting a comedy festival of this magnitude in Los Angeles,'' Robbie Praw, director, stand-up and comedy formats, Netflix, said in a press release. "We were so disappointed to postpone the event last spring and our lineup of comedians can't wait to bring much needed laughs to audiences in LA and around the world on Netflix. ‘Netflix Is A Joke Festival’ is going to give comedy fans the opportunity to see the greats and discover new voices in one of the greatest cities in the world." NETFLIX CO-CEO SAYS HE ‘SCREWED UP’ WHEN DEFENDING DAVE CHAPPELLE SPECIAL Chappelle is set to headline The Hollywood Bowl. He landed in hot water when "The Closer" first aired on Oct. 1. People protest outside the Netflix building in the Hollywood section of Los Angeles on Oct. 20, 2021. Chappelle’s disparaging remarks about the transgender community raised protests within Netflix and from activists. About 30 Netflix workers staged an Oct. 20 walkout and joined a rally at Netflix offices in Los Angeles. Netflix ran into a buzz-saw of criticism not only with the special but in how internal memos responded to employees’ concerns, including co-CEO Ted Sarandos’ assertion that "content on screen doesn’t directly translate to real-world harm." NETFLIX RELEASES STATEMENT ABOUT TRANS EMPLOYEE WALKOUT At the time, Sarandos also wrote that Netflix doesn’t allow titles that are "designed to incite hate or violence, and we don’t believe ‘The Closer’ crosses that line." Netflix Co-CEO Ted Sarandos apologized for failing to recognize that "a group of our employees was really hurting" after the special premiered. The exec later apologized for his comments and said he failed to recognize that "a group of our employees was really hurting," he told The Wall Street Journal, and that his comment about the effect of TV on viewers was an oversimplification. A spokesperson for Netflix told FOX Business before the employee walkout, "We value our trans colleagues and allies, and understand the deep hurt that’s been caused. We respect the decision of any employee who chooses to walk out, and recognize we have much more work to do both within Netflix and in our content." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Chappelle later stated in a video, per Variety, that he is open to speaking with transgender employees at Netflix or other members of the trans community but will not bend "to anybody’s demands." The Associated Press contributed to this report
Jared Goff’s girlfriend reacts to Lions first win while on bikini shoot: Goff fired the game-winning touchdown pass Sunday. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. Two months ago, Detroit Lions quarterback Jared Goff’s swimsuit model girlfriend Christen Harper was saying all the right things about being stuck in Detroit as a very dark winter was descending on yet another season of Lions football. The team was 0-6, Dan Campbell had called out her boyfriend  for his lack of production, and the misery was kicking in. Two months later, Harper was on a sunny beach Sunday, a long way from miserable Detroit, and shooting bikini photos for Sports Illustrated when the improbable happened. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Detroit Lions quarterback Jared Goff throws during the second half of an NFL football game against the Minnesota Vikings, Sunday, Dec. 5, 2021, in Detroit. Goff and the Lions pulled off a comeback and beat the Minnesota Vikings 29-27 to go 1-10-1. "Guys, this is their first win," a dazed and confused Harper told the Sports Illustrated bikini shoot crew. "I’m going to cry," Harper added as a crew member showed her the ending as Goff found Amon-Ra St. Brown in the end zone as time expired. Jared Goff and Christen Harper at the 2019 ESPY Awards in Los Angeles. Harper, who made her rookie debut over the summer in the SI swimsuit issue, has spent some of her time in the Motor City picking crops for a Detroit mobile food rescue organization. "I’ve honestly been loving the change of pace" in Detroit, she told her Instagram followers back in October. She added that moving to Detroit has been an "opportunity to slow down and focus on things I haven’t been able to in a long time because of the fast-paced lifestyle in LA." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Goff and Harper are both big winners this week. He won a game and she jumped on a plane to get some sunshine. Congrats to both.
What's the story with eggnog? Where it came from, how it's served: Eggnog has been a popular Christmas drink so long, even George Washington had a recipe for it. Christmas without a glass of creamy eggnog? There’s no denying that the month of December is peak eggnog time. The sweet and spicy beverage has been a holiday staple for hundreds of years, but not everyone knows what it’s made out, where it comes from or why we drink it near each year’s end. That’s not the case with "eggspert" Jim Chakeres, an executive vice president at the Ohio Poultry Association, who knows the history behind the seasonal drink. 9 DOWNRIGHT DELICIOUS EGGNOG DESSERT RECIPES TO BRIGHTEN UP YOUR HOLIDAY "Eggnog, which is actually a drinkable form of custard, originated in medieval Britain where locals created a hot, creamy ale-like drink," Chakeres told Fox News. "The name, ‘Eggnog,’ is a combination of ‘noggin,’ a wooden cup, and ‘grog,’ a strong beer." There’s no denying that the month of December is peak eggnog time. He continued, "Early colonists traveling to America helped the drink become popular during the holidays as locally farmed eggs and milk, in addition to locally made rum and whisky was readily available." Americans went on to create eggnog recipes of their own, including George and Martha Washington, who famously enjoyed eggnog with rye whiskey, Jamaican rum and sherry, according to historical records. EGGNOG CHAI COOKIES WITH EGGNOG BUTTERCREAM FROSTING Variations of eggnog exist throughout the rest of the world under different names and ingredient lists, but the creamy texture and sweet flavor remain the same. For commercial eggnog manufacturers, the drink’s egg yolk content must be at least 1%, according to records from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Some eggnog fans like to make their own recipes during the holidays. The egg yolk content in homemade eggnog concoctions is subject to the beverage mixer, but the FDA recommends it be made from a cooked egg base, so holiday celebrators can avoid foodborne illnesses like salmonella. EGGNOG LATTE The United Egg Producer Farmer-Members reports that the FDA is in favor of eggnog recipes that require milk and egg mixtures to be gently heated up to an internal temperature of 160° Fahrenheit. "The cooking will destroy any bacteria that might be present. At this temperature, the mixture will firmly coat a metal spoon.  But please don’t lick the spoon if the custard is not fully cooked," the egg federation wrote on its website, Egg Safety Center. "After cooking, chill the mixture before adding the rest of the milk and other ingredients." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP If homemade eggnog isn’t something that sounds appealing to you, there are countless dairy and egg manufacturers who have packaged their tried and true recipes. All you have to do is stop by your favorite grocery store and serve when you get home.
Pumpkin peanut butter soup for a chilly evening: This tasty soup is dairy-free and completely vegan. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. This season, keep warm on chilly evenings with this simple pumpkin soup. "Pumpkin is most frequently found in sweet dishes, but I love to play with its savory side," Abra Pappa, MS, CNS, of Abra’s Kitchen on behalf of the National Peanut Board, tells Fox News. "Peanut butter, a pantry staple, plays a central role in this dish playing with pumpkins natural nuttiness and creating a creamy, comforting, crave-able soup," Pappa continues, noting that this soup contains five wholesome ingredients and is dairy-free and totally vegan, to boot. SMOKED ‘OVER THE TOP’ SLOPPY JOES ARE CALLING YOUR NAME FOR YOUR GAME NIGHT DINNER Makes 10 bowls Prep time: 15 minutes Cook time: 60 minutes Vegan Pumpkin Peanut Butter Soup by Abra Pappa of Abra’s Kitchen | National Peanut Board Ingredients 2 large leeks, sliced 1 tbsp coconut oil 8 cups fresh or canned pumpkin purée 1/2 cup creamy peanut butter 4 cups vegetable broth 14 ounces coconut milk 2 tsp salt 2 tsp Chinese five-spice powder 1/4 tsp cayenne pepper CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR LIFESTYLE NEWSLETTER Toppings Sriracha sauce Vegan coconut yogurt Instructions For the roasted pumpkin: 1. For fresh pumpkin purée, purchase a "pie pumpkin," also called a "sweet pumpkin" they are typically around 2-4 lbs. On average, each "pound" will yield about 1 cup of pumpkin purée. Two 4lb. pie pumpkins will yield approximately 8 cups of pumpkin purée. 2. Using a sharp knife, carefully cut the pumpkin in half lengthwise. Use a sharp spoon or ice cream scoop to scoop out all seeds and strings. 3. Drizzle the pumpkin with olive oil, salt, and pepper. Line a cookie sheet with parchment paper and place the pumpkin halves skin side down. 4. Using the tip of a sharp knife, carefully place a few slits in the skin of the pumpkin. 5. Roast in a 375 °F oven for 40 minutes to 60 minutes. It will depend on the size of your pumpkin. 6. Remove from oven and allow it to cool. When cool enough to handle, scoop out the flesh and set aside. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP For the pumpkin soup: 1. In a large pot over medium-high heat, melt coconut oil. Add sliced leeks and 1/4 tsp salt. Sauté for 5-8 minutes, or until leeks are soft and creamy. 2. Add vegetable stock, pumpkin purée , and allow the mixture to simmer for 15 minutes. 3. Working in batches add soup to a high-speed blender and blend until smooth, return to pot and taste for seasoning adding more salt if needed. 4. Serve with a drizzle of sriracha and a spoonful of vegan  coconut yogurt.
Devils on Horseback recipe brings the jalapeno heat: Try it for game day: Mike Haley, founder and owner of Belle’s Nashville Kitchen, shared his recipe for Devils on Horseback with Fox News. Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. If pimento cheese-stuffed jalapeños get your taste buds excited, how about wrapping that delicious medley in bacon? "This appetizer is a classic example of Southern-style comfort food, but with a twist. Usually served with a dried fruit dish, at Belle’s Nashville Kitchen, pimento cheese-stuffed jalapeños are wrapped in bacon and grilled to crispy perfection," says Mike Haley, founder and owner of Belle’s Nashville Kitchen. "Dipped in ranch, this appetizer combines mild spice, savory bacon and creamy melted cheese to bring you the perfect finger food dish for game day." LOADED POTATO BACON BOATS: TRY THE RECIPE Serves 6 Prep time: 20 minutes Cook time: 20 minutes Mike Haley, founder and owner of Belle’s Nashville Kitchen, shared this recipe for Devils on Horseback with Fox News. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR LIFESTYLE NEWSLETTER 1. Preheat the oven to 400° F. 2. Fill sliced jalapeños with pimento cheese. 3. Wrap each cheese-filled jalapeño with ½ slice of thin bacon. 4. Bake wrapped jalapeños for 12 to 15 minutes in the preheated oven. 5. Finish the dish by heating your bacon-wrapped jalapeños on medium in a saucepan. Cook until bacon is cooked to a golden crisp. 6. Serve with ranch dressing and enjoy.
Justice Department closes its investigation into 1955 killing of Emmett Till: DOJ officials met with Till's family members on Monday. The Emmett Till Interpretive Center is stepping up security around the Till memorial after years of vandalism. The Justice Department is closing its investigation into the 1955 killing of Emmett Till, a Black teenager from Chicago who was abducted and killed while visiting family in Mississippi after witnesses accused him of making sexual advances at a White woman. A 2017 book by Duke University professor Timothy Tyson, "The Blood of Emmett Till," spurred investigators to reopen the case. In the book, Tyson wrote that he handed 20-year-old Carolyn Bryant Donham a transcript of her testimony – in which she said that Till grabbed her, whistled, and made sexual advances – and Donham told him, "[t]hat part’s not true." The Justice Department reopened the investigation in 2018, but Donham denied that she ever actually recanted her story. This undated photo shows Emmett Louis Till, a 14-year-old black Chicago boy, who was kidnapped, tortured and murdered in 1955 after he allegedly whistled at a white woman in Mississippi. "The woman however, when asked about the alleged recantation, denied to the FBI that she ever recanted her testimony and provided no information beyond what was uncovered during the previous federal investigation," the Department of Justice said Monday. "Although lying to the FBI is a federal offense, there is insufficient evidence to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that she lied to the FBI when she denied having recanted to the professor." Tyson could not immediately be reached for comment on Monday. EMMETT TILL KILLING REOPENED BY GOVERNMENT OVER ‘NEW INFORMATION’ Till was abducted and killed, and his body was recovered days later from the Tallahatchie River, where it had been weighed down by a cotton gin. His mother, Mamie Till Mobley, insisted on leaving the casket open at the 14-year-old's funeral, inspiring civil rights campaigns during the Jim Crowe era. In this Sept. 23, 1955, file photo, J.W. Milam, left, his wife, second left, Roy Bryant, far right, and his wife, Carolyn Bryant, sit together in a courtroom in Sumner, Miss. Bryant Donham's husband, Roy Bryant, and his half-brother, J.W. Milam, were arrested and tried for murder in Till's death, but an all-White jury acquitted them. The two men confessed to the murder months later in a paid magazine interview. Representatives from the Department of Justice met with Till's family members in Chicago on Monday to inform them that they were closing the investigation. The mud-caked grave marker for 14-year-old Emmett Till, whose murder in Mississippi in 1955 is considered one of the events that accelerated the Civil Rights Movement, on May 5, 2009, in Burr Oak Cemetery in Alsip, Ill. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP While the Justice Department is closing the investigation, officials did cast doubt on Donham's testimony. "There remains considerable doubt as to the credibility of her version of events, which is contradicted by others who were with Till at the time, including the account of a living witness," the DOJ wrote Monday. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
