Austria to impose Covid lockdown for the unvaccinated age 12 and older.  (CNN)Austria will implement lockdown measures for all those age 12 and older who are not fully vaccinated against Covid-19 from Monday, Chancellor Alexander Schallenberg announced.  Around 65% of Austria's population is fully vaccinated against Covid-19, one of the lower rates in the European Union where cases are surging. Under the measures announced on Sunday, the unvaccinated are ordered to stay home except for a few limited reasons; the rules will be policed by officers carrying out spot checks on those who are out.The lockdown plan which was agreed in September called for unvaccinated Austrians to face a stay-at-home order once 30% of intensive-care beds are occupied by Covid-19 patients. Unvaccinated people are already excluded from entertainment venues, restaurants, hairdressers and other parts of public life in Austria.Schallenberg told reporters on Friday that the government should give the "green light" for the move this weekend. "The aim is clear: we want on Sunday to give the green light for a nationwide lockdown for the unvaccinated," Schallenberg said at a news conference in Innsbruck. He had earlier called the country's vaccination rate "shamefully low."His warning came as a wave of Covid-19 infections sweeps central Europe. A three-week partial lockdown was announced in the Netherlands on Friday evening, Reuters reported, with health officials recording a rapid rise in cases there."Tonight we are bringing a very unpleasant message with very unpleasant and far-reaching measures," Dutch caretaker Prime Minister Mark Rutte said in a televised address, ordering restaurants, supermarkets and non-essential retailers to close early and reimposing social distancing measures. "The virus is everywhere and needs to be combated everywhere."Norway also announced new measures on Friday, while people in the German capital Berlin are preparing for fresh restrictions that come into place on Monday.Schallenberg's tone encapsulated the frustration that several European governments have expressed towards unvaccinated pockets of society, as a wave of Covid-19 infections sweeps the region.In neighboring Germany, ministers have ramped up their rhetoric towards those who are not inoculated. Its capital Berlin announced on Wednesday it will ban people who are not vaccinated from indoor dining, bars, gyms, hairdressers and cinemas from next week.Vaccine rates vary across Europe but get steadily lower towards the east of the continent. Russia has hit a new daily record for Covid-19 deaths, with 1,241 registered in the previous 24 hours, the country's coronavirus task force said on Saturday. With the latest figures, the country has reached a total of 254,167 deaths since the start of the pandemic.German officials meanwhile warned on Thursday the country remains in the grips of a ''very worrying'' rise in Covid-19 cases and advised residents to "urgently to cancel or avoid larger events if possible, but also to reduce all other unnecessary contacts."According to the latest figures from the Robert Koch Institute, the country's seven-day incidence rate has risen to 263.7 cases per 100,000 people -- up from 169.9 cases reported a week ago.  The Norwegian government said on Friday it would reintroduce "a few more national measures" to "reduce the [Covid-19] infection" in the country. Health Minister Ingvild Kjerkol said "unvaccinated people over the age of 18, who live with someone who is infected with the virus, will have a duty to get tested," adding the obligation would apply from November 17.The government will also advise municipalities to start testing unvaccinated healthcare workers twice a week, with a clear message that they must wear a mask, according to the statement.For the second consecutive week, Europe was the only region in the world where cases and deaths were found to be climbing in the World Health Organization's weekly global report.Between November 1 and 7, there was a 1% increase in new weekly cases, the update said, and just over 3.1 million new cases were reported. The region also reported a 10% increase in new deaths over the last week.CNN's Rob Picheta, Nadine Schmidt and Anna Chernova and Duarte Mendonca contributed to this report.
COP26 ended with the Glasgow Climate Pact. Here's where it succeeded and failed. Glasgow, Scotland (CNN)Nearly 200 countries adopted the Glasgow Climate Pact in Scotland on Saturday at talks known as COP26, after nearly two weeks of wrangling on everything from how much to limit global warming, what to say about fossil fuels and whether the worst-hit countries by the climate crisis should be compensated.Some are calling it a success, others a failure, and many say it's something in between. Here's what's in it so you can decide for yourself.First ever mention of fossil fuels ... with a lot of caveatsThe agreement makes unprecedented mention of the role of fossil fuels in the climate crisis. That's something that even the landmark Paris Agreement was unable to achieve. The Glasgow Climate Pact calls for the phasing down of unabated coal and inefficient fossil fuel subsidies.The language was originally stronger but was watered down several times. It looked like it might even have been scrapped near the end when India, with Iran's support, made clear they wouldn't give their blessings on it. The pact requires all 197 parties to agree on the final text.But at the 11th hour, India said it would accept the language with one tweak -- that coal should be phased "down," not phased "out," in what some observers see as a get out clause that would allow continued use of coal. COP26 President Alok Sharma was seen canvassing opinion on the floor of the plenary room to see if others would support the change to essentially save the article. When asked for her opinion on the whole agreement, even Greenpeace International Executive Director Jennifer Morgan saw the inclusion of coal as a win for the climate."It's meek, it's weak and the 1.5C goal is only just alive, but a signal has been sent that the era of coal is ending. And that matters," she said. Sharma faced questions over the way he handled the last-minute change, for which he later apologized. "This will not bring us closer to 1.5 but make it more difficult to reach it," said Swiss Environment Minister Simonetta Sommarug, receiving a long round of applause.But Indian Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav, who had opposed the language, said that it would be difficult for his country to end coal use and fossil fuel subsidies while it tries to address poverty. "How can anyone expect developing countries to make promises about phasing out coal and fossil fuel subsidies?" he asked."Subsidies provide much needed social security and support," he said, giving the example of how India uses subsidies to provide liquified natural gas to low-income households.2022 -- a year for the world to get its act together Perhaps the most consequential change was language that requests parties to come to COP27 next year in Egypt with updated plans on how to slash greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. Under the Paris Agreement, countries were only obliged to update their goals by 2025. The idea is that countries will increase their ambition more regularly, which should mean an acceleration to net zero -- a state where the amount of greenhouse gases emitted is not greater than the amount removed from the atmosphere.The latest landmark climate science report, published by the UN in August, called for emissions to roughly halve by 2030 and for the world to reach net zero by mid-century to have any hope in keeping global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. The question now is, will countries actually do it?"By agreeing this emergency package they have responded to rising climate damage with an action plan to keep 1.5C within reach," said Nick Mabey, co-founder and executive director of the E3G climate think tank. "But the real task begins now as every country must go home and deliver on their Glasgow promises."Rich countries agreed more than 10 years ago to transfer $100 billion a year to developing nations to help their transformation to low-carbon economies, and adapt to the climate crisis. Adaptation can involve anything from building sea walls to prevent flooding, to moving communities back from the coast and retrofitting homes to better withstand extreme weather events.Not only had the rich world failed to deliver the $100 billion by the 2020 deadline, developing nations say it's nowhere near enough in the first place. They had been calling for a 50-50 split between mitigation -- measures to reduce emissions -- and adaptation which helps them deal with the consequences of climate change. Far more money has flowed to measures focused on cutting emissions.The Glasgow Climate Pact includes a doubling of money for adaptation by 2025, from 2019 levels, which is progress in this area. But the $100 billion target is still off track, likely to only be met by 2023, as a COP26 Presidency report found. There are also questions over whether developed nations will maintain that level of funding annually. "It is inexcusable that developed countries failed to meet their commitment to deliver $100 billion annually starting in 2020, even as they provide hundreds of billions of dollars in subsidies for fossil fuels," said Ani Dasgupta, president and CEO of the World Resources Institute."It is significant that the final outcome at COP26 puts developed countries on the hook to report on their progress towards the $100 billion goal. Countries also made headway toward developing a new financial goal that goes beyond 2025. Nations also agreed to at least double funding for adaptation by 2025, implying at least $40 billion, which is very important progress." No 'liability' fund to pay for climate crisis destruction This is a point with which many developing and climate vulnerable countries will be going home disappointed. There were high hopes that a dedicate fund would be set up to pay for the damage and destruction the climate crisis brings to the hardest-hit countries.The idea was that the rich nations would pay into it, and if a country experiences an event like floods that destroy homes, this money could help them rebuild. This is called "loss and damage" in climate speak.The agreement does recognize the importance of loss and damage and agrees to boost technical assistance to affected countries. But instead of agreeing to a dedicated fund, it calls for more dialogue, meaning an actual fund may years away, if it happens at all.US climate envoy John Kerry confirmed after the decision that his country was against such a fund for now, while the European Union had previously said it would not support it.Rachel Cleetus, policy Director and Lead Economist in the Climate and Energy Program at the Union of Concerned Scientists said Australia was also blocking progress. CNN has reached out to the delegation."A proposed Glasgow Loss and Damage Facility to channel new and additional funds for loss and damage failed to materialize after being blocked by richer nations including the United States, Australia and the European Union," Cleetus said."The final COP26 decision is overwhelmingly compromised by countries that have contributed most greatly to the climate crisis and once again denies justice for climate vulnerable developing countries."It took six years but a Paris rulebook is finally finished. AlmostIf there's any sign of how slow progress by consensus can be, it was only on Saturday that the world agreed to the outstanding rules of the 2015 Paris Agreement.There had been concern over the creation of carbon emission markets, known as "Article 6," which is so technical that the world couldn't agree on its wording and substance over the last five years. There were concerns about a loophole that could have allowed some countries to double count their carbon credits. And that would be disastrous as the world would soon lose track of how much greenhouse gas is actually being removed or offset, and sold on markets. One way to offset greenhouse gases is by paying countries with significant forest cover to not log their trees, or to plant more of them. Trees can absorb and lock away large amounts of carbon. Cutting them down or burning them releases carbon dioxide into the air. A country could also pay another to build a wind farm, for example, instead of a coal or oil plant. Brazil was pushing to this deal as it could become a major exporter of carbon credits through the Amazon forest but also through renewable energy projects, like wind and solar. It's good news the rules were final agreed and some loopholes closed, but some experts warn against allowing too much offsetting, saying that is only an incentive for nations and businesses to keep emitting as usual, particularly rich nations and big business that can afford a lot of offsets. There are also worries about the implication of the system for Indigenous people, who are worried about the commodification of their lands. According to the UN, Indigenous people make up less than 5% of the world's population, but they protect 80% of remaining forest biodiversity globally.And while it was adopted there are still technically a few details that weren't agreed."We are extremely pleased that the countries participating in COP26 have agreed on how global carbon trading will work to speed climate action. The progress made in Glasgow is a crucial step toward keeping global average temperature rise below 1.5C," said James Roth, senior vice president for global policy and government affairs  at Conservation International."After six years of negotiations, the rules allowing countries to trade carbon credits with each other, known as Article 6.2, have been agreed with the exception of some operational elements," Roth said. "This level of certainty will drive new investments to scale the climate actions we desperately need across all sectors, including halting deforestation and promoting other natural climate solutions."And there you have it. Some good news, some bad news. As the UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said, the work starts now for COP27 in Egypt. Only then will the real impact of Glasgow become clear.
Here's what the jury in Kyle Rittenhouse's trial will have to weigh.  (CNN)When jurors in the homicide trial of Kyle Rittenhouse begin deliberations, expected early this week, the young man's actions during a night of unrest on the streets of Kenosha, Wisconsin, last year will not be in dispute. Rittenhouse, then 17, shot at four people with a semiautomatic rifle, killing two of them and wounding another. Nearly all of it was captured on video that was analyzed frame-by-frame over the last two weeks.The prosecution has sought to portray Rittenhouse as a teenage vigilante who illegally possessed the gun and acted criminally and recklessly. Defense lawyers -- backed up by the defendant's riveting and emotional testimony -- argued that he acted in self-defense.After closing arguments, set for Monday, the jury will get the case. The panel will consider five felony counts and a misdemeanor weapons charge against Rittenhouse. Using an AR-15-type rifle, he killed Joseph Rosenbaum, 36, and Anthony Huber, 26, and wounded Gaige Grosskreutz, 27, during street demonstrations over the police shooting of Jacob Blake.Here are the counts the jury will weigh after Kenosha County Circuit Judge Bruce Schroeder instructs them on the law: First-degree reckless homicide, use of a dangerous weapon Count 1 states that Rittenhouse recklessly caused the death of Rosenbaum under circumstances that showed utter disregard for human life.The judge denied a prosecution request for the jury to also be instructed on second-degree reckless homicide.Rittenhouse testified he acted in self-defense when he fatally shot Rosenbaum after the man threw a plastic bag at him and chased him. "I didn't do anything wrong. I defended myself," he testified.Under cross, Rittenhouse said that he knew Rosenbaum was unarmed. He said he pointed his rifle at Rosenbaum in an attempt to deter him and acknowledged that was dangerous."If I would have let Mr. Rosenbaum take my firearm from me, he would have used it and killed me with it and probably killed more people," he testified.Rittenhouse broke down in tears at one point, leading to a short break."I think it was a game changer to put him on the stand," CNN legal analyst Joey Jackson said. "Number one, you humanize him... More important, number two, he explained his uses of force."Rittenhouse's testimony couldn't have been scripted any better, criminal defense attorney Mark Eiglarsh said.The "biggest issue" is whether the jury finds Rittenhouse credible, he told CNN. "Secondly, do they believe then that it equals he reasonably feared death or great bodily harm?"Wisconsin law allows the use of deadly force only if "necessary to prevent imminent death or great bodily harm.""Whether he engaged in self defense and did so reasonably and thought his life was in immediate danger ... that's what the jury has to assess ultimately," Jackson said of Rittenhouse. Prosecutors also requested the jury be given instruction on provocation. They argued Rittenhouse provoked Rosenbaum by raising his gun and pointing it at somebody, which led to the victim running after him.The judge agreed to allow that the panel consider whether Rittenhouse provoked Rosenbaum into attacking him -- thus negating self-defense.Ellie Honig, a CNN senior legal anaylst and a former prosecutor, said the provocation instruction was an important win for the prosecution. Honig said the instruction allows prosecutors to argue "the defendant went too far, used deadly force when it wasn't reasonably necessary" and that he "provoked the attack, and hence cannot argue self-defense." First-degree recklessly endangering safety, use of a dangerous weaponCount 2 states that Kyle Rittenhouse recklessly endangered the safety of Richard McGinniss -- a journalist with the conservative Daily Caller -- under circumstances that show utter disregard for human life. The state asked that the jury also be instructed on second-degree recklessly endangering safety. Schroeder said he was inclined to give the additional instruction on the lesser charge.The judge told Rittenhouse that presenting lesser offenses lowered the possibility of a second trial but increased the risk of a conviction.Allowing jurors to weigh less serious charges could help the prosecution."A lot of times ... the jury gets into a heated discussion about whether he's guilty or not guilty of intentional conduct," said CNN legal analyst and former prosecutor Paul Callan."And they compromise on a lesser charge when they have one available. If they don't have one available, it's either guilty of one of the higher charges or not guilty."First-degree intentional homicide, use of a dangerous weaponCount 3 states that Rittenhouse did cause the death of Huber, with intent to kill him. It's the most serious charge he faces, with a mandatory life sentence. Huber swung his skateboard at Rittenhouse after Rosenbaum was fatally shot. Prosecutors asked that the jury also be instructed on second-degree intentional homicide, first-degree reckless homicide and second-degree reckless homicide.Defense attorneys objected to second-degree reckless homicide. The judge said he "embraced" the defense's argument. But he will likely allow lesser charges of second-degree intentional homicide and first-degree reckless homicide."I think the jury is going to want to hold him responsible for something in this case," former prosecutor Mark O'Meara said. "Then giving the lesser is an opportunity for the jury to hold him responsible but at a much lower charge than the intentional homicide or even the reckless homicide."First-degree recklessly endangering safety, use of a dangerous weaponCount 4 states that Rittenhouse did recklessly endanger the safety of an unknown male, referred to as "jump kick man" in court, under circumstances that show utter disregard for human life.The man jumped at Rittenhouse at one point, trying to kick him and the teen opened fire. "I thought if I were to be knocked out, he would have stomped my face in if I didn't fire," he said. Rittenhouse fired at the man twice and missed. Attempted first-degree intentional homicide, use of a weaponCount 5 states that Rittenhouse attempted to cause the death of Grosskreutz, with intent to kill him. After shooting Huber, Rittenhouse testified, he saw Grosskreutz lunge at him and point a pistol at his head. Rittenhouse shot him, he testified. Grosskreutz was wounded.Grosskreutz testified that he pulled out his own firearm because he believed Rittenhouse was an active shooter.Grosskreutz said he and a crowd followed Rittenhouse, who had just fatally shot another man. Rittenhouse fell to the ground, fired twice at an unknown person and then fatally shot Huber.Grosskreutz, just feet away, put his hands in the air, videos show. He testified he then saw Rittenhouse rerack his weapon -- a motion that loads it for gunfire.Prosecutors asked for lesser charges of attempted second-degree intentional homicide, first-degree reckless endangerment and second-degree reckless endangerment. Schroeder said he was inclined to agree with the prosecution.  Possession of a dangerous weapon by a person under 18Count 6, a misdemeanor, states that Rittenhouse was under 18 years old with a dangerous weapon. Aside from the evidence presented at trial and the instructions on the law, the personal views of jurors and the polarizing nature of the case could also come into play.  "It's a very difficult case," said Laura Coates, a CNN senior legal analyst and a former federal prosecutor. "You cannot extract and divorce from the political, the sociological, the cultural, the actual everyday conversations ... It's very difficult to just look at this from the idea of -- was this person entitled to self-defense? There are so many different aspects of it. The jury is going to have to whittle that down."
Diabetes is a 'pandemic of unprecedented magnitude,' and experts fear Covid-19 may make it worse.  (CNN)The year 2021 marks 100 years since the discovery of insulin, a game-changing drug in the fight against diabetes. Despite a century of advancements in treatment, education and prevention, World Diabetes Day 2021 occurs in the wake of grim statistics. One in 10 adults around the world -- some 537 million people -- are currently living with diabetes, according to figures recently released by the International Diabetes Federation (IDF). By 2024, the IDF predicted that the number of people with diabetes is expected to rise to 1 in 8 adults."As the world marks the centenary of the discovery of insulin, I wish we could say we've stopped the rising tide of diabetes," IDF President Dr. Andrew Boulton told CNN. "Instead, diabetes is currently a pandemic of unprecedented magnitude." Nearly 7 million adults have died worldwide in 2021 so far due to diabetes or its complications, the IDF estimated -- that's more than 1 in 10 global deaths from any cause.  That doesn't count the lives lost to the novel coronavirus, which has been particularly deadly for people living with diabetes. A study published in February found having either Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes tripled the risk of severe illness and death from Covid-19. "And if you want another startling statistic, as many as 40% of the people that have died in the US from Covid-19 had diabetes," said Dr. Robert Gabbay, chief scientific and medical officer for the American Diabetes Association.The pandemic also took a toll on how well people have managed their diabetes over the past year and a half, said Boulton, who is also a professor of medicine at the University of Manchester in the UK."My fear is we're going to see a tsunami in the next two years of diabetes and its complications because people have missed their screening appointments due to fear of catching Covid-19," he said.Is Covid a trigger for diabetes?As bad as these numbers are, experts are concerned that Covid-19 might contribute to an even greater problem. "There may be more people developing diabetes because of Covid," Gabbay told CNN. Boulton echoed that concern: "There may be a specific Covid-induced diabetes, although there is some debate on that at the moment."A global analysis published in 2020 found as many as 14% of people hospitalized with severe Covid-19 later developed diabetes. Another review published this October found examples of new-onset Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes in babies, children and adults infected with Covid-19."Whether new-onset diabetes is likely to remain permanent is not known, as the long-term follow-up of these patients is limited," the study reported.It's very possible that Covid-19 is not the culprit. Blood sugar abnormalities could be triggered by the stress of an infection and the steroids used to fight Covid-19 inflammation, Gabbay said.Another explanation is that the person may have had pre-diabetes -- some 88 million Americans currently do, according to the American Medical Association and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The organizations have partnered with the Ad Council to create a new public service campaign: "Do I Have Prediabetes?"People also may have had diabetes that was not previously diagnosed. The IDF estimates that of the 537 million adults living with diabetes around the world, almost half (44.7%) are as yet undiagnosed.But there is also evidence that SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, can bind to the ACE2 receptors in the islet cells of the pancreas -- the organ that produces the body's insulin, Boulton and Gabbay told CNN."The virus attacks those cells in the pancreas and interferes with their production of insulin, so that may be another mechanism," Gabbay said. "And those individuals that are diagnosed in the hospital with diabetes for the first time, through whichever mechanism, sadly do worse."Early identification is keyReversing the rising tide of diabetes cases requires early identification. Nipping Type 2 diabetes in the pre-diabetic stages is preferred, since it's before the body begins to suffer damage from irregular blood sugars and lifestyle changes are easier to implement.Studies in Finland a few decades ago found that people with "very slight elevated blood sugar" who followed a sensible diet and regular exercise "had a 54% reduction in proceeding to Type 2 diabetes," Boulton said. "And it didn't have to be flogging yourself in the gym," he added. "It's sensible exercising, walking instead of riding the bus and walking up the stairs instead of taking the elevator, that can do the trick."Two recent studies found that adding about a third of a cup of fruit or vegetables to your daily diet could cut your risk of developing Type 2 diabetes by 25%, while higher consumptions of whole grains, such as brown bread and oatmeal, could cut the risk by 29%.Even full-flown diabetes can be put into remission, Gabbay said, with a regime of diet, exercise and stress reduction and proper use of medications. "People in remission may still be at risk for some of the long-term complications, and therefore, they still need to be monitored, with quarterly blood tests, a yearly eye and foot test, and yearly screening for kidney disease and cholesterol levels," he said.To determine if you are at risk for Type 2 diabetes, the American Diabetes Association has a 60-second online test. After answering a few questions about family history, age, gender and physical activity, the test spits out an answer. Being over age 60, overweight, having had gestational diabetes while pregnant, having a family history of diabetes, currently living with high blood pressure and a lack of physical exercise all raise your risk.
Taylor Swift and Pete Davidson tease 'SNL' newbies, plus more top moments from the night.  (CNN)Following the release of "Red (Taylor's Version)" and a short music film that has people talking, Taylor Swift appeared on "Saturday Night Live" for a fifth time.The episode was hosted by actor Jonathan Majors, and instead of the usual two performances by "SNL" musical guests, Swift delivered the full 10-minute version of her song "All Too Well" off her re-recorded album. If Taylor asks for a ten-minute chunk of "SNL," Taylor gets a ten-minute chunk of "SNL." She also joined in on some laughs, teaming up with Pete Davidson in a dream-turned-humiliating nightmare for three young "SNL" show writers: Ben Marshall, John Higgins, and Martin Herlihy."Ben is like a sad Ron Weasley/ He looks like if Big Bird/ lost all his feathers," Swift sings to the trio. "Martin has the charm and the sex appeal of a scarecrow."Following a series of jokes at their expense from Davidson, Swift sings that none of the "three sad virgins" have the "guts to take their shirts off in front of a girl," to which the writers shrug and say: "True."Beyond a very clever "Sesame Street" spin on the cold open, other highlights from the night include a monologue from Majors that left us excited for his Marvel future and really wanting some cheddar biscuits. A selection of some of the episode's standout skits follows below.Man ParkA commercial parody for an outdoor "Man Park," where socially awkward guys can make friends and feel understood speaking only in monosyllabic sentences.The Advertising AwardsIn this sketch, Majors plays Jake the State Farm guy, and Heidi Gardner plays and Flo from Progressive ads, hosting a fake awards show. They lampoon commercials with dissonant themes, chiding advertisers: "You're using what to sell ... what?"They even include a tribute to "Quibi, Tubi, Vubu, Boppy, Duku, Titi."Kid StoriesKenan Thompson and Majors host a paranormal show for kids in this sketch. They do not like the creepy kids who appear on their show with creepy stories to tell one bit and it's very funny.Broadway revueAidy Bryant and Kyle Mooney attend a Broadway musical revue in this sketch, with Majors joining Boen Yang and Cecily Strong to deliver some salty banter and singing.Pet Store adYou might need to be a Bone Thugs-N-Harmony fan to truly appreciate this one, but who isn't? In this sketch commercial, Majors, Thompson, Ego Nwodim and Chris Redd rap about all the bones available in their new pet store. 
How to watch Adele's 2-hour CBS special.  (CNN)CBS has offered up a first look at their "Adele One Night Only" special.On Sunday night at 8:30 p.m. ET, you can watch Adele sing a selection of her hits and chat with Oprah Winfrey about her life and the stories behind her new music."I invite you to join me for one night only," Adele says to the camera.With her highly anticipated new album dropping soon, Adele recorded the concert at the scenic Griffith Observatory in Los Angeles. Big names like Tyler Perry, James Corden and Lizzo attended the performance."Get you, Lizzo, You think you're going to outshine me babe?" Adele jokingly asked the singer who was in the audience at the concert.Adele told Winfrey what folks could expect from the night."It will look really elegant and then I'll tell a load of filthy jokes," Adele said. "A sort of whiplash for them."We're ready to feel all our feelings.The two-hour event will be broadcast Sunday on CBS or you can stream it online through Paramount+. 
White House goes into damage control mode after reports of dysfunction in Kamala Harris' office.  (CNN)The White House dove into damage control this week after reports of dysfunction and infighting in Vice President Kamala Harris' office, with the administration trying to stop a drama-filled narrative from taking hold, according to five people who spoke to CNN about the dynamics within Harris' office. Two people close to Harris' team said some individuals inside the vice president's office are frustrated with what they see as a dysfunctional operation that has been at times waylaid by internal conflict. Some of that ire is directed squarely at Harris' chief of staff, Tina Flournoy, those people said. Another source close to the staff said there were "challenges and struggles" and heard complaints about Flournoy from staff, but denied it amounted to dysfunction or that the tensions were directly Flournoy's fault. Sabrina Singh, deputy press secretary to the vice president, told CNN in a statement that Harris' focus remains on her work."The Vice President and her office are focused on the Biden-Harris Administration's agenda to build an economy from the middle out and the bottom up, not the top down, to making sure racial equity is at the core of everything the Administration does, to combatting the existential threat of climate change, and to continue protecting the American people from the Covid-19 pandemic," Singh said.And White House press secretary Jen Psaki on Friday said, "I will say that the vice president is an incredibly important partner to the President of the United States. She has a challenging job, a hard job, and she has a great supportive team of people around her. But other than that, I'm not going to have any more comments on those reports."Still, conversations are now underway in the West Wing about how to better support Harris' team, one source close to the White House said.That help from the West Wing is a sign that the spiraling narrative could start to affect Harris, who is considered the next in line to lead the Democratic Party -- with a potential for a presidential run coming as soon as 2024 if President Joe Biden decides not to seek reelection. Biden has said he does intend to run.Top White House officials and aides to the vice president went on the record to defend Harris and Flournoy, calling reports of infighting and dysfunction overblown or simply untrue. And Harris' outside allies and advisers -- like influential adviser Minyon Moore and Democratic strategist Bakari Sellers -- quickly took to Twitter, looking to drown out the criticism.On Friday, Biden's chief of staff, Ron Klain, a longtime friend of Flournoy, said in a statement to CNN: "Vice President Harris and her team are off to the fastest and strongest start of any Vice President I have seen. She's Delivering for the American people on immigration, small business, voting rights, and economic growth. The President's trust and confidence in her is obvious when you see them in the Oval Office together.""The results speak for themselves: a decline of border arrivals from the Northern Triangle, improved vaccine equity, and increased economic opportunities for women. Anyone who has the honor of working closely with the Vice President knows how her talents and determination have made a huge difference in this Administration already," Klain's statement added.As the frustrations bubbled to the surface this week and damage control commenced, the full-court defense also served to amplify the clear concern inside and around the Biden administration about the drama unfolding in Harris' office. The latest reports are seen as part of a pattern of stories about staff infighting and low morale, which have followed Harris from her Senate office to her presidential campaign and now to the vice presidency.One administration official described the current efforts by the West Wing as an attempt to help with any issues any staff might be facing."Ron, Anita (Dunn), Cedric (Richmond), others, have certainly expressed their solidarity with our team, internally and externally," the administration official said. But some of those efforts actually helped solidify reports of staff discontent. Rather than denying the existence of complaints about morale inside Harris' office, Dunn -- a White House senior adviser -- told Politico the complaints were "not anywhere near what you are describing" and acknowledged that there "may be people whose feelings were a little hurt on her staff" after many staffers weren't told of her trip to the southern border ahead of it being announced publicly.The departure of Harris' top two advance officials has also served to compound a chaotic narrative, even though some officials insisted the pair had always planned for early exits from the administration.It does not help that Harris has come under fire for multiple missteps in her first few months in office, starting after just a few weeks when she gave an interview to a West Virginia TV station that angered crucial moderate Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin, who hails from the state. That tension reached its apex last month during her first international trip as vice president, a two-day visit to Guatemala and Mexico, during which she likened not going to the border to also not having visited Europe."I, and I haven't been to Europe. And I mean, I don't -- I don't understand the point that you're making," Harris said with a laugh to NBC's Lester Holt when pressed about the fact that she hadn't visited the US-Mexico border.The trip to El Paso, Texas, last week was without incident and some people close to Harris called reports alleging dysfunction overblown. But others told CNN that the office is rife with frustration and occasional infighting."I think everybody is just feeling overwhelmed," a source close to the White House said of the dynamics in the vice president's office. "It's a tough place, obviously," the administration official said, not just of the vice president's office but of all administration jobs, which operate at a high level of stress and pressure. "But for the most part, people are focused on the mission."That official contended that Flournoy has been asset to Harris as her chief of staff, and a source close to Flournoy credited her with keeping Harris' circle tight, saying her role "is to be the gatekeeper, it is to keep the principal on task and it is to be the person that is the last voice before the principal's make the decision, so in that regard, she is doing the job that she's supposed to be doing." Some of the complaints voiced in media reports alleged that Flournoy has limited access to Harris too much."There's not infighting between the teams," the administration official said. "The office is united together as part of the larger goal of the OVP. People are working together to make sure that she is executing on like the tasks she's been assigned."
Kamala Harris came in to solve issues in Central America. But the problem is now much bigger.. Washington (CNN)When President Joe Biden tapped Vice President Kamala Harris to address the reasons people migrate to the US southern border, her focus was on addressing problems in Central America. But seven months later, it's migrants arriving from even farther away in South America who are overwhelming the administration, leaving the White House with a larger problem that officials are still looking for ways to solve.The recent surge of Haitians into Del Rio, Texas, underscored the immense challenge of tackling migratory flows that are constantly changing. As efforts were launched in the Northern Triangle countries of Guatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras to set up internet access and invest in farmers, thousands of migrants, primarily Haitians, made their way up from South America, fleeing deteriorating conditions that were exacerbated by the coronavirus pandemic."They have a great strategy mapped out for Central America, but the flows have changed. They go much beyond the Northern Triangle. Now, that's complicated the narrative and the response," said Andrew Selee, president of the Migration Policy Institute.The Biden administration is looking at how it can apply its plan to tackle root causes of migration to the hemisphere, like matching people to jobs where there are labor shortages in the region, a senior administration official told CNN. The State Department also funded Creole and Spanish-language digital ads targeting Haitian migrants to inform them of US border and immigration policies, a spokesperson told CNN. The recent crises on the border have put the administration in a politically perilous position. President Joe Biden faces a 49% disapproval rating and Americans are split over his administration's attention to stemming the flow of migrants. Harris, meanwhile, has faced ongoing criticism for not being assertive enough on the US-Mexico border.The administration is also trying to balance maintaining regional partners and doubling down on enforcement on the US-Mexico border to discourage irregular migration. It's a tricky balance that, at times, has created tension. That came into focus over the summer when the Department of Homeland Security, in collaboration with Mexico, sent Guatemalans encountered at the US-Mexico border to the interior of Mexico, dropping them in a desolate area with no recourse. That decision -- intended to stop repeat crossers -- didn't sit well with Guatemala, a key US partner in trying to address the root causes of migration in Central America."It doesn't correlate with this rhetorical, more humane approach to migration when they're sending the deportees to a very remote area in the middle of the jungle where there's no infrastructure to receive them," a senior Guatemalan official told CNN. Guatemalan officials took it up with Harris's office and others within the administration in August, the official said. While it's unclear whether the vice president intervened, the Department of Homeland Security is now sending flights directly to Guatemala City.Instilling hope at home In March, during an influx of unaccompanied migrant children, Biden tasked Harris with overseeing diplomatic efforts with the Northern Triangle. Most minors apprehended on the US southern border are from El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras -- a region where major hurricanes and the coronavirus pandemic took a devastating toll.In May, the White House announced an agreement, dubbed a "Call To Action," that included commitments from major companies like Microsoft, Mastercard, Chobani, Duolingo, and Nespresso to invest in the region in hopes of spurring economic opportunity. That was later followed by a 20-page root causes strategy that outlined the administration's approach to improving conditions and creating opportunity in the region. The administration has gradually made inroads on those fronts. In the last 90 days, internet access was set up in an indigenous community of more than 4,000 people in Honduras, according to Jonathan Fantini Porter, co-founder and executive director of the Partnership for Central America. Fantini Porter also recently sampled the first cup off Honduras-sourced Nespresso coffee as the company makes inroads there. The idea, Fantini Porter explained, is to develop a system where the various needs of a single individual or family are met, so that they'll be more inclined to stay at home instead of migrate. If it's a farmer, for example, that might include providing resources and tools to ensure they prosper by having buyers and access to banking.Other private investments include Microsoft's plan to expand internet access to as many as 3 million people in the region by July 2022 as well as develop community centers to help teach internet and digital skills to women and young people. And Mastercard hopes to help 5 million people in the region obtain access to banking services and help bring 1 million micro and small businesses into a digital banking system. The Partnership for Central America also intends to increase and stabilize incomes of 250,000 famers and support 1.5 million families, Fantini Porter said.  Experts say those actions are important to improving conditions on the ground over time and argue tackling migration across the hemisphere would require additional partnerships across the region, a point also acknowledged by Secretary of State Antony Blinken."We face a challenge that in many ways is unique with tremendous pressure from illegal migratory flows coming in different ways, different parts of the hemisphere," Blinken said during a news conference in Mexico this month. "We have to have a stronger regional approach to this challenge." Authorities in South America have been monitoring the increased movement of migrants in the region for months. Many migrants who are fleeing worked informal jobs before the pandemic, and were especially vulnerable to falling into extreme poverty as economies tightened last year.Despite the administration expelling more than 7,000 Haitians to Haiti, the migratory flow through Panama -- one of the transit countries as people move north -- has not slowed down, according to Panama's foreign minister office. Harris and her team have been coordinating with the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security which are engaged with other regional partners, like Panama, senior administration officials told CNN. "The conversations with Panama are broader and fall into what we see as the migration management category," one of the senior administration officials said. "While we're very much coordinated, we aren't having those conversations but others in the White House are."Harris' focus, though, remains on the Northern Triangle.To achieve sustainability, some level of government buy-in will be necessary, argued Matt Rooney, managing director of the Bush Institute-SMU Economic Growth Initiative and member of the Partnership for Central America working group. And that can be complicated by the systemic issues plaguing Central American governments.In El Salvador, there's concern about limiting checks and balances in government, while in Honduras, where the president has been implicated in a drug trafficking case, there's greater concern about corruption within government. And in Guatemala, there are also concerns about government corruption. "You have to ask yourself in that case: Why isn't there more? And why are there companies in the United States who operate in industries that, where you could business in Central America, why aren't they doing business in Central America?" Rooney said. "The answer to that question is that there are dysfunctions in the investment environment."Listed in the administration's root causes strategy is fostering a "business enabling environment" by implementing reforms. Senior administration officials conceded that tackling corruption and effecting change within governments is a challenge but reiterated that for countries to thrive, infrastructure needs to be put in place to facilitate economic growth."There are going to be ups and downs along the way," a senior administration official told CNN. "Really the only long-term solution to regional migration patterns that we see from those three countries in particular is to create the conditions for people to have hope at home."
Harris' trip to Paris signals a relationship back on track. Paris (CNN)As French President Emmanuel Macron arrived at the Arc de Triomphe for a national televised Armistice Day Ceremony, Vice President Kamala Harris -- donning the traditional bleuet de France honoring veterans -- waited to greet him.As they clasped arms, the chummy chemistry that had begun to emerge between the pair was on display for all to see -- an outward sign of the latest US attempt to mend its relationship with France following a submarine affair that provoked a diplomatic rift between the two old allies. "It's important for us to be here," Harris told Macron as they embraced. "We have a long and shared history -- and future." The moment was just one of several images that defined Harris' tightly choreographed five-day trip to the French capital and told the story that Harris -- and President Joe Biden, who dispatched her there -- intended to tell: that of a French-American relationship back on track. The trip also served as an opportunity for Harris to emerge onto the European diplomatic stage for the first time as vice president, successfully playing an important foreign policy role for the Biden administration after stumbling during her first foreign trip to Mexico and Guatemala in June. "I will tell you that it was a very productive and a good trip," Harris said to reporters on Saturday, "and we have a lot of follow-up stuff. ... Our work will continue, and we do it with a sense of optimism but a sense of strong conviction that the partnership between the United States and France remains and will continue to be very strong."Unlike in June -- which saw Harris' stumbles in an interview overshadow an otherwise successful trip -- Harris managed to avoid controversy and steer clear of diplomatic and political minefields. She left France on Saturday and is set to arrive in Washington later in the day.Asked by CNN about Macron's push for a European strategic autonomy and a European army -- a nuanced and sensitive issue in the relationship -- Harris dodged, simply saying that US-French "support and alignment" would continue. And even as the breach of trust with France over the US-Australia submarine deal propelled Harris to the French capital, Harris and her aides said the issue did not come up with Macron. "I will tell you that was not the purpose of this trip, and we didn't discuss it," Harris said Friday, when speaking to reporters in Paris. The vice president has been asked if she believed she had done the job to repair the relationship, after the scuttled deal."What we did discuss is the issues that are challenging us and the issues that are the basis for this relationship and the strength and the endurance of this relationship," she added.Harris' trip produced just two tangible agreements, expanded US-French space cooperation and a US decision to sign onto the Paris Call for Trust and Security in Cyberspace, a French initiative setting rules of the road in cyberspace. But while French officials are still eager to see the US take concrete actions to bolster European defenses, the lack of tangible results on that front during this trip did not cause any distress in Paris. After largely burying the hatchet with Biden ahead of the G20 in Rome last month, Macron seemed largely content to revel in the gesture of the vice president's presence in Paris and the gesture of a lengthy trip as the next step in the process. "I want to thank you for your presence. You're more than welcome not just in this palace with myself and my ministers, but I can tell you that French people are extremely proud to have you here today," Macron said as he opened a meeting with Harris at the Elyse, adding in French that he was "extremely grateful" for her visit.Harris' visit to the Elyse gave her and Macron an opportunity to spend time one-on-one, without aides present, before sitting down for a bilateral meeting that went over time, prompting French protocol officials to enter the room three times in an effort to wrap up the meeting. Harris and Macron laughed about those attempts the next morning as they met for the Armistice Day Ceremony. Beyond their time together, Harris' solo visits were also powerful diplomatic messaging moments. Harris' multi-hour attendance and remarks at the Paris Peace Forum helped lend credibility to a Macron initiative. Her visit to the French biomedical research Pasteur Institute highlighted longstanding French-American cooperation on scientific research -- as well as Harris' own personal connection to that cooperation in the form of her mother's research at the institute in the 80s. And a final visit to one of the sites of the 2015 terrorist attacks in Paris on the sixth anniversary underscored shared values and a commitment to fighting terrorism. But it was Harris' visit to the Suresnes American Cemetery, where Americans who fought and died in France during World Wars I and II are buried, that served as perhaps the most powerful reminder of the shared sacrifice between the two countries and a deeply rooted bond."If there is any question about the why or the what, in terms of our relationship as the United States with France, that is one visual and one concrete example of the endurance and the mutual commitment and interdependence between the United States and France," Harris said on Friday, reflecting on her visit to the cemetery. 
Vice President Harris' team tries to distance her from fraught situation at the border .  (CNN)In the weeks since the President asked her to take charge of immigration from Central America, Vice President Kamala Harris and her staff have sought to make one thing clear: She does not manage the southern border. Two White House officials familiar with the dynamic said Harris and her aides have emphasized internally that they want to focus on conditions in Central America that push migrants to the US southern border, as President Joe Biden tasked her to do. A record number of unaccompanied children crossed into the US this spring, and the throngs of desperate minors present a heart-rending problem as well as a political one. Biden announced Harris' new assignment on March 24 ahead of an immigration meeting in the White House State Dining Room, telling reporters that he had asked the vice president "because she's the most qualified person to do it, to lead our efforts with Mexico and the Northern Triangle, and the countries that can help, need help in stemming the movement of so many folks, stemming the migration to our southern border."After the announcement, Harris' aides appeared to "panic," according to one of the officials, out of concern that her assignment was being mischaracterized and could be politically damaging if she were linked to the border, which at the time was facing a growing number of arrivals. But another White House official pushed back on the sentiment, saying the vice president's team wasn't panicked. One of the officials said Harris appears eager for a portfolio that will allow her to achieve political victories, especially in foreign policy, an area where she is far less experienced than Biden. Instead, Republican critics and the media have portrayed her new immigration role as a border assignment, potentially opening her up to criticism for the handling of the seemingly intractable problem.  Harris' performance is critical to her future political career, which could well include a run for president. It's also of special concern right now as she prepares to depart for a trip to Guatemala and Mexico next week as part of this project. It will be her first official foray into in-person, in-country talks about the troubles that push Central American migrants toward the US.   Harris and her staff have made it clear that they want to focus narrowly on diplomatic efforts in Mexico and the Northern Triangle countries of Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador, where they believe they are more likely to achieve tangible results in addressing the root causes of migration, like economic despair, said the officials. The recent commitments Harris secured from 12 private companies and organizations to invest in the Northern Triangle are one example. Harris has conceded that the task assigned to her is a challenging one that won't be quickly resolved. "We have to give people some sense of hope that if they stay, that help is on the way," she told CNN's Dana Bash. "It's not going to be solved overnight; it's a complex issue. If this were easy, it would've been handled years ago."Former and current officials, along with immigration experts, stress that the causes of migration and the surge on the border are inextricably linked and argue that while addressing the reasons people decide to migrate to the US is critical, it can't be divorced from what's happening at the US-Mexico border.  "You can't divorce the border from Mexico or Central America or the interior of the US," said John Sandweg, a former senior Homeland Security official who served in the Obama administration. "It is all one system."   "Everything you're doing in Central America is always towards an eye on the border and what's happening in the United States," said Cris Ramon, an immigration consultant. "With the current dynamics in migration, what's happening at the US-Mexico border has implications in the Northern Triangle and vice versa."A White House official told CNN that administration officials regularly brief Harris on the border. Tens of thousands migrants from Central America arrive at the US-Mexico border monthly. In April, of the 178,622 migrants encountered by US Customs and Border Protection, 79,190, or roughly 44%, were from El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras, according to the agency's data, the very countries where Harris is supposed to be addressing migration to the US. The pandemic has taken a dramatic toll on Latin America, where Covid-19 cases and deaths soared and economies once projected to grow have been decimated. The region was also hit with two devastating hurricanes last year.  The decline in economic growth in 2020, according to the Congressional Research Service, is expected to worsen income inequality and poverty in the region. That, combined with pent-up demands and the perception of the Biden administration being more lenient, has fueled people trying to cross the US-Mexico border. The Biden administration assigned roles early on to tackle migration, including Roberta S. Jacobson, who was appointed as a special assistant to the President and was a key official dealing with migrants at the US-Mexico border until stepping down in April. The administration also assigned a Northern Triangle special envoy, a position held by Ricardo Ziga, who frequently travels to the region.Harris' role -- which mimics that of Biden under President Barack Obama -- is intended to target what's driving people to the US. Harris, thought to be a leading Democratic candidate for the 2024 presidential race should Biden not run for reelection, has not shied away from the tough assignment and is engaged and dedicated to her new role, sources told CNN. But she and her staff appeared wary of becoming a scapegoat for Republicans for any and all problems at the southern border -- a not-unfounded concern, especially after GOP lawmakers photoshopped her face onto a milk carton and accused her of being "missing" at the border.  The fraught politics is why, immediately after the President announced Harris' new role, Harris' aides seemed dismayed when they saw some Republicans and media outlets try to characterize her as the new border czar, said one of the White House officials familiar with the matter. Another White House official said Harris has been focused on the assignment and rejected the notion that her team was concerned about how her role was being perceived.  But following Biden's announcement, both the President and vice president's staff clarified repeatedly that Harris would be focused solely on diplomatic efforts to stem the current flow of migrants and develop a larger strategic partnership with Central America. Harris has stressed that her role is to address the "root causes" of migration beginning in the Northern Triangle countries and Mexico, rather than the "symptoms" of it manifesting at the border, which are being addressed by the Homeland Security secretary. Without a diplomatic push in those countries, "we are just in a perpetual system of only dealing with the symptoms," she said in April.Harris' meetings also indicate where her focus has been. Immigration advocates and regional experts who have participated in roundtables with the vice president describe Harris asking detailed questions on a variety of issues, like agricultural science and water irrigation strategies to tackle food insecurity and infrastructure needs.Another source familiar with the ongoing discussions on regional strategy said the vice president's office has been soliciting research on issues, ranging from governance to economic development to climate change, from foundations that study and work in the region."She's asking for a lot of information. ... She's reaching out to a lot of groups to get the best information and to really go in with a sense of who is who and the sense of how can they -- the administration -- move the agenda," the source said, adding that prior to a recent meeting with Guatemalan justice sector leaders, the vice president's team asked for input on what issues to raise with them.   Internally, Harris has been intimately involved in the crafting of a regional strategy, communicating regularly with National Security Council officials. Cabinet members, along with other administration officials, are also putting together proposals on the administration's root-causes strategy, which Harris is expected to discuss while in Mexico and Guatemala in June, a senior administration official previously told CNN. "She'll have to approve this. We'll brief it to her, she'll make changes and then once she's ready to roll it out, that's what we're going to do," the official said.
Investment group purchases Trump hotel in DC and is expected to remove Trump name.  (CNN)The Trump Organization has reached a deal with the investment fund CGI Merchant Group to purchase the lease for the Trump International Hotel in Washington, DC, for $375 million, according to a person familiar with the matter.The Miami group is expected to remove the Trump name from the ornate building located a short walk from the White House and is partnering with Hilton Worldwide Holdings to brand it a Waldorf Astoria, according to the person familiar. The deal is subject to approval by the General Services Administration (GSA), which will conduct a 60-day review, because the federal government owns the property.The Wall Street Journal first reported news of the deal. The CGI Merchant Group declined to comment to CNN. CNN has reached out to the Trump Organization for comment. Former President Donald Trump's company had been in advanced talks with CGI Merchant Group this fall to sell the lease of the hotel, CNN previously reported.Last month, the House Oversight Committee released documents showing the DC property, which attracted conservative lobbyists throughout the Trump presidency, lost $70 million while he was in office. (The former President had publicly claimed the hotel was making more than tens of millions of dollars.) The company has been trying to sell the property since 2019 but paused last year when the pandemic all but shuttered the hospitality industry.The GSA, which manages federal buildings and land, awarded the lease for the Old Post Office building in 2012. Trump opened the hotel in 2016, when he was the Republican nominee for president.Since then, the House Oversight Committee had been investigating conflicts of interest regarding GSA's management of the Trump hotel lease.When he took office, Trump resigned from his companies but transferred his assets to a trust run by his sons, allowing him to still benefit financially from the DC hotel and his other businesses.In 2019, the inspector general of the GSA said the agency "ignored the Constitution" when deciding to maintain the lease of the building to the hotel after Trump was elected to the White House.The documents released by the Oversight Committee showed the hotel received millions from foreign governments in payments and loan deferral, which Trump did not disclose, raising questions about potential conflicts of interest during his presidency.The disclosure marked the first time that congressional investigators had reviewed and released details of the former President's financial information, though the Trump Organization had challenged the committee's understanding of accounting and denied any wrongdoing.
Southwest employee hospitalized after being assaulted by female passenger.  (CNN)A Southwest Airlines employee was taken to a Dallas hospital Saturday after being assaulted by a passenger at Love Field Airport, according to the airline and the Dallas Police Department.The female passenger "verbally and physically" assaulted the female operations agent shortly after being asked to get off the flight she had just boarded from Dallas to La Guardia Airport in New York City, Southwest told CNN in an email. Dallas Police said in a statement that shortly after boarding, 32-year-old Arielle Jean Jackson had a verbal altercation with an operations agent in the back of the plane, then was asked to exit the aircraft.As she was exiting, Jackson got into another verbal altercation with a second agent and struck her with a "closed fist on the head," the statement said. Jackson was charged with aggravated assault, Dallas Police say. Jail records show she is being held on a $10,000 bond. CNN has not been able to identify an attorney for Jackson at this time. The employee was transported to a local hospital and released on Saturday evening, according to Southwest's email. She is at home resting, the airline said."Southwest Airlines maintains a zero-tolerance policy regarding any type of harassment or assault and fully support our employee as we cooperate with local authorities regarding this unacceptable incident," the email said. The incident is one among many verbal and physical attacks on flight staff reported during the Covid-19 pandemic. Flight crews have reported 5,114 unruly passenger incidents since the start of 2021, according to the Federal Aviation Administration. FAA data shows more than 70% of incidents were over masks.The incidents have ranged from shouting to spitting and physical altercations with airline staff. In May this year a Southwest Airlines passenger who allegedly punched a flight attendant was fined more than $26,000, the FAA said.The agency announced earlier this month it had fined 10 violent airline passengers a total of nearly $250,000.CNN's Pete Muntean and Gregory Wallace contributed to this report.
Xi's China is closing to the world. And it isn't just about borders. Hong Kong (CNN)It's been nearly two years since China shut its international borders as part of its efforts to keep Covid-19 out.China tamed the initial outbreak in Wuhan by locking down the city of more than 10 million people, confining residents to their homes for weeks and suspending public transportation.Since then, Beijing has adopted a zero-tolerance playbook to quell resurgences of the virus. Harnessing the reach and force of the authoritarian state and its surveillance power, it has imposed snap lockdowns, tracked close contacts, placed thousands into quarantine and tested millions.Before anywhere else in the world, China's economy roared back to growth and life returned to something approaching normal  all within a bubble created to shield its 1.4 billion people from a raging pandemic that has wreaked havoc and claimed millions of lives across the globe. The ruling Communist Party has seized on that success, touting it as evidence of the supposed superiority of its one-party system over Western democracies, especially the United States.But as the pandemic drags on, local outbreaks have continued to flare up, frustrating the government's mission to eliminate the virus within China's borders.And now, as much of the world starts to reopen and learn to live with Covid, China is looking increasingly isolated by comparison  and determinedly inward-facing.This apparent inward turn is evident in the itinerary of the country's supreme leader Xi Jinping, who hasn't left China for almost 22 months and counting.It is manifest in the drastic reduction in people-to-people exchanges between China and the rest of the world, as the flow of tourist, academic and business trips slows to a trickle.But it is also reflected in parts of the country's national psyche  a broader shift that has been years in the making since Xi took the helm of the Communist Party nearly a decade ago, yet accentuated and exacerbated by the pandemic and the politics around it.While taking increasing pride in China's traditional culture and growing national strength, many Chinese people are turning progressively suspicious, critical or even outright hostile toward the West  along with any ideas, values or other forms of influence associated with it.In a sense, the closed borders have almost become a physical extension of that insular-leaning mentality taking hold in parts of China, from top leaders to swathes of the general public. For now, Beijing's zero-Covid policy still enjoys overwhelming public support, even as China shows no sign of reopening in the foreseeable future. But analysts question how sustainable it is for the country to remain shut off from the world  and whether there could be considerations other than public health at play.Sealed behind China's bordersFor nearly two years, most people in China have been unable to travel overseas, due to the country's stringent border restrictions: international flights are limited, quarantine upon reentry is harsh and lengthy, and Chinese authorities have ceased issuing or renewing passports for all but essential travel.Foreign visitors, from tourists to students, are largely banned from China. Those few who are allowed to enter, as well as returning Chinese citizens, must undergo at least 14 days of strict centralized quarantine. And that can be extended to up to 28 days by local authorities, often followed by another lengthy period of home observation.The Chinese government has ordered local authorities to build permanent quarantine facilities for overseas arrivals, following the example of the southern metropolis of Guangzhou, which erected a 5,000-room quarantine center spanning an area the size of 46 football fields.  With the borders virtually sealed, even China's top leaders are bunkering down in the country. Neither Xi nor Premier Li Keqiang, or the other five members on the party's top decision-making Politburo Standing Committee, are known to have made foreign visits during the pandemic.Xi's last trip abroad was in January 2020, when he made a two-day visit to Myanmar to promote his signature Belt and Road Initiative  an ambitious program to boost infrastructure and trade across Asia, Europe and Africa, which has lost much of its steam since Covid-19 emerged.The border closure has also come as China is turning inward on itself ideologically under Xi, said Carl Minzner, a senior fellow for China studies at the Council on Foreign Relations. "Ideologically, China is slowly becoming more insular compared to the reform and opening up era of the '80s and '90s  this is a hallmark of Xi's new era," he said.Over the past years, a revival of traditional culture has taken hold across Chinese society, particularly among the younger generation who are proud of their cultural roots. The trend is encouraged and heavily promoted by the party, in what Minzner calls "a strategic effort to deploy Chinese tradition as an ideological shield against foreign values, particularly Western ones."Since taking office in late 2012, Xi has repeatedly warned against the "infiltration" of Western values such as democracy, press freedom and judicial independence. He has clamped down on foreign NGOs, churches, as well as Western textbooks  all seen as vehicles for undue foreign influence.That has fueled a growing strand of narrow-minded nationalism, which casts suspicion on any foreign ties and views feminism, the LGBTQ movement, and even environmentalism as stooges of Western influence designed to undermine China.Since the pandemic, that intolerance has only grown.In June, nearly 200 Chinese intellectuals who participated in a Japanese government-sponsored exchange program were attacked on Chinese social media and branded "traitors"  for trips they took years ago.In July, journalists from several foreign media outlets covering deadly floods in northern China were harassed online and at the scene by local residents, with staff from the BBC and Los Angeles Times receiving death threats, according to the Foreign Correspondents' Club of China.And in August, a Chinese infectious disease expert was called a "traitor" who "blindly worshiped Western ideas" for suggesting China should eventually learn to coexist with Covid. Some even accused him of colluding with foreign forces to sabotage China's pandemic response.While it is unclear to what extent these nationalist sentiments represent mainstream opinion, they've been given overriding prominence in China's government-managed public discourse, where most liberal-leaning voices have been silenced.Victor Shih, a China expert at the University of California, San Diego, said while Xi's predecessors had "grudgingly tolerated" Western reporters, NGO workers and sometimes even welcomed academics to China, the current administration now views their presence as sources of undesirable influences.And Covid measures have become a convenient way to keep them out. Since the pandemic, most academics and non-profit workers have stopped going to China due to the border restrictions and quarantine requirements, Shih said. "This heavy filter that is applied today  and had been applied prior to the pandemic  will help filter out what (Chinese leaders) see as undesirable elements from coming into China and polluting the values of the Chinese people," Shih said.But even after the border reopens, it remains to be seen how the Chinese government will allow foreign visitors to return  and whether some sort of additional screening might stay in place."The question is how quickly it'll want to relax restrictions on the flows of people into and out of China. Currently, that's primarily a health-related issue. But I do think the longer it takes, it also begins to get fused into political issues," said Minzer, from the Council on Foreign Relations."It totally seems possible to me that the relaxations happen for different groups at different times," he said, adding that foreign researchers who focus on topics the Chinese government deems politically sensitive could be among the last to be allowed in.But Shih noted that attempts to eliminate "foreign influence" were unlikely to work, when China eventually resumes contact with the world. Despite Beijing's deteriorating relations with the United States, Britain, Australia and other Western countries, large numbers of Chinese students are still likely to pursue their studies there. When the US Embassy and consulates in China resumed issuing student visas to Chinese nationals in May, they were flooded with applications. In August, before the start of the new academic year, the Shanghai Pudong International Airport saw long lines of students and parents with big suitcases stretching hundreds of meters at check-in."China cannot do without its best and brightest. They will go back to China  having lived in the West, some of them will love China even more, others will gain this skepticism about the Chinese political system," he said.Public support for zero CovidFor now, Chinese authorities are doubling down on their resolve to eliminate the virus, resorting to increasingly extreme measures to curb local flare-ups.Public health experts have attributed China's reluctance to relax its zero-Covid policy partly to uncertainty about the efficacy of Chinese vaccines, especially in face of the highly infectious Delta variant.But political considerations have also played a role. Since containing the initial outbreak in Wuhan, the Chinese government has held up its effective containment efforts as proof of the supposed superiority of the country's authoritarian political system. The success of zero-Covid is thus hailed as an ideological and moral victory over the faltering response of the US and other Western democracies.And there is plenty of public support for the hardline approach, too. In China, public tolerance toward infections is extremely low, and fear of the virus still runs high -- partly caused by scarring memories of the devastation in Wuhan, but also fed by unrelenting state media coverage on the horror of rampaging infections abroad.Beijing has repeatedly blamed local flare-ups on the import of coronavirus from overseas, either through air passengers, frozen food or other goods. On social media, calls have been growing for authorities to extend the already lengthy quarantine for overseas arrivals, as many blamed Chinese travelers returning from abroad for bringing the virus to China."In mainstream opinion, Covid-19 is still regarded as an extremely deadly disease -- even if you don't die from it you'll suffer from some kinds of serious health problems for the rest of your life -- people are genuinely afraid," said Lucas Li, a software engineer from southern Guangdong province.Li, who works in California, has had a tough time traveling between China and the US over the past two years. After returning home for Lunar New Year in 2020, he was trapped for eight months in China due to the US travel ban. Then in May, he had to rush home again for family reasons, but flights to China were hard to come by. He ended up paying $4,800 for a one-way ticket -- about seven times the price of a round trip in usual times -- and underwent two weeks of hotel quarantine.Li said while he doesn't necessarily agree with zero-Covid, he understands why the government is sticking to it. The border closure has had limited impact on the Chinese economy, and the lack of international travel or exchanges is hardly a concern for most people, he said. While overseas vacations had become a common part of life for China's growing middle class, the country's vast size and rich diversity provides plenty of options for domestic tourism as an alternative. And for people like Li, essential travel outside of China is still possible, albeit troublesome."I'm very sure the mainstream public opinion will choose to continue with the border closure -- this is without a doubt," Li said.But experts say that could come at a political cost for China, which has seen its international image plummet since the start of the pandemic. Unfavorable views of China have reached record highs among much of the developed world, according to surveys conducted by the Pew Research Service. "Other political parties, or even maybe Xi's predecessors, might have seen this dramatic reduction in contact between China and the rest of the world as a big problem. But for now, the Xi administration does not seem to recognize this as a problem," University of California's Shih said."(If) China wants to persuade the world that it is a benign power ... it needs to engage the world."But right now, that seems a long way off.
Can policy prevent another Astroworld tragedy?. A version of this story appeared in CNN's What Matters newsletter. To get it in your inbox, sign up for free here.Washington (CNN)Nine deaths. A flurry of lawsuits. Many, many unanswered questions. Last week's Astroworld Music Festival tragedy in Houston has touched off a new debate at the intersection of venue safety, artist responsibility and crowd etiquette.  Travis Scott has maintained he did not know what was happening in the crowd during his set, disputing city officials' account of his role in the deadly surge. But until authorities are done investigating the tragedy, definitive answers are in short order. For help understanding the role that policy plays in shaping events like Astroworld -- and the role that it could play moving forward -- CNN turned to Gil Fried, a crowd management expert and professor at the University of West Florida. Our conversation, conducted over the phone and lightly edited for length and clarity, is below. CNN: As a jumping off point, can you tell me what goes into planning an event at the scale of an Astroworld festival?GF: I mean, there's a lot of moving parts. If we're taking a look at like a World Series or Super Bowl, you're looking at a couple of years' worth of planning. For an event like this, you don't need a couple of years, but you need a number of months. And it could take about a year out, I mean just for finalizing the date, making sure there's no major conflicts, things like that.But the earnest thing will take a number of months. One is pulling all the rights permits. You need to have the staff. You need to get all the sponsors. You need to get all the marketing, ticketing stock. I mean there's just so many different variables and the most important, at least in this context, is you have to get all the right players together to meet and to address all the different issues.And part of that is, in our industry, we have something called an "Event file." Normally you keep a file from past events and then you can look at them and say, "What went right? What went wrong? What can we do going forward to make sure the event is the best possible event?" Whether it's for marketing, whether it's fan support or if it's violence -- you want to be able to have that, so you can look at it and then judge it: "Okay, what do we have to do going forward?"We know that in this context, the artist has had past problems, whether it was at Astroworld or other concerts, where he encouraged fans not to listen to security. If you knew of that going in, then you have to take more significant steps to try to minimize the potential for issues. CNN: Can you speak to the laws that event organizers or artists have to stay within? Are there laws? GF: So I'd love to say, "This is America, we're so advanced." We're nowhere close to what it's like in -- primarily in England -- but they also have it in Canada and Australia: There's a thing called the Green Guide, which really sets forward from the federal government in those countries what facilities have to do, how they have to manage their events, what constitutes a safe event, because they've had some major tragedies in England and they utilize this guide to help them prepare for, and address, any possible issues that might arise in the future.And so we see it all too often that our industry has seen a number of very important steps, but it also is way behind the times. So we don't have a national policy; most states don't have a policy such as "This is how we're going to respond in case of X, Y, or Z." We don't have that. So what do we have? We have a hodgepodge of industry best practices that are advocated by different organizations and groups.One that is very well-regarded is the National Fire Protection Association that says you have to have one trained crowd manager for every 250 people in attendance. So if you're going to have 25,000 people attending, you need to have at least 100 trained crowd managers. CNN: It's pretty surprising that there's really nothing at the state or the national level for something like this.GF: Yeah so, often times when they do develop something is after a tragedy. And I think that's frustrating for a lot of people when there aren't set national laws or something like that. But I think also we have to remember that the reason why there aren't national laws is that every venue is different. Some venues you can't bring in a handgun, others say you can.And so everything -- you always have to balance it out. And our industry normally does a pretty good job of it. This case, I think it might be a different story. ... The evidence was clear that it got out of hand a lot earlier with the crashing of the gates. Second, during the performance, you had visible signs of ambulance presence and other presence with flashing lights in the middle of the crowd. And the artist did not stop. They did not turn on all the houselights, and from what I understand, there were efforts to try to stop it. And the police chief was concerned about stopping the concert because of the possibility of a mob, but that could be diffused very, very quickly by the artist.And that's, I think, my big concern here. I handled a case a number of years ago with Eminem where there was a crowd rush at an Eminem concert down South. And a number of people got injured, and he ended up making a game out of it.He said, "Okay, everyone, I'm going to start a new dance with you. Okay. Two steps back, one step forward, two steps back, one step forward." And he was trying to alleviate the pressure of everyone that was pushed up against the barricade by doing that. And an artist can do that. An artist can say, "Hey folks, I'm going to stop the concert for a couple minutes because we have an issue here. You know what, I'll make it up for you guys. I'll sing an extra song at the end, but I need you to listen to me. Everyone, let's turn on the houselights. Let's do X, let's do Y." Artists can do that and that's not going to trigger a mob. People are going to be respectful and listen to that.CNN: Do you think some sort of new policy at some level could emerge from this tragedy?GF: I hope so. And our industry has been very good about self-policing ourselves.And I think that is a concern, is that when the government does it, will they do a good job? If the government were to do it with the industry, and get their involvement from a broad swath of the industry, maybe that could be a strong benefit. But we just don't know enough about the facts to jump to conclusion, to blame the industry, to blame concerts, to point fingers. That's what everyone tries to do in these kinds of cases. And everyone tries to play Monday morning quarterback and say, "If you would have done X, it would not have happened." I've been in enough of these cases where it's normally not just one thing.And so, I would like to work with the governments, whether it's state or federal government, but let's do it in a smart and strategic way, rather than just having someone up on high saying, "I think this is a great mandate. You should do X," without our input.CNN: I have to imagine part of the challenge with an artist like Travis Scott is that part of the apparent appeal of his shows is an element of things being out of control. I mean, that's kind of a hard thing to discourage when it's a feature and not a bug.GF: People like, sometimes, confrontation. And our society is getting more and more violent and you could see it in this situation. I understand the issue of -- this was part of his game plan, so to speak, is that I'm going to get people hopped up and juiced up and they're going to be energized and feel great and damn the rules.Well, if people are more prone and interested in violence, this could be a way to help foster that. And that's going to be very sad because if it's going to happen here, why not at a movie theater? Why not at a restaurant? 
California just set a new gas price record. New York (CNN Business)California gas prices hit an average of $4.676 Sunday, beating its previous record average price of $4.671 for regular gasoline set in October 2012, according to AAA.It was about a penny away from beating the record on Friday and was tied for it on Saturday. America's largest state by population has the highest gas prices in the country. The national average dropped slightly to $3.413 Sunday. AAA said heavy rainstorms in Northern California have pinched production capacity, which then trickled down to Southern California  just what happened in Louisiana with Hurricane Ida."It's a bit of a supply crunch we have right now, there's nothing major, until the refineries in Northern California can get back up to full production capacity," Jeffrey Spring, Corporate Communications Manager of the Automobile Club of Southern California said. Prices are pushing $5 in some areas, including Northern California's Humboldt County, where the average price was $4.968 Sunday. The Bay Area has surged to more than $4.80. Doug Shupe, a spokesperson for AAA, said that although Californians are used to paying more for gas, the price has been much higher lately. "Drivers are paying $1.50 more per gallon than a year ago," Shupe told CNN. "It means the person who has the typical midsize sedan with a 14 gallon size fuel tank, they're paying $21 more to fill up that tank today than last year."Shupe says the primary reasons for the price spike are higher crude oil prices and pent up demand from the pandemic. "Typically we see prices at the pump fall off after Labor Day because people have completed their summer vacations. Kids are back in school," Shupe said. "But this year people are still traveling. There's still that demand for fuel to get to where people want to go."Gas prices have been increasing steadily throughout the year as fuel demand grows around the globe and suppliers have been unable  or unwilling  to produce more oil. Although US oil prices have surged by more than 65% this year, US oil production is about 14% below the levels of the end of 2019, before Covid erupted. Gasoline prices have surged to seven-year highs, and Wall Street banks are warning that $100 or even $120 oil is on its way. Prices haven't plateaued quite yet, Spring said. "What's happening up in the Bay Area indicates that maybe we're at the tippy top of this price increases, barring any other issues," Spring said. "So we're hoping by the end of the year that things will start heading downward."California reached its record price in 2012 following refinery glitches that caused prices to spike for a few weeks before coming back down.- CNN Business' Matt Egan contributed to this report. 
Michael Flynn's comments on Christianity are outrageous but not surprising. Dean Obeidallah, a former attorney, is the host of SiriusXM radio's daily program "The Dean Obeidallah Show" and a columnist for The Daily Beast. Follow him @DeanObeidallah. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion articles on CNN. (CNN)Michael Flynn, Donald Trump's former National Security adviser who pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI and was later pardoned by Trump, wants to make it clear that in the United States, "If we are going to have one nation under God -- which we must -- we have to have one religion."Of course, to Flynn, that one religion is Christianity. (After all, 75% of White evangelicals voted for Trump in the 2020 election, according to exit polls.) Flynn made these remarks in Texas on Saturday as part of the "ReAwaken America Tour," a conservative conference that features other Trump supporters, like Roger Stone and the My Pillow CEO/election conspiracy peddler Mike Lindell. While speaking at the event, Flynn referenced a passage from the New Testament book of Matthew, saying, "You have to believe this, that God Almighty is, like, involved in this country, because this is it ... This is the shining city on the hill." That's when Flynn triggered a wave of backlash with his suggestion America should have one singular religion. "One nation under God, and one religion under God," he said. "I don't care what your ecumenical service is or what you are." Now imagine if a Muslim or Jewish American leader made the same comment that the United States should have one faith, and that it should be Islam or Judaism. The outrage from the right would be deafening. But with Flynn's comments, there hasn't been noticeable pushback from conservatives. In fact, it's been the opposite. GOP Ohio Senate candidate Josh Mandel, who is Jewish, appears to see Flynn's comments as being in step with his own "Judeo-Christian values": "We Stand with General Flynn," Mandel tweeted in response to the backlash. "America was not founded as a secular nation." Politics does truly make strange bedfellows.  In contrast, Minnesota Rep. Ilhan Omar, who is Muslim American, tweeted in response to Flynn's comments, "These people hate the US Constitution." I don't know if Flynn and those who support his mindset "hate" the Constitution, but I am certain that they either don't believe in or don't understand our Constitution and the freedom of religion guaranteed by the First Amendment. This is the same Flynn who in 2016 repeatedly pushed debunked conspiracy theories that there was an effort to impose Islamic Sharia law on the rest of the country. "This Sharia law business, what's happening right here in the state of Texas is unbelievable," Flynn said at a San Antonio event that year hosted by ACT! for America, an anti-Muslim hate group per the Anti-Defamation League. At another 2016 speech in Texas, as CNN detailed, Flynn again falsely claimed there are Muslims who want to dominate America by imposing Islamic law: "I want people to understand that there are different laws that are not our laws that others try to impose," he said. As a Muslim, let me be clear that there aren't any Muslims -- then or now -- trying to impose any of our religious beliefs onto the law of the United States. This was simply part of the right-wing demonization of Muslims because it played well with the GOP base. It's the same reason why, during the 2016 presidential campaign, Trump lied on NBC saying Muslims "don't want the laws that we have. They want Sharia law." Beyond despicably demonizing other faiths, these examples show an idea of "freedom of religion" that ironically revolves around imposing one's beliefs upon the rest of us. Several on the right have been showing us that for years. For example, when Mike Huckabee ran for president in 2008, he bluntly said the US Constitution should be amended "so it's in God's standard" -- phrasing he later clarified after critics caught wind of the quote. And during his 2012 presidential run, Rick Santorum declared "our civil laws have to comport with a higher law: God's law." These Republicans were telling all who would listen that their goal was turning their religious beliefs into American law.And we now have Republicans doing just that with their religion-based oppression of women's reproductive rights. The most visible example is the Texas GOP's anti-abortion law, which has garnered headlines for empowering private citizens to behave as vigilantes with the ability to sue anyone involved in securing an abortion beyond about six weeks of pregnancy. When Texas' Republican Gov. Greg Abbott signed the legislation, he explained the rationale behind it as being faith-based: "Our creator endowed us with the right to life, and yet millions of children lose their right to life every year because of abortion," he said. "In Texas, we work to save those lives and that's exactly what the Texas Legislature did this session." That's the same reasoning behind the Arkansas ban on nearly all abortions except to save the life of the mother. When the state's GOP Gov. Asa Hutchinson signed it, he declared the law was predicated upon his "sincere and long-held pro-life convictions." (As with the Texas law, Arkansas' ban has faced legal challenges for its obvious violation of Roe v. Wade.)These laws are based on the religious belief held by some that life begins at conception. Having the freedom to personally follow one's faith is what our nation is predicated upon. Turning those religious beliefs into laws every American then must follow, however, is not. In fact, it's un-American, given that our First Amendment states "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion."No one should be surprised by Flynn's comments. He's simply repeating what some in the GOP have long championed: The idea that "freedom of religion" is imposing their religious beliefs upon the rest of us. It's no wonder, then, why many on Twitter reacted to Flynn's comments with the phrase "American Taliban." 
NPR books editor Petra Mayer dies at 46. New York, NY (CNN)NPR books editor Petra Mayer died Saturday at age 46, NPR reported. Mayer was a popular editor on NPR's Culture desk, drawing in readers and listeners with her outpouring of knowledge of cats, comics and science fiction, as well as her on-site reporting at Comic-Con. Mayer died at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Springs, Maryland, of what's believed to be a pulmonary embolism, Nancy Barnes, NPR's senior vice president for news, said in an email to staff."This is a heartbreaking loss for all of us at NPR, our Member Stations, and the millions of listeners in the public radio family. Petra's passion for her work, her love for her colleagues, and her joy sharing books with public radio listeners have made a lasting impact. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family & friends," NPR said in a statement Sunday. Social media held a virtual wake for Mayer on Sunday, with an outpouring of grief from friends, colleagues and long-time NPR listeners and readers. "She was a great champion of deep culture, as well as books and literature coverage at NPR," NPR TV critic Eric Deggans said in an interview with CNN. "And we're all shocked and saddened and her sudden passing. A great bright light at our department that has gone out too soon and too unexpected."A proud, self-proclaimed nerd, Mayer contributed to NPR's Book Concierge and would be a guest chair on the Pop Culture Happy Hour podcast. She joined the books team in 2012, NPR reported. Glen Weldon, co-host of NPR's Pop Culture Happy Hour, said she was the "best and rarest species of nerd" on Twitter Saturday."She was ferociously intelligent, sardonically funny and made your day better by merely existing. She was a passionate voice for genre content that NPR will miss like an ache," Weldon said.  Previously, Mayer was an associate producer and director for the weekend "All Things Considered" and was a production assistant for "Morning Edition" and "Weekend Edition Saturday." She attended Amherst College and received her master's degree in journalism from Columbia University. 
America's 10 most expensive zip codes have median home prices over $4 million.  (CNN)The most expensive areas to live in the US have gotten even more pricey this year as the cost of homes has skyrocketed.The country's top ten most expensive zip codes all have median home prices of more than $4 million, according to a report from Property Shark. This is the first time that has happened. And 30 of the top 100 priciest zip codes have median prices of over $3 million, more than twice the number of areas at that price last year.Atherton, California -- which sits outside of San Francisco in Silicon Valley and is home to tech billionaires and venture capitalists -- is the most expensive zip code in the country for the fifth year in a row, with a median home price of $7.5 million. The town of about 7,000 people, which is more than 70% White, is entirely residential with 90% owner-occupied homes and no commercial zoning, according to the Census Bureau.   California is home to 70% of the priciest housing markets, with 37% in the Bay Area alone, the report found. But the county with the most zip codes on the list was Los  Angeles County, with 21 zip codes in the top 100.A zip code in the affluent Back Bay area of Boston was the second most expensive area in the US, with a median home price of $5.5 million, according to the report. Other areas in the top ten include Sagaponack, New York, in the Hamptons; the enclaves of Medina and Mercer Island in Washington; and in California, zip codes in Santa Barbara, Santa Monica as well as Beverly Hills' well-known 90210 zip code.The pandemic caused some reshuffling at the top of the list. A zip code in Miami, which includes the exclusive Fisher Island, saw a 66% jump in home prices year-over-year and rose from number 23 last year to number five on the list. It is the highest ranking for a Florida zip code since 2017. Meanwhile, a regular mainstay of the top zip codes list, New York City, did not make it into the top 20. Last year marked the first year no zip code in the city made it to the top ten, with the Big Apple falling even further down the list this year. New York's most expensive zip code -- an area in Soho and Lower Manhattan -- was the 22nd most expensive area in the country with a $3.2 million median sale price. A zip code in TriBeCa came in at number 25, with a median sale price of $3.1 million, according to the report. While home prices went up everywhere across the country last year, the top 100 zip codes are only in 10 states: Arizona, California, Connecticut, Florida, Massachusetts, Maryland, New Jersey, Nevada, New York and Washington. 
Rep. Anthony Gonzalez: 'The cold hard truth is Donald Trump led us into a ditch on January 6'.  (CNN)Rep. Anthony Gonzalez of Ohio, a House Republican who voted to impeach former President Donald Trump in his second impeachment trial earlier this year, repeatedly slammed Trump in an extensive sit-down interview with CNN's Jake Tapper."The cold hard truth is Donald Trump led us into a ditch on January 6. The former president lied to us. He lied to every one of us and in doing so he cost (Republicans) the House, the Senate and the White House," Gonzalez said on "State of the Union."He added: "I see, fundamentally, a person who shouldn't be able to hold office again because of what he did around January 6. But I also see somebody who's an enormous political loser. And I don't know why anybody who wants to win elections going forward would follow that. I simply, like, I don't get it ethically. I certainly don't get it politically. Neither of them makes sense."Gonzalez, who was one of 10 House Republicans who voted to impeach Trump, announced in September he would not run for reelection in 2022.Trump campaigned against Gonzalez in June, rallying for primary opponent Max Miller, a former Trump aide.Gonzalez told Tapper he would not support Trump if he runs again for president in 2024 and would instead support a primary opponent or third-party candidate instead of Trump or a Democrat."If he's the nominee again in '24, I will do everything I personally can to make sure he doesn't win. Now I'm not voting for Democrats, but whether that's finding a viable third party or whether that's trying to defeat him in primaries, whatever it is, that's going to be where I'll spend my time," he said. "January 6 was the line that can't be crossed."This story has been updated.
'I keep forgetting you're still alive:' Elon Musk trolls Bernie Sanders on Twitter. New York, NY (CNN)Elon Musk is trolling again on Twitter, and this time his target is Sen. Bernie Sanders."I keep forgetting you're still alive," Musk tweeted Sunday morning, in response to Sanders tweeting that the extremely wealthy should pay their fair share of taxes. CNN Business has reached out to Sanders for comment. "Want me to sell more stock, Bernie? Just say the words..." Musk tweeted an hour later. Musk ended the week selling a grand total of $6.9 billion worth of Tesla shares. That only amounted to less than 4% of the shares he holds directly, and less than 3% including all the options he owns to buy additional shares.Musk certainly qualifies under Sander's description of "the extremely wealthy" --- he's the world's richest person, having a net worth of $285 billion, according to Bloomberg's Billionaires Index. Musk asked the Twitterverse last week if he should sell 10% of his Tesla holdings to pay taxes  58% of voters in his poll responded yes. However, it's doubtful that the results of the Twitter poll were the main motivation for last week's stock sale. Musk faces a looming tax bill that will be triggered by his need to exercise 22.9 million options to purchase shares before next August. That bill would be nearly $10 billion at current market prices.He could also owe state income tax to California, which has a top tax rate of 13.3%. Even though he has moved to Texas, which has no state income tax, he conceded in a recent tweet that he'll still owe California state income taxes because he still spends a lot of time working in the state.Taxing extreme wealth is a big part of Sander's platform. As the chair of the Senate's budget committee, Sanders has proposed an annual tax on the top 0.1 percent of US households, which he claims will raise about $4.35 trillion over the next decade and cut the wealth of billionaires in half over 15 years. He also wants to implement key enforcement policies on the proposed wealth taxes.Democrats had tried to impose a billionaires tax to fund President Joe Biden's sweeping social safety net plan. "Whether or not the world's wealthiest man pays any taxes at all shouldn't depend on the results of a Twitter poll," Sen. Ron Wyden of Oregon tweeted in response to Musk's Twitter poll. "It's time for the Billionaires Income Tax." CNN's Chris Isidore contributed to this report.CNN's Chris Isidore contributed to this report. 
Call of Duty: Vanguard removes Quran pages after critics call the depiction disrespectful.  (CNN)The publisher of the video game Call of Duty: Vanguard has issued an apology after receiving criticism from Muslim players who noticed pages of the Quran lying on the floor during a gameplay scene.The pages from Islam's holy book were seen scattered on the floor. In Islam, the Quran is considered sacred and cannot be placed on the floor or on any dirty surface.Players who recognized the religious text posted photos of the scene on Twitter, with one gamer demanding the game's developers and publishers "remove the pages immediately.""Call of Duty is made for everyone. There was insensitive content to the Muslim community mistakenly included last week, and has since been removed from the game," an Activision spokesperson said in a statement to CNN on Friday. "It should never have appeared as it did in game. We deeply apologize. We are taking immediate steps internally to address the situation to prevent such occurrences in the future." Activision Blizzard publishes Call of Duty, one of the best-selling game franchises in the United States for over a decade."Sometimes the whole point of a diverse team isn't just for gender balance, sometimes it's at least one person pointing out hey maybe putting an entire cultures holy scriptures onto the floor to be stepped as you kill people is super insensitive?" Anisa Sanusi, a Muslim video game developer based in London, wrote on Twitter. "Leave the Quran out of it."In Call of Duty: Vanguard, which is set in World War II, players "experience influential battles" of the war as they fight in Europe, the Pacific and North Africa, according to the game's website.The pages of the Quran appear during zombie mode during the Der Anfang campaign, a survival mode in the game in which players face a wave of zombie soldiers, according to players who posted the screenshots on social media."I understand the effort it takes to make a video game world feel real and believable, however for a piece of set dressing, they could have literally used any other blurb of writing," Sanusi told CNN. "There was absolutely no reason to bring in the Quran into this."Sanusi, 31, said she found the game's inclusion of the Quran "disrespectful.""There is a bare-level minimum of respect expected when it comes to how you treat and portray a religion with 2 billion followers on the planet," she said."When dealing with portraying a culture that is not your own, it's important to have sensitivity measures to avoid instances of cultural appropriation, or in this case, an unintentionally offensive outcome."This is not the first time Call of Duty has attracted negative criticism from Muslim players for insensitive content.In 2012, developers of Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 had to remove a multiplayer map that showed Islamic religious texts including the word "Allah," which is Arabic for God, in a bathroom, according to Fortune.Rami Ismail, a Muslim Dutch-Egyptian game developer, said he is "annoyed and exhausted" with the constant misrepresentation of Islam in the gaming industry."Games have used Muslim lands as war zones and Muslim people as targets for decades -- it is tiring to see additional disrespect towards our people," Ismail told CNN. "Things like this just really shouldn't happen."
Inside the wild world of My Pillow CEO Mike Lindell. New York, NY (CNN)Mike Lindell doesn't just sell pillows. He also sells false hope, CNN's chief media correspondent Brian Stelter said on "Reliable Sources" Sunday.The My Pillow CEO is an insider in Trump world, rewarded with White House access and endorsements by the former president. Now, Lindell has moved on to broadcasting. On Lindell TV, the host frequently says former president Donald Trump is the real president and that the 2020 election will still be overturned. He even claims he's heading to the Supreme Court with a case to bring Trump back into office."This stuff is the real Twilight Zone," Stelter said. "And it's been endorsed by the former president. So Lindell has power even though he's often in a far-right Looney Tunes land."And not only is the show endorsed by Trump, but on Tuesday, Lindell says he's airing a 40-minute interview with the former president.  "This is the Lindell Report, bringing you news combined with hope by offering practical and achievable action points to assist you in defending and preserving faith and freedom," Lindell says in the intro to his show.His far-right corner of the internet, which includes a 24-hour feed and his own version of YouTube, dubbed FrankSpeech.com, has even alienated Fox News. "Fox is the worst media outlet in probably the history of the planet," Lindell said on his show. "Why don't you help save our country?"Advertisements and promotion codes for My Pillow are frequent on the media platform. Zachary Petrizzo, a media reporter at The Daily Beast, covers Lindell TV. He said far-right conspiracy sites such as the Gateway Pundit have a financial incentive to publish Lindell's content because they get a portion of sales from My Pillow promo codes on their sites."I think it's a grift too, but I think Lindell definitely believes in what he's pushing without question," Petrizzo said on Reliable Sources Sunday. The false content has become an issue for traditional right-wing media."The Washington Examiner is keeping an arm's length away from Lindell," Petrizzo said. 
'SNL' takes kids to Ted Cruz Street with Big Bird. New York (CNN Business)"Saturday Night Live" opened this weekend's show with Sen. Ted Cruz taking kids to "Ted Cruz Street," a play on "Sesame Street," on a channel called "Newsmax Kids."The Texas senator, who was played by Aidy Bryant, welcomed everyone to the show while standing near a stoop."Hello, I'm Texas senator and last one invited to Thanksgiving, Ted Cruz," Bryant's Cruz said opening the show. "You know for fifty years I stood by as 'Sesame Street' taught our children dangerous ideas like numbers and kindness."But Bryant's Cruz then explained that when Big Bird tweeted about receiving his Covid-19 vaccine, he had enough and created his own "Sesame Street.""It's a gated community where kids are safe from the woke government," Bryant's Cruz explained about the show.The first guest on "Ted Cruz Street" was Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, played by Cecily Strong, who was carrying an AR-15. "Today's episode is brought to you by Q," she said. "Not the letter, the man."The next guest was Big Bird, played by Kyle Mooney."Now, as you know I was mocked for attacking Big Bird on Twitter," Bryant's Cruz said. "Simply because I am a human senator and he is an eight-foot-tall fictional bird."Mooney's Big Bird came on the show, with his feathers falling out, and explained that after getting the vaccine, he didn't feel well.To get more information about how to help Big Bird's health, Bryant's Cruz brought out the resident medical expert of "Ted Cruz Street": Joe Rogan, who was played by Pete Davidson. "I used to host 'Fear Factor' and now doctors fear me," Davidson's Rogan said. He then tried giving Big Bird zinc and horse medicine in order to make him feel better.Mooney's Big Bird was confused and asked why a bird would take horse medicine."I'm a human and I took horse medicine," Davidson's Rogan said.Bryant's Cruz had other guests stop by but then said the show was taking a quick commercial break. And when it comes back from the break he would teach the audience about how former President Trump "definitely" won the election.He would do this by bringing on the Recount Count, played by Aristotle Athari, who looked just like The Count from "Sesame Street.""I'm moving to Arizona," Athari's Count said. "Ha. Ha. Ha!""Ted Cruz Street" then wrapped up to make way for the "SNL" cast to say the show's signature catch phrase: "Live from New York... It's Saturday Night!"
Federal agents rescue pilot found standing atop sinking plane off Florida coast.  (CNN)Federal agents conducting a marine operation in Florida unexpectedly found themselves involved in an air rescue, when they spotted a pilot climbing out of his sinking aircraft.The plane went in the water off Cedar Key, about a hundred miles north of Tampa along Florida's Gulf Coast Tuesday.Photos provided by US Customs and Border Protection (CPB) in a Friday news release showed a small propeller-powered plane, sinking about a half mile from the George T. Lewis Airport in Cedar Key, with water almost entirely covering its cockpit and a man standing on top."As agents and deputies approached the sinking plane, an individual was spotted climbing out and standing on the fuselage. Agents verified the pilot was the only occupant and were able to assist him on board an AMO (Air and Marine Operations) Coastal Interceptor Vessel," according to the release.Agents gave the pilot a preliminary medical assessment before emergency medical services arrived at the scene, CPB added.CPB's Tampa Marine Unit and the Citrus County Sheriff's Office Tactical Impact Unit were conducting joint operations off the coast of Cedar Key."The situational awareness and quick actions of the Marine Interdiction Agents and Sheriff's Deputies prevented a possible human tragedy," said Michael Matthies, Deputy Director of Marine Operations. "We are thankful we have the proper resources and trained personnel to perform when incidents like this present themselves."
L'Oreal to remove words like 'whitening' and 'fair' from its products. New York  (CNN Business)L'Oreal (LRLCF), the world's largest cosmetic and beauty company, announced on Friday that it will stop using words like "whitening" and "fair" in describing its products. The announcement comes amid anti-racism protests and calls against racial inequality following George Floyd's death. "The L'Oreal Group has decided to remove the words white/whitening, fair/fairness, light/lightening from all its skin evening products," the French cosmetics giant said in statement. L'Oreal faced backlash earlier in the month following a post on Twitter stating it "stands in solidarity with the Black community, and injustice of any kind." The post garnered comments accusing the company of hypocrisy for dropping British model Munroe Bergdorf from its brand in 2017, following comments she made about systemic racism. The model herself, also criticized the brand for its solidarity message for Black Lives Matter, saying L'Oreal "threw me to the wolves for speaking out about racism and white supremacy." She was the UK brand's first transgender model before she was dropped.Bergdorf said in a Twitter statement that L'Oreal Paris brand president, Delphine Viguier, "expressed regret for how the situation was handled" following a conversation between the two. The company rehired Bergdorf and she will now join the UK company's diversity and inclusion advisory board. L'Oreal isn't the first company to make changes to its brand, as pushback continues over controversial skin-lightening products and beauty companies' lack of racial diversity in products and advertisementsOn Thursday, Hindustan Unilever, the Indian and Bangladesh unit of Anglo-Dutch firm Unilever (UL), announced that it would "stop using the word 'Fair" on its "Fair and Lovely" skincare products. Unilever stated its reason was to move toward "a more inclusive vision of beauty." Johnson & Johnson (JNJ), also announced on Thursday it has discontinued two lines of skincare products from its brands that include the word "fairness" on its labels for the same reasons. 
People who are offended by 'Indian Matchmaking' prove its point.  (CNN)Binge-watching and hate-watching go hand in hand, and so it's been with Netflix's "Indian Matchmaking." The part-documentary, part-reality TV show follows the efforts of Sima Taparia of Mumbai as she sets up clients around the world, often with families in tow, into arranged marriages. There's Aparna, who needs her future husband to know Bolivia has salt flats; Vyasar, who carries a secret about his father trying to kill his third wife; and Pradhyuman, who concocts elaborate recipes such as peri-peri foxnuts with liquid nitrogen. These Indian singles, they're not just like us. But Sima Auntie, as she is known, is in the business of marrying them off anyway, guided by a "biodata" page of likes, dislikes, educational background and a photo.That's hardly the most offensive part. Despite trending on every social platform and the streaming service all week, the series has been criticized for perpetuating harmful stereotypes, colorism, sexism, elitism, heteronormativity, the caste system and the shallow, transactional nature of Indians looking for a life partner. I'm ready to wade into the debate. (Hang on, muting my mentions on Twitter...) As someone who has spent her whole life as an Indian, much of her career chronicling the country and its diaspora, and written two books on global Indians, I think the criticism is misplaced. Sima Auntie is not the problem. We are the problem. I fear that the art of nuance and subtlety has been lost on critics. They want a deeper discussion of the rampant colorism on display here (the word "fair" to refer to skin tone is used over and over, without second thought.). They want acknowledgment of entrenched and intentional endogamy that maintains Indian power structures, rooted in caste and wealth. They want mothers and mothers-in-law to stop meddling and enforcing impossible-to-meet standards.  But this is us. The critics are not wrong but their target is. That the show was filmed before George Floyd died but released after makes this reality even more poignant. Unilever announced last month that it is removing the word "fair" from its Fair & Lovely line of skin-whitening products. The company now says it chooses to emphasize "glow, even tone, skin clarity and radiance."  As Americans know all too well, corporate policy is one matter; changing the hearts and minds of family and society is much harder. Herein lies the genius of "Indian Matchmaking." Maybe Oscar-nominated director Smriti Mundhra and veteran showrunner J.C. Begley know exactly what they are doing; just look at the series' narrative pacing, music selection and cutaway moments with adorable, elderly couples.Their decisions are deliberate and calculated and intended to effect change. That's the role and power of media. They're not redeeming the cavalier manner in which families perpetuate inequality and outdated thinking. They're exposing it.The mirror is being held up and it's impossible to look away. Those who are offended by it often prove "Indian Matchmaking's" point. We mock Aparna for her snobbish, exacting ways as she says not hating someone makes for a successful date. Yet even this criticism is loaded with the unattainable expectations we put on Indian women. Her reference to Bolivian salt flats, also chastised as elitist, is among the scant examples in the eight-part docuseries of a world view beyond, say, a Texas axe-throwing club or a Mumbai nightclub. What she seeks in a partner is intellectual compatibility. Don't we have that right? The spotlight on the derivative manner and ancient customs of matchmaking in India -- that far-off country where arranged marriage rivals snake charmers in Western cliched depictions -- should force us to reconsider allegedly more modern practices. Like swiping right.  Among the revolutionary bits of advice from Sima Auntie: Focus on one match at a time. Don't move on till you've ruled him or her out. I think of what a friend in New York City once called the "-er" problem in online dating. "There's always someone hotter, better, taller, richer out there," she told me, exasperated and single into her mid-30s. She left New York City and quickly found love in a smaller pond.  It is too easy to look at Indian society as oppressive through the lens of arranged marriage and demand disruption -- versus challenging the whole institution, East or West, love or arranged, IRL or online.  Indeed, there are quieter revolutions within "Indian Matchmaking," such as the number of subjects who are divorced or the products of divorce. Once taboo among Indian families, divorce is explained away by Sima Auntie with the proclamation: "Marriages are breaking like biscuits." She matter-of-factly assures the clients she will find them matches. Why? Because Sima Auntie is the ultimate businesswoman and her ability to change is a revolution itself, representing the chameleon-like adaptation of Indians in a connected world. Confronted with nontraditional, challenging candidates to place, she does not give up, instead turning to life coaches, astrologers and fellow matchmakers who might have more modern networks. But why, critics rightfully ask, were all the matches heterosexual? India struck down sodomy laws and decriminalized homosexuality two years ago. Here, I have faith in the undercurrent of capitalism and globalization that runs through "Indian Matchmaking." After all this hype, there surely will be a second season. And surely Sima Auntie will find someone to help her arrange same-sex couples -- as long as she gets her cut. 
A woman was permanently injured from a skin-lightening cream tainted with an extremely toxic form of mercury - the first such case in the US. 
Rivian is fueled by a powerful force: Jeff Bezos' desire to spite Elon Musk. New York (CNN Business)Rivian, the electric truck maker that's rocketed overnight from relative obscurity to $100 billion Wall Street darling, owes much of its breakout success to one very powerful fanboy: Jeff Bezos. And, less directly, to that fanboy's archnemesis Elon Musk. When the Amazon founder this summer became the first American entrepreneur to hurl himself to the edge of space on his own private company's rocket, Rivian trucks shuttled Bezos and his fellow astronauts to and from the West Texas launch site. The Rivian shuttles during the widely publicized event were, of course, strategic product placement by Bezos for his handpicked contender to take on Tesla. At the time, Rivian was still a private company with no actual products on the market. But Amazon had made a big bet on Rivian in 2019, taking a 20% stake in the company. The famously (or notoriously) calculating Bezos was bringing two of his pet projects  Blue Origin and Rivian  onto the global stage at the same time.The cherry on top: It was also a big middle finger to Musk. Bezos and Musk spent much of the past year yo-yoing between the titles of Richest and Second Richest person in the world. Their feud goes back years, centered on their competing space travel ambitions. Bezos' Blue Origin has been fighting NASA over the agency's decision to contract with Musk's SpaceX to build a lunar lander intended to take humans back to the moon. So far, all of Blue Origin's efforts to fight NASA's decision have fallen flat.But Rivian's blockbuster IPO  the strongest debut by a US company since Facebook listed its shares in 2012  gives Bezos something of a win in the ongoing proxy battle he's fighting with Musk. Two years ago, Amazon led an investment of $700 million in Rivian and announced it was ordering 100,000 of its electric vans. At the time, the EV field was crowded with upstart brands such as Nikola, Lordstown and Fisker, all of which were vying to position themselves as the next big thing. Since then, Rivian has emerged as the heavyweight (helped as much by investments from Amazon and Ford as by serious regulatory investigations into would-be rivals Nikola and Lordstown).Rivian can also thank Musk for fomenting the EV hype that investors have been getting drunk on for the past few years. Many analysts say Tesla, with a market cap of around $1 trillion, is wildly overvalued, but it keeps on climbing. FOMO is a powerful force on Wall Street, and those who missed out on Tesla a decade ago may be trying to make up for it by buying Rivian, a 12-year-old startup that hasn't yet delivered any products to customers and somehow is worth more than Ford (F) and GM (GM). Whether Rivian can live up to the hype is anyone's guess. For an investor, it's a comfort to know that Rivian has the backing of someone with pockets as deep and grudges as bitter as Bezos'. Investing is always risky. But one thing we can count on is that uber-rich men will literally buy entire companies to spite their enemies rather than go to therapy. 
Mall Santas will be pretty much back to normal this year. New York (CNN Business)It's beginning to look a lot like pre-pandemic Christmas, with malls and stores bringing back tree lighting ceremonies, carol singers and a less socially distanced Santa this year.Photos with Santa, an annual holiday tradition for many families, were upended last year by the pandemic. Some retail locations that typically host in-person Santa visits decided to forgo the event completely. Others made changes  like putting Santa behind plexiglass, or Zooming with Santa on a large digital screen  which likely resulted in awkward holiday family photos with Kris Kringle.But that was 2020. Retailers and mall operators are eager to return holiday shoppers to a more familiar celebratory experience in the run-up to Christmas.They're starting with in-person Santa visits.Macy'sPerhaps no other Saint Nick is as iconic as Macy's Santa Claus, who's been making an in-person appearance since 1861 with the exception of last year.Macy's (M) is bringing back Santa at Santaland events this year in Chicago, San Francisco and its flagship store at New York City's Herald Square. However, Macy's is keeping it a contactless and socially distanced visit this year. The retailer said it will follow each city's  protocols for indoor masking.Cherry Hill Programs, the leading provider of holiday Santa and photography events at malls nationwide, is setting up more than 672 Santa events this year in the US, Canada and Puerto Rico  including at malls run by Simon Properties, the largest mall operator in the United States. Chris Landtroop, vice president of marketing for Cherry Hill Programs, said its Santas are vaccinated unless exempted for medical or religious reasons, in which case they will be tested weekly and it's staff at the events will also abide by local mask guidelines.BrookfieldBrookfield Properties, a subsidiary of Brookfield Asset Management and the second-largest mall operator in the country, said Santa will be in 117 of its 130 malls. He's arriving in 23 of those malls on Friday.The Santa visits will revert back to the more traditional experience in which families have the option of having kids sit on Santa's lap for a chat and photos, said Katie Kurtz, senior vice president of business development with Brookfield Properties. "Malls have a magical feeling this time of the year and we want to get back to that," she said.Kurtz said families who want to remain socially distanced will have that option, too. The company is adhering to local mandates for masks for each mall location.PREITMall operator PREIT, which owns 13 malls primarily on the East Coast, including the Cherry Hill mall in New Jersey and the Willow Grove mall in Pennsylvania, placed Santa behind plexiglass last year at each mall.This month, Santa makes a comeback atop a red fire truck at PREIT malls and he won't be behind a barrier for his meet-and-greet. PREIT said all of its Santas are vaccinated and kids will have the option to sit on his lap for photos.PREIT is also following local mask mandates for in-mall visits.TangerWith close to 68% of the total US population having received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, according to the Centers for Disease Control & Prevention, some malls are holding more elaborate holiday events. Tanger Factory Outlets last year held socially distanced Santa visits for its shoppers. It's bringing Santa back in person to more than 20 of its outlet centers this holiday season. In addition to photo ops, Santa will also be at tree lightings and at breakfasts with Santa events."We also have a fun The Elf on the Shelf scavenger hunt planned where we've placed the elves around our centers, some are inside of stores or at the food court," said Stephen Yalof, president and CEO of Tanger Outlets, which operates 36 upscale outlet shopping centers.This year Tanger is hosting multiple Christmas tree lighting events instead of one big event at five of its locations. Yalof said it's a way to avoid one large congregation of people and also have shoppers coming back more than once to its malls.Bringing people back to the mallBringing Santa back is a smart move, said Barbara Kahn, professor of marketing at the Wharton School."All these holiday events that retailers plan are really about boosting consumption," said Kahn. "Now post-Covid, malls and stores are trying to lure shoppers back and get them comfortable shopping in person again versus online."For retailers, in-store shopping presents certain advantages, she said. "There's the serendipity of it. Shoppers tend to do more impulse buying in stores." And with online shopping, product returns tend to be higher, which can be expensive for retailers, she added.
Americans are still buying up a storm. A version of this story first appeared in CNN Business' Before the Bell newsletter. Not a subscriber? You can sign up right here.New York  (CNN Business)Consumer spending continues to power the US economy. Whether it's to buy a new house or just a Squid Game plush toy from Amazon (AMZN), people still seem willing to shell out their hard earned cash for stuff.Retail sales in the United States soared more than expected in September and figures for August were revised higher to show a bigger jump than initially reported. October numbers will be released Tuesday. More healthy gains are expected, despite lingering worries about rising prices and supply chain disruption.Inflation isn't yet killing demand, and investors have taken notice. The SPDR S&P Retail (XRT) exchange-traded fund, which holds a variety of leading retail stocks, has surged nearly 60% this year, beating the broader market by a big margin. Americans are spending a lot on their homes in particular, especially as house prices continue to surge. That's been great news for retail giants Home Depot and Lowe's, which are both set to report earnings this week. Home Depot (HD) shares have soared nearly 40% this year, making it one of the top performers in the Dow (INDU). Rival Lowe's (LOW) has done even better, skyrocketing about 45%.Both retailers have benefited from the fact that there are plenty of DIY enthusiasts looking to fix up their homes before selling them, as well as new homeowners who need to do renovations. The two companies also sell lumber and other supplies to professional builders. Analysts are predicting Home Depot's earnings per share will rise more than 20% this fiscal year, which ends January 31. Wall Street expects an even bigger profit pop  nearly 30%  for Lowe's. Can it be sustained? Home Depot and Lowe's aren't the only major retailers on tap to post solid results. Investors are also betting that discount giants Walmart (WMT) and Target (TGT) will report strong sales and earnings.Department store chains TJX (TJX), Kohl's (KSS) and Macy's (M) will be reporting earnings too. The big questions will be what demand looks like for the holidays and whether these retailers can ship enough goods for customers to get them wrapped in time. The bumper fourth quarter  which accounts for most retailers' profits  is at the mercy of snarled supply chains overseas and port congestion in the United States."Retail sales are expected to soar this holiday shopping season due to high consumer confidence as well as rising personal income," said Louis Navellier, chairman of Navellier & Associates, in a report last week. "The shortage of some key goods should not derail holiday spending, since when consumers have money in their pockets, they will spend it."Hasbro (HAS)'s finance chief Deborah Thomas said a few weeks ago that she felt the worst of the logistics issues were over and that the toymaker should have plenty of new products on retailers' shelves in time for the December sales rush.Still, what's happening in China may send a warning signal. Online commerce giants Alibaba (BABA) and JD.com (JD), which both report earnings this week, each posted record sales from their Singles Day shopping extravaganza during the first eleven days of November. But the pace of growth was much slower than in previous years.A summit between the world's top economiesPresident Joe Biden's highly anticipated virtual summit with Chinese President Xi Jinping will take place on Monday.On the agenda: The talks come at a time of heightened tensions over Taiwan, trade and human rights. At the same time, the United States and China just unveiled a surprise pact on climate, underscoring some areas of cooperation.For investors, discussions between the world's two largest economies are always worth watching. The meeting will be Biden's first with Xi since he became president in January.There will be plenty to talk about. While the Biden administration recently reached an agreement with the European Union to ease Trump-era sanctions on aluminum and steel, criticism of China's trade practices and subsidies for domestic businesses has persisted.US Trade Representative Katherine Tai said last week that progress was being made in talks with China to hold the country accountable for promises made in the "Phase 1" trade deal President Donald Trump signed in January 2020.The global energy crisis and supply chain disruptions could also feature in discussions. And then there's the weakness in China's property sector, which rattled American investors earlier this fall.In a recent report, the Federal Reserve warned that "financial stresses in China ... could further strain global financial markets and negatively affect the United States." The Fed pointed specifically to the crisis at Evergrande, China's most indebted developer.Up nextMonday: China industrial production and retail sales; Japan GDP; Tyson Foods (TSN), Oatly, Casper Sleep (CSPR), Lucid earningsTuesday: US retail sales; US industrial production; Eurozone GDP; Walmart, Home Depot earningsWednesday: US housing starts; Eurozone CPI; Baidu (BIDU), Target, Lowe's, TJX, Cisco (CSCO), Nvidia (NVDA), Bath & Body Works, Victoria's Secret earningsThursday: US weekly jobless claims; Alibaba, JD.com, Macy's, Kohl's, Applied Materials (AMAT), Intuit (INTU) earningsFriday: Foot Locker (FL) earnings
Elon Musk ends the week selling another $1.2 billion of Tesla shares. New York (CNN Busines)Another day, another billion dollars.Or in Elon Musk's case, $1.2 billion.A filing late Friday shows that Musk sold another 1.2 million shares of Tesla stock on Friday, at an average price of $1,030 a share.It brings his sales for the week to a total of 6.4 million shares, for a grand total of $6.9 billion.Still, that only amounts to less than 4% of the shares he holds directly, or less than 3% if you include all the options he owns to buy additional shares.A week ago Musk posted a Twitter poll asking if he should sell 10% of his holdings as a way of increasing his tax liability, and 58% of those who responded said yes. His sales of stock this week have pushed down the value of Tesla shares for shareholders -- including himself, since he is by far the largest shareholder. Tesla (TSLA) shares ended the week down $189 a share, or 15.4%.It's unlikely that the Twitter poll was the main motivation for the sale. Rather, he faces a looming tax bill that will be triggered by his need to exercise 22.9 million options to purchase shares before next August. That bill would be nearly $10 billion at current market prices.If he doesn't exercise the options by then, they'll expire and he'll lose the right to buy each share for a mere $6.24. But when he does, the value of the shares at that time will be treated as normal income, and he'll have to pay a 40.8% federal tax rate. It's also possible he could owe state income tax to California, which has a top tax rate of 13.3%. Even though he has moved to Texas, which has no state income tax, he conceded in a recent tweet that he'll still owe considerable California state income taxes based on the considerable time he still spends working in the state.Musk exercised the first block of 2.2 million of those soon-to-expire options on Monday, and then sold 934 million shares in order to pay the taxes on that exercise. The shares he has sold since, however, have come from his direct holdings, most of which he has owned since the company's 2010 initial public offering. And Musk will owe only a 20% long-term capital gain tax on the $5.8 billion from the proceeds of those stock sales, or roughly $1.2 billion.Tesla is still the most valuable automaker in the world, with a market cap greater than that of the 12 largest automakers by volume. Last month it became only the sixth US company to reach a $1 trillion valuation. Musk's stake in the company has declined slightly with these sales but for now it is still equal to a 23.7% stake in the company, down from from the 24.3% he would have held without the sales.Until this week, Musk had not sold any shares of company's stock since 2016. But other board members and top executives have been selling stock all along, including his brother Kimbal Musk, a Tesla board member, who sold $108 millon worth of Tesla shares a week ago, equal to about 15% of his shares in the company, just before his brother's sales started pushing down the value of the stock.Musk is the world's wealthiest person, with a net worth estimated by Bloomberg at $294 billion. The $6.9 billion he received from this week's transactions was already included in that calculation, since the estimated value of the stocks and options is a significant part of his net worth. His net worth has fallen this week as the price of Tesla shares have declined.The recent stock sales don't appreciably change Musk's financial position. The $6.9 billion from sales would be like a typical American family selling about $2,900 worth of stocks it already owned. The Federal Reserve's most recent estimate puts the median household net worth at $121,700.
Adele, promoting album about a divorce, brings hope to hearts everywhere with surprise proposal during special.  (CNN)Adele might be the queen of speaking truth to our heartbreaks, but it was her role in bringing two people together that stole the show during her Sunday night CBS special. The set up was this: A man reached out to what he believed was a show -- but it was actually a "fake show," Adele said -- to help him propose to his girlfriend of seven years. They spent the day having a picnic in the area near Adele's concert and the night would culminate with a proposal. The plan worked -- with adorable results. "If you make a noise, I'm going to kill you," Adele told the crowd, which included celebrities like Lizzo and Melissa McCarthy. As the woman's noise-cancelling headphones and blindfold were removed, she was stunned. "Is this real," she asked. "Who are these people?" The man popped the question, she accepted and Adele revealed herself from the shadows before launching into "Make You Feel My Love." "She's crying her eyes out," Adele quipped at one point mid-song. Who can blame her, of course. The moment was a slightly ironic one, as the singer is promoting "30," which many have dubbed the singer's "divorce album." But if one thing was clear during her interview with Oprah Winfrey during the two-hour program, the album can be seen as one about union -- just, in her case, she's coming together with her happiest self. And doing so required a lot of tough decisions. She told Winfrey of her current relationship with sports agent Rich Paul: It's the first time she's been in a relationship where she's "loved myself and been open to loving and being loved by someone else." 
Sandy Hook families win legal victory against Alex Jones in defamation case.  (CNN Business)Sandy Hook families suing InfoWars founder Alex Jones have won a case against him after a judge ruled against Jones who has failed to comply with the discovery process.Jones and entities owned by him were found liable by default Monday in a defamation case against them.Connecticut Superior Court Judge Barbara Bellis cited the defendants' "willful noncompliance" with the discovery process as her core reasoning behind the ruling. She specifically noted that they had not turned over financial and analytics data requested multiple times by the Sandy Hook family plaintiffs."All the defendants have failed to fully and fairly comply with their discovery obligations," Bellis said at the virtual hearing.Judge Bellis said that she had held off scheduling Monday's sanctions hearing "in hopes these problems would be corrected" by the Jones defendants. "While the families are grateful for the Court's ruling, they remain focused on uncovering the truth. As the Court noted, Alex Jones and his companies have deliberately concealed evidence of the relationship between what they publish and how they make money," said Chris Mattei of Koskoff, Koskoff & Bieder, which represents the plaintiffs. "Mr. Jones was given every opportunity to comply but, when he chose instead to withhold evidence for more than two years, the Court was left with no choice but to rule as it did today. While today's ruling is a legal victory, the battle to shed light on how deeply Mr. Jones has harmed these families continues."Spokespeople for Alex Jones did not immediately respond to CNN Business' request for comment. Jones was being sued by families of Sandy Hook victims in both Texas and Connecticut courts over his past claims that the 2012 mass shooting was staged. He has since acknowledged that the shooting was real. The case will now proceed to a hearing and damages as to the defendants, Bellis said. A status conference is scheduled for Wednesday.
Prosecution says Kyle Rittenhouse provoked fatal shootings, while defense says he feared for his life.  (CNN)Kyle Rittenhouse provoked the fatal shootings in Kenosha, Wisconsin, last year by pointing his AR-15-style weapon at Joseph Rosenbaum, prosecutors said Monday in closing arguments of his homicide trial."That is what provokes this entire incident," prosecutor Thomas Binger said. "When the defendant provokes this incident, he loses the right to self-defense. You cannot claim self-defense against a danger you create."In response, defense attorney Mark Richards said Rittenhouse did not act recklessly when he fatally shot Rosenbaum, who Richards argued had threatened him, chased him, thrown a plastic bag at him and lunged for his gun. "When my client shot Joseph Rosenbaum, he feared for his life. He feared because of his prior threats, prior statements and the violent acts that had been witnessed by my client," Richards said.The dueling closing arguments, which took up most of Monday, came at the end of a two-week trial highlighted by emotional and illuminating testimony from Rittenhouse himself, who said he acted in self-defense when he fatally shot Rosenbaum.A crowd of people then pursued the teenager, and Rittenhouse testified he shot in self-defense at a man who tried to kick him; fatally shot Anthony Huber, who had hit him with a skateboard; and shot Gaige Grosskreutz, who was armed with a pistol. Rosenbaum and Huber were killed, and Grosskreutz was wounded.The group of 18 jurors will be narrowed to 12 Tuesday morning and will then begin deliberating in the case.Earlier Monday, Judge Bruce Schroeder dismissed a misdemeanor weapons charge against Rittenhouse, now 18. He still faces five felony charges and, if convicted on the most serious charge, could face a mandatory sentence of life in prison.Schroeder also read a set of legal instructions to the jury members and informed them they will be allowed to consider lesser included offenses for two of the five counts.The trial featured more than a dozen videos from the night of August 25, 2020, showing what happened before, during and after the shootings. Most of the facts of what happened that night were not up for debate -- rather, the heart of the trial was the analysis of Rittenhouse's actions and whether they can be considered "reasonable."The prosecution rested its case last Tuesday and the defense rested Friday.Prosecutor says the case is about life over propertyBinger's closing argument began by noting the trial was not about politics, or looting or rioting -- but instead about how life is more important than property."I think we can also agree that we should not have 17-year-olds running around our streets with AR-15s, because this is exactly what happens," he said.The prosecutor challenged Rittenhouse's motivation for coming into Kenosha that night during the chaotic aftermath of the police shooting of Jacob Blake. He pointed out Rittenhouse traveled across state lines, violated a curfew and was not protecting his family or property. He also spent the night lying about being an EMT, Binger said.Using several videos, Binger walked through the course of events that night, from Rittenhouse's decision to go downtown, to the shooting of Rosenbaum, to the second set of shootings while he tried to flee. Jurors were paying close attention to the series of videos and images, according to a pool reporter in court.Binger argued Rittenhouse provoked Rosenbaum by pointing a weapon at him before the man chased him. The prosecutor dismissed Rittenhouse's "cockamamie theory" that Rosenbaum -- who did not have anything in his hands when he was shot -- was going to take the teenager's gun and kill other people."They have to convince you that Joseph Rosenbaum was going to take that gun and use it on the defendant because they know you can't claim self-defense against an unarmed man like this," he said. "You lose the right to self-defense when you're the one who brought the gun, when you're the one creating the danger, when you're the one provoking other people."A series of witnesses testified during the trial Rosenbaum had acted erratically and earlier threatened Rittenhouse. But the prosecutor noted there was no video of any threat and questioned whether it really happened. Instead, Binger described the 5-foot-4-inch Rosenbaum as "a little dog" who was all bark and no bite.In the second shooting incident, the crowd of people confronted Rittenhouse because they reasonably believed he was an active shooter, Binger said."That crowd was right. That crowd was full of heroes. That crowd did something that honestly, I'm not sure I would have had the courage to do," he said.Rittenhouse, meanwhile, acted recklessly by loading his weapon with full metal jacket ammo capable of piercing armor and having little understanding of the weapon or the consequences of his actions, Binger argued."On the witness stand, he broke down crying about himself, not about anybody that he hurt that night," he said. "No remorse, no concern for anyone else."Defense says 'active shooter' is loaded phraseIn the defense's closing argument, Richards went through each witness's testimony and sought to establish reasonable doubt that his client acted criminally.He said he had no doubt Rosenbaum -- whom he called "irrational and crazy" -- would have shot Rittenhouse if he had gotten the teenager's weapon."My client didn't shoot at anyone until he was chased and cornered," Richards said.The second set of shootings came as Rittenhouse fell and was attacked by a "mob," Richards said. The attorney rejected the prosecution calling him an "active shooter.""Kyle was not an active shooter. That is a buzzword the state wants to latch onto because it excuses the actions of that mob," he said.Most of all, Richards emphasized that Rittenhouse did not have to take the stand at all but did so to tell jurors his experience that night, Richards said."We wanted to bring you our side of the story. We had nothing to hide," he said.Rittenhouse, who lived in nearby Antioch, Illinois, worked near Kenosha as a lifeguard and his father lived in the city. Richards argued that the teenager had no master plan to provoke violence and simply wanted to help the people of Kenosha that night."When he came down here, are we to believe that he's working to clean up graffiti, not getting paid because he's here to look for trouble? Is it all some master plan? That's ridiculous. He came down here, trying to help to see the damage. That's what he did," he said.Finally, Kenosha County Assistant District Attorney James Kraus delivered the prosecution's rebuttal and said Rittenhouse should have "exhausted all methods" of self-defense before shooting."Punch him in the face, kick him in the testicles, knee him in the face, hit him with your gun," he said. "You don't just immediately get to shoot someone."Judge dismisses weapons chargeThe judge's dismissal of the misdemeanor charge was part of a debate over jury instructions and lesser offenses on Monday. That charge, possession of a dangerous weapon by a person under 18, was punishable by up to nine months in prison.Still, Rittenhouse is charged with first-degree reckless homicide in the death of Rosenbaum, first-degree recklessly endangering safety for endangering Richard McGinnis, and attempted first-degree recklessly endangering safety for endangering an unknown person identified in court as "jump kick man."He is also charged with first-degree intentional homicide while using a dangerous weapon for the killing of Huber. It is the most severe charge Rittenhouse faces and the only charge that carries a mandatory sentence of life in prison. Judge Schroeder gave jurors instructions on Monday for the lesser included offenses of second-degree intentional homicide and first-degree reckless homicide for Huber's death. Both lesser offenses are punishable by up to 60 years in prison.For shooting Grosskreutz, Rittenhouse is charged with attempted first-degree intentional homicide, punishable by up to 60 years in prison. Schroeder also gave jurors instructions on lesser offenses of attempted second-degree intentional homicide or first-degree recklessly endangering safety.The instructions to the jury Monday stretched for over an hour. Schroeder stopped midway through to discuss them with the attorneys further and noted how convoluted they are."They are certainly correct in what they say, I just think they are not clear," he said.In a conference Friday about jury instructions, the judge told Rittenhouse presenting lesser offenses to the jury lowers the possibility of a second trial but increases the risk of a conviction. Schroeder explained if the prosecution is not able to establish Rittenhouse's guilt on the charged offense beyond a reasonable doubt, then the jury must acquit him.The coming deliberations will be closely watched locally. Wisconsin Gov. Tony Evers announced 500 National Guard troops are on standby outside of Kenosha, ahead of a possible verdict. CNN's Steve Almasy, Aya Elamroussi, Mike Hayes and Amir Vera contributed to this report. 
Judge Bruce Schroeder's reputation as a tough jurist comes through in Rittenhouse trial.  (CNN)Several heated exchanges between the Kenosha County Circuit Court judge and a prosecutor Wednesday stunned viewers of the Kyle Rittenhouse homicide trial, but it's a kind of scene not unusual for this specific judge, experts and attorneys told CNN. Judge Bruce Schroeder twice admonished Assistant District Attorney Thomas Binger for his line of questioning as Rittenhouse testified. While on the stand, Rittenhouse broke down in tears explaining the events that took place in August 2020 where he fatally shot two people and wounded another.To those who may not have heard of Schroeder until this week  or perhaps last month, when he reiterated his long-standing rule of not allowing prosecutors to refer to people as "victims" before juries in his courtroom  Wednesday's exchange with Binger may have come as a surprise. But to those who have worked with him, it emphasized his reputation.Schroeder -- the longest-serving active judge in Wisconsin's trial courts -- is viewed as a tough jurist, the type of judge who's not afraid to make difficult decisions, no matter the response. "He has a reputation for doing what he believes is the right thing and being an independent thinker," said William Lynch, a retired attorney who served on the board of the ACLU of Wisconsin at the time of Schroeder's ruling about ordering AIDS tests for sex workers in the 1980s.FOLLOW LIVE UPDATES OF THE RITTENHOUSE TRIALSchroeder admonished the prosecutor twiceTwice during cross-examination, Schroeder asked the jury to leave the courtroom and then sharply admonished Binger for his line of questioning. The first incident related to Binger's questions about Rittenhouse's post-arrest silence, a right solidified in the Fifth Amendment of the US Constitution."The problem is this is a grave constitutional violation for you to talk about the defendant's silence," Schroeder said. "You're right on the borderline, and you may be over, but it better stop."The second admonishment related to questions about an incident two weeks before the shootings that Schroeder has said would not be permitted to come into evidence. Binger said he believed that incident was newly relevant to the case, but Schroeder criticized him for not asking permission first and affirmed the evidence would not be allowed.Binger said he may have misunderstood Schroeder's ruling. "I thought your ruling was if the evidence in this case made that more relevant, you would admit it or at least considered it's admittance," Binger said.Schroeder responded to Binger in a very sharp tone. "Don't get brazen with me," Schroeder told Binger. "You know very well that an attorney can't go into these types of areas when the judge has already ruled without asking outside the presence of the jury to do so, so don't give me that."On Thursday, Binger confronted the judge over the previous day's heated exchange and said he was "under the court's ire."Schroeder cut him off saying, "You know, I don't want to talk about" it.Binger objected to specific portions of video analysis from defense witness John Black, a use-of-force expert, saying it was outside the court's order. However, the judge allowed the testimony to be given, which Binger said was unfair."Yesterday, I was the target of your ire for disregarding your orders," he reiterated. "Today the defense is disregarding your order.""This is a notice issue to the state. We have not been provided proper notice of this and clearly if the shoe were on the other foot and we tried something like this, there would be quite a quite a kerfuffle about that," Binger continued.The judge said Thursday's issue was related to the Constitution:"I was talking about the Constitution of the United States and how the Supreme Court has interpreted it for 50 years," the judge responded. "That's not what we are talking about here today."Testy exchanges affect jurors, analysts sayCivil rights attorney Areva Martin told CNN's Ana Cabrera on Wednesday that jurors are sizing up prosecutors and defense attorneys, so the lawyers' relationship with the judge matters. "Prosecutors and defense attorneys have to be very careful. You've got to be zealous in your advocacy for your case, but you cannot disrespect a court's ruling," she said. Laura Coates, a CNN legal analyst, said every prosecutor has taken their share of tongue lashings when it comes to a judge. "Judges always believe that they are in control of the courtroom. But it's the prosecution's burden and therefore the prosecution's trial," she said. Coates did argue that Binger thought he was able to probe certain topics -- such as Rittenhouse's intention of coming to Kenosha -- that Schroeder ruled out because of the defendant's testimony. "The prosecutor thought the door was open by virtue of Kyle Rittenhouse's own testimony," Coates said. "So if the judge had ruled previously that they couldn't bring it in, unprovoked, if he opened the door they are now entitled to do so and he's making that record."This is why, Coates said, it's dangerous for defendants to take the stand. "No matter how rehearsed or smart they think they are, if they are not well-versed in the methodology of litigation of trial procedure and evidentiary rules, they may fall victim to their own hubris," she said.Schroeder has reputation for being 'old school'Schroeder will be 80 when his current term ends in 2026. He's been described by some attorneys in Wisconsin as "old school." "That doesn't mean that he's old. I mean he's 75 years old, which is older than most judges, but he's just an old-school guy. He still operates his courtroom like it's 1980," said a seasoned southeast Wisconsin attorney who has appeared before Schroeder many times, but asked not to be named because he still appears before Schroeder.Lynch, the retired attorney, told CNN Schroeder does not like to be "pushed around by either party." "It's his courtroom," Lynch said. "So he has a strong sense of his own his bearing in the courtroom."Schroeder made headlines last month when he reiterated his long-standing rule of not allowing prosecutors to refer to people as "victims" before juries in his courtroom. While this is possibly Schroeder's most high-profile case, he's made controversial rulings in the past. In the late 1980s, Schroeder drew scrutiny after ordering a convicted child molester who also engaged in prostitution to get an AIDS test, according to attorney John Anthony Ward, who represented the man. Schroeder started ordering convicted sex workers to submit to AIDS tests over concerns they were spreading the virus.In a 2008 trial where a man was accused of poisoning his wife with antifreeze, Schroeder allowed into evidence a letter the wife wrote a neighbor accusing the husband should anything happen to her. The so-called "letter from the grave" evidence proved key to conviction. Wisconsin's Supreme Court this year ordered a new trial for the man and ruled the letter should not have been admitted as evidence.Schroeder sentenced the defendant to life in prison without a chance of parole. Before announcing his sentence, Schroeder told the defendant: "Your crime is so enormous, so monstrous, so unspeakably cruel that it overcomes all other considerations."CNN's Ray Sanchez and Eric Levenson contributed to this report. 
What Kyle Rittenhouse's tears reveal about America. Peniel E. Joseph is the Barbara Jordan Chair in ethics and political values and the founding director of the Center for the Study of Race and Democracy at the LBJ School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas at Austin, where he is also a professor of history. He is the author of "Stokely: A Life" and "The Sword and the Shield: The Revolutionary Lives of Malcolm X and Martin Luther King Jr." The views expressed here are his own. View more opinion articles on CNN. (CNN)Despite last year's demonstrations supporting racial justice and substantive efforts at political reform, the system that devalues Black lives remains largely -- and powerfully -- intact.  Kyle Rittenhouse, the 18-year-old on trial in Kenosha, Wisconsin, for shooting three people and killing two of them, represents the epitome of White privilege in America run amok. Rittenhouse, who has pleaded not guilty to six charges including reckless homicide, intentional homicide and attempted intentional homicide, cried during emotional testimony on Wednesday. Anyone watching the proceedings who was unfamiliar with the events that led to this trial would be forgiven for assuming that Rittenhouse was the victim of an unspeakable crime rather than being its accused perpetrator. His protracted sobs -- and people's telling reactions to them -- spoke volumes about the moment America now finds itself in. Whether or not Rittenhouse is convicted, the perspective he represents -- galvanized by the anger, fear and prejudice of White Americans -- has already achieved its ends: normalizing a kind of racial privilege exposed, but far from extinguished, in the wake of George Floyd's murder last year.   During racial justice demonstrations in Kenosha in the summer of 2020 that were sparked by the police shooting of Jacob Blake, Rittenhouse allegedly crossed state lines, driving from his hometown of Antioch, Illinois, and later arming himself with an AR-15 style rifle. Yet Rittenhouse tried to tell a different story with his tears on the stand, portraying himself as a non-aggressor, saying that he felt in fear of his life as he fatally shot Joseph Rosenbaum, 36, and Anthony Huber, 26, and shot and wounded Gaige Grosskreutz, 27.  The baby-faced vigilante has become a hero to many among the far right-wing political establishment, who have hailed him as a paragon of virtue brave enough to stand up to the sinister forces of the Black Lives Matter movement. The circumstances of his trial reflect the way in which race shapes America's unequal criminal justice system.  Rittenhouse, even after police were alerted to an active shooter being on the scene, was never arrested and turned himself in, accompanied by his mother. Amazingly, Rittenhouse was released on a $2 million bail, money raised by right wing supporters. He was seen photographed with actor Rick Schroeder shortly after being released -- who told the New York Post that he was "infuriated" and "Kyle's life [was] being destroyed." The insistence among many on seeing Rittenhouse -- a teenager with a fearsome weapon -- as a sympathetic figure and not a menacing one stands in stark contrast to the stories of a number of young Black men and boys, especially those perceived (fatally) by others to be threats. For example, 17-year-old Trayvon Martin was gunned down by George Zimmerman in 2012. Zimmerman's acquittal helped inspire the creation of the #blacklivesmatter hashtag that grew into a global movement. In 2014, Cleveland police officers shot and killed 12-year-old Tamir Rice, who was Black and in possession of a toy gun; police described him on the radio as "maybe 20" and said they were afraid for their lives. Early on in the trial, Judge Bruce E. Schroeder ruled that prosecutors could not refer to Rosenbaum, Huber and Grosskreutz as "victims," but Rittenhouse could refer to the men he shot as "looters" and "rioters" (each words with a loaded racial history) if he could show evidence they were those things (even though two of them are dead and one has never been charged with a crime for any behavior associated with the protest). Over the course of Rittenhouse's trial, Schroeder, who some legal experts consider to be sympathetic to the defendant, and the prosecutor have sparred further over legal procedures, and clashed during the prosecution's cross-examination of Rittenhouse. The Rittenhouse case is also unfolding at the same time as Gregory and Travis McMichael and William Bryan are on trial in Brunswick, Georgia, for the killing of Ahmaud Arbery last year. These three White men have pleaded not guilty (the defense contends Travis McMichael shot Arbery in self-defense) and claim to have tried to make a citizen's arrest of Arbery as he was out jogging. On Tuesday, a detective testified that Gregory McMichael told him he never saw Arbery commit a crime -- even though a reasonable suspicion of one is a necessary component for a citizen's arrest to be lawful.  Another police officer who interviewed McMichael after the shooting testified that he never mentioned a citizen's arrest. While these trials are ongoing, what's clear is that Arbery and many other Black Americans never received the grace or benefit of the doubt afforded to Rittenhouse who -- despite being armed with a military-style weapon -- was pepper-sprayed and let go by Kenosha Police. These systemic failures were further crystallized during the jury selection in Georgia: Gregory and Travis McMichael and Bryan are being judged by a jury whose composition has scholars and law experts making comparisons to the Jim Crow era.  Prosecutors objected to the defense's move to strike Black potential jurors; although Judge Timothy Walmsley acknowledged the appearance of "intentional discrimination in the panel," he ruled to seat the jury with 11 White members and 1 Black member because the defense made race-neutral arguments for striking the Black potential jurors.We live in a society where a Black man can be allegedly killed for jogging in the "wrong" part of Georgia and the White men charged in his murder face a nearly all-White jury, while a White teen armed for war can be hailed by many as a hero.  This staggering treatment sends a toxic message to the criminal justice system, social movements trying to change that system and the entire nation. That message fuels the delusions behind the January 6 assault on the US Capitol. It is an inherent threat to our democracy. The actions of White vigilantes, whether in downtown Kenosha, Wisconsin or at the nation's capital, have been reimagined in conservative far-right mediascapes as courageous, civic-minded patriotism.   "I defended myself," Rittenhouse claimed during his testimony. If the jury believes these words, Rittenhouse will likely go free. His defense team has also made a motion for a mistrial with prejudice, meaning he couldn't be retried.  If any of that happens, it will be to America's enduring shame.
Suspects at large after drive-by shooting at Colorado park sends 6 teens to hospital.  (CNN)Six teenagers were wounded in a shooting involving multiple suspects at a small park close to a high school in Aurora, Colorado, police Chief Vanessa Wilson said Monday. Six students from Aurora Central High School, ranging in age from 14 to 18, went to the hospital. One student drove themselves, Wilson said.She said investigators found shell casings from different caliber guns and witnesses said there were multiple suspicious vehicles."My understanding is it was a drive-by shooting, as well as there may have been people on foot," Wilson said."I think enough is enough. And I think we need to come together as a community," Wilson said. "This is a public health crisis."The shooting happened around 12:45 p.m., police spokesperson Matthew Longshore said.School resource officers responded and applied a tourniquet to one victim, who went into surgery, the chief said.The victims have non-life-threatening injuries, the chief said.The shooting occurred at Nome Park, just north of Central High School, where officials enacted a secure perimeter, Aurora Police tweeted. An earlier post mistakenly said the school had gone into lockdown.The city of Aurora's website says Nome Park is .8 acres and features a playground and community garden. Aurora Central High School had more than 2,000 students as of 2019, according to the National Center for Education Statistics.One witness who lives near the park told CNN affiliate KCNC he heard dozens of shots."It's sad to see young people just throwing their lives away for nothing," Henry Martinez said. "I'm sad about that. ... Heard like 30-50 shots. It was hard to count with them coming so fast like that, but at least 30."The Aurora Police Department is asking for any information, as well as home surveillance camera footage, as the incident is investigated, Wilson said. She also asked students to come forward with information."I'm hoping that there's kids out there that know why this happened. That know what this situation was and can actually share information with us," the chief said.This is a developing story and will be updated.
Woman killed walking her dog in a popular Atlanta park was stabbed dozens of times, medical examiner says.  (CNN)The 40-year-old woman who was killed alongside her dog overnight this summer at a popular park in the heart of Atlanta was stabbed dozens of times, the Fulton County Medical Examiner has said, in a crime that remains unsolved.Katherine Janness' cause of death on July 28 in Piedmont Park was "Sharp force injuries of the face, neck, and torso," with the manner of death listed as "Homicide," according to the November 9 report. Janness was found with her throat cut and the letters "F," "A" and "T" carved into her chest, the report states.She also suffered stab wounds to the head and neck, torso and back, as well as blunt force to the face, neck and extremities, the medical examiner found.Janness was found with $5 cash in her pocket and a wireless earbud near her ear, the report says.In the hours before she was killed, Janness had dinner with her wife before saying she was going to walk the dog, CNN previously reported. Her wife later found the bodies of Janness and the dog, Bowie, near a main entrance to the park.CNN's Claudia Dominguez and Joe Sutton contributed to this report.
US says it 'won't tolerate' Russia's 'reckless and dangerous' anti-satellite missile test.  (CNN)The US strongly condemned a Russian anti-satellite test on Monday that forced crew members on the International Space Station to scramble into their spacecraft for safety, calling it "a reckless and dangerous act" and saying that it "won't tolerate" behavior that puts international interests at risk.US Space Command said Russia tested a direct-ascent anti-satellite, or DA-ASAT missile, striking a Russian satellite and creating a debris field in low-Earth orbit of more than 1,500 pieces of trackable orbital debris that is also likely to generate hundreds of thousands of pieces of smaller orbital debris.US officials emphasized the long-term dangers and potential global economic fallout from the Russian test, which has created hazards for satellites that provide people around the world with phone and broadband service, weather forecasting, GPS systems which underpin aspects of the financial system, including bank machines, as well in-flight entertainment and satellite radio and television."Russia has demonstrated a deliberate disregard for the security, safety, stability, and long-term sustainability of the space domain for all nations," said US Space Command commander Gen. James Dickinson. "The debris created by Russia's DA-ASAT will continue to pose a threat to activities in outer space for years to come, putting satellites and space missions at risk, as well as forcing more collision avoidance maneuvers. Space activities underpin our way of life and this kind of behavior is simply irresponsible."NASA Administrator Bill Nelson said in a statement that he was "outraged by this irresponsible and destabilizing action. With its long and storied history in human spaceflight, it is unthinkable that Russia would endanger not only the American and international partner astronauts on the ISS, but also their own cosmonauts. Their actions are reckless and dangerous, threatening as well the Chinese space station."   Scramble in spaceThe crew on board the ISS had to quickly don their spacesuits and jump into their spacecrafts in case the station was hit by some passing debris, according to Russia's space agency ROSCOSMOS. Two US officials told CNN the precautionary measures were a direct result of the debris cloud caused by the Russian test.There are currently seven astronauts on the space station, including NASA astronaut Mark Vande Hei, Russian cosmonauts Anton Shkaplerov and Pyotr Dubrov as well as the newly arrived Crew 3 mission team, NASA astronauts Raja Chari, Thomas Marshburn, Kayla Barron and European Space Agency astronaut Matthias Maurer.NASA said the "crew was awakened and directed to close the hatches to radial modules on the station," while hatches between the US and Russian segments remained open."An additional precautionary measure of sheltering the crew was executed for two passes through or near the vicinity of the debris cloud," NASA's statement said. "The crew members made their way into their spacecraft shortly before 2 a.m. EST and remained there until about 4 a.m. The space station is passing through or near the cloud every 90 minutes, but the need to shelter for only the second and third passes of the event was based on a risk assessment made by the debris office and ballistics specialists at NASA's Johnson Space Center in Houston."On Monday morning, Shkaplerov tweeted, "Friends, everything is regular with us! We continue to work according to the program."Secretary of State Antony Blinken echoed the condemnations from Nelson and Dickinson in a statement Monday. "The long-lived debris created by this dangerous and irresponsible test will now threaten satellites and other space objects that are vital to all nations' security, economic, and scientific interests for decades to come," Blinken said. State Department spokesperson Ned Price said the test "will significantly increase the risk to astronauts and cosmonauts on the International Space Station, as well as to other human spaceflight activities," adding that "Russia's claims of opposing the weapons and weaponization of space are disingenuous and hypocritical."Only a handful of successful anti-satellite weapon tests have been carried out by the US, Russia, China and India.'Irresponsible'Price said the US would consult with allies and partners on a response."I don't want to get to get ahead of specific measures that we may pursue, that our partners and allies may pursue, but we are going to continue to make very clear that we won't tolerate this kind of activity," Price said at Monday's State Department briefing, adding that the US wanted "to make very clear why this is so dangerous, why this is so, such irresponsible conduct on the part of a nation state."Price said the US had spoken to senior Russian officials several times to warn them about the danger of such a test but would not say whether there had been a formal diplomatic communication to Moscow.When asked about reports that the ISS crew had to seek shelter, Price referred reporters to Russia and stressed that both American astronauts and Russian cosmonauts were affected.The space station continues to be at risk of impact from objects too small to be tracked as it orbits 220 nautical miles above the Earth. These tiny objects could be pieces of rock, micrometeorites, dust particles or even flecks of paint that chip off of satellites.Space Command said it is examining the new wave of debris. "We are actively working to characterize the debris field and will continue to ensure all space-faring nations have the information necessary to maneuver satellites if impacted," a Space Command spokesperson said. "We are also in the process of working with the interagency, including the State Department and NASA, concerning these reports and will provide an update in the near future."'A hazard'Pentagon spokesman John Kirby told reporters at a Monday press briefing that the "most immediate concern is the debris itself, which is now floating out there, and could become a hazard, including to the International Space Station." Kirby said the Pentagon is watching "closely the kinds of capabilities that Russia seems to want to develop."  "We watch closely the kinds of capabilities that Russia seems to want to develop which could pose a threat not just to our national security interest, but the security interests of other space-faring nations," Kirby said. "And again, we've been very clear, we would like to see norms for space, so that it can be used responsibly by all space-faring nations."  The incident comes at a time of increased tensions between the US and Russia. US officials have publicly sounded the alarm about Russia's buildup of troops near its border with Ukraine and joined European nations in expressing concern about the migrant crisis on the border with Belarus, which European officials have described as a man-made crisis that Belarus has created with Russian backing as an act of "hybrid war" against Europe.This story has been updated with additional details.CNN's Ashley Strickland, Oren Liebermann and Jennifer Hansler contributed to this report.
Kevin McCarthy says he called Paul Gosar about now-deleted tweet .  (CNN)House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy told CNN that he called Rep. Paul Gosar last week after the Arizona Republican posted an anime video on Twitter depicting him killing Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and swinging a sword at President Joe Biden.But McCarthy -- who had not publicly commented on the episode until Monday -- did not directly condemn Gosar's behavior, only noting Gosar had deleted the tweet after their conversation."He took the video down and he made a statement that he doesn't support violence to anybody. Nobody should have violence [against them]," the California Republican told CNN. "I called him when I heard about the video, and he made a statement that he doesn't support violence, and he took the video down."House Democrats have introduced a resolution to censure Gosar over the video, but it's unclear if or when it will receive a floor vote.Gosar's statement said he doesn't "espouse violence or harm towards any member of Congress or Mr. Biden" but defended the video as "truly a symbolic portrayal of a fight over immigration policy."In email over the weekend, Gosar also said he finds the "faux outrage infantile and the hyperventilating and shrill accusations that this cartoon is dangerous to be laughable or intentionally hyperbolic."Gosar also compared the situation to the terrorist attack on Charlie Hebdo magazine, suggesting he is the victim. "While the degree of punishment differs, this is the same sentiment expressed against the Charlie Hebdo magazine in France in 2015 that was punished for publishing a cartoonresulting in a real-life massacre of 12 real live people," he wrote.And Gosar continued to defend his actions: "I am entitled to speak to the people and to do so in a manner that is engaging. Further, I have a right to speak to the younger generation in this country."In introducing the censure resolution last week, a group of House Democrats said that "violence against women in politics is a global phenomenon meant to silence women and discourage them from seeking positions of authority and participating in public life, with women of color disproportionately impacted." The House Democrats also said that "vicious and vulgar messaging can and does foment actual violence," pointing to the attack on the Capitol on January 6 as an example."The resolution was introduced because it crosses the line," said Democratic Rep. Jackie Speier of California, who is leading the effort to censure Gosar. "Congressman Gosar is inciting violence against a colleague -- Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez."House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat, also urged the House Ethics Committee and law enforcement to investigate Gosar's actions, and for McCarthy to condemn them.CNN's Alex Rogers contributed to this report.
Biden signs infrastructure bill into law at rare bipartisan gathering .  (CNN)President Joe Biden on Monday signed into law a $1.2 trillion bipartisan infrastructure package and marked the major legislative victory at a White House event with lawmakers from both parties."The bill I'm about to sign intolaw is proof that despite thecynics, Democrats andRepublicans can come togetherand deliver results.We can do this.We can deliver real results forreal people," Biden said, speaking from the South Lawn at the White House. The President said: "We'retaking a monumental step forwardto build back better as anation.""Here in Washington, we've heardcountless speeches and promisesand white papers from experts.But today we're finally gettingthis done.So my message to the Americanpeople is this: America'smoving again, and your life isgoing to change for the better," Biden said. The ceremony comes as Biden is facing slumping poll numbers ahead of next year's critical midterm elections following a bruising gubernatorial loss for Democrats in Virginia earlier this month. Discontent over the pandemic and resulting economic problems -- including record inflation -- are contributing to Biden's lagging popularity. A new ABC-Washington Post poll out over the weekend put the President's approval rating at 41% approve, 53% disapprove. Biden thanked and praised several senators who were key to the bill's passage, including Republican Sen. Rob Portman of Ohio and Democratic Sen. Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona, who both spoke at the event. The President called Portman a "hell of a good guy" and joked that his praise of the Republican would not hurt Portman since he isn't running for reelection in 2022. Notably, Biden also thanked Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, who did not attend the signing ceremony, "for voting for this bill andtalking about how useful and important it is." The President thanked several other top Democrats in the House, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and recognized several committee chairs, ranking members and governors. He also thanked organized labor, "whounderstands this is about jobs. Y'all stood up.Jobs, jobs, jobs, jobs."The legislation will deliver $550 billion of new federal investments in America's infrastructure over five years, including money for roads, bridges, mass transit, rail, airports, ports and waterways. The package includes a $65 billion investment in improving the nation's broadband infrastructure and invests tens of billions of dollars in improving the electric grid and water systems. Another $7.5 billion would go to building a nationwide network of plug-in electric vehicle chargers, according to the bill text. "This law is a blue-collar blueprint to rebuild America. It leaves no one behind andmarks an inflection point thatwe face as a nation," Biden said. "We compromised.We reached a consensus.That's necessary.Now our focus moves toimplementing an infrastructurelaw with speed and with discipline," he added. The legislation is the first part of Biden's two-part economic agenda. The bipartisan infrastructure package focuses on "hard" infrastructure like roads and bridges, and Democrats will now turn to the larger package that focuses on what the President calls "human" infrastructure, which includes investments for family care, to address the climate crisis and expand access to health care. That second piece of legislation still faces an uncertain fate in Congress amid clashes between progressives and moderates. Congress returned to Washington Monday after a weeklong recess to a bevy of critical issues before the holidays, including passing Biden's broader economic and climate agenda, funding the government before a December 3 deadline, and raising the debt limit.The bipartisan infrastructure bill, first passed by the Senate in a 69 to 30 vote in August, was passed by the House, including 13 Republican lawmakers, on November 5. A group of former House Republican lawmakers issued a statement Monday in support of the infrastructure legislation and took aim at House GOP leaders for their silence as members from their own conference have come under attack -- and faced death threats -- for supporting it."By remaining silent and failing to publicly defend these 13 members, House GOP leaders are demonstrating their fear of extreme elements within their own conference at the expense of some of their most politically vulnerable members who are essential to winning a House majority," the former lawmakers wrote. The signing ceremony marked a rare bipartisan gathering, with state and local officials attending from both sides of the aisle.Besides Portman, Republican Sens. Lisa Murkowski, Susan Collins and Bill Cassidy were also scheduled to be in attendance. Moderate Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin, a key holdout on the ongoing negotiations on Biden's Build Back Better agenda, was there, as were GOP Reps. Don Young of Alaska and Tom Reed of New York.Bipartisan state and local officials were also scheduled to attend the event, the White House aide said, including GOP Gov. Larry Hogan of Maryland, with whom Biden highlighted provisions from the package last week in Baltimore, Democratic Govs. Kate Brown of Oregon and John Bel Edwards of Louisiana, plus the mayors of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, Columbia, South Carolina, Long Beach, California, and Chicago, Illinois. Key business representatives also took part in the celebration, including the leaders of United Airlines, Ford, the US Chamber of Commerce, and other groups. And unions, including leaders of IBEW, Teamsters, and United Auto Workers, were present.Oklahoma City Mayor David Holt, a Republican, told CNN the bill will provide funding for his city's roads and bridges."This is a celebratory day for mayors. We have fought for the better part of a decade to get this major investment in our nation's infrastructure. So I'm very pleased that Congress and the White House were able to work together to finally get this done. This means a lot for roads and bridges, water infrastructure, broadband, passenger rail, transit, all the things that are core infrastructure and that cities like mine really need help with," Holt told CNN's "New Day."Former New Orleans Mayor Mitch Landrieu, who has been named a senior adviser and will oversee coordination of the bill's implementation on behalf of the White House, was also set to be on hand. Landrieu, the White House said, "will oversee the most significant and comprehensive investments in American infrastructure in generations -- work that independent experts verify will create millions of high-paying, union jobs while boosting our economic competitiveness in the world, strengthening our supply chains, and acting against inflation for the long term."Top administration officials, as well as the President, have said it will take some time for Americans to see and feel the results of the bill's investments."They'll see the effects of the bill -- this bill -- probably starting within the next two to three months," Biden told reporters following the bill's passage, adding that it is "going to have a profound impact over time."This story has been updated with comments from President Joe Biden. Manu Raju contributed to this report. 
A pregnant woman hoped to deliver her baby at the hospital. She only made it to the front lawn.  (CNN)A pregnant California woman turned her front lawn into a delivery room, and the proof is on her Ring doorbell camera.Last Thursday, a week before her due date, Emily Johnson, 31, began having contractions every 10 minutes."They were pretty low and slow they weren't anything to be worried about," Michael Johnson, Emily's husband, told CNN on Monday. "It was early labor, we've been through it before," he added, as this is the couple's second child.The Johnsons live only five minutes from the hospital in Vacaville, southwest of Sacramento, so they figured they had plenty of time. But that quickly changed."The contractions went from three minutes to two minutes to one minute in a matter of 20 to 30 minutes," Emily told CNN affiliate KCRA. "And we are like, 'Oh we got to get into the car we have to go,'"The couple called Emily's mother, Kristy Sparks, to come watch their 3-year-old son, Blake, grabbed their hospital bag, and rushed out the door and down the driveway.But that was as far as they got."At this point I called grandma (Kristy) quickly and said, 'Change of plans -- she can't get into the car.' Luckily she was right down the street," said Michael.Emily knew she wouldn't be able make it to the hospital in time, so she lay down in the front lawn and accepted she would be delivering the baby right there."I was going to accept those wonderful pain medicines at the hospital," Emily told CNN. "Having a natural childbirth was not in my birth plan. But given how fast the labor progressed, we knew I was not getting there."Michael had called 911 and paramedics were on the way to help with the delivery."I'm running in to get towels; I've got the phone in my hand," he said. "and at this point we're thinking this is going to happen right here, right now."When Sparks pulled up to the house she got down on her hands and knees to help her daughter and shortly after paramedics arrived at the makeshift delivery room. That's when grandma yelled to them that she saw a head, the couple told CNN.Baby Thomas was then born at 10:42 p.m. local time on the front lawn, weighing 7 pounds, 11 ounces."I just laid back in the grass and took a nice deep breath," Emily told KCRA. "I never want to do that again."All caught on cameraLuckily, she can relive the entire delivery again anytime, since their doorbell camera caught the entirety of the dramatic birth."Mike realized after running back and forth that the ring camera had the little blue light on it and it was recording all of this," said Emily.From the moans of Emily in labor to the first cries of Thomas, everything was captured from behind Emily.The couple said they reviewed the footage shortly after arriving at the hospital, and that the nursing staff piled in to watch, as well."We joke that next time we're going to tailgate in the parking lot at the hospital so we're better prepared that time," said Emily.Both mom and baby are happy, healthy and recovering great, according to the couple. 
Father died saving his daughter in Michigan plane crash, family friend says.  (CNN)A victim in a Michigan plane crash died while saving his eldest daughter's life, a family friend and business partner said.Mike Perdue, one of four people who died in a light-commuter plane crash near Beaver Island Saturday, shielded his daughter during it, Ryan Wojan told CNN. "He cradled her in his arms," Wojan said. "She doesn't remember anything, except for her daddy squeezing her so hard."The 11-year-old is the sole survivor.All of her injuries were on the opposite side of where her dad was sitting in the plane, said Wojan, who has been in close contact with Perdue's wife since the accident.From 2015: Why do more kids survive plane crashesPerdue's wife "wanted to be sure that everyone knew who he was and how he gave his life for his daughter," Wojan said. The couple has four children. The girl, who remains hospitalized, suffered several fractures and has undergone two surgeries but none of her injuries are life-threatening, Wojan added.Two of the deceased, Kate Leese and Adam Kendall, were taking their dogs to the vet in the plane, a family member told CNN. Both animals died in the crash, authorities said over the weekend. Charlevoix County Sheriff Lieutenant William Church said the pilot was the fourth victim. He has not been identified. Leese and Kendall had recently moved to Beaver Island, authorities said. They were working to establish a vineyard on the small Upper Michigan island in the middle of Lake Michigan, according to posts on social media. In recent Instagram posts, the couple shared photos of their dogs and flights over the island.Amanda Danielle Leese, Kate's sister, told CNN the couple was destined for great things. "Kate and Adam were meant for each other. They lived 20 lives in the time they knew each other. Kate was larger than life," Leese said. "She wanted to experience the world. She wanted to taste it. She wanted to explore it and Adam was right there with her."  Avid fishermen and hunters, Wojan and Perdue were meeting on Beaver Island for the opening day of firearm deer season. The girl was going to meet a family friend for the weekend, Wojan told CNN. Wojan flew to Beaver Island three hours before the Perdues on the same plane. Perdue was the managing broker and co-owner of Smith Realty Group, with Wojan. "He was always a giver... and was such an important part of the community," Wojan said.The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) said the Britton-Norman BN2P plane crashed around 2:30 p.m. ET.The United States Coast Guard (USCG) was conducting a training flight in the area and responded after receiving an Emergency Locator Transmitter alert pinging them to the crash, according to a tweet from USCG Great Lakes.The FAA and the National Transportation Safety Board are investigating the cause of the crash, the FAA said.
This governor just became the most important Republican recruit in the country.  (CNN)At first glance, Vermont Sen. Patrick Leahy's decision to retire rather than seek a 9th(!) term in office does little to affect the fight for the US Senate majority in 2022.After all, President Joe Biden won the state by 35 points in 2020, his largest margin anywhere in the country. And, the last time a Republican won a Senate seat in Vermont was more than two decades ago.All true!  And all relevant!But, there's also something else interesting about Vermont: It has one of the most popular Republican governors in the country in a man named Phil Scott. Scott, first elected in 2016, was reelected in 2020 by 41 points, which -- because math -- is larger than Biden's 35-point margin in the state that same year. (Vermont elects its governors to two-year terms rather than the more traditional four years common elsewhere in the country.)Scott's popularity has only increased since the 2020 election. As The Atlantic's Russell Berman wrote in August:"Six months later, Scott is riding even higher. No other state has weathered the COVID-19 pandemic better than Vermont: Its overall per capita case rate and death rate are the lowest on the U.S. mainland, and it has given at least one vaccine dose to the highest percentage of its population. Vermont's treasury is flush with money, a testament both to the governor's fiscal prudencethe state was running a surplus before the pandemicand to the influence of its congressional delegation in Washington."Democrats control the state legislature and every other statewide office, but the praise they lavish on Scott's leadership is unreserved and foreign to the zero-sum brutality of modern politics. 'He's done an absolutely tremendous job on COVID,' Representative Peter Welch, Vermont's lone member of the House, told me. Indeed, Democrats have struggled to beat Scott in part because they can't seem to find a bad thing to say about him. 'He is a rational, thoughtful, and caring Republican,' says former Lieutenant Governor David Zuckerman, the Democrat whom Scott clobbered last year.(Worth noting: Welch is widely seen as Democrats' strongest potential candidate; in the wake of Leahy's retirement, Welch made no mention of his intentions -- calling it a "historic and bittersweet day.")In a 50-50 Senate, every single seat matters massively. Which makes the possibility of Senate bid by Scott hugely intriguing for Republicans trying to recover from New Hampshire Gov. Chris Sununu's no-go decision last week.  Intriguing but, at least as of today, a long shot -- for two main reasons.1)  Scott hasn't been interested in coming to Washington. In that Atlantic profile, Scott said this of a Senate bid in the event Leahy retired: "I don't have any interest in running for the Senate. I'm terribly happy right here in Vermont." That isn't a Sherman-esque declaration but also not exactly encouraging for Republican recruiters. And on Monday morning, the governor's press secretary, Jason Maulucci told CNN, "Governor Scott has been clear that he is not running for the U.S. Senate next year. That has not changed." That said, there are plenty of examples from recent history in which circumstances -- and minds  -- changed. At the start of the 2020 election, for example, both John Hickenlooper and Steve Bullock -- then the governors of Colorado and Montana, respectively -- insisted they had no interest in running for Senate because they were fully focused on running for president. After those presidential bids didn't work out, both men ultimately reversed course and ran for Senate. Hickenlooper won, but Bullock didn't. 2) A federal race isn't a state race. It's far easier to keep your distance from your national party when you are running for governor than when you are running for Senate. It's why states like Vermont and Massachusetts -- both hugely Democratic at the federal level -- can have Republican governors and Kansas, solidly Republican for federal races, can elect Democratic Gov. Laura Kelly. (A Democrat hasn't won a Senate race in Kansas in almost a century!)  So, while Scott might be a hugely popular state executive, he could very well struggle if he has to answer for all of the actions of Republicans in Washington -- up to and including former President Donald Trump. (Scott said he voted for Biden over Trump in 2020.)But, as regular followers of Senate races know, a long shot isn't a no-shot.Scott would never have run against Leahy. Now that the seat is open however, Republicans will throw everything they have at trying to change his mind about a Senate bid. If by chance they succeed, then it would tip the national playing field in their direction.
Why Chris Christie isn't sorry.  (CNN)Former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie is trying to make a political comeback after a dark few years in the shadow of Donald Trump -- including writing a new book that Christie is pitching as a blueprint for a post-Trump GOP.CNN's Dana Bash sat down with Christie for a special running on CNN tonight at 10 p.m. ET called "Being....Chris Christie." I caught up with Dana to get her impressions of the former governor's plans -- and his current views on Trump.Our conversation is below.Cillizza: Christie said he voted for Trump twice and, even now, wouldn't change his 2020 vote. Did that surprise you?Bash: It surprised me only in that he spends so much time in his new book systematically ripping to shreds the conspiracies that the former president propagates and explicitly details the ways that those lies destroy American discourse.Christie argues that his ideological differences with Joe Biden are so big, that he never could have voted for Biden. What I told him that I don't understand, and still don't, is how he could argue that Trump's lies are a danger to democracy and not think that supersedes everything else? Isn't it a luxury to debate ideals? One that only people in a working democracy have the opportunity to tussle over? He argues the answer is "no." A lot of people vehemently disagree -- including fellow Republicans who, like him, are trying to find a post-Trump path for themselves and the GOP in general.Cillizza: He rejected the idea -- despite being the first major politician to endorse Trump in 2016 -- that he was an enabler of the former president. Did he express remorse at any point in the interview for his role in Trump's rise?Bash: It is interesting -- there are several times when Christie says flatly that he made a mistake, including that infamous picture of him on a closed beach at the end of his governorship when he was in a budget fight with the Democratic legislature. But Christie expressed no remorse for helping Trump. I asked him point blank about being an enabler -- about helping Trump get to the point where he was powerful enough to not only be President but use his perch to try to overturn an election that he lost in 2020. Christie makes the point that in 2016 he was the one who wanted to be president. When his own candidacy stalled, he saw that Trump was on the way to getting the nomination and that, in Christie's opinion, Trump was still better than Hillary Clinton so he wanted to use his long relationship with Trump to help him.Still, in his book Christie details example after example where he tried, and failed, to turn the Trump ship around. "I thought the presidency might change him, it did not change him a bit," Christie told me.Cillizza: The two men haven't spoken since Christie was critical of Trump back in January. Does Christie still consider Trump a friend?Bash: Christie does consider Trump a friend still, yes. They have had a relationship for about 20 years now and he says they have had other periods where they didn't talk for a long time.But let's be clear -- there is nothing this high profile or this consequential that has come between them before. Christie is saying Trump lost, which in Trump's mind means that Christie is calling him a loser. Anyone who knows Trump will tell you that is the worst thing you can say about him -- it is the whole reason the former president never conceded and is dragging the country through the mess of conspiracies about election 2020.Cillizza: Christie repeatedly refers to himself as "edgy" and as a truth-teller. Is that positioning to run in 2024?Bash: Christie is positioning himself to run in 2024. He argues that the reason he wrote a roadmap for Republicans to rescue themselves from Trump's lies is not only because he loves his party, but because he won't have a GOP to be a part of unless it changes. He wants to be president. We know that. He's already run once. The question is whether 2024 is the year for him. Remember this time before the 2016 presidential cycle he had just won re-election in a landslide in a blue state. Then Bridgegate happened. He has first-hand experience of how things can change fast in politics.Cillizza: Finish this sentence: "In 2024, Chris Christie is going to __________." Now, explain.Bash: "Be a major voice for the GOP."Whether he is a candidate himself or backing someone else, he is a political animal who loves being in the thick of it and, as he says candidly, naturally gets attention and stirs passion for whatever he is doing -- the good, the bad and the ugly.The Point: Watch Dana's special tonight at 10 p.m. ET!
Jill Biden: Parents, the Covid-19 vaccine is the best way to protect your kids. First lady of the United States Jill Biden is a community college educator with more than 30 years of classroom teaching experience. The views expressed in this commentary are her own. View more opinion on CNN. (CNN)When you become a parent, you look at your baby and feel a mix of overwhelming love deep in your bones, and absolute terror, knowing that this fragile life is depending on you. From that moment on, you see the world differently. Every step, every street corner, every bite of food is a danger that you never even noticed before. So, we buy baby gates and cover our electrical outlets. We wrestle them into car seats no matter how much they complain. We make them eat their vegetables and stuff them in winter coats and scarves until they can barely walk. We hold their hands to cross the street and teach them to always look both ways. Then, after bedtime -- when we're exhausted from the day and sure that if we hear, "can I have a glass of water" one more time, we will descend into a permanent madness -- we quietly close their bedroom door and feel a pang of gratitude. We know that those dinner complaints and bedtime negotiations mean that they are healthy and growing, and that everything is OK.   Parents, we do absolutely everything to protect our kids, and in this pandemic, you did. You figured out how to support their virtual learning while working your job. Some of you even left your job to help your kids. You found ways to create online playdates and birthday parties. You chose to get yourself vaccinated.  There were times when you probably felt like no matter what you did it wasn't enough, but I want you to know: You carried your family through this. You're doing an amazing job.  The President and I understand how difficult this pandemic has been for your family. We care about you and your children. Joe and his team have been working every day to give you what you need to keep your family safe.  That's why I'm so excited that, now, you have a new way to do just that: a vaccine for children, ages 5 and up.  During my travels to over 30 states this year, so many of you have asked me when this was coming. Now, it's here -- not just another way to protect your kids against Covid-19, but the best way. It's been thoroughly reviewed and rigorously tested. It's safe. It's free and it's available for every eligible child in the country.  Find a nearby clinic by going to Vaccines.gov. Joe's administration worked closely with pediatricians and pharmacists to make sure thousands of schools and more than 100 children's hospitals can offer shots, so you'll be able to find a convenient location no matter where you live.  Parenthood and worrying go hand-in-hand. It's what we do. I can't promise you that the dangers of the world will become any less frightening. Just wait until your kids start driving!  With this vaccine, however, we can help take care of at least one of those worries. A big one.  From the day you held your sweet, fragile, little baby for the first time, you have made the choice, again and again, to keep your child safe. Getting your kids the Covid-19 vaccine is your choice, too. Make the decision to protect your children with the same vaccine that has already saved millions of lives. 
Little kids can likely read your emotions even when you wear a face mask, study finds.  (CNN)Little kids can often tell how people are feeling, even if that person is wearing a face mask, a new study published Monday found.There has been some concern that the face masks used at school during the pandemic may be hurting younger children's development, but this research letter published in JAMA Pediatrics suggests that kids recognize emotions about as well as they could without masks.For this study, researchers from University Hospital Lausanne in Switzerland showed 90 pictures at random to nearly 300 children ages 3 to 6. The photos showed actors who expressed joy, anger or sadness. In half of the images, actors wore masks. They were asked to either name the emotion, point to a card showing emoticons with these emotions, tell the researcher that they didn't know the answer or say that they wanted to quit the experiment. The children got most of the answers right and were able to match the emotions to the picture on the card at a nearly identical rate, whether the figure was wearing a mask or not. Kids described the correct emotion more than 70% of the time when the actor was maskless and got it right more than 67% of the time when the figure wore a mask. The older the kids, the more answers they got correct. About a quarter of preschoolers had a harder time distinguishing sadness from anger and about 21% occasionally confused joy for anger or sadness. "Actual face masks depicted in static pictures were significantly associated with emotion recognition in healthy preschool children, although differences were small and effect sizes were weak," the study said. Ashley Ruba, a developmental psychology expert in the Child Emotion Lab at University of Wisconsin-Madison, was not affiliated with this study, but has done similar work during the pandemic. She said she saw similar results with her work."Even with masks being worn, little kids can probably still make reasonable inferences about other people's emotions," Ruba said. "I like to point out that the face isn't the most important way we communicate our emotions, it is only one way. We also use tone of voice, we have body posture, we have other kinds of contextual clues that kids and adults can use to figure out how people are feeling."  For language processing, it is important for kids to learn to lip read, but it's clear from the research, she said, that a mask is not going to hurt a child's development. "The risks of contracting Covid from not wearing a mask are probably going to outweigh any slight issue about communication that kids might have," she said. As a developmental psychologist, she thinks there are many more aspects of the pandemic that could hurt a child's development, like from the social isolation they've had from peers when they've had to stay at home from school or if a parent were to lose a job, for example."Masks are probably at the bottom of the list of things to be concerned about," she said. 
Weight loss, motherhood and the magazine quiz that made her rethink her marriage -- what we learned from Adele's Oprah interview.  (CNN)Adele has opened up about her weight loss, coming to terms with the collapse of her marriage and juggling motherhood and her musical career, in an exclusive interview with Oprah Winfrey. The candid, wide-ranging sit-down -- which took place in the rose garden where Winfrey also interviewed Prince Harry and Meghan Markle -- was part of CBS' special, "Adele One Night Only," which aired on Sunday night.  The prime-time special featured a performance from an exclusive concert that was pre-recorded at Griffith Observatory in Los Angeles and was a prelude to the Grammy Award winner's fourth studio album, "30," which will be released on November 19.  Here's what we learned from the conversation.  Adele started exercising to manage her anxiety  The singer said the plan was never to lose weight when she started her workout sessions, but simply to try to control her anxiety. "I'm not shocked or even fazed by (people's reactions to her body transformation)," Adele told Winfrey. "Because my body has been objectified my entire career." She added: "I was body-positive then and I'm body-positive now. It's not my job to validate how people feel about their bodies." She is 'disappointed' about her split from ex-husband Simon Konecki Lifting the lid on the collapse of her marriage to Simon Konecki publicly for the first time, she admitted that the divorce left her disappointed both for herself and for their son, Angelo. The couple announced their split in September 2019, with Adele filing for divorce. "I've been obsessed with a nuclear family my whole life because I never came from one," she explained. "From a very young age I promised myself that when I had kids that we'd stay together and we would be that united family and I tried for a really, really long time. I was so disappointed for my son. I was so disappointed for myself." Recalling the moment she knew she needed to end her marriage, she said she and her friends were doing a magazine quiz that posed the question "What's something that no one would ever know about you." "I just said it in front of three of my friends, I was like, 'I'm really not happy. I'm not living, I'm just plodding along.' ... It was when I admitted to my own friends, who thought I was really happy, that actually I'm really unhappy, and they were all aghast."She believes her ex-husband saved her life  Reflecting on her relationship with Konecki, she credited him with saving her life and preventing her from going down a path of self-destruction.  "I could have easily have gone down some dodgy paths ... and sort of self-destructed from sort of being so overwhelmed by all of it, and he came in, and he was stable, the most stable person I have ever had in my life up until that point." The couple still live opposite each other in Los Angeles and continue to co-parent 9-year-old Angelo. The star went on to reveal that despite going their separate ways, she still trusts Konecki with her life. "I feel like him and Angelo were angels sent to me, that's how I feel," she added.  '30' was written in 'real time'  When Winfrey noted that "30" sounded like Adele had "literally opened up your soul" and "pain was almost like a muse for you," Adele revealed that the album was written in real time. "Everything was happening in real time. I was writing my album, you know, while I was going through everything." After Winfrey reminded her of the success of her single "Hello" -- the lead single off her third studio album, "25" -- Adele stated that her music "definitely channels from somewhere else" during the creative process. Adele added: "I don't know how I access it. It's wild cause I don't think I'm that deep in real life." She wasn't afraid to share private details of her personal life on the album because "nothing is as scary as what I've been through over the last two/three years behind closed doors."  The album is dedicated to her son  Adele said she struggled to explain to Angelo that she was no longer in love with his father. "There were so many answers I couldn't give him because there aren't any," she said.  She told Winfrey that she prepared for the reality that he will be "livid" with her as an adult for dismantling his life for her happiness and "30," which is dedicated to him, is her way of showing him "who I am.""The whole album is not about him, it's about me and I just wanted for him to hear me talking madly deeply about who I am and how I feel," she said. "I don't know if I'll ever be able to have that conversation with him in real life, so therefore he can go and listen to it." Asked she would like to grow her family, she said: "I'm definitely open to it. I would like more children. It wouldn't be the end of the world if I don't have them, cause I have Angelo."  She was with her estranged father for his final days The interview also shed some light on Adele's fraught relationship with her estranged father, Mark Evans, who suffered from alcoholism and left her as a child.  The London-born musician revealed that they reconciled over the past three years. Before his death in May this year, she played him her new album.  "We forgave each other. ... We found our peace together, and then I played the album to him on Zoom," she said.Recalling their listening session she told Winfrey: "His favorites were all of my favorites, which I thought was amazing." She described spending time with her father before his death as " very, very healing," adding that "when he died, it was literally was like the wound closed up."  Rich Paul romance is the first time she's loved herself  The 33-year-old revealed in her Vogue cover story last month that she started dating the sports agent at the beginning of 2021, after the pair met at a party two years ago. Asked what attracted her to him she said: "He's just hilarious. Oh, he's so funny, he's hilarious, yeah. And very smart. You know, he's very, very smart. It's quite incredible watching him do what he does. And just the easiness of it." She said that her romance with Paul, who is the founder of the United Talent Agency (UTA)-affiliated Klutch Sports, is first time she's "loved myself" as well as being the first time she has "been open to loving and being loved by someone else." Before "Adele One Night Only" aired, the singer revealed to fans on Twitter she had "never been so nervous in my life," because of Angelo being in the audience. She went on to thank Oprah for "allowing me to tell my truth lovingly in a safe space." "The whole thing was pretty overwhelming, I've seen it twice and cried my eyes out both times," she told her 26.7 milllion followers. "Having been on such a rollercoaster the last few years and then the pandemic, it was hard to imagine being on stage singing again ever. So the fact that I got to and also got to sing my new songs, has me feeling a million things at once!"   
Mel Gibson says he will direct new 'Lethal Weapon' sequel .  (CNN)Mel Gibson has reportedly revealed that another "Lethal Weapon" movie is in the works.According to The Sun, the actor shared during a recent Experience With... event  in London that he will direct and star in "Lethal Weapon 5," 23 years after the last sequel in the franchise."The man who directed all the 'Lethal' films, Richard Donner, he was a big guy," the publication quoted Gibson as saying. "He was developing the screenplay and he got pretty far along with it. And he said to me one day, 'Listen kid, if I kick the bucket you will do it.' And I said: 'Shut up,'" Gibson said. "But he did indeed pass away. But he did ask me to do it and at the time I didn't say anything. He said it to his wife and to the studio and the producer. So I will be directing the fifth one."Gibson originated the role as police officer Martin Riggs in the 1987 film in which he costarred with Danny Glover.CNN has reached out to reps for Gibson for additional comment. 
The 'Downton Abbey' sequel trailer is here.  (CNN)The "Downton Abbey" sequel trailer has dropped and it takes the family to the French Riviera.The movie, "Downton Abbey: A New Era," comes two years after the "Downton Abbey" feature film and features Tom Branson's second wedding and an admission from the Dowager Countess, played by Maggie Smith, which takes the family to the South of France."Years ago, before you were born, I met a man. And now I've come into the possession of a villa in the South of France," the Countess says in the trailer.Returning for the sequel are Jim Carter, Brendan Coyle, Dockery, Kevin Doyle, Joanne Froggatt, Harry Hadden-Paton, Robert James-Collier, Allen Leech, Phyllis Logan, Hugh Bonneville, Laura Carmichael, Elizabeth McGovern, Sophie McShera, Tuppence Middleton, Lesley Nicol, Imelda Staunton and Penelope Wilton. Hugh Dancy, Laura Haddock, Nathalie Baye, Dominic West and Jonathan Zacca have all joined the cast for the movie. "Downton Abbey: A New Era" will be released in in theaters on Mar. 18, 2022. 
Citigroup's Jane Fraser is doing the unthinkable on Wall Street. New York (CNN Business)Less than a month into her role as the chief executive of Citigroup, Jane Fraser made a decision that shook Wall Street. It was late March, and signs of burnout were everywhere after more than a year of remote work in the pandemic. Deal volume was at record highs and showed no signs of letting up. Over at investment banking rival Goldman Sachs, young analysts made headlines with workplace horror stories that went beyond the typical long hours and cutthroat competition that Wall Street's known for. They were falling apart, mentally and emotionally. Fraser saw an opportunity. And the memo she sent to Citi's 210,000 global staff would set the tone for how she would try to overhaul Citigroup  long languishing in third place and mired in bad press."The blurring of lines between home and work and the relentlessness of the pandemic workday have taken a toll on our well-being," she wrote. "It's simply not sustainable."What followed was a reset plan that included the kinds of work-life balance measures you don't often see on Wall Street. Fraser implemented "Zoom-free Fridays" and urged staff to avoid scheduling calls outside traditional work hours. Take your vacations, she pleaded. Veteran bankers must have thought they were in the Twilight Zone. Then came the real shock: When Citi ultimately returns to the office, most roles will be designated as "hybrid"  with three days in office and up to two at home. Among American banks, that kind of flexibility was unheard of. It was both a humane reaction to a mass trauma and a calculated strategic decision. By branding itself the "bank with a soul," as Fraser calls it, Citi would have an edge in scooping up and retaining talent that might otherwise eschew Wall Street for the less-frenzied, or at least less formal, world of tech. Fraser readily admits the decision wasn't purely about empathy  "I want to crush the competition," she told Bloomberg News last month. But by not cracking the whip, she's also staking out a somewhat radical position on Wall Street: that ruthlessness doesn't have to define a bank's culture. Banking analysts and investors will be closely watching Fraser in March, when she plans to unveil Citigroup's cultural and structural rehabilitation plan for the next several years. It'll also mark her first full year as CEO  a timely check-in to see how her strategy is playing out. No one expects her to wave a magic wand and undo decades' worth of mismanagement overnight. But the March investor day will be a crucial early test. Shareholders are hungry for bold action. The biggest risk, says longtime banking analyst Mike Mayo, is not that the plan will be too aggressive  it's that it won't be aggressive enough. Turnaround jobIt's hard to overstate what a difficult job Fraser, the first woman to lead a top American bank, has inherited. Citigroup's (C) stock is wildly underperforming. Its shares are up about 13% this year  dismal compared with the broader stock market, which has gained 24% in 2021. Citi's rivals are outpacing it by even more: Bank of America (BAC) is up 60%, and JPMorgan Chase (JPM) is up 35%.  It's also under intense pressure from regulators, who for years have been cajoling the bank to overhaul its hodgepodge of internal risk-management and data systems. Regulators' concerns aren't unfounded. In August 2020, Citi committed one of the biggest blunders in the history of Wall Street when it erroneously wired nearly $1 billion of its own money to creditors of Revlon. The fat-finger error ultimately cost Citi more than $500 million when several of those creditors refused to return the funds. Just two months later, regulators slapped Citigroup with a $400 million fine for failing to address "long-standing deficiencies." Fraser's shakeup of office culture is a relatively easy win  necessary, perhaps, but far from sufficient, analysts say."Every day she gets a grade from shareholders, and that's the stock price," Mayo said in an interview with CNN Business. "And every day that she's been in the role, the verdict is Citigroup is worth more dead than alive."It's not enough to change the tone at the top, Mayo said. Fraser, who declined to comment for this article, has to address the sort governance lapses that have gotten the bank in trouble. In a recent note to clients, Mayo and other analysts criticized Citi's decision to identify potential cash bonuses for top managers before their performance targets are even announced. "That's like charging us for dinner before we know if we're getting hot dogs or caviar," the note said. "Moreover, the awards are in cash vs. stock and seem like extra pay to execs for just doing their job."That's terrible governance, Mayo says. "And that's the terrible governance Citigroup has had for the last 10, 20, 50 or 100 years."Better Call JaneThankfully for Citigroup, Fraser's no stranger to cleanup jobs. During the 2008 financial crisis, the bank very nearly collapsed because of its exposure to toxic mortgage-backed securities. As Citigroup hobbled along on life support in the form of a massive government bailout, Fraser  who joined the bank in 2004 ran its strategy division, overseeing sales of risky assets to streamline the bank's sprawling operations.She later ran Citigroup's battered mortgage business and its Latin America operations, both decidedly thorny assignments in the fallout of the financial crisis. In a 2018 interview with CNN, Fraser recalled people telling her she was "crazy" for taking over CitiMortgage just a few years after the housing market imploded. In hindsight, she said, it was the "best decision I've ever made."The lesson: You don't have to know everything."You learn from those situations... Because it was a crisis and because I didn't know anything," she said. "You have to hire people that are better than you and more knowledgeable than you."Fraser is widely credited for cleaning up Citi's Mexican subsidiary, which was emerging from a money-laundering scandal when she became CEO of Citigroup's Latin America operations in 2015. In that role, she also steered the bank through the devastation of Hurricane Maria. When the storm forced Citi's San Juan, Puerto Rico, branch to close, she oversaw efforts to bring in generators and other necessities to get the bank back up and running a week later. "We don't leave a country when it's in really bad shape," Fraser told the New York Times in an interview in February. "We can really make a difference." Fraser, 54, comes to the role of CEO armed with a resume straight out of Wall Street central casting. She worked as a Goldman Sachs analyst after receiving her degree in economics at Cambridge. Then came the Harvard MBA, followed by a decade of work at consulting giant McKinsey before joining Citigroup in 2004.A 'glass cliff' moment?Fraser regularly downplays the gender question in interviews. The fact that she's a woman running a major bank is historic, but it should hardly matter as long she does the job well. And that's true. But it's also impossible to ignore Corporate America's track record of sticking a woman in the driver's seat when the wheels are about to come off. Research shows that women are more likely to be promoted to senior leadership positions when institutions are in trouble  a trend known as the glass cliff. Mary Barra, famously, made history as the first woman to run General Motors in 2014. But the automaker was a mess, still crawling out of bankruptcy and, two weeks into Barra's tenure, issuing a massive recall linked to 13 deaths that the company had known about for years. There was a similar sense of crisis at Citi that accelerated Fraser's ascension. In the fall of 2020, her predecessor Michael Corbat wasn't supposed to retire for another year. But with regulators breathing down the bank's neck over long-overdue systems upgrades, plus a flurry of bad press over the fat-finger flub, Corbat decided to bounce early, according to the Wall Street Journal. An expensive, time-consuming overhaul needed to begin right away, and Corbat  who himself was elevated to CEO in 2012 to be Mr. Fix-It  believed that process should be handled by his successor. Analysts agree Fraser's got her work cut out for her. Her 17 years at the bank, across multiple divisions, means she knows where the bodies are buried, where Citi thrives and where it lags. But, notably, says Mayo, Fraser so far hasn't brought in a heavy-hitting outsider to shake up the upper echelons of management. Allegiances to "old" Citigroup could be a huge liability, he says. "The old managers, the board of directors... these are not her friends or her family, she doesn't owe anything to them. She owes something, if anything, to the shareholders that have been left woefully behind."
Lucid Air named MotorTrend Car of the Year. New York (CNN Business)The Lucid Air, the first model from California-based electric car start-up company Lucid Motors, has been named MotorTrend's 2022 Car of the Year.It's the first time any automaker has won the award with its first car. MotorTrend's panel of judges lauded the Lucid Air for its extraordinary range and efficiency -- some versions can go up to 520 miles on a single charge -- as well as its performance and luxurious interior.In its announcement, MotorTrend called the Air "the new [electric vehicle] benchmark." The Air's electric motors were developed by Lucid itself. With no space taken up by a gasoline engine, the Air has a large cabin area with ample storage space in the trunk as well as under the hood.While the judges generally liked the Air's interior design, they did criticize what they saw as an over-reliance on touch screens for many basic controls. The judges praised the car's Lucid-designed stereo-system.It's not the first time a start-up automaker has won the award. The Tesla Model S won it in 2012. But the Model S was Tesla's second car, after the Tesla Roadster. The Air is Lucid's first car, and it only recently went into production.Despite its high cost, MotorTrend's judges thought the Lucid Air represented a strong value. They tested the Grand Touring version with a starting price around $140,000. Less expensive versions, with prices starting around $77,000, will be available later, but they won't have the driving range and power of the pricier cars.Lucid's CEO, Peter Rawlinson, once worked at Tesla and helped engineer the Model S. In creating the Lucid Air, he has said, efficiency has been a primary focus. The Lucid is actually the most energy efficient electric car sold in America, according to EPA estimates.The MotorTrend Car of the Year award is given to cars and not trucks or SUVs, for which there are separate awards. To be eligible, cars must be completely new or substantially redesigned for the model year. Other finalists included the Mercedes-Benz EQS, also fully electric, as well as the gasoline-powered Mercedes-Benz S-class, Hyundai Sonata and Honda Civic.The cars vary enormously in price, size and performance, but all were judged based on efficiency, value, advancement in design, engineering excellence, safety, and performance of its intended function, according to MotorTrend. The cars were tested on public roads as well as at Hyundai's California proving grounds.
Xi and Biden are meeting. There's a lot at stake for their economies. London (CNN Business)Managing America's relationship with its biggest economic frenemy is one of US President Joe Biden's toughest challenges.So when he holds a virtual summit with President Xi Jinping later on Monday, issues like supply chains, subsidies and tariffs, a pullback in China's vast property sector and the global energy crunch could feature prominently in discussions.The United States and China remain codependent, as American consumers snap up products manufactured in Chinese factories and companies scramble for parts sourced from Asia. Solving the climate crisis requires China's cooperation, while Wall Street money managers are drawn by the market's potential, even though many have been burned over the past year by a ferocious regulatory crackdown.With this in mind, Biden is expected to emphasize the areas in which Beijing and Washington can cooperate. But growing tensions over issues such as Taiwan, Hong Kong and human rights have also driven a wedge between the two countries and their economies, complicating the talks."One should not hold out false hope that the Xi-Biden virtual summit will fix the fundamental differences between China and America or change the general trajectory of the rivalry," said Alex Capri, a research fellow at the Hinrich Foundation. "The overarching question is whether, under the best of circumstances, the two leaders can try and come up with the rationale for a new kind of 'competitive coexistence.'"Here are some issues on the economy they could talk about.Trade and tariffs Two dozen business groups are putting pressure on the Biden administration to consider removing tariffs on China to help ease surging inflation. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said on CBS' "Face the Nation" Sunday that such a move is "under consideration." But it may not happen. While the Biden administration recently reached an agreement with the European Union to ease Trump-era sanctions on aluminum and steel, it's continued to criticize China's trade practices and subsidies for domestic businesses.The United States has backed the "Phase 1" trade deal former President Donald Trump signed with China in January 2020. In a speech last month, US Trade Representative Katherine Tai said China must be accountable for promises made in that agreement. Beijing has not delivered yet on its all its commitments, she said.Tai also indicated the United States could push China to go even further."We continue to have serious concerns with China's state-centered and non-market trade practices that were not addressed in the Phase One deal," Tai said. "As we work to enforce the terms of Phase One, we will raise these broader policy concerns with Beijing."A senior Biden administration official told reporters on Sunday that supply chain issues and tariffs are not on Biden's agenda for the meeting, but it is possible that Xi will bring them up.China's property sectorYellen also said Sunday that the administration is watching the embattled property sector in China and warned of potential global consequences if China's economy were to "slow down more than expected." The country's GDP grew at its slowest pace in a year last quarter."It's something that's important, that we're monitoring closely," Yellen said, when asked if she was confident China could control the financial fallout of a real estate slump.Financial markets were rattled in September after the developer Evergrade warned it could default on its massive debts. That sparked fears of contagion across the real estate industry, which accounts for as much as 30% of China's economic output. Evergrande has recently managed to make some interest payments and stave off a collapse. But a mountain of debt obligations is coming due over the next year. Several other Chinese developers are in a similar position as demand for properties pulls back."China's a real estate sector with firms that are over-leveraged and it's something that China is trying to deal with," Yellen said.In a recent report, the Federal Reserve warned that "financial stresses in China ... could further strain global financial markets and negatively affect the United States." The Fed pointed specifically to the crisis at Evergrande.Energy and climateChina and the United States have recently found common ground on the climate crisis, surprising observers at the COP26 climate talks in Scotland with a joint pledge to cut emissions."I'm gloomy about the prospects for cooperation on anything, except maybe climate, where their interests coincide," said William Reinsch, a senior adviser at the the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.The world's top two economies are also its biggest polluters, and both are feeling the pain of an energy crunch exacerbated by attempts to transition to greener supplies.Last month, the Chinese government ordered the country's coal mines to "produce as much coal as possible" as winter approaches. Biden, for his part, has urged OPEC to pump more oil to ease soaring gasoline prices that reached a record high in California this weekend.Neither China, the world's biggest coal consumer, nor the United States signed on to a deal announced at COP26 in which a number of countries committed to phasing out the use of coal. They have said they will phase down its use. Jill Disis and Natasha Bertrand contributed reporting.
What will your raise look like in 2022? There's good news and bad news. You would think the combination of high inflation, a worker shortage and a talent war would be a winning trifecta for any employee who would like to take home a bigger paycheck next year. And many companies are also reporting strong earnings, if not record ones. "Employees are saying, 'I've been working record hard.' There's an expectation that more of that needs to go to [them]," said Brian Kropp, chief of research at consulting firm Gartner's HR practice. Generally speaking, HR consulting firms are seeing employers offer compensation increases of 5% to 10% in a wide swath of jobs, but especially in areas where workers are needed most, in which case those increases can stretch up to 20%. But it hasn't been an across-the-board phenomena, nor is it likely to be next year.Increases for inflation alone will disappointInflation may be at a 30-year high, but that doesn't mean employers feel obligated to cover your rising costs. To the extent you've been getting cost-of-living adjustments in the past, that annual 1% to 2% increase isn't likely to budge for next year.That's because raising your base pay is a permanent increase in employers' fixed costs, and they're not going to hike salaries in lockstep with historically high inflation, especially since they may think it could cool down next year, Kropp said. So who will be in line for more real money?For many workers, though, their pay increases -- including salary bumps and bonuses -- will be higher than inflation. And for some, considerably so.Employers' most immediate concern is attracting and retaining talent for critical roles. The most critical ones include supply chain leadership and technical jobs related to the supply chain, as well as roles in digital marketing, data analysis, artificial intelligence, engineering and cybersecurity, said Catherine Hartmann, the North American work and reward practice leader at HR consulting firm Willis Towers Watson.It also includes hourly workers at distribution warehouses and in restaurants or other industries that have gone begging for help and can't afford to lose the staff they already have.What employers have been finding, though, is that more pay isn't always enough to cure the problem, Kropp said, noting that one restaurant chain promised to hire anyone at $3 more per hour than they are currently earning but the chain still had to close some locations. Another company, he said, gave all its IT workers a 10% raise but found that didn't stem turnover in the department."There's a massive amount of wage inflation because there aren't enough people in the labor market to hire," Kropp said. And that's especially true when it comes to those with technology skills, because all companies, not just those in technology fields, are competing to hire them.If you are in a critical role you are best positioned to ask for what you want, either at your current employer or the competitor across the street, which may offer you 20% to 25% more than you've been making, Kropp said.If your current employer wants to retain you, they may increase your base salary somewhat but they also may offer a retention bonus to incentivize you to stay. It could be all cash or some combination of cash plus stock. But it likely would pay out in tranches over a couple of years so you'll have to stay at the company to get the full amount, said Dave Hilborn, a managing partner in the human capital management practice of consulting firm West Monroe.Hilborn's firm found in a recent survey of 150 C-suite executives that 68% plan to offer wage and salary increases to attract and retain talent, and 46% expect to offer retention awards.Other ways you may see more money in 2022Typically your "total" salary increase at your current job may encompass several components rolled into one: cost of living, individual and company performance and market-related adjustments to update pay for a given role. Regardless of your job function, if you're a solid performer your best shot at getting a substantial raise from your current employer right now is to get a competing offer and see if your company will match it, Hartmann said. "Employers are having to address individuals who say 'What can you do for me? I can get more money across the street.'"Hartmann is also seeing companies accelerate promotions as a way to retain people at various levels of the organization. And while once reserved for senior leadership, both Hilborn and Hartmann are seeing companies now offering one-time retention pay incentives to those further down the chain and even to some individual contributors.Said Hartmann, "They're taking their equity and pushing it lower in the organization as special one-time retention grants below the executive level, saying 'Here's $25,000 to $50,000' [that will get] paid out in tranches." 
Vanessa Bryant must provide therapy records in lawsuit over fatal crash photos, judge rules.  (CNN)Vanessa Bryant must turn over mental health records in her lawsuit regarding leaked photos of the helicopter crash that killed her husband, basketball legend Kobe Bryant, and others, a judge has ruled.Bryant's lawsuit against Los Angeles County claims photos of the January 2020 crash site were shared by county fire and sheriff's department employees in settings not relevant to the investigation, including in a bar. Bryant "has suffered (and continues to suffer) severe emotional distress" because of the leaks, the lawsuit alleges. Magistrate Judge Charles F. Eick ruled Bryant and her therapist must produce documents as far back as 2017 to the lawyers for the county by November 29."We are gratified that the Court has granted our motion for access to her medical records, as it is a standard request in lawsuits where a plaintiff demands millions of dollars for claims of emotional distress," Skip Miller, partner of the Miller Barondess law firm and outside counsel for L.A. County, said in a statement to CNN.The request for therapy records is an invasion of privacy, Bryant's lawyers said in papers filed last week. CNN is seeking comment from Bryant's attorneys.The judge earlier this month ruled that Bryant did not have to undergo a psychiatric evaluation. The county had argued that the examinations were necessary to determine whether Bryant suffered emotional distress because of the photo leak and not just because of the crash itself. A previous ruling does not prevent the defendant from "obtaining relevant, nonprivileged, proportional discovery concerning the causation, and the severity, of (Plaintiff's) alleged emotional distress, including appropriate discovery into any asserted overlap or relationship between Plaintiff's emotional distress resulting from the helicopter crash and Plaintiff's emotional distress allegedly resulting from the subsequent photographs," according to the court document filed this week."The County continues to have nothing but the deepest sympathy for the enormous grief Ms. Bryant suffered as a result of the tragic helicopter accident," Miller said.Bryant alleges the photos shared by county employees violated her constitutional right to control death images of her husband and daughter Gianna. She is seeking an undisclosed amount for emotional distress and anxiety over the photos possibly having gone public. Her husband, daughter, and seven others died January 26, 2020, when their helicopter crashed into a Calabasas, California, hillside.The trial is scheduled for February. 
Jurors begin deliberations in Kyle Rittenhouse's homicide trial.  (CNN)Jurors began deliberations Tuesday in Kyle Rittenhouse's homicide trial, a day after the prosecution and defense offered dueling assessments of his actions last year during unrest in Kenosha, Wisconsin.A group of 18 jurors was in court for the entirety of the trial but six were dismissed by a random drawing on Tuesday morning. The final 12-person jury panel is made up of five men and seven women, according to a pool reporter in court.Shortly after deliberations began, just after 9 a.m. CT, the jurors asked the judge for extra copies of the 36-page jury instructions. They initially asked for extra copies of pages 1 through 6 of the instructions and later requested extra copies of pages 7 to 36, according to the pool reporter.Jurors concluded deliberating for the day just before 7 p.m. CT. They are expected to resume deliberating Wednesday at 9 a.m.In closing arguments Monday, the prosecution argued Rittenhouse, 17 at the time, provoked the fatal shootings by pointing his AR-15-style weapon at Joseph Rosenbaum, setting off a series of events that left two people dead and one wounded."That is what provokes this entire incident," prosecutor Thomas Binger said. "When the defendant provokes this incident, he loses the right to self-defense. You cannot claim self-defense against a danger you create."In response, defense attorney Mark Richards said Rittenhouse feared for his life when he fatally shot Rosenbaum, who Richards argued had threatened him, chased him, thrown a plastic bag at him and lunged for his gun. Rittenhouse also shot at three other people who, his attorney argued, had attacked him."Every person who was shot was attacking Kyle. One with a skateboard, one with his hands, and one with his feet, one with a gun," Richards said. "Hands and feet can cause great bodily harm."The closing arguments took up most of Monday and came at the end of a two-week trial highlighted by emotional and compelling testimony from Rittenhouse himself, who said he acted in self-defense when he fatally shot Rosenbaum."I didn't do anything wrong. I defended myself," he testified.Rittenhouse, now 18, is charged with five felonies: first-degree intentional homicide, first-degree reckless homicide, attempted first-degree intentional homicide and two counts of first-degree recklessly endangering safety. Jurors are also able to consider lesser offenses for two of the five counts. If convicted on the most serious charge, Rittenhouse could face a mandatory sentence of life in prison.Kenosha County Circuit Judge Bruce Schroeder dismissed a misdemeanor weapons possession charge and a non-criminal curfew violation prior to deliberations. What happened in the trialThe charges stem from the chaotic unrest last year in the wake of the Kenosha police shooting of Jacob Blake, a 29-year-old Black man. After instances of rioting and fiery destruction, Rittenhouse took a medical kit and an AR-15-style rifle and joined up with a group of other armed people in Kenosha on August 25, 2020. There, Rittenhouse fatally shot Rosenbaum -- who was chasing the teenager and threw a plastic bag at him -- and then tried to flee. A crowd of people pursued the teenager, and Rittenhouse shot at an unidentified man who tried to kick him; fatally shot Anthony Huber, who had hit him with a skateboard; and wounded Gaige Grosskreutz, who was armed with a pistol. Prosecutors called 22 witnesses over the course of six days as they sought to show Rittenhouse acted recklessly and provoked Rosenbaum by pointing the rifle at him. The prosecution portrayed the three other people who confronted the teen as "heroes" trying to stop what they believed to be an active shooting. However, Rittenhouse testified that he acted in self-defense when he shot at Rosenbaum, and he referred to the three other people he shot at as part of a "mob." He broke down into tears at one point in his testimony as he began to recount the initial shooting.Yet he testified on cross-examation that he knew Rosenbaum was unarmed when he opened fire. Rittenhouse also acknowledged that he had pointed his rifle at the man -- which the prosecution argues provoked Rosenbaum in the first place."He was chasing me, I was alone, he threatened to kill me earlier that night. I didn't want to have to shoot him," Rittenhouse testified. "I pointed it at him because he kept running at me and I didn't want him to chase me."The trial featured more than a dozen videos from the night that showed what happened before, during and after the shootings. Most of the facts of what happened that night were not up for debate -- rather, at the heart of the trial was the analysis of Rittenhouse's actions and whether they can be considered "reasonable."
Ken Jennings thinks he's too old to play 'Jeopardy' now.  (CNN)Ken Jennings is obsessed with learning, so it's come as something of a bummer that he's growing older. The "Jeopardy" GOAT, who is currently sharing hosting duties on the game show with Mayim Bialik, says he's not as sharp as he once was. "I don't want to get less sharp, but there's a reason why when you see somebody on 'Jeopardy' just killing it, they're probably right around 30," he tells CNN. Jennings said the speed at which your brain needs to make so many different connections during the game starts to decline."I kind of see it going away. You know, the older I get there, it'll take me a few minutes to come up with a name or if it's somebody I haven't thought about in a month, it might just be gone," he says, adding that he thinks he took his brain "for granted" when he was younger."Now it's 'Flowers for Algernon' every day, I feel a little bit older," he laughs, "I do feel like I'm too old for 'Jeopardy' and I'm very happy [hosting]. They give me the correct responses because I'm a little too old to be playing."The 74-time champ, who won more than $2.5 million in prize money during his 2004 victory streak, was "terrified" to host, saying taking over the spot after Alex Trebek died was a humbling experience."At first I was just terrified because when I did it last year, it was right after Alex had passed and those are such huge shoes to fill, he did it perfectly for decades," he says, adding that his nerves have since calmed. "It's been really a great joy, just being able to do it again this year was kind of all that pressure lifted and now everybody and his brother has hosted 'Jeopardy' in the meantime."He says he thinks "Jeopardy" will remain a cultural touchstone in America, even after the hosting scandal that saw former executive producer Mike Richards named as host and quickly depart the show."I think 'Jeopardy' is going to be fine. There was a lot of hubbub, there was a lot of ink over the last year and right now 'Jeopardy's' in a really good place because they have this secret sauce that no other show can duplicate," Jennings says. "They have the audience and the audience's 38 years of good memory. Like, when you watch 'Jeopardy' tonight, you're remembering watching with your grandma when you were a kid or with your friends in the dorm. The show really leans into that."And though he's enjoying hosting, Jennings says he's "not particularly ambitious" enough professionally to want the spot permanently. "I'm a producer on the show and I just want the show to be healthy," he says. "And it seems like that's going to happen now because they're in good shape and they've got good hosting options. I'm delighted to be a kind of permanent part of the 'Jeopardy' family after being a contestant. It feels like inheriting the chocolate factory, you know?"In the meantime, Jenning says he's in demand to teach the tricks of trivia to fans. He's turned down multiple offers (and paychecks) to play with viewers while in quarantine, but Tuesday at 6 p.m. ET you can hear Jennings virtually spill his secrets for free during "The Ken Jennings Knowledge Challenge.""I would say if there's a secret, the secret is that everybody has a really good memory. You know, the kid in class that can't learn his timetable but that kid knows every lyric of his favorite artists or every stat of her favorite sports team? The memory works just fine," he says. "It's not like, how do I remember all this boring stuff? It's like, how do I trick my brain into thinking this is interesting."After he drops knowledge, he will challenge viewers in a trivia game."So if you want to beat me as a trivia game, this is your, this is your chance," he laughs.
Rivian has $0 in revenue and is now the third most valuable carmaker on the planet. New York (CNN Business)Rivian, a 12-year-old startup with no revenue, is now the third most valuable carmaker in the world. The electric vehicle maker has been public for all of one week, but its share price has more than doubled in that time, valuing Rivian at more than $140 billion  just ahead of Volkswagen ($139 billion), and in third place behind Toyota ($306 billion) and Tesla ($1 trillion).  On Tuesday, the stock opened 6% higher, at about $159 a share. When the company debuted last week, it priced its shares at $78. Rivian only made its first truck deliveries two months ago, and the vast majority of those were to Rivian employees, according to an SEC filing. Still, it's ginned up major investor interest with prominent backing from Amazon, which bought a 20% stake in 2019, and Ford (F). Jeff Bezos is a big fan, and has been seen shuttling his fellow space explorers to and from Blue Origin's West Texas launch site in Rivian's signature truck.Electric vehicle hype is nothing new  many analysts, and even Tesla's own founder Elon Musk, have argued that its Tesla's valuation is overinflated. But its stock keeps climbing as Wall Street envisions a future in which all-electric vehicles are the norm. Under President Joe Biden's $1.2 trillion infrastructure plan, signed into law Monday, about $7.5 billion is being set aside to build a nationwide network of plug-in electric vehicle chargers.Investors who may have missed out on Tesla a decade ago aren't keen to miss out on another hot EV pioneer. Rivian also boasts a potential edge over Tesla in the US market, in part because it's angling for the non-Tesla, or even anti-Tesla, crowd. Rivian's primary product is not just any EV  it's a pickup truck.That's important in the US market, given that the top three most popular vehicles in the US are the Ford F-150, the Chevy Silverado and the Ram, in that order, according to Edmunds research. Correction: A previous version of this article incorrectly said Rivian hadn't brought its vehicles to market. It's been updated to note that the company made its first deliveries in September of 2021.
'Megaspider' is biggest of its kind we've ever seen, Australian reptile park says.  (CNN)A massive funnel-web spider with fangs capable of piercing human fingernails has been donated to an antivenom program in Australia, sparking an appeal for its anonymous donor to come forward.Nicknamed "Megaspider," the arachnid measures 8 centimeters (about 3 inches) foot to foot, with fangs 2 centimeters (about 0.8 inches) long, the Australian Reptile Park said in a statement Friday. With a body measuring 5 centimeters (1.9 inches), it's the largest funnel-web spider the park has ever seen, it added. "She is unusually large and if we can get the public to hand in more spiders like her, it will only result in more lives being saved due to the huge amount of venom they can produce," said Michael Tate, the park's education officer. "We are really keen to find out where she came from in hopes to find more MASSIVE spiders like her." According to the Australian Museum, the average length of a funnel-web spider's body is 1 to 5 centimeters, making this one on the large side. But it's by no means the largest type of spider in Australia.That honor belongs to the tarantula otherwise known as the whistling spider, due to the noise it emits when provoked. The body of the northern species Selenocosmia crassipes can grow up to 6 centimeters (2.4 inches) long, with a leg span of 16 centimeters (6.3 inches).The funnel-web spider or Atrax robustus may be smaller, but they are "the most notorious members" of the country's spider fauna, according to the Australian Museum's website.Though not all of the 40 or so varieties of the species are dangerous, "several are renowned for their highly toxic and fast acting venom," with the male of the Sydney funnel-web spider linked to all 13 recorded human deaths, the museum said."This remarkable spider has become a part of Sydney's folklore and, although no deaths have been recorded since the introduction of an antivenom in 1981, it remains an icon of fear and fascination for Sydneysiders," the museum says.The Australian Reptile Park said Megaspider's fangs will be milked for venom that can be turned into antivenom.The spider was donated somewhere in the Sydney or New South Wales coastal area, the park added."It was in a Tupperware container without any labels to signify where it came from," the statement said. "Keepers are eager to find out the area in which it came from with hopes of finding more of the large spiders as they produce larger amounts of venom for the antivenom program."
A 'potentially significant' storm could hit the East Coast with rain and snow during the busy Thanksgiving travel week.  (CNN)Thanksgiving is just over a week away, but holiday travel will start as early as Friday for some. A significant storm has the potential to disrupt travel plans from the Midwest to the Northeast during one of the busiest times of the year to travel. We are talking about disruptions at major airline hubs like Chicago and New York at the beginning of next week. "The upper trough and a possible embedded low may support potentially significant low pressure that would affect portions of the East, and requires monitoring given the busy Thanksgiving holiday travel week," the Weather Prediction Center (WPC) said Tuesday morning. The storm system could begin to develop Sunday in the Midwest, strengthening daily. By the time it gets near the East Coast on Tuesday, a secondary system could develop along the coast, exacerbating the disrupting weather conditions in places like New York."It is too early to resolve detailed effects from low pressure that may be near the East Coast by next Tuesday, but significant rain/snow and strong winds could be possible," the WPC says."Even though we are still almost a week out and forecasts can change, this looks like a planes, trains and automobiles storm," CNN meteorologist Chad Myers says.Here is a look at where some of the worst travel disruptions could happen, based on computer forecast models. These CNN weather forecast products take into account rain, wind, snow, ice and fog and the impacts they could have on travel. Bookmark our storm tracker page for an auto-updating version of these maps and track the storm yourself. The only good news: Computer forecast models aren't always right. Especially a week in advance. There is a lot of uncertainty in the forecast Sunday night and thereafter, the National Weather Service in New York said Tuesday morning, so there is low confidence in the forecast. By Tuesday afternoon, the forecast models will have been rerun. The output Tuesday evening, Wednesday or Thursday could be different than it was earlier this morning. It is in the consistency and the trends from one model run to the next that meteorologists will be watching closely. This is what will build their confidence in next week's potential storm. "Even as the storm moves away by Wednesday, airlines could still be dealing with significant prior cancellations with planes and crew members in the wrong place," Myers says. "This storm has really bad timing."
This city had its hottest day on record this summer. 140 days later, it had its wettest.  (CNN)The city of Abbotsford in British Columbia, just north of the US border near Vancouver, recorded its hottest day ever in late June when temperatures climbed to 109 degrees Fahrenheit during an unprecedented heat wave.Just 140 days later, it smashed another record: The city on Sunday observed its wettest day with nearly four inches of heavy rainfall in less than 24 hours. Human-caused climate change has increased the potential for "weather whiplash," where conditions whip dramatically between extremes. As warming temperatures change the global water cycle, scientists say seasonal rains will also become more variable: extremely wet years with frequent floods may be punctuated with very dry years including drought and extreme heat.Around 100 miles north of Abbotsford, mudslides and debris flows on Monday trapped hundreds of people, including 50 children, in cars along highways. At least nine were taken to the hospital with minor injuries following a landslide near the city of Agassiz. In British Columbia and Washington state, some residents were told to evacuate due to flooding, and many areas experienced power outages. Washington Gov. Jay Inslee declared a state of emergency Monday following days of severe wind and rain.After months of unrelenting drought across the West, a major atmospheric river  a narrow band of concentrated water vapor in the sky  has brought extreme rainfall, flash floods, damaging winds, debris flow and even landslides throughout the Pacific Northwest over the past few days.Climate prediction models show "we're going to have longer dry spells interspersed with bigger storms," Marty Ralph, the director of the Center for Western Weather and Water Extremes at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in San Diego, told CNN. "These atmospheric rivers are going to be more potent at times, and it's not hard to imagine why because the water vapor is the fuel of an [atmospheric river]. If air is warmer, it's going to carry more water vapor."A UN climate report in August found heavy rainfall that used to occur once every 10 years now occurs 30% more frequently. Meanwhile, droughts that may have occurred only once every 10 years or so now happen 70% more frequently around the globe. Extreme weather hasn't given the Pacific Northwest and British Columbia much slack in the months leading up to this year's wet winter season.A deadly heatwave, which scientists concluded was "virtually impossible" without human-caused climate change, seared the region in late June. Hundreds of people died, and experts called the pernicious heat a mass casualty event.During that heat wave, the temperature soared to 121 degrees Fahrenheit in Lytton, British Columbia  an all-time record for all of Canada. The next day, a fast-moving wildfire obliterated the village "within minutes.""I think it's somewhat jarring to a lot of people in the area, considering we had a considerable dry stretch this summer where it didn't rain for a while and we had the heat wave as well," Maddie Kristell, meteorologist for the National Weather Service (NWS) in Seattle, said. "So kind of bouncing between opposite ends of the spectrum this year, so it's been pretty dynamic for folks in the area."These rapid changes in climate extremes  from heat and drought to high precipitation  could make it harder for societies and communities to mitigate and adapt. In some cases, it could be destructive: according to a 2019 study, atmospheric rivers created an annual average of $1.1 billion annually in flood damage across the West.But one thing is clear: as the planet warms, "weather whiplash" will only get worse. Ralph said the West should anticipate stronger and larger atmospheric rivers along with longer dry periods  and adapt to these changes. "That's essentially what the climate models are showing," he said. "In some cases, they will be stronger than in the past, and that has implications for water management, such that we've got to manage more to the extremes of longer dry periods and bigger storms in between them."CNN meteorologist Jennifer Gray contributed to this report.
Washington town sees 75% of homes damaged by floodwaters.  (CNN)Three out of every four homes in the Washington town of Sumas have been damaged by floodwaters, officials said Tuesday.Sumas Mayor Kyle Christensen said his 1,600 residents have been without power for more than 24 hours. City officials said later on Facebook workers were still trying to restore power to a few parts of the city and said crews were "having issues getting to the areas" that still need the power back on.Christensen said he expected a majority of roads to be back open Tuesday night or Wednesday. There have not been any reports of deaths or injuries, he said.Monday's rescue missions were largely undertaken by boats, Christensen said. But, with the waters receding Tuesday, the city has had to rely on large equipment like tractors to reach stranded people. Stephanie Koehler told CNN affiliate KOMO a boat picked her up from her porch. She was taken to another boat, and then was taken in a tractor bucket to a bus."We were scared. I mean, it's our first flood," Koehler told KOMO. She planned to spend the night at a shelter with her 13-year-old daughter. Koehler said she and others had put down sandbags, but they "were actually being pushed from people's houses and down the river."Sumas is on the border with Canada, about 115 miles north of Seattle.About 10 miles to the south, police in Everson were searching for a man who reportedly was swept away by floodwaters while calling his family for help.Jose Garcia, 59, called his family early Monday morning and reported he was being swept into a field, according to a news release from Everson Police Chief Daniel MacPhee. His son reported his father's phone call to 911 after they were disconnected.The man's family reported he was driving to work and had gone through a road-closure barricade eastbound on East Main Street. "From the son's report, it appears that his vehicle was swept into (a) field that is north of East Main Street," the release said. "He told his family he tried to get out of the vehicle and was swept away by the current north into the field."The release said the son told police that before they were disconnected, his father said he was "clinging to bushes or trees in the field." Emergency personnel were not able to send a rescue vehicle out at the time the call came due to fast-moving currents, according to the release. About two hours later they were able to send out a crew in a boat.One resident called 911 and said he heard yelling in a field behind his home but he was unable to understand what the person was saying, according to the release. Washington is under a state of emergency following days of severe wind and rain leading to extensive flooding in parts of the state. Tuesday, Whatcom County said residents of Lummi Island should shelter in place and Lummi Peninsula residents should be prepared to evacuate. A road off the peninsula was likely to flood Tuesday, officials said.The soggy conditions triggered mudslides in the region, prompting the closure in both directions of I-5 near Bellingham, according to the Washington State Department of Transportation. The highway is a major thoroughfare stretching along the West Coast from Mexico to Canada. Tuesday night, the transportation department tweeted: "Crews continue working to clear debris NB I-5 at Nulle Rd. Today some of that work includes assessing the hillside and removing downed trees. This means we are one step closer to opening the highway. We don't have an exact time, but things are looking better."In Skagit County, residents of Mount Vernon were advised Monday to evacuate ahead of flooding on the Skagit River, but a flash flood watch for an area of town was canceled Tuesday, according to a tweet released by Seattle's National Weather Service office. A bulge in a dike was evaluated by the Army Corps of Engineers, which determined the structure was not damaged."The Dike District reports that their remaining concern is for the damage to Riverbend Road, not the diking system," the city said.The Skagit River near Mount Vernon topped major flood stage (32 feet) Monday and was at 36.52 feet around noon Tuesday, according to the National Weather Service Advanced Hydrologic Prediction Center. The river appears to have crested and could fall below minor flood stage by Wednesday afternoon. Parts of the city, about 60 miles north of Seattle, are protected by levees and residents in those neighborhoods are advised to keep an eye on emergency notifications. Mount Vernon is under a flood warning until late Thursday, according to the National Weather Service."The area will dry out with the end of the rainfall for a few days," the weather service said. "However, with so much water in the system, it will take some time to drain the floodwaters. In addition, the dams on the Skagit were able to absorb a significant part of the flood but with the reservoirs near maximum pool levels, that water must start being released."'Fourteen counties are covered by the Gov. Jay Inslee's emergency proclamation: Clallam, Grays Harbor, Island, Jefferson, Lewis, King, Kitsap, Pierce, Mason, San Juan, Skagit, Snohomish, Thurston, and Whatcom. "This severe weather emergency order directs that the plans and procedures to the Washington State Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan be implemented," the release said. In Clallam County, 10 people, including four children were rescued from their homes as flooding encroached on a residential area near Forks. The evacuations were conducted with the assistance of Coast Guard helicopter crews, the agency said in a news release. All residents of the area were accounted for, officials said.The severe weather is also impacting power infrastructure, leaving more than 30,000 customers in the state without power as of 9:30 p.m. Tuesday, according to PowerOutage.us. CNN's Robert Shackelford and Jenn Selva contributed to this report.
Category 5 atmospheric river brings record-breaking river levels to the Pacific Northwest. CNN Weather produces a weekly column, publishing Mondays, with the weather news you should be aware of as you plan out your week. Find updates each week here. If you enjoy this, sign up to get email updates on significant storms in your inbox. (CNN)While more than 90% of the West is currently in some sort of drought, the one area that doesn't need more rain is getting all of it.The region known for gray skies and rainfall is getting more than its fair share this month. The Pacific Northwest has gotten more rain in the last two weeks than they normally see for the entire month of November, which is also stacking up to be one of the top five wettest Novembers on record for Seattle."November rainfall through Sunday was 6.83 inches. The normal for the entire month is 6.31," said Maddie Kristell, meteorologist for the National Weather Service (NWS) in Seattle. "We are on the tail end of a series of two atmospheric rivers that we have had in quick succession, almost back to back," she said. The current Category 5 atmospheric river taking aim at the region is on the exact same track as the last event several days ago.Extreme rainfall, river flooding, damaging winds and even landslides are all on the table with this system.The NWS office in Seattle mentioned, "Record-breaking flooding is forecast for the Skagit River at Mount Vernon," north of Seattle. Towns around the expected high water have been ordered to evacuate ahead of the event to help minimize possible dangers.Rainfall totals with the storm have been impressive."Some parts of the Olympic peninsula have seen 6 or 7 inches, and even parts of the Cascades have seen 4-6 inches as well," said Kristell. Also contributing to the flooding is snowmelt. Areas previously covered with snow are now receiving rain, causing it to quickly melt and run off into the rivers, contributing to their rapid rise. According to the NWS in Seattle, 6.24 inches of rain fell at Sumas, WA and 5.21 inches fell at Mount Baker in just a 24-hour period.With all the added saturation to the soil, landslides will not only be a hazard during the atmospheric river event, but after, as the soil remains wet and unstable. High winds will also be a huge concern. Area wide, winds are forecast to gust 30-35 mph, but near Skagit County, where major river flooding is expected to take place, winds could gust 60 mph or more. "In terms of wind, that ties in for our threat to extended tree damage. We could be facing some power outages in the area as well," said Kristell. She is hoping her region gets a break from the rain in the coming days, but another system could impact the region by the end of the week. "It's definitely been a unique situation having two atmospheric river events pointed at the same area, that being our coast and Washington in general," Kristell added."I think it's somewhat jarring to a lot of people in the area, considering we had a considerable dry stretch this summer where it didn't rain for a while and we had the heat wave as well. So kind of bouncing between opposite ends of the spectrum this year, so it's been pretty dynamic for folks in the area."An early look at Thanksgiving travelIf you are getting out of town early for Thanksgiving, consider yourself lucky. Things could get pretty dicey as we get closer to the holiday. The weather this weekend looks rather tranquil. There will be a quick show of rain and snow for parts of the Great Lakes. Rain will develop across the Mississippi Valley for the latter part of the weekend, and more rain is expected for northwest Washington. However, as we get into the days leading to Thanksgiving, travel could become a bit of a nightmare if you believe the American computer forecast weather model this far out. The American model hints at a storm for the Northeast and New England, while the European model isn't picking up on it at all. Cities we will be watching closely for Thanksgiving travel next week will be:Seattle: for rain early in the weekWashington, DC: for rain a few days before ThanksgivingNew York City: for rain and even snow several days before ThanksgivingBoston: for rain, snow and wind before ThanksgivingAs far as temperatures go for Thanksgiving week, "Looks like a shot of cold air mainly for the lower Midwest and South for Tuesday and Wednesday morning," said CNN meteorologist Monica Garrett. "There's a slight rebound, then another more widespread cold shot for Friday and Saturday, especially for the Northeast."All of this being said, Thanksgiving is more than a week away, so put the information on your radar, and know it will most likely change or adjust in the days leading to Thanksgiving. You can track the forecast and its impact on travel hereStrong storms caused a tornado to strike Long Island over the weekendIntense storms over the weekend resulted in a tornado on Long Island, while millions of people experienced damaging winds, hail and heavy rainfall. The storms, associated with a cold front, moved over the area Saturday. The tornado was rated an EF0, with winds of 85 mph. A tree fell on a home, and a roof was ripped from a two-story house during the storm. Lava from La Palma's volcano reaches the sea once againThe latest image acquired by one of the Copernicus Sentinel-2 satellites on November 14, of the island of La Palma, Spain, shows the new lava stream from the Cumbre Vieja volcano reaching the sea, and enlarging the lava delta formed in October.The volcano first started erupting nearly two months ago. Here is drone footage of the lava reaching the ocean, last week. 
Searchers recover body from British Columbia mudslide.  (CNN)The body of a woman has been recovered from a mudslide that occurred Monday morning near Lillooet, British Columbia, according to a statement released Tuesday by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.The woman was from the Lower Mainland, but authorities gave no other details.Family members of the deceased were notified, according to the release and the BC Coroners Service has been notified and is conducting its own investigation. Search efforts continue, the release said."The total number of people and vehicles unaccounted for has not been confirmed, however, investigators have received two missing people reports and believe there may have been other occupied vehicles that were lost in the slide," Staff Sgt. Janelle Shoihet of the Mounted Police's British Columbia Division said in the statement. "We are asking anyone who was a witness to the event, or believes their loved one is missing and has not yet been able to make contact with them to contact the Pemberton or Lillooet RCMP Detachments."Lillooet is located north of Vancouver in the interior of British Columbia along the Fraser River.  Hundreds of other people who were trapped on a British Columbia highway were rescued, emergency management officials said.There were three incidents where cars were trapped between debris flows where hundreds of people were trapped, Emergency Management British Columbia communications director Jordan Turner said.  Nearly 300 travelers ended up stuck in the region, according to Jonathan Gormick with Canada Task Force 1, a search and rescue team based in Vancouver.Canadian authorities across southern British Columbia were being forced to post evacuation orders ahead of rising water as flooding continues to wreak havoc across the greater Pacific Northwest.  According to the province's emergency information website, 24 evacuation orders have been posted because of flooding. Abbotsford, British Columbia, Mayor Henry Braun said in a news conference Tuesday residents of roughly 1,100 homes in his city have been ordered to evacuate because of flooding.Photos and videos posted online by authorities show widespread flooding across Abbotsford, which hugs the US-Canada border and is located 30 miles southeast of Vancouver.Some critical infrastructure in parts of the province have also been damaged by the rain and flooding.  Princeton, British Columbia Mayor Spencer Coyne told CNN's Canadian newsgathering partner CBC their entire town is without gas after a line was broken during storms and flooding. The break could endanger residents there as temperature will dip well below freezing over the next few nights.The city of Merritt said Tuesday afternoon they were forced to shut off drinking water because flooding contaminated it.  "The water is undrinkable, even if boiled," the city said on Twitter.Penticton, British Columbia, reported on Twitter the storms and flooding knocked out town phone lines.Flood warnings have been posted for the areas surrounding the province's Similkameen and Thompson rivers, meaning the river levels have, or will imminently, exceed their banks.  Large swaths of the area surrounding the southern part of the Fraser River have also been placed under a flood watch.CNN's Joe Sutton and Steve Almasy contributed to this report. 
Storm in Egypt kills 3, sends swarms of scorpions into people's homes .  (CNN)A rare storm in Egypt has sparked flash floods that killed at least three people and washed swarms of scorpions into people's homes. More than 500 people were stung by scorpions who sought refuge from thunderstorms and torrential rainfall in the southern Egyptian city of Aswan over the weekend. Wounded Aswan residents were transferred to hospitals to receive anti-venom injections, Egypt's state-run Al Ahram newspaper said. The Aswan area normally receives around 1 millimeter of rainfall per year, making the heavy thunder and hail storms on Friday a rare event. Egypt's fat-tailed scorpions, which normally dwell in the desert, are among the deadliest in the world. Without treatment, people can die within an hour of being stung. Three members of Egypt's security forces were killed in the flash floods -- the worst of their kind in 11 years, according to Aswan's governor Ashraf Attia. The torrential rainfall in Aswan's desert destroyed homes and damaged roads and trees. Attia and the Egyptian health ministry denied initial state media reports that three people had died from scorpion stings.
Texas doctor suspended for spreading 'misinformation' about Covid-19 submits resignation letter.  (CNN)The doctor who had her medical staff privileges suspended over Covid-19 "misinformation" on her social media has sent a letter to Houston Methodist stating she is resigning, a spokesperson for the hospital told CNN Tuesday. Dr. Mary Bowden, an ear, nose and throat doctor, also tweeted about her resignation saying, "I have broken free from Methodist and very much appreciate the flood of support I have received!"Stefanie Asin, public relations director with Houston Methodist told CNN that "(Bowden) is not an employee."  On Friday, Houston Methodist announced they had suspended Bowden's privileges after she posted "harmful" and "dangerous misinformation" about Covid-19 and its treatments on social media, according to the hospital.The doctor was a recent addition to Houston Methodist's medical staff and used her social media to "express her personal and political opinions about the COVID-19 vaccine and treatments," Houston Methodist said in a statement on Twitter."Her privileges have been suspended," a spokesperson for the hospital told CNN. Bowden's attorney Steven Mitby said the doctor has treated "more than 2,000 patients with Covid-19" at her private practice and that none of them have ended up in the hospital. "Her early treatment methods work and are saving lives," he added."Dr. Bowden has the utmost respect for Houston Methodist and is proud of the work she has done along with her colleagues at Houston Methodist."Bowden's Twitter account shows a series of tweets praising the anti-parasitic drug ivermectin. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the US Food and Drug Administration have cautioned people against using the drug to treat Covid-19, CNN has reported.Ivermectin is used to treat parasites such as worms and lice in humans and it is also used by veterinarians to de-worm large animals. The CDC warned about a sharp increase in reports of severe illness caused by the drug to poison centers.Doctor outspoken against vaccine mandatesAlong with advocating for the use of ivermectin, Bowden also frequently criticizes vaccine mandates on her social media accounts, with Mitby adding that "Dr. Bowden is not anti-vaccine," but believes "people should have a choice."The doctor herself is vaccinated, as mandated by the hospital for all physicians who work at Houston Methodist, the hospital said. In June, over 150 employees left the hospital after they put a vaccine mandate in place."Dr. Bowden, who has never admitted a patient at Houston Methodist Hospital, is spreading dangerous misinformation which is not based in science," Houston Methodist added."These opinions, which are harmful to the community, do not reflect reliable medical evidence or the values of Houston Methodist."As the Covid-19 pandemic continues, with deaths in the United States surpassing 762,692 and the casualties increasingly come from the ranks of the unvaccinated, there still remains a small group of doctors who have emerged as a huge source of misinformation, a CNN investigation found.These doctors share a miasma of conspiracy theories and misinformation about Covid-19 vaccines, which have thus far proven the most effective weapon against the deadliest pandemic in 100 years."These doctors are taking advantage of the trust in them," said David Lazer, a political science and computer sciences professor at Northeastern University. "They are using the prestige of that term 'doctor' to convey misinformation."Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly described the hospital personnel who left due to the vaccine mandate. It was 150 employees.
The consultant who helped select jury in the O.J. Simpson trial is working with Kyle Rittenhouse's attorneys.  (CNN)Jury and trial consultant Jo-Ellan Dimitrius, known for having developed the juror profile in O.J. Simpson's trial, has worked "hand in hand" with attorneys representing Kyle Rittenhouse in his trial to help develop a jury profile that would best fit their case, her firm Dimitrius & Associates told CNN.In the 1995 trial, the jury eventually acquitted Simpson.Dimitrius was hired by Rittenhouse's defense team to help build a profile for the "right" juror in this case, and, according to firm Vice President Randy Peukert, she's the best "probably on the planet" at what she does. Her advice may have helped create the 12-person jury panel, made up of five men and seven women, which began deliberations on Tuesday morning after hearing from more than 30 witnesses. A group of 20 people -- 11 women and nine men -- were initially selected to serve on the jury from a group of 179 prospective jurors. The jury selection consisted of one day of voir dire in court without the use of background questionnaires. Two people were dismissed during the course of the trial. One juror, a middle-aged man, was dismissed for telling a joke to a deputy about the police shooting of Jacob Blake, an incident that earned a rebuke from the judge. Another juror, a pregnant woman, was dismissed after experiencing discomfort and requesting to be dismissed, the judge said.How long the jurors now debate is almost entirely up to them, but the verdict must be unanimous. The process can take hours, days or weeks.What we know about jury deliberations"There's always research done," Peukert told CNN. "It really gives them [the defense] the added benefit and confidence...what they are presenting will resonate with a jury."Rittenhouse,18, is charged with five felonies: first-degree intentional homicide, first-degree reckless homicide, attempted first-degree intentional homicide and two counts of first-degree recklessly endangering safety. Jurors are also able to consider lesser offenses for two of the five counts. If convicted on the most serious charge, Rittenhouse could face a mandatory sentence of life in prison.Dimitrius has performed the typical duties of a jury or trial consultant and was hired four to six months ago, Peukert said. She was present during jury selection, jury monitoring, and trial assistance and was often seen sitting next to Wendy Rittenhouse, Rittenhouse's mother."Her ability to read a situation, to think out of the box" is important, Peukert said, "to assist the attorneys on how to approach" the case."Nobody likes to go in blind," Peukert added.CNN's Eric Levenson and Brad Parks contributed to this report.
GOP Rep. Scott Perry tests positive for Covid-19. Washington (CNN)Republican Rep. Scott Perry of Pennsylvania has tested positive for Covid-19, his office announced Tuesday, a day after he was elected chair of the conservative House Freedom Caucus.Perry's office said in a statement announcing his diagnosis that the congressman, who has not publicly indicated whether he has been vaccinated against the virus, is experiencing "quite mild" symptoms and he "will continue working while quarantining at home."Perry wrote in a Facebook post in September: "Folks, if you want the vaccine, by all means, get the vaccine. But if you don't want the vaccine, you shouldn't have to worry about being forced or fired." Perry is among dozens of House members who have tested positive for the virus since the pandemic took hold in the US, with at least 10 members testing positive since early August.On Monday, the hard-line House Freedom Caucus elected Perry as its next chair. A noted ally of former President Donald Trump, Perry has come under scrutiny for his role in seeking to overturn the 2020 presidential election, and his interactions related to those efforts could be of keen interest to the House select committee investigating the January 6 Capitol insurrection.
Mayor of Maryland city charged with 50 counts of distributing revenge porn.  (CNN)The mayor of Cambridge, Maryland, was arrested and charged with 50 counts of distributing revenge porn, according to a news release from the Maryland Office of the State Prosecutor. Court records state Andrew Bradshaw, who took office this past January, was arrested on Monday and had his first court appearance on the charges. The complaint, provided by the state prosecutor's office, alleges that a victim contacted law enforcement in May and said she saw nude photographs of herself on Reddit, which she said were posted without her consent. University of Central Florida fraternity members accused of posting revenge porn on FacebookShe said, according to the complaint, that she sent the photos to Bradshaw when they were in an "intimate relationship" and that they were no longer in the relationship. "Using someone's private images without their consent is a serious breach of trust and invasion of privacy, and the power and breadth of the internet makes such a violation even more egregious," State Prosecutor Charlton T. Howard III said in a news release announcing the charges. "Our office is committed to protecting victims from those who abuse their positions of power and trust."Bradshaw's attorney has not responded to CNN's request for comment.If convicted, Bradshaw faces up to two years in jail and up to $5,000 in fines for each charge. The city of Cambridge, which has a population of 12,480, said in a statement posted on its website that it is aware of the charges and is "currently gathering information." The city operates a council-manager form of municipal government and the city manager is the chief executive officer and head of the administrative branch."The business of the City is unaffected," the statement said. 
The drip, drip, drip of Democratic retirements.  (CNN)On Monday, Vermont Democratic Sen. Patrick Leahy announced that he would leave Congress when his eighth term expires at the end of 2022.On Tuesday, California Democratic Rep. Jackie Speier said she would retire next year after almost 15 years in Congress.Neither seat should be a problem for Democrats to hold. Vermont went for President Joe Biden by 35 points in 2020 -- his largest margin anywhere in the country. And Speier's Bay Area 14th District gave Biden a whopping 89% of the vote last November.The bigger issue for Democrats then is not keeping those seats on their side. It's that a steady drumbeat of retirements from within their ranks -- especially in the holiday period leading up to Thanksgiving and then Christmas -- is not at all what they want as they try to hold onto their slim majorities in the House and Senate.Congress is like high school. Everyone is looking around to see what everyone else is doing -- and then adjusting their behavior accordingly.That doesn't mean that a Democratic member who has never considered retirement will see the likes of Leahy leaving and think now is the time to go.But, for members who are undecided about whether or not to go for another term, retirements from within the Democratic ranks can impact their thinking. If it feels like a lot of people are deciding to walk away, there is often a momentum effect that sweeps up on-the-fence members.And lots of those undecided members will be making go/no-go decisions in the next few weeks. As The Washington Post's Paul Kane noted last month:"The holiday season, from Thanksgiving through Christmas and into the new year, serves traditionally as a gut-check moment for lawmakers."From 2011 through 2020, the final two months of the off year and January of the election year have prompted the most retirement announcements for members of the House, according to data compiled by Ballotpedia."Which is why Democrats have to hope that tomorrow -- or the rest of this week -- doesn't bring any more retirement announcements.The Point: Politics is a copycat business -- right down to the decision of when to retire. Democratic leaders need to make staying in Congress look as good as possible these next few weeks.CORRECTION: An earlier version of this story wrongly described Rep. Jackie Speier's congressional seat in one instance. Speier is a member of the House of Representatives.
Girl, 16, says she was raped by hundreds of men in western India.  (CNN)At least seven men have been arrested in western India after a 16-year-old girl claimed she was raped hundreds of times by hundreds of men in the latest horrifying case to highlight the country's rampant sexual violence problem.In a statement to India's Child Welfare Committee (CWC) on November 11, the girl, who was homeless, said she was raped by 400 people in Beed district of Maharashtra state, according to CWC chairman Abhay Vitthalrao Vanave. She named two policemen in her complaint, Vanave said. The girl was begging for money at a bus stop when she was allegedly forced into sex work by three men, Vanave said.While the number of alleged rapists would be difficult to corroborate, the girl could identify at least 25 alleged perpetrators, he added.The girl had attempted to file a police complaint against a man she accused of beating her up, but officers did not register it, Vanave said.When contacted by CNN Monday, Beed police did not comment on the girl's allegations against them.In a statement Monday, the force said it had registered cases against eight males -- including one minor -- pertaining to rape and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences law, which has more severe sentences of longer jail time. They have also registered a case under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. The girl told police she was married off at age 13 to a 33-year-old man who sexually abused her, according to the police statement. She also told police she was sexually assaulted by her father, ultimately prompting her to leave both homes and sleep at the bus stop. Women's rights activist Yogita Bhayana said this was "the most tragic (rape) case in history.""This girl was tortured every single day," she said, adding that police had failed to protect her. "We want strict action against all culprits." India's rape crisisAccording to India's National Crime Records Bureau, more than 28,000 cases of alleged rape against women were reported in 2020 -- one roughly every 18 minutes. Experts believe the real number is much higher as many go unreported out of fear. The number of reported rapes rose in the years following the brutal 2012 gang rape and murder of a student in India's capital, New Delhi, potentially because of greater awareness surrounding the issue since. Experts say the outrage has helped to lift the shame around discussing rape.Legal reforms and more severe penalties for rape were introduced in the aftermath, which include fast-tracking courts to hear rape cases more swiftly, and an amended definition of rape to include anal and oral penetration.However, high-profile rape cases continue to make headlines. In September this year, police arrested 33 men for the alleged gang rape of a 15-year-old girl in Maharashtra. In a separate case that month, a woman died after she was allegedly raped and assaulted with an iron rod in Mumbai. And in August this year, a 9-year-old girl was gang-raped and murdered in Delhi.This story has been updated to accurately reflect the charges filed.
House plans to vote Wednesday to censure Paul Gosar and strip him of committee assignments.  (CNN)The House will vote Wednesday on a resolution that both censures Republican Rep. Paul Gosar of Arizona and strips him of his two committee assignments.A revised proposal released by the House Rules Committee on Tuesday night outlined that Democrats will seek to remove him from the Committee on Oversight and Reform, as well as the House Committee on Natural Resources.Gosar is facing censure for his posting of a photoshopped anime video to his Twitter and Instagram accounts showing him appearing to kill Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and attacking President Joe Biden.Gosar, who later took down the video after facing criticism but did not apologize, sits on the Oversight Committee alongside Ocasio-Cortez. A censure resolution is the most severe form of punishment in the House, and requires the censured member to stand in the well of the House while the resolution is read out loud. The last lawmaker to be censured was then-Rep. Charlie Rangel, a New York Democrat, for multiple ethics violations back in 2010.Ahead of the vote on Wednesday being announced, Gosar refused to answer any questions about his tweet of the violent video, walking in silence. He wouldn't say if he regretted it or explain the claim he made internally that he didn't see the violent episode in the video before he tweeted it out. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she was moving forward with the vote because Gosar "made threats, suggestions about harming a member of Congress.""That is an insult -- not only endangerment of that member of Congress, but an insult to the institution of the House of Representatives," Pelosi, a Democrat from California, said Tuesday on Capitol Hill. "We cannot have members joking about murdering each other, as well as threatening the President of the United States."The move to censure Gosar follows a lack of action from Republican leadership in the House. House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, who did not comment publicly on the Gosar episode until this week, noted that he had called the Arizona Republican after the tweet, who then deleted it, but he did not explicitly condemn Gosar's behavior. McCarthy also said Gosar had explained his actions during a closed-door conference meeting on Tuesday morning, and his explanation was well received in the conference, according to attendees."He didn't see it before it posted. It was not his intent to show any harm," McCarthy told reporters. "What I said to conference was (we) cannot accept any action or showing of a violence to another member."Some Republicans have called out GOP leadership for not taking action, including Rep. Liz Cheney of Wyoming, who said McCarthy's inaction is "indefensible" -- especially as Republicans call to punish the 13 GOP lawmakers who voted for a bipartisan infrastructure bill."Our party needs a leader who is going to stand up for what's right and stand up for the truth, and stop trying to play these games," Cheney told CNN. "The notion that Leader McCarthy won't full-on condemn what Paul Gosar did on multiple occasions but that he seems to be entertaining this move to push the 13 off of their committees, I mean, it's indefensible, morally and ethically, and it's crazy politically."This story has been updated with additional developments Tuesday.CNN's Melanie Zanona, Manu Raju and Paul LeBlanc contributed to this report. 
Biden says Taiwan's independence is up to Taiwan after discussing matter with Xi.  (CNN)President Joe Biden made clear Tuesday evening he was not encouraging Taiwan's "independence" after using the word an hour earlier to describe the progress he made during a discussion of the island with his Chinese counterpart Monday evening."I said that they have to decide -- Taiwan, not us. We are not encouraging independence," Biden said on an airport tarmac in New Hampshire, where he was promoting his recently signed infrastructure law."We're encouraging that they do exactly what the Taiwan Act requires," he went on, referring to the 1979 law dictating the American approach to the island. "That's what we're doing. Let them make up their mind. Period."Explaining his position earlier while greeting attendees following his infrastructure speech, Biden said he had made limited progress on the topic with Chinese President Xi Jinping."We made very clear we support the Taiwan Act, and that's it," he said, shaking hands near a rickety iron bridge in sore need of repair."Its independence," he went on. "It makes its own decisions."The various explanations of his approach to the issue underscored the fraught position Taiwan now holds in the deteriorating relationship between Washington and Beijing. Tensions have been running high as China increases its military posturing and warplane flights around the self-ruled island.The word "independence" is a trigger when it comes to Taiwan; officially, the US does not support Taiwan's independence. Instead, the countries enjoy unofficial relations and the US provides defensive support.The approach is sometimes termed "strategic ambiguity," and has caused previous trip-ups for both Biden and his presidential predecessors. Last month, when Biden said during a CNN town hall that the US was committed to coming to Taiwan's defense if it came under attack from China, the White House said he was not announcing any change in policy.The issue consumed the most time of any during Biden's lengthy virtual summit with Xi on Monday evening. Ahead of time, the Chinese signaled it was their most important priority to discuss with the US.In the talks, Biden raised his concerns over China's behavior in the region. While he reaffirmed the US "One China" policy, which recognizes Beijing's claim of sovereignty but allows for US defense ties with Taiwan, he voiced worry that China's actions were destabilizing the region.The charged nature of the topic was evident immediately after Biden and Xi's summit, which stretched a longer-than-expected three-and-a-half hours. Chinese State Television reported almost as soon as the summit concluded that Biden affirmed to Xi the US did not support Taiwan's independence.US officials downplayed the significance of the statement, noting it was longstanding official US policy. Instead, they said Biden made clear to Xi the US opposes any change to the status quo, or any actions that "undermine peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait."The Chinese offered a more combative interpretation of the conversation. They said Xi told Biden his country would be compelled to take "resolute measures" if separatist forces inTaiwancross a "red line," according to a readout from China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs."Such moves are extremely dangerous, just like playing with fire. Whoever plays with fire will get burnt," the readout said.In the wake of the summit, US and Chinese officials plan to intensify their engagement on Taiwan, according to Biden's national security adviser Jake Sullivan, who said the two leaders spent a "good amount of time" on the issue."Ensuring peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait, having clear communication, avoiding miscommunication, is going to be an important and intensive aspect of work between our militaries, our national security councils and between our diplomats," Sullivan said during an appearance at the Brookings Institution. "So you will see at multiple levels an intensification of the engagement to ensure that there are guardrails around this competition so that it doesn't veer off into conflict."For his part, Biden noted to Xi that he voted for the Taiwan Act in 1979, when he was a young senator. It contributed to what Sullivan described as a "very familiar" relationship between the two men, who traveled extensively together when each was serving as his country's vice president."One of the dynamics of when they talk now is they both revert back to previous things each of them have said," Sullivan said, "not just to agree with one another, but to disagree with one another, while they're debating."Still, the White House said familiarity does not equal friendship -- despite the way Xi greeted Biden as their summit began.As Xi was beaming into the Roosevelt Room from a cavernous space inside the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, he addressed Biden in collegial and warm terms: "Although it's not as good as a face-to-face meeting, I'm very happy to see my old friend," he said, using the Chinese phrase"lao peng you" to convey his level of familiarity.It was only a few months ago, however, that Biden was adamant he did not regard Xi on those terms: "Let's get something straight. We know each other well; we're not old friends. It's just pure business," Biden said in June.On Tuesday, the White House said it couldn't speak for Xi's motives in describing Biden the way he did. "But he does not," deputy press secretary Andrew Bates told reporters aboard Air Force One, "consider President Xi an old friend."
Coach Mike Krzyzewski's grandson and Duke's star player face DWI-related charges.  (CNN)Michael Savarino, a grandson of legendary Duke basketball coach Mike Krzyzewski, was arrested Sunday morning and charged with driving while impaired, and Paolo Banchero, his passenger, was cited by the North Carolina State Highway Patrol, officials said Tuesday.Savarino, a junior guard on the Duke men's basketball team, was arrested early Sunday in Orange County, North Carolina, according to 1st Sgt. Chris Knox of the Highway Patrol. Savarino's mother, Debbie Savarino, is Krzyzewski's eldest daughter and an assistant director of athletics for Duke.Paolo Banchero, a top recruit and the likely high pick in the 2022 NBA draft, was cited with aiding and abetting DWI and was released from the scene.Savarino, 20, was pulled over Sunday around 1 a.m. ET for a suspected stop sign violation, according to Knox. During the exchange with Savarino, the responding officer noted he showed signs of intoxication by alcohol and allegedly recorded an illegal .08 BAC (Blood Alcohol Concentration), Knox said.Savarino was released from custody and has a court date set for December 9. Banchero's court date is December 8.Krzyzewski said in a statement, "We are reviewing a legal matter involving two members of the men's basketball team. Any further actions as a result of this situation will ultimately be determined by the Vice President/Director of Athletics and University officials."Savarino has played in three games during his career at Duke, scoring just one point in seven combined minutes of playing time.Banchero, a 19-year-old freshman forward, is the Blue Devils' leading scorer, averaging 19.3 points per game.Duke's men's basketball team, 3-0 and ranked No. 7, was playing Gardner-Webb (0-2) on Tuesday night. Panchero was in the starting lineup.
A 12-year-old Boy Scout used his skills to rescue a lost couple and their injured dog on a trail in Hawaii.  (CNN)A 12-year-old Boy Scout in Hawaii takes the organization's motto "be prepared" very seriously and used his knowledge to help rescue a couple and their injured dog on a trail. David King was on the way back from a 15-mile hike near his home in Kailua with his mom, Christine, trying to earn his Hiking merit badge when they came across a couple, lost on the trail and trying to aid their dog Smokey, in August. "We encountered them with about two to three miles left in the hike," David told CNN. "It wasn't obvious (that something was wrong), but then the dog was on the ground, and we asked if they needed anything and they said yes." The couple had run out of water and their phones were dead, plus Smokey's paws had been cut up from the trail and he couldn't walk, David said. The couple tried to carry him out but the blue nose pit bull weighed almost 100 pounds. Christine said the couple was in danger of being stuck on the trail in the dark, so they shared their water and brainstormed a way to get everyone out. That's when David tapped into his Boy Scout skills to save the day and created a stretcher to carry the dog, a skill he learned from his brother while getting his First Aid merit badge. "So we got a big tree branch that had fallen recently and snapped it in half, then we put on shirts," he said. "It took us a couple of tries because the dog didn't really want to go on."The group worked together as a team to get back to the parking lot safely. "To help someone using my Boy Scout skills makes me feel accomplished because it shows I've learned something and it wasn't all in one ear and out the other," David said. The pair followed up with the couple and everyone, including Smokey, fully recovered. However, Christine said in a worst-case scenario it is very likely if they would not have passed the couple, they probably would have had to call for a rescue, something very common on the trails in Hawaii. "Our hikes are a little tricky, you could be on an "easy" hike and all of a sudden you're on a ridge," she said. David said to make sure to be prepared before you go on a hike. He believes everyone should at least have what the Boy Scouts call the basic 10 essentials: a pocket knife, a first aid kit, extra clothing, rain gear, a flashlight, extra food, extra water, fire starting essentials, sunscreen, and a map of the area (preferably with a compass).   "Always listen to instructions and what you are learning in class," David added.
Water your Christmas tree or else, warns US safety group in an alarming alert.  (CNN)As the holiday season approaches and many across the US are setting up their Douglas firs, white pines or spruce trees in the house, the US Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) has sent out an alarming warning.The CPSC took to Twitter Saturday, posting a striking image of a fiery skeleton in a living room decorated for Christmas. Text on the image says, 'WATER YOUR CHRISTMAS TREE' and 'A dry Christmas tree burns faster than newspaper.'The image was posted with the word 'Soon.' in the tweet. The message, while a little morbid, is getting plenty of attention and acts as a good reminder."CPSC is always looking for new and innovative ways to reach consumers with our messaging, especially as families begin to gather and celebrate the holidays." Nychelle Fleming, the agency's communications specialist, told CNN Tuesday.This post was a part of the company's yearly holiday safety campaign.Joe Galbo, social media specialist for the commission, pointed out, "In a matter of seconds, a whole room can be consumed by a flaming Christmas tree. So, while the skeleton was a very dramatic way to convey it, it was certainly appropriate given how dangerous a dry Christmas tree can be."From 2015 to 2017 there was an annual average of 100 Christmas tree fires and 1,100 candle fires, according to the CPSC's 2020 news release, resulting in 20 deaths, 160 injuries and about $50 million in property damage each year.In a thread following the tweet, the company added humor to the warning with tweets like "Thanks for helping us get this message out there, everyone. NASA has to send things into space to get this kind of attention. You all are the best." And "This is your CPSC holiday fire flaming skeleton walking out of a Christmas tree graphic, America."This isn't the company's first time using stand-out images to send out messages. They have a history of using social media platforms to remind Americans about proper safety measures.They continued to warn people, though, with more safety tips in the Twitter thread by reminding everyone to "Water your real Christmas tree if you get one," and "Stand by your pan this Thanksgiving."How to prevent holiday hazardsWith the Thanksgiving holiday approaching next week, the latter message is timely. According to the safety group's 2020 news release, an average of 1,700 cooking fires occur on Thanksgiving Day alone, more than three times the average number on any other day of the year.The best advice for families gathering next week, Fleming urged, is to "never leave food unattended on the stove or in the oven."According to the CPSC, there has been a trend of deep-frying turkeys in recent years. Fleming suggested if you do use that cooking method, "Do it outside only and away from your home. By that we mean not in the garage, not on the porch, not on the patio, get a little farther away."The consumer safety group has safety warnings for the holly jolly time of the year too."If you're decorating with strings of holiday lights, check for broken bulbs, cracked sockets, frayed wires or loose connections." Fleming advised.Along with decorations, the gifts of the season can be a threat too, especially to children."When you think about the holidays, you think about toys and children," Fleming observed. "Using age labeling on toys as a guide is the most important safety tip."An updated CPSC report with data from 2019 will be out Thursday with the latest information.
Young man who was accidentally invited to 'grandma's' Thanksgiving as a teen keeps tradition going.  (CNN)After an accidental Thanksgiving invite in 2016 introduced Jamal Hinton and Wanda Dench, they are still going strong.The two first met in 2016 when Dench, from Mesa, Az., sent a text inviting Hinton over for dinner. It was meant for her grandson, who had changed his phone number. Instead, Hinton got the message while sitting in class at Desert Vista High School.The two figured out the mistake, then sent selfies to each other, with Hinton asking if he could still come over. Dench texted, "Of course you can. That's what grandmas do ... feed everyone."Hinton took to Twitter to tell followers that the two are still celebrating the day together. "We are all set for year 6!" he wrote, alongside a picture of a text message from Dench inviting him, his girlfriend Mikaela and his family over. He also included a photo of himself, Dench, Mikaela and Dench's late husband Lonnie, who died in April 2020 after a battle with Covid-19.Hinton has documented the holiday each year on his social media. In 2019, he shared a snap, writing, "Blessed to have such wonderful people in our lives."After Dench's husband died, they still be spent the holiday together, "This Thanksgiving, along with all the holidays coming up, aren't going to be the same as past ones but we will make the best of it," Hinton wrote in a post last year. "Rest In Peace to Lonnie and everyone else we lost this year we will miss you greatly. Thank you for being in our lives."
Activision Blizzard CEO faces pressure from employees to step down after report.  (CNN Business)Activision Blizzard confronted its second employee walkout in less than six months after a report raised new questions about CEO Bobby Kotick's knowledge of longstanding and widespread sexual harassment and discrimination allegations at the video game company.More than 100 Activision Blizzard employees staged a walkout on Tuesday calling for Kotick to step down as CEO, according to the group organizing it. The walkout came in response to a Wall Street Journal investigation published earlier in the day, which cited internal company documents and people familiar with the matter indicating that Kotick was aware of those issues for several years. In a video message to employees on Tuesday that was transcribed and posted on the company's website, Kotick claimed that the Journal story "paints an inaccurate and misleading view of our company, of me personally, and my leadership." He added that "anyone who doubts my conviction to be the most welcoming, inclusive workplace doesn't really appreciate how important this is to me."While the report prompted renewed tension with some employees, Activision Blizzard's board of directors reiterated its support of Kotick. "The Board remains confident in Bobby Kotick's leadership, commitment and ability" to address the company's longstanding and ongoing issues with harassment and discrimination, it said in a statement Tuesday. In a statement, the organizers behind the walkout said: "The board is just as complicit if they let this slide. It's past time for Bobby to step down."Activision Blizzard (ATVI)  which owns hugely popular titles such as "Call of Duty," "World of Warcraft" and "Candy Crush"  has been roiled by a sexual harassment and discrimination scandal for months and is currently under scrutiny from multiple government agencies. A lawsuit filed in July by California's Department of Fair Employment and Housing alleged a "frat boy" work culture where women were subjected to constant discrimination and harassment. (The company told CNN at the time that it had addressed past misconduct and criticized the lawsuit as "inaccurate" and "distorted.") The lawsuit and the company's initial response kicked off a storm of dissent from Activision Blizzard's workforce that ultimately led to hundreds of employees staging a walkout at the company's offices in Irvine, California. Kotick subsequently acknowledged that the company's initial response was "tone deaf."The company is also facing a complaint from the National Labor Relations Board filed in September accusing it of unfair labor practices, as well as an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission that the company has said it is cooperating with. Those actions are all still pending, and Activision Blizzard said it "continues to productively engage with regulators."The company also paid $18 million to settle a separate lawsuit by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) that accused it of subjecting female employees to sexual harassment, retaliating against them for complaining about harassment, and paying female employees less than male employees. The company also "discriminated against employees due to their pregnancy," the EEOC alleged.In a statement accompanying the EEOC settlement announcement, Kotick said he remained "unwavering in my commitment to make Activision Blizzard one of the world's most inclusive, respected, and respectful workplaces."Kotick, who has been Activision CEO since 1991, including at the time of the 2008 merger with Blizzard, has been in damage control mode for most of this year. Last month, he announced an intention to slash his controversial $155 million pay package  one of the largest in corporate America  to the "lowest amount California law will allow" until the gaming company fixes its issues with gender discrimination and harassment. If the board approves, Kotick will be paid $62,500, he said.
Peter Parker is in a universe of trouble in the 'Spider-Man: No Way Home' trailer.  (CNN)It's here! It's here! It's here!More than two years after the release of "Spider-Man: Far From Home," the trailer for the third film starring Tom Holland has arrived. The trailer, released Tuesday, features what the poster previously hinted: appearances from villains from past Spider-Man movies, like Electro, the Green Goblin and Doctor Octopus. "They're a danger to our universe," Doctor Strange tells him, explaining the mess they're in. That mess, to be more specific, is a spell gone wrong after Peter enlists Strange's help in undoing the damage done by Mysterio at the end of the last film, in which Peter was exposed to the world as Spider-Man."Spider-Man: No Way Home" will be released in theaters on December 17. 
George Clooney: 'Rust' shooting 'insane'.  (CNN)George Clooney has shared his thoughts on the tragic shooting on the set of the film "Rust."In an episode of the podcast "WTF With Marc Maron," which released on Monday, the Academy Award winner talked about the incident in which the film's star and executive producer Alec Baldwin accidentally discharged a prop gun with a suspected live round.The film's director of photography, Halyna Hutchins, 42, was killed and director Joel Souza was injured. According to Maron, the episode was recorded a week after the shooting occurred."Why, for the life of me, this low-budget film with producers who haven't produced anything wouldn't have hired for the armorer someone with experience," Clooney said. "Maybe they weren't even using that gun to do target practice, but they had live ammo with dummies in her pack and that is insane."The armorer is the person on set who in charge of the weapons and artillery.The actor said he doesn't know Baldwin well, doesn't believe there was "any intent by anybody to do anything wrong" and called it a "a terrible accident." Clooney shared the protocols he said people in the industry are supposed to follow."Every single time I'm handed a gun on set, I look at it, I open it, I show it to the person I'm pointing it to, we show it to the crew," he said. "Every single take you hand it back to the armorer when you're done, and you do it again.He said it's been that way since his friend, actor Brandon Lee, was accidentally shot and killed on the set of "The Crow" in 1993."After Brandon died, it really became a very clear thing, Clooney said. "Open the gun, look down the barrel, look in the cylinder, make sure."Clooney said "We need to be better at making the heads of department experienced and know what they're doing.""Because this is just infuriating," he said. "Every time I get handed a six gun, you point it at the ground and you fire. You squeeze it six times. Always."Authorities in Sante Fe, New Mexico where the shooting happened are continuing to investigate. 
'Harry Potter' cast reuniting for retrospective special.  (CNN)Accio, reunion. The cast of "Harry Potter" is coming together for a new special, set to premiere on HBO Max on Jan. 1. Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, Emma Watson and many more are expected to take part in "Harry Potter 20th Anniversary: Return to Hogwarts," a special that will "celebrate the unparalleled legacy of the Harry Potter film franchise and its indelible impact on the hearts, minds, and imaginations of families and fans around the world," according to a release.Helena Bonham Carter, Robbie Coltrane, Ralph Fiennes, Jason Isaacs, Gary Oldman, Imelda Staunton, Tom Felton, James Phelps, Oliver Phelps, Mark Williams, Bonnie Wright, Alfred Enoch, Matthew Lewis, Evanna Lynch, Ian Hart and filmmaker Chris Columbus are among the names also set to appear. One muggle missing from the lineup of the special as of now? Author and franchise creator JK Rowling, whose statements regarding the transgender community in recent years have alienated fans and "Potter" alums alike. Last year, star Radcliffe responded to Rowling's controversial tweets about gender identity, which some labeled as transphobic, in an essay for the Trevor Project. "Transgender women are women," he wrote. "Any statement to the contrary erases the identity and dignity of transgender people and goes against all advice given by professional health care associations who have far more expertise on this subject matter than either Jo (Rowling) or I."Rowling's absence from the lineup for the time being can be taken as a sign that there are some things that can't be fixed with a simple "reparo."
Heath Freeman, 'NCIS' and 'Bones' actor, dead at 41.  (CNN)Heath Freeman, an actor who appeared in numerous television series including "Bones," "NCIS" and "The Closer," has died, according to his manager. He was 41."We are truly devastated at the loss of our beloved Heath Freeman. A brilliant human being with an intense and soulful spirit, he leaves us with an indelible imprint in our hearts," Freeman's manager Joe S. Montifiore said in a statement to CNN on Tuesday. "His life was filled with deep loyalty, affection, and generosity towards his family and friends, and an extraordinary zest for life. Freeman played a killer on "Bones" from 2005 to 2007 and Benjamin Frank on "NCIS" in 2003. "He was extremely proud of his recent film work and was very excited for the next chapter of his career," Montifiore added. "His remarkable legacy as a son, brother, uncle, friend, extraordinarily gifted actor and producer, consummate cook, and man with the most infectious and spectacular laugh, will live on forever. May his memory be a blessing to all who knew and loved him."The cause of Freeman's death was not shared.Gabriel-Kane Day-Lewis (son of actors Daniel Day-Lewis and Isabelle Adjani), who recently worked with Freeman, was among those who paid tribute to him on social media. "There is nothing that I could say which could ever possibly do your existence justice, Heath," he wrote. "We formed such a strong bond from the start, and you became a mentor to me. Watching you work was such a privilege. Your charisma, your talent, your humor, your passion and your red hot Irish temper will be dearly missed." 
Adele and Rich Paul's love story began with a business lunch.  (CNN)Adele is happy and in love and it shows.The British singer opened up about her relationship with Klutch Sports Group founder Rich Paul during her interview with Oprah Winfrey in her "Adele One Night Only" special and here's some of what we learned about Paul:He's a smooth operatorWhile Adele says the pair met a few years ago at a birthday party, she said Rich didn't make his move until early 2021, when he asked her out for a "business meeting."She wasn't buying it and told Winfrey her initial reaction was, "A business meeting about what?""We wouldn't be having a meeting about business," Adele said. "It was just the first time we'd hung out only on our own, and not with other friends and stuff like that."Speaking of smoothAccording to the Grammy winner, that's exactly how their romance has been going.She's clearly smitten with the man she describes as "hilarious," "so funny" and "very, very smart."And Adele admires his business sense as an agent to superstar athletes, like his friend LeBron James."It's quite incredible watching him do what he does," she said.Paul came along at the right timeAdele spoke highly of her ex-husband, Simon Konecki, with whom she shares her 9-year-old son Angelo, but with Paul she said it's the first time she's "loved myself and been open to loving and being loved by someone else.""It's just timing," she said. "But it'd be interesting to see what my reaction is like in general to anything that hurts me now that I feel so secure in myself, and I'm talking outside of romance as well."
Daniel Baldwin says brother Alec Baldwin a target of blame in 'Rust' shooting because of his political beliefs.  (CNN)Alec Baldwin's brother is defending him after the "Rust" set shooting in New Mexico that killed cinematographer Halyna Hutchins last month.Daniel Baldwin, also an actor who is currently starring in "Hawaii Five-0," spoke with the Domenick Nati Show about the tragedy. "Alec has no blame in this at all. The armorer is responsible for the weapons. The actor is an idiot. The protocol exonerates Alec of any responsibility at all. The first AD should have witnessed an empty weapon being handed to him or fired the gun himself. I don't know what caused him to announce 'cold weapon' on set. That announcement alone exonerates Alec of any wrongdoing or any responsibility." "The initial buck stops with the armorer," Baldwin added. "You know Alec's got the name though. So let's blame him because of his political views. He's a target." Attorneys for the "Rust" armorer and the film's assistant director have defended their client's actions on the project. There's an ongoing investigation into the incident to determine how the weapon discharged by Alec Baldwin became loaded with a suspected live round, injuring the movie's director, Joel Souza, and killing Hutchins.Alec Baldwin has said he's cooperating with the Sante Fe County Sheriff's Department and eager to learn the results of their investigation. "She was my friend," Baldwin said of Hutchins in an October video published by TMZ. "We were a very very ... well-oiled crew shooting a film together and then this horrible event happened."
Dionne Warwick has a message for Jake Gyllenhaal about Taylor Swift's scarf.  (CNN)Dionne Warwick has entered the Swifties chat.By now you should know "All Too Well" that the legendary singer has become known for her hilarious tweets.Apparently, Warwick couldn't just "Walk On By" when she heard about the whole Taylor Swift/Jake Gyllenhaal scarf situation.Here's the back story: Swift recently released a short film version of her single "All Too Well" off her new "Red (Taylor's Version)" album.The album is a rerecording of the 2012 album "Red," as Swift has been redoing her old music and rereleasing it since the rights to her original music were sold against Swift's preference."All Too Well" has long been thought to be about Gyllenhaal, whom Swift briefly dated, and people are talking about that again.There's a lyric in the song that says "And I left my scarf there at your sister's house / And you've still got it in your drawer even now.""Anyone Who Had a Heart" should know better. "If that young man has Taylor's scarf he should return it," Warwick tweeted."It does not belong to you," she added. "Box it up and I will pay the cost of postage, Jake."Well, dang.For the record, neither Swift nor Gyllenhaal has confirmed that he's the subject of the song. His sister, actress Maggie Gyllenhaal, has said publicly that people keep talking to her about said scarf, but she has no idea.Our advice: If you do know where it is, Jake Gyllenhaal return it ASAP because Dionne Warwick is not the one to play with.We will say a little prayer for you. 
McDonald's is returning the Egg McMuffin to its original price . New York (CNN Business)McDonald's Egg McMuffin is turning 50 years old, and it's giving the breakfast sandwich a price to match.On Thursday, McDonald's will sell the Egg McMuffin for its original price of 63 cents during breakfast hours (6 am to 10:30 am). The promotion will be offered exclusively on the McDonald's app as the restaurant looks to boost its nationwide rewards program.To celebrate, the fast-food chain is sharing several popular "fan hacks" of the sandwich that make the Egg McMuffin "a little extra," McDonald's said in a statement. The company is encouraging customers to buy more food so they can customize the Egg McMuffin. For example, McDonald's customers can make a "Sweet Chicken Sammie," by ordering a McChicken Biscuit and syrup to top their Egg McMuffin. Another idea is to ditch the muffins and replace them with two hash browns. "The Egg McMuffin, the first-ever quick service restaurant breakfast sandwich, joined the McDonald's menu in 1971 in Santa Barbara, California, and customers have been getting creative with it ever since," said Molly McKenna, McDonald's senior director of brand communications, in the release. The Egg McMuffin was created by California franchisee Herb Peterson in 1971, which compared the sandwiched to being eggs benedict on the go. McDonald's brought the sandwich nationwide in 1975 and it eventually became a cornerstone of its menu.These hacks have become popular in recent years because of social media, mainly on TikTok. Other chains have started to including them on their menu, including at Dunkin' that once sold an iced coffee created by TikTok star Charli D'Amelio. Starbucks (SBUX) had a limited test last summer that let customers order two custom beverages through Facebook or Instagram.For McDonald's (MCD), the promotion aims to remind people about its long-standing breakfast menu as competitors increase continue to innovate. Taco Bell gave out free breakfast burritos last month to announce that breakfast is back and Wendy's (WEN) is spending $25 million to promote its popular breakfast menu.
Reese's reveals its largest peanut butter cup yet. New York (CNN Business)Peanut butter fans rejoice. Reese's is releasing its largest peanut butter cup ever: a nine-inch Reese's Thanksgiving Pie. The super-sized peanut butter cup is the size of an actual pie, with a 9-inch diameter and weighing in at 3.4 pounds. "When you bring together friends and family for Thanksgiving dinner, no table spread is complete without dessert," said Bo Jones, senior associate brand manager at Reese's. "At Reese's, we wanted to create a dessert that everyone wants a piece of. You can thank us later." Only 3,000 pies are available for purchase on Hershey's website for $44.99 plus tax.It isn't the first time Reese's has experimented with its peanut butter cup. Earlier this year, Hershey's released an all peanut butter cup without chocolate. It was the first time in the company's 90-year-history that its peanut butter cups had taken chocolate completely out of the equation. Versions of the Peanut Butter Lovers Cup came out in 2019 and 2020, but those still contained some chocolate.Hershey, like other confectioners, relies on impulse purchases to drive sales. In 2020, the candy company released peanut butter cups filled with pretzels and a peanut butter and chocolate Snack Cake it billed as a "mid-morning snack."
KFC wants customers to ditch the drive-thru. New York (CNN Business)Restaurant drive-thrus have become too popular for their own good. Kentucky Fried Chicken wants its customers to ditch them.The chicken chain has created a new way for people to collect their orders, called Quick Pick-Up. Customers who want to use the new option can order ahead on its app or website, drive to a KFC location, park in a dedicated spot, and walk in to grab their food off a shelf near the register.KFC's goal is too alleviate the long lines that might be slowing down the drive-thrus or the lines inside the stores because of the ongoing pandemic. In a survey cited by KFC, the speed of using the company's drive-thrus decreased by 26 seconds in 2021, to about 6 minutes and 30 seconds. "Quick Pick-Up is changing the game by making fast food even more convenient and easy for busy customers," said KFC US President Kevin Hochman in the release. "Santa may not be able to give you the gift of time this holiday season, but KFC can."As an incentive to get customers to use the new option, which is available in most of its roughly 4,000 locations, KFC is offering free large fries with a $5 purchase if they're picked up at a Quick Pick-up. Other chains have similar setups: Sweetgreen and Chipotle (CMG) both offer shelves for customers to pick up their food. In addition, the popularity of the drive-thru option has prompted companies to redesign their own, including McDonald's, Burger King and Popeye's.
What supply chain crisis? America's largest retailer is doing just fine. New York (CNN Business)The supply chain crisis isn't slowing down Walmart.America's largest retailer and a bellwether of consumer spending reported strong sales growth during its most recent quarter. The company also raised its annual sales and profit growth, a signal that it's expecting a strong holiday shopping stretch.Walmart (WMT) on Tuesday said sales at US stores open for at least one year increased 9.2% during the three months ending October 31 compared with the same period a year ago. The company raised its full-year sales guidance, expecting sales to come in above 6% for the year.Walmart's stock was down slightly during early trading Tuesday.Despite supply chain snarls and rising prices, Americans are still spending heading into the holidays. Walmart's sales were aided last quarter by government stimulus payments to consumers and higher prices on items such as groceries, chief financial officer Brett Biggs said on a call with analysts.  On Tuesday, the Commerce Department said that retail sales rose 1.7% in October, beating economists' expectations and jumping sharply from September.Walmart has used its enormous size and clout to navigate supply chain and inflationary pressures.Several large retail chains, including Walmart, have chartered their own ships to deliver goods from Asia, stocked up on extra merchandise and relied on their deep pockets and broad supplier bases to adjust to supply constraints. Those options are too expensive and inaccessible for most small shops, which typically have less financial flexibility to absorb higher costs and keep prices down for customers than large competitors."We've got so many suppliers to choose from," CEO Doug McMillon said on the call, adding that Walmart has "lots of flexibility" on setting prices for items such as clothing and groceries.Although many stores are struggling to get products, Walmart's inventory levels increased 11.5% last quarter from with the year prior as the company stocked up in anticipation of the holiday stretch."The company's inventory levels appear to be in good shape ahead of the all-important holiday," Chuck Grom, an analyst at Gordon Haskett Research Advisors, said in a note to clients.Analysts also expect higher levels of inflation to benefit discount chains such as Walmart as customers increasingly look for ways to save money on food, gas and other goods.
Jurors ask to review video evidence on second day of deliberations in Kyle Rittenhouse's homicide trial.  (CNN)The jury deliberating in Kyle Rittenhouse's homicide trial on Wednesday asked to review a series of videos that show the teenager fatally shooting two people and wounding another during last year's unrest in Kenosha, Wisconsin.The 12-person jury, made up of five men and seven women, started deliberating on five felony charges Tuesday morning. The jury asked two questions on Tuesday to get copies of the jury instructions.The jury deliberated from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. CT on Wednesday and asked three more questions requesting to rewatch much of the video evidence in the case.The videos include FBI surveillance video and drone video of the shooting of Joseph Rosenbaum, defense attorney Mark Richards told a courtroom pool reporter. In addition, jurors asked to see livestream video by Gaige Grosskreutz in which he speaks with Rittenhouse and another video showing Rittenhouse fall to the ground and shoot at three people.Separately, defense attorneys on Monday filed a motion for mistrial with prejudice in the trial, accusing the state of intentional "prosecutorial overreach." The seven-page defense motion, obtained by CNN on Wednesday, relates to the prosecution's line of questioning during Rittenhouse's testimony last week as well as concerns about access to video evidence.Judge Bruce Schroeder said Wednesday he has not had a chance to read the motion and wants to let the prosecution respond first.The deliberations come after a two-week trial highlighted by emotional and compelling testimony from Rittenhouse, the 18-year-old at the center of debates around self-defense, gun ownership and Black Lives Matter demonstrations. On the stand, he told jurors -- and the viewing public -- that he acted in self-defense."I didn't do anything wrong. I defended myself," he testified.Rittenhouse is charged with five felonies: first-degree intentional homicide, first-degree reckless homicide, attempted first-degree intentional homicide and two counts of first-degree recklessly endangering safety. Jurors are also able to consider lesser offenses for two of the five counts. If convicted on the most serious charge, Rittenhouse could face a mandatory sentence of life in prison.Schroeder dismissed a misdemeanor weapons possession charge and a non-criminal curfew violation prior to deliberations.The charges stem from the chaotic unrest last year in the wake of the Kenosha police shooting of Jacob Blake, a 29-year-old Black man. After instances of rioting and fiery destruction, Rittenhouse, 17 at the time, took a medical kit and an AR-15-style rifle and joined up with a group of other armed people in Kenosha on August 25, 2020. There, Rittenhouse fatally shot Rosenbaum -- who was chasing the teenager and threw a bag at him -- and then tried to flee. A crowd of people pursued the teenager, and Rittenhouse shot at an unidentified man who tried to kick him; fatally shot Anthony Huber, who had hit him with a skateboard; and wounded Grosskreutz, who was armed with a pistol. Defense asks for mistrialRittenhouse's defense team told the court last week they planned to file a motion for mistrial with prejudice -- meaning the trial would end and there would be no chance for a retrial -- and on Monday they did so.The motion points to two testy exchanges between the judge and Kenosha County Assistant District Attorney Thomas Binger over the prosecutor's line of questioning during Rittenhouse's testimony last Wednesday.In the first incident, the judge sent the jury out of the room and then warned Binger his questioning could be a violation of Rittenhouse's right to remain silent under the Fifth Amendment of the US Constitution. In the second incident, Schroeder admonished the prosecutor for asking questions about an incident two weeks before the shootings that the judge said would not be permitted into evidence.The motion also concerns a drone video played for the jury that shows Rittenhouse shooting Joseph Rosenbaum. The prosecution has made that video a central piece of their case, arguing that it shows Rittenhouse pointing his firearm at a man near Rosenbaum and provoking the fatal confrontation.In the motion, defense attorneys said that they were given a compressed version of the video that was only 3.6 megabytes, while the state had a higher resolution version that was 11.2 megabytes. They realized the discrepancy after testimony had already ended.In court Wednesday, prosecutor James Kraus said the video was inadvertently compressed when it was sent via email to the defense. He said the state did not know that would occur and "we cannot be held responsible" for a transfer issue."We didn't compress anything, we didn't change anything," Kraus said.The judge, who has expressed his unfamiliarity with technology issues this trial, said that he would like to "get somebody to explain this." He asked for expert testimony on the issue and said he would take testimony under oath from attorneys to get to the bottom of the episode.Defense attorney Corey Chirafisi requested a mistrial without prejudice -- meaning the trial would end but Rittenhouse could be tried again -- due to the video issue. Not getting the high-definition video until after testimony ended was a question of fairness, he said."We would have done this case in a little bit different manner if that was the situation," he said. "We didn't have the quality of evidence that the state had until the case had been closed."Kraus said the issue was not the state's fault and noted that the defense watched the high-definition video in court along with the jury. He also noted a previous attorney for Rittenhouse had access to the video.Judge Schroeder said he wouldn't rule on the mistrial yet but warned the prosecution they could have problems going forward."My view on it now is where we are, we might as well follow through with it," he said. "If (the prosecution) got everything correct and it's reliable, then they won't have a problem. If it isn't, then it's going to be ugly."What happened in the trialProsecutors called 22 witnesses over the course of six days as they sought to show Rittenhouse acted recklessly that night and provoked Rosenbaum by pointing the rifle at him, setting off the ensuing series of events."That is what provokes this entire incident," Binger said in closing arguments. "When the defendant provokes this incident, he loses the right to self-defense. You cannot claim self-defense against a danger you create."The prosecution portrayed the three other people who confronted the teen as "heroes" trying to stop what they believed to be an active shooting. Binger also questioned the teenager's decision to take a gun into the city in the first place, calling him a "chaos tourist."However, on the stand, Rittenhouse testified he acted in self-defense when he shot four times at Rosenbaum, who he said had threatened him earlier, chased him, thrown a bag at him and lunged for his gun. Rittenhouse also referred to the three other people he shot at as part of a "mob" chasing him.He became emotional and broke down into tears during his testimony as he began to recount the initial shooting, leading to a break in the case. In closing arguments, defense attorney Richards said Rittenhouse feared for his life when he opened fire."Every person who was shot was attacking Kyle. One with a skateboard, one with his hands, and one with his feet, one with a gun," Richards said. "Hands and feet can cause great bodily harm."The trial featured more than a dozen videos from the night that showed what happened before, during and after the shootings. Most of the facts of what happened that night were not up for debate -- rather, at the heart of the trial was the analysis of Rittenhouse's actions and whether they can be considered "reasonable."The prosecution faced an uphill challenge in the case because Wisconsin law requires the state to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Rittenhouse did not act in self-defense. But there are limits to a self-defense claim. "The defendant may intentionally use force which is intended or likely to cause death or great bodily harm only if the defendant reasonably believed that the force used was necessary to prevent imminent death or great bodily harm to himself," the jury instructions explain.CNN's Mike Hayes, Carma Hassan and Cheri Mossburg contributed to this report.
For the GOP now, all roads lead to Donald Trump.  (CNN)Sometimes, during a busy week in Washington, a recap is in order. So let's take stock of the Trump GOP for a moment:GOP Rep. Liz Cheney, a diehard conservative, daughter of a diehard conservative vice president, has been excommunicated from the Wyoming Republican Party.GOP Rep. Paul Gosar, who tweeted a bizarre anime video showing him appearing to kill progressive Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, is forgiven at a House GOP caucus meeting. (And when Democrats decided to censure him and remove him from his committee assignments Wednesday, only two Republicans agreed his behavior warranted such punishment. The final vote was 223-207.)And what about those 13 House GOPers who dared to vote for the Biden infrastructure bill, which two-thirds of the American public actually wants? There's talk of stripping them of their committee assignments. Huh?As only Alice in Wonderland might ask of the Republicans, "Who in the world am I? Ah, that's the great puzzle."Well, maybe not such a puzzle.Meet the Trump 2022 caucus, in which all that matters is whether a) you are willing to say the 2020 election was rigged, b) you voted against impeachment, and c) anything Trump is against (like the infrastructure bill), you are against, too. There is room in your heart only for Donald Trump. If you're Kevin McCarthy, add one more priority: becoming House speaker, for which you believe you need Trump. (Even though the ever-loyal Trump has told people he doesn't really like you and could go on a jihad against your bid for the speakership even if you win back the House majority. The august Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene seems to be in favor of that program.) Some might be able to summon some pity for McCarthy, who, after all, is trying to navigate between his moderates and his Gosar goons, but nah. After all, how much is a speakership worth? Enough, apparently to justify a defense of Gosar on the grounds that Democrats are simply a bunch of hypocrites, abusing their power by taking action against a member who threatened another member's life. (Just reminding: Republicans also shrugged or fled for the hills when asked about Trump's offensive, even dangerous, tweets. So at least they're consistent.) But I digress. Back to the unfolding GOP scenario. The worry, says former Republican National Committee communications director Doug Heye, is that the party is heading to a place in which "we don't have to accept elections and policy doesn't matter, like penalizing people voting for an infrastructure bill." (Not to mention the fact that Trump himself was gung ho in 2019 for a $2 trillion measure until he walked out because Democrats wouldn't halt their investigations of him.) And the question, Heye adds, is "How do we get past this?"Good question, but hard to answer given what's going on with Trump's heavy footprint in GOP primaries. His vetting process seems to revolve around a central question: Who likes me the most? Personal vulnerabilities be damned. As a result, by my last count, there are two Trump-endorsed Senate candidates who have been accused of domestic abuse: In Pennsylvania, the party's front-runner, Sean Parnell, has been accused by his estranged wife of choking her and hitting one of their children -- charges he denies. And in Georgia, Trump's buddy Herschel Walker had to answer questions about his ex-wife's accusation that he had held a gun to her head. He said in a 2008 CNN interview that he didn't remember being violent toward his wife, but he didn't deny it. A Walker candidacy is not exactly what Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell had in mind, but now Walker has his blessing. Go figure.But wait. There's one wannabe senator with sexual misconduct allegations against him who is still vying for the Trump thumbs-up: former Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens. Never mind that he resigned the governorship in 2018 after revelations of an affair with a woman who accused him of sexual misconduct and threats of blackmail. Greitens admitted to the affair, but denied the rest. He's a Trumpist now, as are many in the Missouri GOP US Senate primary race. So the primary is getting ugly, which isn't a happy place for Republicans as they struggle to see whom Trump loves the most.The list of potential problems goes on: Trump wants former Georgia Sen. David Perdue to run against Gov. Brian Kemp, who actually had the temerity to challenge Trump's rigged election conspiracy theories. GOP candidates in Arizona are still talking rigged election to make Trump happy, as are Republicans in Ohio. It is as if they have nothing else to run on. The irony, of course, is that they do.  All of which pleases Democrats. "He's elevated problematic and flawed candidates," says David Bergstein, a spokesman for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. "It's intensified vicious and expensive infighting. And he's deterred some candidates from entering some races."Consider GOP New Hampshire Gov. Chris Sununu -- seen as a great Senate recruit -- who recently declined to run for the seat. While he has declared himself a Trump supporter in the past, he also was reelected in 2020 with 65% of the vote -- 20 points better than Trump. Considered a moderate, he complained about gridlock in Washington as a reason for deciding against a run. But he's not exactly a candidate who would have been excited to worship at the shrine of Trump. Sure, divisive primaries can fade by next November. And no doubt about it, Democrats are waging an uphill battle given President Joe Biden's dismal approval ratings. Not to mention the fact that 70% of Americans say the economy is in bad shape. And yes, Republican Glenn Youngkin won in Virginia by straddling the Trump effect. But remember: He had no primary, winning a party convention. And in a blue state, establishing some distance from the ex-President is an easier task. Trump still says Youngkin won because of him.From Mar-a-Lago, Trump is happily playing kingmaker, and it's working. New Republican candidates are afraid to challenge him; Republican incumbents cower, too. And it's only getting worse. Among the talking points: McConnell should resign; anyone who votes for Biden legislation should be punished; the rigged election was real; there was no January 6 insurrection.The Republicans, in an otherwise admirable political environment, are somehow being driven by the man who once lost it all for them. A truly Alice in Wonderland predicament. As Alice asked the Cheshire Cat: "Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?" To which the Cat responds: "That depends a good deal on where you want to get to." Sadly, it seems, all roads now lead to Donald Trump.
Analysis: Murdoch says Trump should leave election lies 'in the past,' but does anyone believe that's possible?.  (CNN Business)A version of this article first appeared in the "Reliable Sources" newsletter. You can sign up for free right here."I am pleased to report that the new News Corp's eighth year has been our most profitable yet," Rupert Murdoch said at his publishing company's annual shareholders meeting on Wednesday.At the outset, Murdoch promised to "increase audiences and enhance profitability," but it was something he said a little bit later that soaked up all the press attention.After castigating "Big Digital," he took a sudden turn toward American politics, going out of his way to throw an elbow at Fox's favorite former president. "The current American political debate is profound, whether about education or welfare or economic opportunity," Murdoch said. "It is crucial that conservatives play an active, forceful role in that debate, but that will not happen if President Trump stays focused on the past. The past is the past, and the country is now in a contest to define the future."Then Murdoch turned back to the purpose of the stockholder event -- "We are fashioning our future, expanding our reach and revenue..."And the rest of us were left to read the tea leaves.Maggie Haberman, naturally, was the first to report on Murdoch's message. She pointed out that the 90-year-old mogul has rarely "spoken publicly about Trump." Murdoch's disdain for the man has been copiously documented, but the mutually beneficial nature of the relationship papered over most of that, at least during Trump's presidency.Murdoch is now saying he cares about movement over man. But his massive Fox News machine does not reflect that. Should it? Will it? Here are four notes about that...The difference between "pro-Trump" and "anti-Biden"#1: Murdoch jabbed at Trump during the News Corp shareholders meeting, not during the Fox Corp shareholders meeting, which was held last week.#2: Brian Lowry writes: "A lot of people are asking whether Rupert's comments about moving past the 2020 election will be communicated to Fox's hosts, and my guess is almost certainly no. While we can never know for certain, that sums up the difference between the network under Roger Ailes -- who ran the place like a political operation to benefit the GOP -- and his boss, who invariably puts profits first and foremost, and perceives Fox's primetime to be where its audience currently resides."#3: I have not heard anyone at Fox Corp make this argument, but I could certainly imagine it: Fox News has left "the past in the past" just like Murdoch encouraged. The words "voter fraud" barely ever came up on Fox this fall, according to a TVEyes search, while fraud claims are still a regular refrain on One America News. Some of Fox's content, like Tucker Carlson's rewriting of riot history, is obviously Trump-friendly, but Fox isn't so much "pro-Trump" anymore as it's "anti-Biden," exactly where Murdoch wants it to be.#4: But where does "anti-Biden" coverage lead in a 2024 primary environment? Right back to Trump, maybe. Then again, Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis was front and center at Fox's Patriot Awards event in Hollywood, Florida on Wednesday night. Per Jeremy Barr, Hannity asked the crowd about the idea of a Trump and DeSantis pairing...Trump will never, ever, ever let go of his 2020 lossA savvy reader wrote in with this insight: "It is so interesting to me that in the last two days we've seen two people (Chris Christie and now Rupert Murdoch) who clearly know what they are dealing with in Trump -- much better than most of us -- call for him to do something that he is as unlikely to do as stop breathing air."Hey Trump, get over 2020, admit you lost, stop lying, focus on the future? Does anyone within three degrees of Donald John Trump actually believe that's a possibility?As the Reliable reader wrote, "He would sooner disavow Ivanka at this point than his version of the election results. That will never, ever, ever happen." So then why did Murdoch bring it up, knowing Trump will never shake free of the past?Maher's predictionBill Maher was Chris Cuomo's guest for the hour on "Cuomo Prime Time" Wednesday night. Maher laid out this prediction about Trump and 2024, a POV that is light years beyond Murdoch's milquetoast "contest to define the future" framing:"Trust me, he is going to run, absolutely. He is going to get the nomination, and I certainly wouldn't be surprised if he just won the election. But even if he doesn't win the election, he will SAY he won the election. There is NO doubt that he will say he won. No matter what the numbers. It doesn't matter how much you 'run up the score.' That's what Democrats would always tell me: 'We gotta win big.' It doesn't matter! If they don't believe in the election and the integrity of it to begin with, what does it matter what the number is? They're just going to say it was rigged. They think the last one was rigged!"
House votes to censure and remove Gosar from committees over violent video targeting AOC and Biden.  (CNN)The House of Representatives voted Wednesday to approve a resolution that censures Rep. Paul Gosar and strips him of his two committee assignments, the first time a sitting House member has been censured in more than 10 years.The action led by House Democrats represents a major rebuke to the Arizona Republican for posting a photoshopped anime video to social media showing him appearing to kill Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and attacking President Joe Biden.The final vote was 223 to 207. Republicans Adam Kinzinger of Illinois and Liz Cheney of Wyoming voted with all the Democrats for the censure resolution. Republican Rep. David Joyce of Ohio voted present, meaning he took no position either way.Gosar took down the video after facing criticism but did not apologize. About an hour after being censured, Gosar retweeted a tweet praising him that also included the video. House Democrats have made clear they believe he must face significant consequences for his actions, while many Republicans have argued Democrats are setting a dangerous precedent that could be used against them in the future. The episode underscores and threatens to worsen the rising tensions and deepening distrust between Democrats and Republicans in Congress.A censure resolution is the most severe form of punishment in the House, and stripping a member of committee assignments deprives them of a powerful platform to influence legislation and give voice to constituent priorities. The resolution approved by the House will remove Gosar from the House Oversight and Reform Committee, which Ocasio-Cortez also serves on, and the Natural Resources Committee."We cannot have a member joking about murdering each other or threatening the President of the United States," Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a floor speech."Disguising death threats as a video doesn't make it less real," she said. "It's a sad day for the House of Representatives, but a necessary day." House GOP leader Kevin McCarthy accused Democrats of hypocrisy, arguing that they have not responded to members of their own party in the same way.McCarthy went on to suggest that Republicans will use the standard that has been set to rebuke Democrats if they retake the majority. "Under the Pelosi precedent, all the members that I have mentioned earlier will need the approval of a majority to keep those positions in the future." In remarks on the House floor ahead of the vote, Gosar was defiant. "For this cartoon, some in the current Congress suggest I should be punished. I have said decisively there is no threat in the cartoon other than the threat that immigration poses to our country. And no threat was intended by my staff or me," he said."I voluntarily took the cartoon down not because it was itself a threat, but because some thought it was. Out of compassion for those who generally felt offense, I self-censored" Gosar said.How the censure vote unfoldedApproval of a censure resolution represents a dramatic moment on the House floor. The last time a member was censured was in 2010, when former Democratic Rep. Charlie Rangel of New York was censured by his own party over various ethics violations.After the resolution is adopted, the lawmaker who is being reprimanded is required to stand in the well of the House while the resolution is read out loud by whoever is presiding over the chamber. Following passage of the measure, Pelosi asked Gosar to present himself. She then read out the censure and announced the congressman's removal from committee assignments. When Gosar stood in the well as Pelosi read the censure to him, a group of Republicans joined him. Ocasio-Cortez and Democratic Rep. Maxine Waters of California were sitting in the front row as the censure was read.In a statement released after the censure, Gosar continued to defend his actions. "President Trump called me his 'warrior' for a reason," he said. "I have been fighting for America First and against the Democrats' efforts to destroy this country with open borders, drugs, illegal immigration and human trafficking all condoned and initiated by the Biden administration."Joyce, the Ohio Republican who voted present, explained his vote in a statement. Citing that he is a member of the House Ethics Committee, the congressman said, "I may deem it appropriate to vote present on legislation related to matters that are or could come before the Committee." He went on to say, "I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to allow the Ethics Committee to do its job and address any alleged violations of the U.S. House of Representatives' rules or any related conduct by House Members, officers, or employees."Democrats call for consequencesThe move to censure Gosar follows a lack of action from Republican leadership in the House. McCarthy, who had not commented publicly on the Gosar episode until this week, has said that after the tweet he had called the Arizona Republican, who then deleted it, but he did not explicitly condemn Gosar's behavior. McCarthy said Gosar had explained his actions during a closed-door conference meeting on Tuesday morning, and his explanation was well received in the conference, according to attendees."He didn't see it before it posted. It was not his intent to show any harm," McCarthy told reporters. "What I said to conference was (we) cannot accept any action or showing of a violence to another member."Amid a backlash against the video, the congressman issued a statement on the video, saying that it "was not meant to depict any harm or violence against anyone portrayed" and calling it "a symbolic portrayal of a fight over immigration policy."Ocasio-Cortez spoke out against Gosar's actions and inaction by House GOP leadership in remarks on the House floor ahead of the vote. "In response to the Republican leader's remarks when he says that this action is unprecedented: What I believe is unprecedented is for a member of House leadership of either party to be unable to condemn incitement of violence against a member of this body," she said. "Our work here matters. Our example matters. There is meaning in our service and as leaders in this country when we incite violence with depictions against our colleagues that trickles down into violence in this country," she said.  "It's pretty cut and dry. Does anyone in this chamber find this behavior acceptable?" Pelosi said on Wednesday that Gosar could face criminal liability for the video."I think threatening the lives of anyone, not just a member of Congress and certainly the President of the United States, should warrant law enforcement attention," Pelosi said.House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer told reporters on Tuesday that Democrats are not worried about the precedent the action would set if Republicans were to take back the majority next Congress."If precedent was set, it was set in the Greene case," Hoyer said, referring to Democrats stripping GOP Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene of Georgia of her committee assignments following upheaval after her past incendiary comments and apparent support of violence against Democrats surfaced. "Setting it twice is not going to make a difference I don't think," Hoyer said. "And I know there's comments that we'll do it to you. I don't know, frankly, of any incident that is analogous on our side of the aisle. In any event, if there were an analogous event action ought to be taken Democratic not."Gosar entered his office on Capitol Hill on Wednesday ahead of the vote, but didn't take any questions. He also has not participated in the two committees meeting Wednesday morning that the House plans to vote to strip him of later.How Republicans voted House GOP leaders had recommended to their members that they vote against the resolution censuring Gosar and stripping him of his committee assignments, according to leadership aides.This was not a formal whip operation, but they used the same tactic they employed when 11 Republicans joined with House Democrats in voting to strip Greene from her committees earlier this year.Kinzinger and Cheney both indicated ahead of the vote their plans to support censuring Gosar. "I'll be voting yes on the Gosar censure resolution," Kinzinger tweeted earlier in the week. "We have to hold Members accountable who incite or glorify violence, who spread and perpetuate dangerous conspiracies. The failure to do so will take us one step closer to this fantasized violence becoming real," he said. Cheney said earlier in the week that McCarthy's inaction on Gosar is "indefensible." "Our party needs a leader who is going to stand up for what's right and stand up for the truth, and stop trying to play these games," Cheney told CNN. Cheney said she would support both censuring Gosar or stripping him of his committee assignments. This story and headline has been updated with additional developments Wednesday.CNN's Morgan Rimmer, Kristin Wilson, Melanie Zanona, Manu Raju, Alex Rogers, Lauren Fox and Daniella Diaz contributed.
What's next in the investigation of January 6.  (CNN)It has been over 10 months since rioters stormed the US Capitol on January 6 and the House select committee investigating the attack continues to insist it is making progress, pointing to the fact it has issued 35 subpoenas and interviewed over 200 witnesses so far. But much of that work has taken place behind closed doors and the panel has only offered vague reassurance that its aggressive pursuit of information from a host of witnesses, including close advisers to former President Donald Trump, is producing results. And while the committee has issued 35 subpoenas, it also granted several "short postponements" making it difficult to assess how many of those individuals have talked to investigators or handed over documents.  A select committee aide told CNN on Wednesday that some individuals who received subpoenas have complied with the order but declined to provide details about those witnesses or what information they provided. A number of other witnesses have voluntarily engaged with the committee, the aide added. Meanwhile, the committee has been publicly stonewalled by two Trump allies who have emerged as central figures in the probe -- podcast host Steve Bannon and former White House chief of staff Mark Meadows. Their defiance, coupled with the ongoing legal dispute over Trump-era records, has complicated matters for the committee as it faces a ticking clock to deliver on promises to uncover what happened leading up to and on January 6.  What exactly is the committee investigating?Rep. Jamie Raskin, a member of the committee, described the probe as three circles of inquiry. The outer ring is focused on the protestors turned rioters -- what led them to Washington and compelled them to become violent. A second ring involves the right wing paramilitary, militia and nationalists groups that were there on January 6, Raskin told CNN, referring to organizations like the Oath Keepers, Proud Boys and Three Percenters. The inner circle looks at those involved in the coordinated attempt to overturn the election results, a group with ties directly to Trump. "How did how did a demonstration become a riot? How did a violent insurrection get organized, coordinated and paid for? And then who conceived of and attempted to execute the coup against Pence and the Congress? And how were all of these different elements coordinated?" Raskin, a Maryland Democrat, said.To answer those questions, the committee is seeking information from a wide range of witnesses, the committee aide said, "including current and former government officials; individuals who helped plan, organize, and pay for events surrounding January 6th; experts and scholars; and the men and women charged with protecting the Capitol in the face of a violent attack." "So far, the committee has heard from witnesses from all those categories," the aide told CNN on Wednesday. CNN has previously reported that the committee is also setting its sights on the financing behind events and people associated with January 6, including money that funded pro-Trump "Stop the Steal" rallies that preceded the attack on the Capitol that day, in an effort to determine whether any election law violations or financial crimes took place.It has divided its work into at least five investigative teams, each with their own color designation.The committee is also seeking information from several individuals in former Vice President Mike Pence's inner circle, a pursuit that underscores its interest in learning more about any pressure related to blocking certification of the election results.The Bannon factorBannon turned himself in to the FBI this week after being indicted on two counts of criminal contempt of Congress for refusing to hand over documents and appear for a deposition with the panel but emerged from court on Monday as defiant as ever."I'm telling you right now, this is going to be the misdemeanor from hell for Merrick Garland, Nancy Pelosi and Joe Biden," Bannon told reporters after an initial court hearing, swearing his team is "going to go on the offense."While the select committee has touted Bannon's indictment as a major victory and said it sends a message to other witnesses who may be inclined to defy their subpoenas, it remains to be seen if the decision will ultimately lead to more cooperation. There are also still questions about whether Bannon will ultimately face legal consequences for defying the committee's subpoena. Bannon's attorney told reporters Monday that his client refused to show up for a deposition because he was following the advice of his lawyer at the time -- suggesting they will present that argument in court, where a trial would be months away. What will the committee do about Mark Meadows?Meadows was a no-show for his deposition last week but it remains to be seen if the committee will also ask the Department of Justice to pursue criminal charges against him as well. The chairman of the House select committee, Mississippi Democratic Rep. Bennie Thompson, said he is signing a letter to send to Meadows outlining everything the committee wants to learn from him, as the panel weighs whether to pursue another criminal contempt referral.This letter would be key to marking the trail of communication between Meadows and the committee, and crucial to building out an eventual criminal contempt referral report, if the committee chooses to go that route.A key question that the committee has said it wants answered by Meadows is whether he was using a private cell phone to communicate on January 6 and where his text messages from that day are.Executive privilege questionsUnlike Bannon, Meadows was an employee of the executive branch on January 6, making his claims around executive privilege potentially more substantial.To Thompson, however, if Meadows used a private phone on January 6, his claims of being protected by executive privilege are less firm."If in fact he used a personal phone rather than a government phone while he was serving as chief of staff, that limits his argument that he's protected," Thompson said.Ahead of the scheduled deposition last week, Meadows' attorney, George J. Terwilliger III, issued a statement saying that his client would not cooperate with the committee because the courts had not yet ruled on former President Donald Trump's claims of executive privilege, noting "a sharp legal dispute with the committee."If Meadows continues to stonewall the committee, it could result in a court battle where the legal outcome is all but certain but almost certainly closes the door on Trump's former chief of staff cooperating in any form.Not just MeadowsMeadows is not the only high priority target not fully cooperating with the committee who members are weighing how to move forward on. Thompson told reporters on Tuesday that the committee is "still discussing" the next steps on former Department of Justice official Jeffrey Clark, who came in for a deposition earlier this month but did not cooperate.At the time, Thompson and Wyoming Republican Rep. Liz Cheney, the vice chair of the select committee, issued a strong statement saying that Clark had to change course or they'd have to "take strong measures to hold him accountable."Thompson said of both Meadows and Clark, "Those are the two prime individuals that we are engaging the committee with."Concerns about the calendar As the committee continues to deliberate how to proceed on each of these top priority witnesses, Thompson admitted that the calendar presents a logistical challenge."Our challenge is to get on the legislative calendar," Thompson said, pointing to major legislation that is taking priority on the floor right now including President Noe Biden's Build Back Better Act, and after the Thanksgiving break, the deadline next month to fund the government and extend the nation's debt limit."So it's a matter of finding the space to include it because we have to obviously go to the speaker, get the speaker's approval, then we have to get rules and ultimately time on the floor," he added.And with members scheduled to be in town only until Friday before they return to their districts in the lead-up to Thanksgiving, Thompson all but eliminated the possibility of movement on either Meadows or former DOJ official Clark this week given the multi-step process a criminal contempt referral entails.More subpoenas to come  But as looming fights over criminal contempt referrals hang in the balance, Thompson said that he expects the committee to release more subpoenas this week as it continues its investigation, even though he would not specify what orbit these subpoenas would target.And the committee continues its work behind closed doors.Democratic Rep. Zoe Lofgren of California, who serves on the panel, said on CNN on Tuesday night that the committee has now heard from 200 witnesses, received nearly 25,000 documents and gotten more than 200 tips from its tip line.Hundreds of Capitol rioters have been prosecutedMore than 660 individuals have been charged so far and over 130 have already pleaded guilty to various crimes, including assaulting police, destroying government property and conspiracy, many from extremist groups, according to CNN's latest tally and DOJ.Those charged come from 44 different states and Washington, DC. Thirty-seven people have been sentenced to date and 15 of those individuals received prison time as a result. Those 37 individuals who have been sentenced were ordered to pay nearly $50,000 to the US government in restitution and fines.CNN's Marshall Cohen contributed to this report.
Americans are overdosing on a drug they don't know they're taking. A version of this story appeared in CNN's What Matters newsletter. To get it in your inbox, sign up for free here.  (CNN)Fueled by the coronavirus pandemic and an increase in fentanyl use, the US drug epidemic exploded while Americans were locked down. From May 2020 through April 2021, more than 100,000 people died from drug overdoses in the US, according to provisional data released Wednesday by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.That's a horrible new record for drug overdose deaths -- a near-30% rise from the same period a year earlier and a near-doubling over the past five years.The drug epidemic grew in tandem with the Covid-19 pandemic, which claimed about 509,000 deaths in the same period.Synthetic opioids like fentanyl -- a painkiller 50-100 times more potent than morphine -- accounted for the bulk of those drug overdose deaths: around 64,000.The pandemic played a role. "In a crisis of this magnitude, those already taking drugs may take higher amounts and those in recovery may relapse. It's a phenomenon we've seen and perhaps could have predicted," Dr. Nora Volkow, director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse, told CNN.Enough fentanyl to kill 333 million people. Read this line from CNN's report: The US government has seized enough fentanyl this year to give every American a lethal dose, Drug Enforcement Administration Administrator Anne Milgram said Wednesday at a White House press briefing, calling the overdose epidemic in the US "a national crisis" that "knows no geographical boundaries, and it continues to get worse."Deadly fakes that look like prescription pills. Illegal drugs are often made to look like prescription pills, available online and sold through social media, according to a US Drug Enforcement Administration warning in September.That same month the DEA announced more than 800 arrests and the seizure of more than 1.8 million pills as part of a two-month sweep.The agency noted fentanyl has been seized in every state and it issued an urgent warning in September about fake prescription pills laced with the drug.A scant 2 milligrams can be deadly, and they're often cut in with counterfeit Oxycontin, Percocet or other drugs.Who abuses drugs? A lot of people. An estimated 10.1 million Americans ages 12 and above misused opioids in 2019, including 9.7 million prescription pain reliever abusers and 745,000 heroin users, according to CNN's reporting.Who is dying? A Google search yields scores of stories like these:There's the 28-year-old man in Northern California who died after taking a fake pain pill that contained fentanyl.There's the 11-month-old baby left unsupervised in North Carolina who died from a fentanyl overdose. Her mother and grandmother are facing charges. (While searching on Google for specific cases of fentanyl deaths, I saw reports on a lot of toddlers eating their parents' pills: A 15-month old's father charged in his overdose death in Southern California. A mother of a 1-year-old in Alabama arrested after the child overdosed.)There's the family of a prisoner in Alabama who died of a fentanyl overdose but didn't find out until months later.There's the teenager outside Los Angeles who bought what he thought were prescription painkillers from a friend of a friend and died from fentanyl poisoning.There's the 25-year-old woman in Las Vegas who thought she was buying Percocet but died after taking fake pills with fentanyl. The stories are everywhere.Where are they getting the drugs? Look at these two stories from Las Vegas: A 27-year-old man is accused of selling fentanyl-laced pills over Snapchat to a 32-year-old man who died of fentanyl toxicity.A 21-year-old woman who went by the Snapchat username "yungdrugaddict" was charged with second-degree murder for selling fentanyl-laced pills that killed a woman of the same age.What does Snapchat say? In an October 7 statement on its website, Snapchat argues it is improving its work with law enforcement and using artificial intelligence and reports from the community to identify and remove drug dealers from the platform.How does fentanyl get to the US? Chemicals used to make the drug are often shipped from China to the US or Mexico for production by drug cartels in Mexico and then smuggled to the US.The drug can come in small mailed shipments of less than a kilogram. A Chinese government crackdown on fentanyl has slowed this method. India is another source of fentanyl in the US.Here's a passage from the DEA's fentanyl report:Fentanyl is being mixed in with other illicit drugs to increase the potency of the drug, sold as powders and nasal sprays, and increasingly pressed into pills made to look like legitimate prescription opioids. Because there is no official oversight or quality control, these counterfeit pills often contain lethal doses of fentanyl, with none of the promised drug.What is President Joe Biden doing? The administration notes it put $4 billion in funding from the Covid-19 relief package, known as the American Rescue Plan, toward combating overdose deaths, including expanding services for substance use disorder and mental health. Biden told reporters Wednesday his administration is also "working to make health coverage more accessible and affordable for all Americans, so that more people who need care can get it."
Julius Jones is scheduled to be executed today and Oklahoma's governor has still not decided if he will commute the death sentence .  (CNN)Julius Jones is scheduled to be executed today at 4 p.m. CT unless Oklahoma Gov. Kevin Stitt grants him clemency. Even as the clock is winding down, the Republican governor has still not said whether he will accept a recommendation from the Oklahoma Pardon and Parole Board, which voted 3-1 on November 1 to commute Jones' sentence to life in prison with the possibility of parole.CNN has reached out to Gov. Stitt's office and has not heard back."This governor has nothing to pray about, he has a decision to make," said Cece Jones-Davis, director for the Justice for Julius campaign, in reference to reports the governor had been in "deep prayer" about the decision. "Governor, you still have a chance, you still have time," she said. "You have time Gov. Stitt to get this right."The 11th-hour decision comes after years of protest over Jones' death sentence. Speaking with CNN's Don Lemon on Wednesday night, Jones' mother expressed concern about the governor's inaction so far. "I really don't know what to say to him because he has assured us he would make the decision swift," Madeline Davis-Jones said. "And if this is swift, we're in trouble again."Jones has been on death row for nearly 20 years in connection with the 1999 murder of Paul Howell. Jones says he's innocent, as do his family, attorneys and supporters. Howell's family, however, remains convinced of Jones' guilt.Supporters protest at governor's mansion Jones' case has attracted widespread attention in recent years, in part due to the ABC documentary series "The Last Defense," which spotlighted his case in 2018.  More than 6 million people have signed a Justice for Julius petition which says he's been on death row because of "fundamental breakdowns in the system tasked with deciding" his guilt, including ineffective and inexperienced defense attorneys, racial bias among his jury and alleged prosecutorial misconduct.That support has only ramped up with the impending execution date. Supporters have gathered near the governor's mansion in Oklahoma City over the past few nights, and some even set up tents overnight, CNN affiliate KOCO reported.At a news conference Wednesday evening, Jones' mother described her son's scheduled execution as a lynching."If you think Julius is guilty, give him a fair trial. Do it over again, do it right!" Davis-Jones said as the crowd erupted in applause. "If my child is executed tomorrow or any day, it should be without a doubt. Not even a little bit of doubt."Reality TV star Kim Kardashian -- who has long advocated against Jones' death sentence -- actors Kerry Washington and Mandy Patinkin, and even professional athletes like Cleveland Browns quarterback Baker Mayfield have been using their voices in calling for the governor to spare Jones."It's a shame it's gotten this far," Mayfield told reporters Wednesday as he teared up. Mayfield played football at the University of Oklahoma. "Hopefully God can intervene and handle it correctly and do the things He needs to do."Support for Jones has also gone international, with a representative from the European Union weighing in via a letter to Stitt."We respectfully urge you to exercise all powers vested in your office to grant clemency to Mr. Julius Jones," wrote Stavros Lambrinidis, the EU Ambassador to the US.Victim's daughter says the family has been 're-victimized' Howell was killed in a carjacking the night of July 28, 1999. Around 9:30 p.m., Howell, his adult sister and his daughters pulled into his parents' driveway in his 1997 Suburban, according to court documents. Howell's sister told his daughters to gather their belongings and was exiting the vehicle when she heard a gunshot, court documents say. Howell's sister glanced back, court documents say, and saw a Black man who she said was wearing jeans, a white T-shirt, a black cap and a red bandana over his face. The shooter fired again as Howell's sister and his daughters ran to the house, documents say. Howell died about 1:45 the next morning. Jones, 19 at the time, was arrested on July 31, the day after authorities found the murder weapon wrapped in a red bandana inside his family's home. He was tried alongside a co-defendant, Christopher Jordan, who was sentenced to 30 years in prison after pleading guilty to first-degree murder and conspiracy to commit a robbery, per online court records. Jordan testified against Jones, who was convicted and sentenced to death. Howell's daughter, Rachel Howell, and her family believe Jones is guilty of her father's murder. She said in a statement to CNN that Jones, his family and the defense team "want people to believe that Julius Jones is completely innocent, despite the overwhelming amount of evidence against him." "Overall, this has been extremely tough on our family," she said, "as we have continued to be re-victimized by Julius Jones when we have done absolutely nothing wrong." Davis-Jones, Julius Jones' mother, has said the last two decades have been "a waking nightmare for my family," but she said she will keep the Howell family in her prayers. "I know what it is like to have a loved one ripped away from you and to constantly relive that loss. I hope and pray they find healing and peace," Davis-Jones said. There are conflicting stories about the evidence in Jones' case  The case has been marked by stark conflicts over the evidence against Jones, as well as questions about the reliability of the testimony of his co-defendant.First, there's the alibi. Jones' family said he was home the night of the murder, according to the clemency petition.  Then-Attorney General Mike Hunter's office said the alibi was thoroughly investigated and found not to be credible, adding the claim was explored in an evidentiary hearing ordered by the Oklahoma Court of Criminal Appeals. Jones himself was inconsistent about where he was the night of the murder, the AG's office said, adding two of Jones' trial attorneys testified he told them his family was mistaken and he was not home when Howell was killed. Another point of contention has been over a red bandana, which was found inside Jones' family home with the murder weapon wrapped in it. The clemency petition cites several individuals who said his co-defendant, Christopher Jordan, admitted to killing Howell and hiding the weapon and bandana inside Jones' house.  The petition also said Jordan spent the night at the home a day after the murder.  Jordan was released from prison in 2014, according to Jones' clemency petition. An attorney for Jordan, Billy Bock, told ABC News in September that "Chris Jordan maintains his position that his role in the death of Paul Howell was as an accomplice to Julius Jones. Mr. Jordan testified truthfully in the jury trial of Mr. Jones and denies 'confessing' to anyone." The AG's office pointed to DNA testing done at the defense's request on the red bandana. The results, the office said in a document released in July 2020, indicated the major component of the DNA profile matched Jones and excluded Jordan.  In response, Jones' team said the DNA tests results were limited, and Jordan's DNA could not be excluded. The jury was also not shown a photo of Jones, taken days before Howell's killing, that the petition says would have shown he did not match the shooter's description. Several jurors have come forward and indicated this evidence might have changed the outcome of the case.Then there's the issue of alleged racial bias in the case. According to the petition, one juror said they heard another juror refer to Jones as the n-word. Additionally, when Jones was arrested, a police officer also called him the n-word, the petition alleges. The AG's office contests claims of racial bias, noting the juror who claimed to have heard another use the n-word did not specifically raise the issue during Jones' trial. She had brought to the court's attention another comment made by a juror, but per the AG's office, an appellate found it unlikely the juror would fail to mention the racial epithet when she'd reported the other comment. Jones and his supporters, however, have similarly repudiated these arguments. CNN's Raja Razek, Theresa Waldrop, Dakin Andone, Amy Simonson and Claudia Dominguez contributed to this report. 
Americans aren't feeling relief from Biden's big Washington victory.  (CNN)If it was just about selling Americans on the infrastructure law, Democrats might have a hope. As the White House struggles to pitch President Joe Biden's big infrastructure win -- a bipartisan law that may actually deserve the over-used description "historic" -- ahead of next year's midterms, its political salesmanship is already coming under fire. But the forces assailing Biden's presidency, the obstacles thrown up by a once-in-a-lifetime pandemic, and the weight of his own missteps cut far deeper than anything a public relations blitz can fix.The administration hasn't always done a good job drawing direct lines between Biden's priorities -- infrastructure and an even bigger yet-to-pass social spending bill -- and the lives of regular Americans, even though each is packed with measures to create jobs, and alleviate the cost of health care, education and other living expenses for millions of people. "We can deliver real results for real people ... in ways that really matter each and every day, to each person out there. And we're taking a monumental step forward to build back better as a nation," Biden said as he signed the infrastructure bill into law surrounded by Democratic and Republican lawmakers Monday.Yet almost every political metric says that for all his passion, millions of Americans aren't convinced. A recent CNN poll, for instance, found a majority of respondents believe Biden isn't paying attention to the nation's most important concerns. An earlier CNN poll found relatively few saw the infrastructure and broader economic package as one that would help them personally. The victory of Gov.-elect Glenn Youngkin in Virginia earlier this month suggests Republican fingers may be closer to the nation's pulse. Convincing Americans of the merits of a law that may take years to produce civil engineering projects is an especially tough task at a time when Thanksgiving turkeys are shooting up in price and the gasoline it will take to get to grandma's house next week is blowing a hole in wallets. Transportation projects can make a big difference. But repairing bridges, roads and railroads is a multi-year or decade endeavor. Maybe someday Biden will be remembered in the same way as ex-President Dwight Eisenhower, the architect of the inter-state highway system. But it won't help his party in time for the midterm elections next November. And so far, the White House's efforts haven't been all that impressive. Biden's personal salesmanship doesn't seem likely to suddenly transform his fortunes, if his low-wattage event filled with recycled stump speech lines and jokes in front of a creaking New Hampshire bridge on Tuesday is a guide. He was in Michigan on Wednesday, touting the electric vehicle provisions of the law at a General Motors facility and vowing to secure the jobs of the future in the United States and not in China.While the Democratic Party and outside groups are stepping up advertising to sell the infrastructure law, there is no real sign yet that it is breaking through in a big way. And previous sales jobs by Biden's team on more immediate reforms -- like an expansion of the child tax credits -- hardly eased his political difficulties. Months of internal Democratic debate about the size of programs has also fueled GOP charges of out-of-control spending, while distracting from provisions that would actually benefit the public.A dark political environment But even if Biden had the genius for marketing that ex-President Donald Trump claims to possess, simply doing a better job of showcasing the infrastructure law would not do the complex layers of the nation's mood sufficient justice.The President faces a dark political environment a year before the first midterms of his presidency, which history suggests already come with a high possibility of losing control of Congress. Some of his own missteps -- like overly rosy predictions about the end of the pandemic, a previously blas attitude to rising inflation and his denial of the chaos of the Afghanistan withdrawal over the summer -- all helped drag down Biden's approval ratings and ability to sell his programs.The Washington narrative of an economy slipping out of control was not helped by a miscalculation that caused a stunning underestimate of 626,000 jobs created this year. The originally reported numbers created days of bad headlines for Biden, and it's not clear the correction -- which he touted at Wednesday's event in Detroit -- will shift the public's perception of the economy that may already be baked in. Many Democrats believe they will be rewarded if they deliver for voters. But that idea may be flawed, at least in the short-term. Passing the Affordable Care Act didn't stop then-President Barack Obama from getting a midterm "shellacking" in 2010 when Democrats lost the House. It took many more years for Obamacare to become so popular that GOP attempts to repeal it because a losing crusade, overshadowing their 2017 tax cut proposals and contributing to their loss of the House in 2018. It is always harder to make a positive case for a law than to demagogue it. Republicans are loving the chance to blame post-pandemic economic glitches on Biden's policies. It may be unfair, but it plays into voters' immediate concerns. Many factors are behind the rise in prices, including a supply chain logjam caused by the pandemic, soaring demand by consumers and higher energy prices that make it more expensive to transport goods.But nuance is the first casualty of campaigns. "This is going to be the most expensive Thanksgiving for American families in history," Sen. John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 2 Republican in the chamber, said on Wednesday. His fellow Republican from Alaska, Sen. Dan Sullivan warned: "More Americans are gonna be driving around to see family and friends and they're going to start to have sticker shock." According to GOP Sen. Roger Marshall of Kansas, "This year, there won't be blueberry pie, and there's not going to be any pumpkin pie." Florida Sen. Rick Scott -- the head of the Senate GOP's campaign arm -- spotted a Grinch. "It's Thanksgiving, it's Hanukkah and Christmas. The Biden administration is doing nothing." The White House would disagree things are this bad. But the GOP's relish in painting a picture of deprivation underscores how the perception of tough economic conditions makes it harder for Biden to sell his plans. Seizing on the economy also allows Republicans to distract from the extremism in their ranks as the House on Wednesday voted to censure Arizona Rep. Paul Gosar and remove him from his committee assignments over a violent video targeting New York Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Biden.It's fair to debate whether trillions of dollars that Biden has poured into the economy with his spending plans spiked inflation, although there is strong evidence that the aftermath of the pandemic is more to blame than Biden's legislation. And the fact that other nations that didn't stimulate their economies are experiencing similar pain would suggest government spending isn't at fault. Still, "Bidenflation" is simply too catchy for Republicans to resist. Their glee prompted White House press secretary Jen Psaki to accuse them this week of "rooting for inflation."  Biden's conservative media road block While Biden must tout his achievements to drive Democratic voters to the polls next year, he also has another massive obstacle: the conservative media machine limits the audience he can reach. Pro-Trump TV outlets rarely carry Biden's speeches live or give him a chance to make his case. As he signed the infrastructure bill this week, social media feeds directed at conservative readers were filled with misinformation about the legislation, mockery of Biden's age, claims that Democrats -- and not Trump's insurrection-appeasing GOP allies -- were authoritarians, and lobbying for Kyle Rittenhouse, the teenage shooter on trial for homicide in a politically charged case in Wisconsin.But to markedly improve his position Biden must break through in critical Midwestern battleground states. He managed to do so in 2020 in some cases. But right-wing media also constantly showers such voters with cultural rather than economic messages, focusing on immigration, race and guns, which may be just as resonant. So even if Biden's policies improve the living situations of millions of working Americans, they may not believe the evidence or give Biden credit for it. The idea that better marketing would help Democrats also discounts the question of whether they are actually giving voters what they want.Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell often makes the point that minuscule Democratic congressional majorities mean there is no mandate for the kind of vast political reform that Biden is attempting. Even an endangered House Democrat, Rep. Abigail Spanberger of Virginia, caused a stir by declaring that no one elected Biden -- who carved out a more moderate image in the 2020 campaign -- to be Franklin Roosevelt, the father of the New Deal.The fact that Biden outperformed congressional Democrats on the ballot suggests the 2020 election might have been more of an anti-Trump vote than a pro-Biden one. So it's possible he may have misread his mandate. But while the political environment looks grim for Biden and the Democrats now, they may have hit bottom. America is forever changing, as forces emerge to reshape national politics. So House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy might not want to take his prediction of a more than 60-seat gain next November to the bank. Anything can happen -- from foreign crises to domestic controversies -- to change voters' minds in 12 months.It's also reasonable to expect that the national mood could improve next summer, after a public health crisis that has already lasted nearly two years, if plentiful booster vaccines, new anti-viral treatments and high natural immunity make Covid-19 an endemic rather than pandemic threat. Investment bank Goldman Sachs this week predicted that the unemployment rate could slip to a 50-year low of 3.5% by the end of 2022 and that inflation will stabilize. So Biden's approval ratings -- a critical measure of success for first-term presidents -- might tick up and selling his policies could become far easier.And even if they don't, Biden is doing what all presidents must do. Power is there to be used because it quickly erodes, and presidents are often remembered for only a few big things once the fever of the political moment has passed. So it makes sense for Biden and any other Democratic or Republican president to go big when they can, even if they struggle to sell what they are doing in the short term.
Young Dolph, popular Memphis-based rapper, dead at 36.  (CNN)Young Dolph, the rapper behind albums like "Rich Slave," died in a fatal shooting in Memphis, Tennessee, on Wednesday at the age of 36, according to Memphis Police Chief Cerelyn "CJ" Davis. The rapper, whose real name is Adolph Robert Thornton, Jr., was reportedly buying cookies at Makeda's Homemade Butter Cookies in Memphis when someone drove up and shot him. "This shooting is another example of the senseless gun violence we are experiencing locally and nationwide. Our hearts go out to the Thornton family and all who are affected by this horrific act of violence," Davis said.People we've lost in 2021No suspect information is available at this time, according to Davis. She added it was too early to know what the motivation was for the killing.Memphis leaders call for city-wide curfewAs the investigation continues, police have encouraged Memphis citizens to stay calm. "Tonight we strongly encourage everyone to stay home if you do not have to be out," Davis said at a press conference Wednesday. "We also strongly encourage everyone to remain calm as we actively perform our investigation."The Memphis Police Department is providing an increased presence in areas of the city that might be directly impacted by the shooting, the chief said. This includes any location that might be affiliated with Young Dolph and anyone that has a connection or police think could potentially have a connection to him, according to Davis.Davis said investigators are still speaking with witnesses and are checking surveillance and security cameras in the area."We are committed to working with the community to stop the senseless murders," Davis said. "We're also dedicated to bringing those responsible for today's shooting and others to justice."Several local leaders have called for a city-wide curfew in case of acts of retribution, and Davis said police are communicating with city officials and will evaluate the situation."It doesn't mean that we won't have a curfew at some point in time. But right now, we think that the deployment of our officers in the specific areas that are impacted the most will be enough presence for tonight," she said.Memphis Mayor Jim Strickland tweeted Young Dolph's death "serves as another reminder of the pain that violent crime brings with it.  My thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends."Celebrities react to Young Dolph's death"All of us at APA are shocked and deeply saddened by the sudden and tragic loss of our dear friend and client, Young Dolph," a representative of the management company said in a statement to Variety. "The world has lost an icon, a great man and beloved artist who has been taken too soon. His dedication, drive, hard work and loyalty to all those around him always came first and he will be deeply missed. Our thoughts and prayers go out to his family at this most difficult time. "CNN has reached out to APA representatives for comment.A native of Chicago who grew up in Memphis, Young Dolph released his debut album, "King of Memphis" in 2016. He went on to have several hits, including "Blue Diamonds," and "RNB" featuring Megan Thee Stallion. His fifth studio album, 2020's "Rich Slave," rose to No. 5 on the Billboard 200 chart.In 2017, he was nearly killed in a shooting incident in Hollywood. He spent weeks hospitalized after sustaining three gunshot wounds. "I've been targeted since I was 17, 18, 19," Young Dolph told The Guardian about the incident in a 2018 interview. "I just knew that I was good."He added that he wasn't "a person that lives in fear." Following the news of his death, fellow artists and fans paid tributes to Young Dolph."God bless Dolph  independent Memphis rapper born in chicago. loved by millions of ppl," Chance the Rapper tweeted. "Always showed love everytime I seen him this is tragic God bless his family man.""R.I.P. to my friend Dolph. this broke my heart," wrote Gucci Mane. Young Dolph is survived by two children.
Jurors to begin third day of deliberations in Kyle Rittenhouse's homicide trial.  (CNN)The jury is set to enter its third day of deliberations in Kyle Rittenhouse's homicide trial on Thursday for charges related to the fatal shooting of two people and wounding of another during last year's unrest in Kenosha, Wisconsin.The 12-person jury, made up of five men and seven women, deliberated on five felony charges on Tuesday and Wednesday. They have asked the court a handful of questions so far, including requests to rewatch much of the video evidence of the shootings.One of those videos, a drone video showing Rittenhouse shooting Joseph Rosenbaum, is at the heart of a defense request for a mistrial in the case. Prosecutors received a high-definition version of the video mid-trial but sent a compressed, lower-quality version to the defense in what the prosecution described as a technical glitch. The defense learned about the discrepancy after testimony ended and so asked the judge to declare a mistrial.The defense has also filed a motion for mistrial with prejudice -- meaning the state would not be able to retry Rittenhouse -- for intentional "prosecutorial overreach" related to the prosecution's line of questioning during Rittenhouse's testimony last week.Judge Bruce Schroeder has not ruled on either motion.The deliberations come after a two-week trial highlighted by emotional and compelling testimony from Rittenhouse, the 18-year-old at the center of debates around self-defense, gun ownership and Black Lives Matter demonstrations. On the stand, he told jurors -- and the viewing public -- that he acted in self-defense."I didn't do anything wrong. I defended myself," he testified.Rittenhouse is charged with five felonies: first-degree intentional homicide, first-degree reckless homicide, attempted first-degree intentional homicide and two counts of first-degree recklessly endangering safety. Jurors are also able to consider lesser offenses for two of the five counts. If convicted on the most serious charge, Rittenhouse could face a mandatory sentence of life in prison.Schroeder dismissed a misdemeanor weapons possession charge and a non-criminal curfew violation prior to deliberations.The charges stem from the chaotic unrest last year in the wake of the Kenosha police shooting of Jacob Blake, a 29-year-old Black man. After instances of rioting and fiery destruction, Rittenhouse, 17 at the time, took a medical kit and an AR-15-style rifle and joined up with a group of other armed people in Kenosha on August 25, 2020. There, Rittenhouse fatally shot Rosenbaum -- who was chasing the teenager and threw a bag at him -- and then tried to flee. A crowd of people pursued the teenager, and Rittenhouse shot at an unidentified man who tried to kick him; fatally shot Anthony Huber, who had hit him with a skateboard; and wounded Gaige Grosskreutz, who was armed with a pistol. What happened in the trialProsecutors called 22 witnesses over the course of six days as they sought to show Rittenhouse acted recklessly that night and provoked Rosenbaum by pointing the rifle at him, setting off the ensuing series of events."That is what provokes this entire incident," Binger said in closing arguments. "When the defendant provokes this incident, he loses the right to self-defense. You cannot claim self-defense against a danger you create."The prosecution portrayed the three other people who confronted the teen as "heroes" trying to stop what they believed to be an active shooting. Binger also questioned the teenager's decision to take a gun into the city in the first place, calling him a "chaos tourist."However, on the stand, Rittenhouse testified he acted in self-defense when he shot four times at Rosenbaum, who he said had threatened him earlier, chased him, thrown a bag at him and lunged for his gun. Rittenhouse also referred to the three other people he shot at as part of a "mob" chasing him.He became emotional and broke down into tears during his testimony as he began to recount the initial shooting, leading to a break in the case. In closing arguments, defense attorney Mark Richards said Rittenhouse feared for his life when he opened fire."Every person who was shot was attacking Kyle. One with a skateboard, one with his hands, and one with his feet, one with a gun," Richards said. "Hands and feet can cause great bodily harm."The trial featured more than a dozen videos from the night that showed what happened before, during and after the shootings. Most of the facts of what happened that night were not up for debate -- rather, at the heart of the trial was the analysis of Rittenhouse's actions and whether they can be considered "reasonable."The prosecution faced an uphill challenge in the case because Wisconsin law requires the state to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Rittenhouse did not act in self-defense. But there are limits to a self-defense claim. "The defendant may intentionally use force which is intended or likely to cause death or great bodily harm only if the defendant reasonably believed that the force used was necessary to prevent imminent death or great bodily harm to himself," the jury instructions explain.CNN's Mike Hayes, Carma Hassan and Cheri Mossburg contributed to this report.
Police killing of Colorado 'hero' illustrates issues cops face in regulating concealed guns.  (CNN)The police killing of a Colorado man praised as a hero for preventing a mass shooting earlier this year illustrates how laws that allow the concealed or open carry of guns in public complicate police response to shootings. Police say that John Hurley, 40, confronted Ronald Troyke after he shot and killed Officer Gordon Beesley in the west Denver suburb of Arvada. Investigators recovered a document written by Troyke with statements revealing his intent to kill police officers, including, "Today I will kill as many Arvada officers as I possibly can." The local prosecutor announced last week that responding Arvada Police Officer Kraig Brownlow will not face criminal charges for fatally shooting Hurley, who was holding a handgun and Troyke's AR-15 when Brownlow shot and killed him.In a letter laying out their decision, prosecutors said that while Brownlow's acts "were nothing short of heroic," the facts from Hurley's point of view show that he did not know or could not have known of officer's death or of Hurley's "role in eliminating the threat" posed by Troyke.The incident underscores how laws allowing people who legally own a firearm to carry it openly in public or carry it in a concealed manner, pose an increased risk to public safety."If there is a weapon of any sort, not just guns, in somebody's hands when we respond in a situation like an active shooter or an assault in progress ... officers have additional pressures placed upon (them) to evaluate an awful lot of info in a short period of time and hopefully arrive at the correct answer to mitigate danger to everyone involved," said Thor Eells, executive director of the National Tactical Officer Association."Now as a responding officer, I have to very quickly, and when I say quickly: seconds, milliseconds; make a determination in my mind, is this a friend or foe type of thing," he said.And it also exemplifies how it's near impossible for an officer to differentiate between people visibly holding guns during active shooter situations while identifying the threat, said Warren Eller, chair of the department of public management at John Jay College of Criminal Justice."If you pull out a firearm or concealed weapon in the middle of some sort of active situation, you are undertaking a whole new level of risk," Eller said. "There is no way in that kind of situation a cop can be expected to differentiate, unless there's been some communication or unless the police officer can clearly see what's going on."Eller said the latest movement nationally in gun laws is the controversial "constitutional carry" or permitless carry law, which allows people to carry a handgun in public without a license or permit.States that require permits to carry weapons typically have an education component that exposes those carrying guns to, at minimum, some training and the state's laws. Constitutional or open carry states do not typically require that for people to carry guns in public. "This is not the greatest policy to have out there in large part because of the education that often comes with permits," Eller said. "Then you get exposure to the law and the risks you're assuming that are hugely important for someone carrying a firearm in society to have."  Open carry can turn a tense situation into a deadly one, expert says This comes as the US Supreme Court seems likely to strike down a New York state law that prohibits people from carrying concealed handguns in public for self-defense.  If the case brought by an affiliate of the National Rifle Association succeeds, the conservative-leaning court would allow more guns to be publicly carried in the largest city in the country and could nullify laws across the country, including those in Massachusetts and California. The current New York state law requires people to show "proper cause" before obtaining the license. During an interview with CNN's Jim Sciutto earlier this month, NYPD Commissioner Dermot Shea said he was worried about the outcome of the Supreme Court case.  "We have some tough gun laws here," Shea said. "You know, we tend to think we are very progressive in how we police and how we reform and how we keep New Yorkers safe. And this particular decision, you know, worries us if it goes the wrong way." Lars Dalseide, a spokesman for the NRA, told CNN that there are many high-profile examples where law-abiding gun owners "have helped put an end to violent threats before law enforcement arrived on the scene, thereby saving many lives."  "There are also countless lower-profile cases where a Good Samaritan with a gun has helped save lives," said Dalseide.Meanwhile, a group of 18 jurors began deliberations Tuesday in Kyle Rittenhouse's homicide trial. Rittenhouse, 17 at the time of his actions during unrest in Kenosha, Wisconsin, is accused of provoking fatal shootings by firing his AR-15-style weapon at Joseph Rosenbaum, setting off a series of events that left two people dead and one wounded.  Rittenhouse's defense argued that Rosenbaum had threatened and chased him, which caused him to fear for his life and act out of self-defense. Rittenhouse also shot at three other people, all of whom his attorney argued had attacked him.  If an individual is seen carrying a firearm at a protest or a store in an open carry state, there is little that law enforcement can do unless the person is acting in an illegal manner, according to Andrew Karwoski, a policy expert at Everytown for Gun Safety, the largest gun violence prevention organization in the country. "One of the reasons that open carry is so dangerous is because it's so difficult to enforce," Karwoski said. "It's hard for law enforcement when they see someone walking down the street with a military-style assault weapon to understand their intentions and respond accordingly." Shannon Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action, said the nation's relaxed gun laws have created an environment in which "everyone is assumed to be armed."  "The consequences we're seeing that play out in real life are the logical outcome of guns for everyone, anywhere, no questions asked," Watts added, referencing the NRA's "guns everywhere" agenda seeking to expand gun rights nationwide. According to a survey by Everytown, 88% of Americans think individuals should get a permit before carrying a concealed gun in public. It's legal to carry a concealed handgun in public in all 50 states, according tow Everytown.  In more than 40 states, people can carry loaded, semi-automatic rifles in public without a license or training. Five states, including California and the District of Columbia, ban the open carry of loaded long guns, while only Massachusetts, Minnesota and New Jersey require permits to openly carry long guns, according to Everytown. In September, a new pro-gun law in Texas that went into effect allows most Texans who legally own a firearm to carry it openly in public without obtaining a permit or training. The constitutional carry legislation is the latest in a series of pro-gun bills that state lawmakers passed this year as gun violence incidents rise in Texas and across the country. The law applies to Texans age 21 and older and excludes people who are prohibited from legally owning a firearm, such as those convicted of a felony, assault, domestic violence or terrorist threats. Texas joins several other conservative states -- such as Iowa, Tennessee, Montana, Utah and Wyoming -- that have passed legislation this year allowing some form of permitless carry as President Joe Biden pushed forward executive actions to address gun violence in the wake of several high-profile mass shootings. s"We know by research that visible guns are more likely to make people act aggressively. And in turn that makes it more likely that everyday disagreements turn into violent conflicts," Watts said. Earlier this year, Texas law enforcement officials held a news conference in Austin to oppose the legislation, arguing that it makes their job more dangerous. "Gun owners have a duty to ensure that their firearms are handled safely and a duty to know applicable laws," said Dallas Police Chief Eddie Garcia at the news conference. Armed civilians complicate active shooter incidents On June 21, Troyke fatally shot Officer Beesley in an alley near Arvada's Olde Town Square before returning to his truck to retrieve an AR-15 and then began walking toward the square. Three Arvada officers, including Brownlow, were working as part of the police department's Community Outreach Resource and Enforcement (CORE) unit, which works with an unhoused community in the area, when they heard "three loud bangs or booms," according to King's letter. The suspect, later identified as Troyke, was carrying an "AR15 black carbine-style rifle with a long magazine, dressed in black, wearing an old-style ski mask and a black floppy hat," according to King's letter.   The officers dispersed to different parts of the office building and Brownlow stood at the east door of the building with his weapon drawn, pointed at the window as he watched Troyke walking while holding his rifle "up and by the pistol grip," King's letter says. Hurley confronted the gunman in the square and fatally shot him with a handgun, according to the police statement. Meanwhile, Brownlow lost sight of the suspect and then heard a third round of gunfire but could not see him or any other individual firing a weapon. Suddenly, a man with a red shirt holding a rifle and a handgun -- later identified as Hurley -- stepped into Brownlow's view and appeared to be either reloading the rifle or trying to fix something while holstering his pistol, the letter says. Brownlow then took the opportunity to shoot him, King said. The presence of a mass shooter and the potential for a second one in the city's square "warranted deadly force and no lesser degree of force would eliminate the potential threat," her letter determined. "When you're responding to an active shooter or suspected active shooter, that incident is going to be complex and when you add in armed civilians that may not have had any safety training or a background check, may not have a criminal record, you're going to have a complicated response," Watts of Everytown said. Officers responding to a situation where someone is armed have to process a lot of information in seconds or less, said Eells, of the National Tactical Officers Association. Eells said officers have a list of considerations in weighing whether to use force, including the person's tone of voice, body language, whether the weapon is being pointed and the distance to the person.  The association trains officers to act in defense of life, Eells said, and the safety of those in the most danger with the least ability to control their safety -- hostages or bystanders -- is the first priority. "We put them at the top, work our way down," he said. 
Travis McMichael takes stand and describes moment he shot Ahmaud Arbery .  (CNN)Travis McMichael, one of three men charged with murder in 25-year-old Ahmaud Arbery's death, testified Wednesday he shot the Black jogger in self-defense, saying Arbery attacked him and grabbed his shotgun.McMichael testified about the moments that led up to the shooting, saying he believed he recognized Arbery from an encounter days earlier at a nearby home under construction."I want to give my side of the story," the defendant testified, saying later he came to be in a "life or death" situation" with Arbery on the day of the shooting.Travis McMichael was the first witness called as the defense began its case at the trial.Travis McMichael, his father Gregory McMichael and their neighbor William "Roddie" Bryan, all of whom are White, face charges including malice and felony murder in the death of Arbery, who was chased by the trio in vehicles and shot and killed by the younger McMichael in February 2020 near Brunswick, Georgia. LIVE UPDATES: The trial in the killing of Ahmaud ArberyArbery's family has said he was out for a jog when he was shot and killed. Defense attorneys contend the McMichaels, suspecting him of burglary, were trying to conduct a lawful citizen's arrest, and that Bryan cut him off and recorded video of the pursuit and shooting. The defense also contends Travis McMichael shot Arbery in self-defense as they wrestled over the former's shotgun.Early in the testimony, McMichael spoke about what he said was a rising level of crime, including vehicle break-ins, in the southeast Georgia neighborhood where he lived with his parents in the 18 months leading up to Arbery's killing there.Travis McMichael testified that on the evening of February 11, 2020 -- nearly two weeks before Arbery's shooting -- he saw someone "creeping through the shadows" in their neighborhood and got out of his vehicle to ask what was happening.He testified the person, who he later described to police as a Black male, "pulls up his shirt" and went for his "pocket, waistband area." Travis McMichael said he assumed the person was armed, so he jumped back into his vehicle and the person ran to the house under construction. He testified he went back to his house, where he told his father what happened. The two went back to the house under construction and called authorities. Police never saw, talked to or caught the person Travis McMichael said he saw that night, he testified. 'He was attacking me'McMichael testified that on February 23, 2020, he was in his living room when his father came in and said, "the guy that has been breaking in down the road just ran by the house, something's happened.""I was under assumption that it was the same individual that I saw on the 11th," Travis McMichael testified, adding his father told him to grab his gun. He said that when he got out of the house, he also saw a neighbor pointing down the road. During cross-examination from the prosecution later in the day, Travis McMichael said his goal when he went out on February 23 was to "find out, to verify if it was the same individual I saw on the 11th."The father and son eventually got into their truck and Travis McMichael asked his father if he called the police, to which Greg McMichael responded, "yes, yes," but the son later found out his father did not have his phone on him, he testified. "I recognize ... it is the same guy that I saw from the 11th." He testified he tried to ask Arbery while still in his truck what was going on, "trying to deescalate" the situation. He said Arbery did not respond, kept running and "he looks very angry."He testified he tried talking to Arbery a second time, during which Arbery stopped, did not say anything, stood but took off again after Travis McMichael said police were on their way. Eventually, Travis McMichael said he noticed another truck in the neighborhood. Prosecutors contend Bryan, the third defendant, got in his own truck and joined the pursuit, though he did not know what was going on, and struck Arbery with his vehicle. Travis McMichael testified about the path they took in their vehicle through the neighborhood, adding that he saw Arbery at one point seemingly "grabbing" the other truck.Eventually, Travis McMichael said he parked his vehicle and saw Arbery coming in their direction and yelled at Arbery to "stop where you're at" and went to grab for his shotgun. At that point, Travis McMichael said Arbery turned and ran back, before eventually coming back again.As Arbery got closer, Travis McMichael said, he drew his weapon on the jogger. Arbery darted to the right and later, "straightens up and starts running back straight to the truck where my father's at the back of it." The younger McMichael testified he made his way to the front of the vehicle, which is where he first made contact with Arbery, who he said grabbed the shotgun and struck him."I shot him," Travis McMichael testified. "He had my gun, he struck me, it was obvious ...  that he was attacking me, that if he would have gotten the shotgun from me, then it was a life or death situation."He testified he thought he shot Arbery twice before later realizing it was three shots when talking to investigators. Travis McMichael testified he shot him again after the initial time because "I was still fighting." After the final shot, Travis McMichael said Arbery let go."I turned around, we got over there and pulled (Arbery's) hand under him and realized he was deceased," he said.The defense began its case Wednesday, a day after the prosecution rested their eight-day case. The state will resume cross-examination of Travis McMichael on Thursday morning. Defense attorney Jason Sheffield has said he expects the defense to call 30 witnesses.Speaking from the courthouse steps Wednesday evening, Wanda Cooper-Jones, Arbery's mother, said she appreciated Travis McMichael's testimony because "it gave my family and I some insight on what he was actually thinking.""Mr. Travis McMichael killed my son all on assumptions," she said. "He had no real facts or where Ahmaud was coming from, what Ahmaud had done. He just took actions into his own hands." She added, "He didn't have any facts on hand when he chose to pull the trigger. Not one time, but three times."Defense attorney: No evidence Bryan tried to harm ArberyBefore Travis McMichael's testimony, an attorney for Bryan gave a long-delayed opening statement -- arguing there's no evidence Bryan tried, or intended, to harm Arbery.Bryan's attorney, Kevin Gough, had chosen to delay his own opening statement until the prosecution rested. Attorneys for the other defendants gave opening statements at the start of trial.On Wednesday, Gough said evidence -- including neighborhood surveillance videos -- will show that Bryan joined the pursuit with no intent to harm Arbery, and that he did not try to assault Arbery with his vehicle, and generally is not culpable in his death."(Evidence shows Bryan) had no intent to strike or injure Mr. Arbery," Gough told jurors.Gough pointed to the surveillance video showing Bryan on his front porch when he notices Arbery running by, with the McMichaels chasing. Bryan calmly walked inside his home and retrieved his cell phone and vehicle keys -- not his rifle, which he left behind, Gough said."That speak volumes" about Bryan's intentions, Gough said.Gough also tried to counter claims that Bryan, after getting in his truck and venturing out, tried to run Arbery over with the vehicle. He again pointed, in part, to surveillance video of Bryan's truck coming out of his driveway.At that point, there is no evidence to suggest that Bryan did anything coming out of his driveway but "creep out of his driveway to try to cut off Mr. Arbery," Gough said.Bryan, he said, cooperated with law enforcement immediately after the shooting -- including by turning over the cell phone video he recorded of the pursuit and shooting.Charges were not filed against the men for months until the cell phone footage of the shooting was made public, spurring national outrage and protests. In addition to malice and felony murder, the defendants also face charges of aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony. All have pleaded not guilty. If convicted, each man could face life in prison without the possibility of parole.Contentious objections from defense over Black pastors' attendanceRace has played a role both inside and outside the courtroom, not only regarding those on trial -- the three defendants are White while Arbery was Black -- but in the proceedings surrounding the trial, with defense attorneys objecting to Black pastors sitting in the gallery.Following a long and contentious jury selection process, Judge Timothy Walmsley said the defense had appeared to be discriminatory in selecting the jurors but allowed the case to go forward -- with only one Black member on the 12-person panel.Attention at times during the trial also focused on an area distinctly out of the ordinary from many murder trials: the public gallery. Before Gough started his opening statement Wednesday, he again objected to the presence in the gallery of the civil rights leader the Rev. Jesse Jackson, asking the judge to declare a mistrial. The judge denied the motion.Jackson attended court during parts of this week after Gough objected to the presence in court of civil rights activist the Rev. Al Sharpton in court last week. Gough said last week "we don't want any more Black pastors coming in here" to potentially influence the jury, and later apologized.Gough's string of complaints began last week after Sharpton joined Arbery's parents and held their hands to pray together during a break in court proceedings. Gough objected again Monday, when Jackson made his first appearance in the gallery of the courtroom in support of the Arbery family. Gough on Tuesday filed a motion asking the court to keep a record of who appears in the courtroom. He also asked the court to "take proactive measures" to make sure the presence of people in the gallery do not violate his client's rights. The judge also denied those motions.Jackson has said he plans to attend court proceedings throughout the week in support of Arbery's family, and Sharpton has called for a march and rally outside the courthouse Thursday. Previous testimonyThe confrontation between Arbery and the McMichaels came minutes after a neighbor called police to say a man later identified as Arbery was at the construction site alone that afternoon. Gregory McMichael, investigators testified, said he initiated the pursuit after seeing Arbery run speedily by McMichael's home, and he believed Arbery matched the description of someone who'd been recorded at the construction site before. The prosecution has said videos do show Arbery at the site multiple times, including the day he was killed, but always without breaking in and without incident.However, prosecution witnesses have testified McMichael did not know at the time of the chase that Arbery was at the site that day, or whether the man in the surveillance videos had ever taken anything from the construction site. The owner of the unfinished home, Larry English Jr., testified in a September deposition -- played for jurors last week -- that he "probably" had told the McMichaels about incidents on his property but said he never authorized them to confront anybody on the site.Jurors heard last week the 911 call Travis McMichael made on February 11, 2020, to report a suspicious individual inside English's unfinished home in the neighborhood and said the person "reached into his pocket" and was "acting like he was" armed.Defense attorney Bob Rubin said in opening statements two weeks ago that the person that McMichael saw on February 11 was Arbery, and this gave Travis McMichael the belief Arbery could be armed, Rubin said.Arbery had no weapon when he was killed, authorities said.CNN's Travis Caldwell, Jason Morris, Pamela Kirkland and Delano Massey contributed to this report.
Top military leader says China's hypersonic missile test 'went around the world' .  (CNN)China's test of a hypersonic missile over the summer "went around the world," the second most senior US general said in an interview released Tuesday, shedding new details on the test and warning that China might one day be able to launch a surprise nuclear attack on the United States."They launched a long-range missile," General John Hyten, the outgoing vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff told CBS News. "It went around the world, dropped off a hypersonic glide vehicle that glided all the way back to China, that impacted a target in China."  When asked if the missile hit the target, Hyten said, "Close enough." Hyten, who previously called the pace at which China's military is developing capabilities "stunning," warned that one day they could have the capability to launch a surprise nuclear attack on the US."Why are they building all of this capability?" Hyten said. "They look like a first-use weapon. That's what those weapons look like to me."  The revelations about the test come amid heightened tensions over Taiwan as China seeks to expand its weapons capabilities. The Pentagon warned in a report released earlier this month that China is rapidly expanding its nuclear arsenal and may have 1,000 nuclear warheads by the end of the decade. The US currently has 3,750 nuclear warheads in its stockpile, according to the latest data from the State Department, dwarfing the size of China's nuclear stockpileChina has denied it has tested hypersonic weapons.In October, the Financial Times reported about a Chinese test of a hypersonic glide vehicle launched from a rocket in low-Earth orbit that could theoretically be capable of evading US missile defense systems. The speed with which the Chinese developed the system surprised US national security officials.As China and Russia are developing their own versions of hypersonic missiles, the Pentagon has made developing hypersonic weapons one of its top priorities. A US hypersonic missile test failed last month but the Pentagon insists it remains on track to deliver offensive hypersonic weapons in the early 2020s.CNN's Oren Liebermann and Alex Marquardt contributed to this report.
Two men convicted of killing Malcolm X to be exonerated.  (CNN)Two men convicted of the 1965 assassination of Malcolm X are to be exonerated after more than half a century, according to their lawyers.A 22-month investigation by the Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance's Office and lawyers for the men --  Muhammad A. Aziz and the late Khalil Islam -- found that evidence of their innocence, including FBI documents, was withheld at trial. The men were known at the time of the killing of the civil rights activist as Norman 3X Butler (Aziz) and Thomas 15X Johnson (Islam).In an interview with The New York Times, which first reported the news, Vance apologized for the failure of law enforcement and said, "This points to the truth that law enforcement over history has often failed to live up to its responsibilities."  Vance tweeted on Wednesday that his office, along with attorneys representing the men, will move to vacate the convictions. Aziz, 83, was released from prison in 1985; Islam was released in 1987 and died in 2009.CNN has reached out the Manhattan District Attorney's Office, which announced a press conference for Thursday. In a statement, the Innocence Project and lawyers for Aziz and Islam said that, with the agreement of Vance, they will file a joint motion Thursday to vacate the 1966 convictions. Malcolm X, one of the most powerful voices in the fight against racism in the nation, took the stage at the Audubon Ballroom in New York on February 21, 1965. His wife, Betty Shabazz, and four children were in the crowd.Not long after, shots were fired and the icon was dead.'One of the most blatant miscarriages of justice'The statement said the reinvestigation "unearthed new evidence of Mr. Aziz and Mr. Islam's innocence, including FBI documents that had been available at the time of trial but were withheld from both the defense and prosecution.""The assassination of Malcolm X was a historic event that demanded a scrupulous investigation and prosecution but, instead, produced one of the most blatant miscarriages of justice that I have ever seen," said attorney Barry Scheck, a co-founder of the Innocence Project."Officially correcting the false historical narrative around one of the most significant events in 20th century U.S. history allows us to learn from and prevent future miscarriages of justice."Attorney David B. Shanies said Aziz and Islam "experienced the agony of decades in prison for a crime they did not commit. They were robbed of their freedom in the prime of their lives and branded the killers of a towering civil rights leader."Malcolm X was a fiery and iconic leader and spokesman for the Nation of Islam who denounced whites as "blue-eyed devils." But at the end of his life, Malcolm X changed his views toward whites and discarded the Nation of Islam's ideology in favor of orthodox Islam. In doing so, he feared for his own life from within the Nation.Malcolm X remains a symbol of inspiration for Black men and others moved by his transformation from a street hustler to a historic figure the late African-American actor Ossie Davis eulogized as "our own black shining prince."The assassination came after a public feud between Malcolm X and the Nation of Islam's founder, Elijah Muhammad. Malcolm X had accused Muhammad of infidelity and left the Nation in March 1964. One of the convicted men says he heard about killing on the radio Three men were convicted in 1966. Mujahid Abdul Halim (known as Talmadge Hayer and Thomas Hagan), Aziz and Islam were sentenced to life in prison. For years, Aziz and Islam said they were innocent. Halim said he took part in the assassination, but he maintained the innocence of the other two men.Aziz is still trying to clear his name, according to the Innocence Project. He's carried the stigma of the conviction for more than 50 years.Halim tried to absolve Aziz and Islam of the murder when he took the witness stand on February 28, 1966, as reported by The New York Times."I just want to testify that Butler (Aziz) and Johnson (Islam) had nothing to do with it. ... I was there, I know what happened and I know the people who were there," Halim said.There was no physical evidence linking Aziz or Islam to the murder of one of the most important African American figures of the 20th century, according to the Innocence Project.Aziz also had an alibi, saying he was at home tending to his injured leg."The day of the murder, which was a Sunday morning, I was laying over the couch with my foot up and I heard it over the radio," Aziz remembers in the Netflix documentary series "Who Killed Malcolm X?", according to the Innocence Project.Vance's review of the case in 2020 came after the Netflix documentary raised a slew of new questions.The district attorney's office announced the review and said it had been working with the nonprofit Innocence Project, which seeks to exonerate the wrongly convicted.Malcolm X's daughter Ilyasah Shabazz, in a statement at the time, said she hoped the investigation "will bring about clarity and transparency regarding this devastating, criminal act against my family and all the devoted followers of a beloved Malcolm.""My father lived his life advocating for and in the pursuance of truth," she said. "He deserves the same dedication to truth from all of us."The killing of Malcolm X has been the subject of much debate and generated conspiracy theories involving the Nation of Islam and others. The Nation of Islam has repeatedly denied any involvement in Malcolm X's assassination.CNN's Ganesh Setty, Christina Zdanowicz, John Blake and Wayne Drash contributed to this report.
Senate clears key procedural hurdle to advance defense bill after Schumer and Pelosi strike deal on China competition bill.  (CNN)The Senate on Wednesday night cleared a key procedural hurdle to advance the annual defense policy bill. The procedural vote on the measure passed by a wide bipartisan margin of 84-15.This comes after congressional leaders struck a deal earlier Wednesday evening, agreeing to negotiate on the China competition bill, a key hurdle that was holding up the Senate from moving on to the $780 billion National Defense Authorization Act, which has passed for the last 60 years.Senate Republicans had held up action on the defense bill, upset that Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer wanted to add to it an unrelated bill aimed at increasing US economic competition with China. "After Senate Republicans made it clear they would block the inclusion of USICA on the NDAA, we have decided that the best way to get an agreement will be through the conference process," Schumer and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a joint statement Wednesday night. "Therefore, the House and Senate will immediately begin a bipartisan process of reconciling the two chambers' legislative proposals so that we can deliver a final piece of legislation to the President's desk as soon as possible."Shortly after an initial procedural vote to begin debate on the defense bill was postponed so leaders could negotiate a path forward, Sen. Jim Inhofe of Oklahoma, the top Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee, told reporters that "nothing else is going to happen until that's resolved." Inhofe opposes the China measure, known as the United States Innovation and Competition Act or USICA, although it was supported by 18 Republicans and 50 Democrats when it initially passed the Senate in June. Inhofe was also angry about adding an unrelated provision to the defense bill, saying it creates a bad precedent. Schumer, a leading sponsor of USICA, earlier Wednesday had defended his push to have it included in the defense bill, saying it would help address supply chain problems and increase US manufacturing of much-need semiconductor chips. He also wants to prod the House to pass USICA, something it hasn't done because leaders there support a different approach, a rare standoff between the Democratic-controlled chambers."If we can pass the defense bill with USICA language included, I am hopeful that we will be able to work with the Speaker and our House colleagues to find a way to get this legislation enacted," Schumer said on the floor this week.Senate Republican Whip John Thune of South Dakota warned the issue may be more complicated because he said Schumer is making changes to the parts of the USICA bill that its GOP backers fought to get in it. "If he strips out the trade and finance package, I mean you'll bleed Republican support in a hurry," Thune said. "I know there are hardcore members of the Senate Armed Services Committee who will vote 'no' on getting on a bill if it includes somethings he's trying to include."The committee's chairman, Democratic Sen. Jack Reed of Rhode Island, who works closely with Inhofe on the NDAA and other issues, had said the resolution is "ultimately going to be up to the leadership."The Senate is scheduled to be in recess next week for Thanksgiving and Schumer has said they will take that break if they pass NDAA this week or reach an agreement to have votes on amendments and final passage of the bill shortly after the holiday. Senators are expected to vote on other notable amendments to the NDAA, including one to remove from the bill the authorization to draft women into front-line combat roles and one to repeal the 2002 Iraq War authorization. In a statement Wednesday, the Biden Administration said it "strongly supports enactment of a National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for a 61st consecutive year and is grateful for the strong, bipartisan work this year by the Senate Armed Services Committee on behalf of America's national defense."In the statement issued by the Office of Management and Budget, the administration added that it "looks forward to continuing to work with Congress to set an appropriate and responsible level of defense spending to support the security of the Nation," while also "working with Congress to provide appropriate resources for non-security investments and security investments outside the Department of Defense."This story and headline have been updated with additional developments Wednesday.CNN's Donald Judd contributed to this report.
Walking's 'sister activity' may burn more calories. Sign up for CNN's Fitness, But Better newsletter series. Ease into a healthy routine with this seven-part fitness guide, backed by experts. (CNN)Walking is the most popular aerobic physical activity in the United States, with 111 million people hitting the pavement in 2018 as part of their fitness goals. In addition, walking's sister activity, hiking, enticed 57.8 million Americans to get out on the trails in 2020, a figure that has increased notably since 2014. Both tick the boxes for getting you moving outdoors, a low-risk activity in a pandemic. But are these two forms of exercise really that different from one another? And if so, which one is better for you?Walking is generally an exercise that you do outside in an urban or suburban setting, or indoors in a gym on a track or treadmill. Hiking, in contrast, is walking that's done in the outdoors and along natural terrain. You'll usually encounter elevation changes when hiking, but not necessarily when walking. Both activities are low-impact cardiovascular exercises that can help you manage blood pressure and cholesterol levels. They are also great for your heart, said cardiologist Dr. Fahmi Farah, founder and medical director of Bentley Heart Medical Center in Fort Worth, Texas. "Walking is one of the best workouts for heart health for all ages, including those with heart problems and conditions," she said. "Hiking is also heart-healthy and provides a higher calorie burn in a shorter amount of time." Neither form of exercise is better than the other, according to Farah. "Both are great at improving heart and lung performance, and both hiking and walking can help you lose weight," said Darryl Higgins, a fitness expert and founder of Athlete Desk, a company that tests and reviews products such as treadmill and bicycle desks. Which exercise is best for you depends upon your fitness goals and personal preferences. Here are four top considerations to help you determine whether to head out for a stroll or a hike.Important note: Before beginning any new exercise program, consult your doctor. Stop immediately if you experience pain.You want to burn the most calories: Go for a hikeThe number of calories you can torch on a hike versus a walk mainly depends upon how much you weigh, the trail grade and how much weight you're carrying on your back. Other factors include the weather, your age and sex, and the ruggedness of the terrain.While you can burn around 100 calories per mile walking, you can easily double that figure when hiking. And if you strap a heavy pack on your back and tackle steep, arduous terrain, that number can soar to well over 500 calories per hour.Don't have time to drive to a trail? Then strike out on an urban hike, where you load up a backpack and walk around a hilly neighborhood. If you use trekking poles and move at a brisk pace, the arm movement adds intensity to your aerobic workout, helping to increase your calorie burn, according to the Mayo Clinic.You want the least expensive option: Take a walkWalking is free. Just put on some comfy, loose-fitting clothing and supportive shoes, then head out the door. There really isn't much more to it, but watch the video above for some expert tips on proper form. Hiking can be as low-cost as walking if you've got easy access to a trail and are only heading out for a short jaunt. But that's not typically the case.Hiking often requires driving to a trail, which may be several hours away and require a user fee. And while you may be able to get away with hiking in the same clothes you use for walking, you're better off wearing duds specifically made for trekking, such as trail shoes, hiking pants and breathable layers. You'll also need at least some specialty gear, such as a backpack, trekking poles, and a water bottle or bladder. And if you're backpacking, be prepared to potentially shell out hundreds of dollars for additional gear such as a tent, sleeping bag and camp stove. You want the safer activity: Take a walkWhile hiking isn't a dangerous activity per se, it carries risks. "Hiking can be strenuous," Higgins said. "It may not be ideal for beginners unfamiliar with uneven terrain." Trip and fall on a rocky, root-filled path, and you could end up with a sprained ankle or broken bone. And there are the various insects and critters out in the woods, which range from pesky mosquitoes to the potentially life-threatening snakes, bears or cougars. Cell service is often spotty or nonexistent on the trail, too, so if you run into trouble, it might be hard to summon help. Walking, in contrast, is much safer. Sure, you can still sprain an ankle while stepping off a curb. But if you do, help is nearby. If the weather turns nasty? You can call a friend for a ride or hail a cab. Perhaps the biggest concern comes with walking after dark. If this is your preferred time, make sure to wear reflective clothing and be aware of your surroundings. And don't head out alone in the wee hours of the morning. You want to de-stress: Go for a hikeBoth walking and hiking help dial down stress and anxiety, as do most forms of physical activity. Exercise is also great at improving alertness and concentration, lessening fatigue and boosting your overall cognitive function, according to the Anxiety & Depression Association of America. But hiking delivers additional calming benefits because it's done out in nature. Scores of studies over the years have linked being in the great outdoors with mental well-being. A mere 10 minutes out in a natural setting increased happiness and lessened physical and mental stress, according to a 2020 Cornell University study. And a 2018 study published in Archives of Psychiatric Nursing showed that when people were out in nature, they became calmer, plus developed a sense of community, shared purpose and belonging. If you're not able to go on a hike but could use a big dose of calm, walking outside around town or in a local park is still better than walking in the gym. But if you can wander through the woods, do it.Melanie Radzicki McManus is a freelance writer who specializes in hiking, travel and fitness.
Adele debuts 'To Be Loved' and we are devastated .  (CNN)On Wednesday Adele shared a video in which she sang her heart out while simultaneously wrecking ours.She posted the video of herself singing her song "To Be Loved" on Instagram and all of the feels isn't even deep enough to explain the experience."To be loved and love at the highest count/Means to lose all the things I can't live without," she croons."Let it be known that I will choose to lose/It's a sacrifice, but I can't live a lie/Let it be known, let it be known that I tried."No one but no one sings a heartbreak ballad like Adele, so cue us all being shattered.The song is one of the singles on her new album "30" which Adele has said is about her divorce.She's been everywhere promoting it, including a CBS special which brought in huge ratings for CBS."30" drops Friday, which is not soon enough for the Daydreamers, as her hardcore fan base is known. "Daydreamer" was the title of a song on her debut album "19," which came out in 2008.
'Tiger King 2' isn't grr-reat.  (CNN)Netflix didn't make "Tiger King 2" available in advance, and zapping through it, it's easier to understand why.Adding relatively little to the story, and jumping all over the place, the project is mostly defined by how self-referential it is, with almost all roads leading back to the impact of the original docuseries, which was, let's face it, 19 months ago. If you're feeling nostalgic for the the early days of the pandemic for some reason or eager to see what Joe Exotic (as well as several lawyers) are up to, the five-episode season of "Tiger King 2" is streaming now on Netflix.The docuseries picks up where the first season left off, with Joseph Maldonado-Passage serving a 22-year prison sentence for violating the Endangered Species Act and an attempted murder-for-hire plot against rival big cat sanctuary owner Carole Baskin.Baskin and her current husband, Howard, have said they felt betrayed by their portrayal in the first season of the show and declined to participate in the second. The series revisits the disappearance of Baskin's first husband, Don Lewis, but doesn't shed new light.The rest of the returning cast of colorful characters seem to be enjoying the notoriety "Tiger King" has brought them.The timing of "Tiger King's" initial release in March of 2020, in hindsight, couldn't have been better. The timing now feels like a bit of a snooze. Assuming that counts as the concept's second life, let's hope nobody's planning on seven more.
Penn Badgley was amused by Laura Ingraham's viral 'You' segment.  (CNN)"You" star Penn Badgley is weighing in on Laura Ingraham's viral "You" moment. On Tuesday, Ingraham misunderstood FOX News contributor Raymond Arroyo when he referenced Badgley's Netflix show, thinking he was talking about her. Arroyo brought up the show while talking about woke culture, and mentioned an episode involving measles. Ingraham replied with, "Wait, wait, wait  when did I mention measles?" "I don't know. It was on You," Arroyo replied. Ingraham then asked "What was on me?" This went on for nearly two minutes, as Ingraham continued to deny she ever had measles and Arroyo trying to explain.  "There's a show called 'You' on Netflix," Arroyo said, to which Ingraham responded, "There's a show called Laura Ingraham on Netflix?"The clip made its way to Badgley, with the actor tweeting, "It's gotta be a bit. Dude is committed, he actually made me lol, but watch how he waits for her to cut him off." Then Netflix joined the fun replying to Badgley's tweet, "100% a bit.""Thanks @PennBadgley! (Your delivery is pretty great as well.)," Arroyo replied. "Now please don't #YouNetflix kill all my friends!!"
Family and supporters of Julius Jones are putting pressure on Oklahoma's governor to grant clemency with tomorrow's pending execution .  (CNN)With the execution of Julius Jones just one day away, his fate lies in the hands of Oklahoma's Republican Gov. Kevin Stitt to grant clemency to the death row inmate who says he is innocent.Jones is scheduled to be executed at 4 p.m. CT, according to Josh Ward, spokesman for the state Department of Corrections. The Oklahoma Pardon and Parole Board voted 3-1 November 1 to recommend granting clemency to Jones on November 1. The same board also recommended commuting his sentence in September.  Stitt has not said whether he will accept it. Jones' supporters have gathered near the governor's mansion in Oklahoma City over the past few nights, and some even set up tents outside overnight, CNN affiliate KOCO reported. At a news conference Wednesday evening, Jones' mother, Madeline Davis-Jones, described her son's scheduled execution as a lynching."If you think Julius is guilty, give him a fair trial. Do it over again, do it right!" Davis-Jones said as the crowd erupted in applause. "If my child is executed tomorrow or any day, it should be without a doubt. Not even a little bit of doubt."Cece Jones-Davis, director for the Justice for Julius campaign, said it was cruel for Stitt to put the family through this waiting period. She said Stitt's office yesterday told community pastors he was taking the decision seriously and was "in deep prayer." "This governor has nothing to pray about, he has a decision to make," Jones-Davis said. "Governor, you still have a chance, you still have time. You have time Gov. Stitt to get this right." CNN has reached out to Gov. Stitt's office and has not heard back.Wednesday's news conference follows years of protest against Jones' death sentence. Jones has been on death row for nearly 20 years after he was sentenced for the 1999 murder of Paul Howell, who was shot in a carjacking as he pulled into his parents' driveway with his adult sister and two daughters. Jones, his attorneys and advocates say, is innocent.More than 6 million people have signed a Justice for Julius petition against Jones' execution. The clemency petition says he's been on death row because of "fundamental breakdowns in the system tasked with deciding" his guilt, including ineffective and inexperienced defense attorneys, racial bias among his jury and alleged prosecutorial misconduct.The case has garnered much attention, in part due to the 2018 ABC documentary series "The Last Defense," which spotlighted it. Celebrities have also joined in the effort in urging Gov. Stitt to commute Jones' sentence. Reality TV star Kim Kardashian -- who has long advocated against Jones' death sentence -- actors Kerry Washington and Mandy Patinkin, professional athletes including Cleveland Browns quarterback Baker Mayfield and others, have been using their voice in calling for the governor to spare Jones."Please take action. Share #JuliusJones story and tweet at @GovStitt to ask him to release this innocent man," Washington tweeted.Support for Jones has also gone international, with representatives from the European Union writing letters to the Oklahoma governor. "We respectfully urge you to exercise all powers vested in your office to grant clemency to Mr. Julius Jones," wrote Stavros Lambrinidis, the EU Ambassador to the US. Relatives of the victim, Paul Howell, however, remain convinced of Jones' guilt. Because Jones' case has received so much publicity and support, the family has set up its own Justice for Paul Howell website."For the past twenty-one years, both the state and federal judicial system have been involved in scrutinizing this case," the website says. "The courts have heard multiple appeals in multiple forms and at multiple levels from Julius Jones. They have found no claim which necessitated the granting of relief."It is now up to Stitt whether Jones is put to death or gets clemency. If the latter, Jones' sentence will be commuted to life in prison with the possibility of parole.
Miramax is suing Quentin Tarantino over 'Pulp Fiction' NFTs. New York (CNN Business)Miramax  the movie studio behind the classic crime movie "Pulp Fiction"  is suing Quentin Tarantino, the film's director, over his planned sale of NFTs from the 1994 film.The two-time Academy Award-winning director and screenwriter announced earlier this month that he's selling NFTs of seven original scenes from the film, which stars John Travolta and Samuel L. Jackson as two hitmen who get into misadventures in the Los Angeles underworld. The NFTs, or "non-fungible tokens," will include excerpts from the original, handwritten script for the film as well as exclusive commentary from the writer/director.Miramax filed a complaint in Los Angeles on Tuesday alleging that the director infringed on the "intellectual property rights relating to one of Miramax's most iconic and valuable film properties" by offering the sale of the NFTs.Representatives for Tarantino did not immediately respond to CNN Business' request for comment."Upon learning of Tarantino's plan, Miramax sent him a cease-and-desist letter setting forth, in great detail, Tarantino's disregard of Miramax's broad rights to 'Pulp Fiction,'" the suit said. "Wrongly claiming that his narrow Reserved Rights are sufficient, Tarantino remains undeterred and has refused to comply with Miramax's demands to cancel the sale of Pulp Fiction NFTs."The suit said that Tarantino kept Miramax in the dark regarding the sale and that is "particularly problematic" since the director "granted and assigned nearly all of his rights to 'Pulp Fiction'" to Miramax in 1993."Tarantino's conduct has forced Miramax to bring this lawsuit against a valued collaborator," the suit said. "Left unchecked, Tarantino's conduct could mislead others into believing Miramax is involved in his venture."The suit alleges Tarantino's conduct regarding the sale could also "mislead others into believing they have the rights to pursue similar deals or offerings, when in fact Miramax holds the rights needed to develop, market, and sell NFTs relating to its deep film library.""This group chose to recklessly, greedily, and intentionally disregard the agreement that Quentin signed instead of following the clear legal and ethical approach of simply communicating with Miramax about his proposed ideas," Bart Williams, an attorney representing Miramax, told CNN Business. "This one-off effort devalues the NFT rights to Pulp Fiction, which Miramax intends to maximize through a strategic, comprehensive approach."Each NFT is "minted" on a blockchain to give it a verified identity. This makes them collectibles that can become quite valuable."Pulp Fiction" is one of the most influential films of the last 30 years and has a 96% audience rating on Rotten Tomatoes. It is arguably Tarantino's most famous film and helped kick off his iconic career in Hollywood. The director has helmed several award-winning films including "Django Unchained," "Once Upon a Time ... In Hollywood," and "Inglourious Basterds."
Coronavirus spreads in deer and other animals. Scientists worry about what that means for people.  (CNN)Scientists have found SARS-CoV-2 spreads like, well, a virus among white-tailed deer and other wild animals in the United States.People are the likely source, but that doesn't mean the virus can't evolve among these animals and then spill back into humans, and researchers are worried about what this spread means for the risk of future pandemics. There's little doubt SARS-Cov-2, the virus that caused the ongoing pandemic, came from an animal -- almost certainly a bat. And the prevailing scientific opinion is that there as an intermediate host, an animal of some sort, that was infected by a bat or bats and then infected people.It's also clear that people can infect animals. Pets such as cats, zoo animals such as gorillas and snow leopards and farmed mink can all be infected. Multiple cases have been reported, and evidence of changes in the viruses infecting mink have led to mass culls of those animals on fur farms.Snow leopards die of Covid-19 complicationsThe latest species to capture the attention of wildlife biologists are white-tailed deer. It's little surprise that farmed deer would catch the virus from people. Any visitor to a deer farm knows the animals behave like goats, shoving their wet noses into the pockets, hands and faces of human visitors or caregivers as they clamor for food and treats -- and setting themselves up for infection. But how are wild deer catching it?Viral spread among deer"If somebody might bite an apple and throw it or even if I sneeze in a tissue and drop it," speculated Dr. Suresh Kuchipudi of the Animal Diagnostic Laboratory at Pennsylvania State University, who helped lead one study published earlier this month that found a third of deer they tested across Iowa between September of 2020 and January of 2021 showed evidence of infection.Sewage has been found to carry the virus, so polluted water might be a source, he added, or people spitting or contaminating the environment in other ways. The deer may then spread the virus to one another."Keep in mind these are highly susceptible animals and while you do not know how much virus they need to be infected," Kuchipudi told CNN. "It raises the urgent question -- we know the deer are effectively transmitting virus among themselves, and then who are they giving it to?"It's also possible another species could be picking up the virus from people and infecting deer. "We don't know what's going on in our very own country and we need to find out," said Hon Ip of the United States Geological Survey in Wisconsin.Viral hotspots among the rodentsIp and colleagues tested animals they found around a mink farm that was the site of an outbreak in Utah and found skunks, mice and other animals were susceptible to a variety of coronaviruses.They were originally worried that the mink, which caught the virus that causes Covid-19 from people, might infect the local wildlife. They found no indication of that. "It was a very pleasant surprise," Ip told CNN.But the mice, raccoons, skunks and other animals carried a load of other coronaviruses. "The number of coronaviruses and the diversity was a surprise," Ip said."Our findings indicate an unexpectedly high prevalence of coronavirus among the domestic and wild animals tested on mink farms and raise the possibility that these operations could be potential hot spots for future trans-species viral spillover and the emergence of new pandemic coronaviruses," they wrote in a report published in the journal Viruses in October.Researchers like Ip and Kuchipudi say much more study like this is needed.Kuchipudi and colleagues conducted their study after the US Department of Agriculture published research in July that found 40% of deer tested in four states had antibodies to the SARS-CoV-2 -- evidence they'd been infected.There are several reasons scientists do not want to see a virus like the one that causes Covid-19 infecting animals. For one, it creates what's known as a reservoir -- so that even in the unlikely case that everyone got vaccinated and the virus stopped circulating among people, it would still circulate among animals and could re-infect people eventually.More likely however, is the risk that it could change and evolve. That can happen in two ways. One is steady adaptation. As it infects different species, the virus will change to better adapt to those species and that could make it either more or less dangerous to humans.Another route to change: viruses can  take shortcuts by swapping big chunks of genetic material in a process called recombination. Influenza is especially good at this, but coronaviruses can do it, as well. If an animal is infected with more than one coronavirus at a time, the two types can mix and match genes and potentially come up with new variants. "Recombination is one of the major mechanisms for coronavirus evolution," Ip said. So if animals are already carrying their own varieties of coronavirus, and people are then infecting them with strains that cause pandemics among humans -- the potential exists for these viruses to infect animals at the same time, trade genetic material, and give rise to new pandemic viral species.Pandemic origins"This raises very urgent questions about the trajectory of this pandemic," Kuchipudi said.If there are animals out there like white-tailed deer that are so easily infected and that so easily transmit the virus among themselves, that's a red flag.That means much better surveillance is needed to see what other animals might be getting infected by people or by other animals, and what threat they might pose to other animals and to people."We need to be prepared for any variants that might emerge," he said.Plus, Ip said, surveillance is needed to know what coronaviruses are living in animals that might be the source of the next pandemic -- not just among bats in remote caves in southeast Asia, but perhaps among mice or deer or raccoons in the backyards of the US Midwest.And people need to remember that humans are the primary source of the spread of the virus. Even if Covid-19 originally came from animals, humans are the species that have amplified and spread it.   And there's one answer to that spread. "Vaccination rates are not uniform across the world," Kuchipudi said. "As long as there are susceptible human beings, we give opportunities for the virus to circulate and change. There need to be more concerted efforts to vaccinate as many people as possible so that we can at least minimize transmission among human beings."
Florida legislature sends DeSantis four bills protecting workers who refuse Covid-19 vaccinations. St. Petersburg, Florida (CNN)Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis didn't get everything he wanted this week from state lawmakers in his campaign against federal coronavirus vaccine mandates.But in a fast-moving three-day special session criticized by Democrats as "political theater," the Republican-controlled state legislature on Wednesday handed DeSantis plenty of firepower to pressure businesses and hospitals not to go along with President Joe Biden's push to get the country's workforce inoculated.Acting mostly along party lines, the Florida House and Senate passed a package of four bills protecting workers who remain defiant against Covid-19 vaccinations. Once signed by DeSantis -- which is expected in the coming days -- Florida will become the first state with a law imposing fines on companies that require a Covid-19 vaccination as a condition of employment. DeSantis, a first-term governor often mentioned as a future presidential contender, wasted little time claiming victory."I look forward to signing legislation that will protect their jobs and the jobs of all Floridians who are facing unjust termination due to heavy-handed mandates!" the Republican leader wrote on Twitter Wednesday afternoon, before the Senate had voted. Unsaid by DeSantis is how far the final package was from the more hard-line measures he proposed when he first floated the idea of a special session last month. DeSantis had called for a blanket ban on vaccine mandates and vowed punitive penalties, threatening to pull state protections against coronavirus-related lawsuits from companies that adhered to Biden's mandate.Far from a ban on mandates, businesses can require vaccination as a condition of employment if workers are allowed to opt-out through a medical or religious exemption, proof of natural immunity or by submitting to regular testing for Covid-19. The measure, one of four vaccine-related bills approved in the span of a few hours Wednesday, passed the Florida House on a vote of 78 to 39 and the Senate 24 to 14. Still, many companies and most health care providers in Florida now face an expensive choice: follow the Biden administration's new vaccination policies and the advice of public health experts and risk hefty state fines, or side with the state government and face possible financial penalties from the federal government. Though the Biden administration would also allow workplaces to offer testing as an alternative to the shot, it's not clear if the federal guidelines for testing frequency are more onerous than Florida would allow.In the days and hours leading up to the vote, Democrats offered dozens of amendments to soften the legislation and protect people with health conditions from working in unvaccinated environments. But Republicans, acting on a tight schedule, swiftly rejected them and sent the bills to DeSantis' desk without changes.Democrats accused Republicans of choosing to support DeSantis' political ambitions over the health and safety of Florida residents. DeSantis called lawmakers back to Tallahassee after Texas Gov. Greg Abbot, a fellow Republican and potential White House hopeful, issued an executive order that prohibited any entity from requiring a Covid-19 vaccine and instituted a fine of up to $1,000."This allows him to whip his base up," said Florida state House Minority Leader Evan Jenne.In addition to approving vaccine-related fines, lawmakers also approved a $5 million warchest to pay for ongoing and future legal fights against the Biden administration's new vaccine rules. Florida is one of 26 states suing the Biden administration over its private employer vaccine mandate. Another six states have taken the federal government to court over new immunization requirements for hospitals. The warchest means Florida Attorney General Ashley Moody now has the resources to consider challenging Biden on that front as well, said state House Speaker Chris Sprowls.Just like Biden's vaccination mandates, the new measures are expected to face legal challenges from workers and business leaders who believe vaccinations are necessary to bring the nearly two-year pandemic to an end. More than 60,000 people have died from the coronavirus in Florida, though the state has seen a sharp decline in cases after its catastrophic summer surge and it now has one of the lowest infection rates in the country. But Sprowls expressed confidence that the state will be victorious in its lawsuit against Biden's vaccine mandates. On Tuesday, a ping-pong ball lottery put the lawsuits against Biden's vaccine mandate targeting employers with more than 100 employees into the hands of the Ohio-based 6th US Circuit Court of Appeals.The US Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit has halted implementation of the mandate for non-health care workers. Though the Biden administration has urged businesses to move forward with the rules, Sprowls said the state's new rules for vaccine mandates "will be the law of the land in Florida."Florida lawmakers also laid the groundwork for Florida to exit the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the federal agency tasked with enforcing Biden's mandate on businesses. In its place, Florida would have to create a state-based workplace regulatory agency. It's not clear if such a maneuver will affect the federal government's ability to enforce vaccine compliance. The Biden administration would have approval over Florida's new state-based regulatory plan and federal law requires states' enforcement to be as rigorous as OSHA's."They can't say, 'We're a state plan and we're not going to have a COVID standard,' " said Tim Fisher, a director at the American Society for Safety Professionals.
A flu pandemic could be even worse than Covid-19 has been, National Academy of Medicine says.  (CNN)An influenza pandemic like the pandemic of 1918 could be even worse than Covid-19 has been, and the world is not ready to deal with it, the National Academy of Medicine said in a series of reports released Wednesday.Work needs to begin now to start developing next-generation vaccines, and to build up capacity in low- and middle-income countries so they can make their own vaccines without relying on wealthy nations to make them available, the reports recommended. And governments need to figure out how to make sure companies have the incentives to work on these vaccines without knowing whether they'll ever be used or needed.Covid-19 has been terrible, the Academy, an independent body that advises the US federal government on matters of medicine and health, said in the first of the the reports."Yet, from an epidemiological perspective, COVID-19 does not represent a 'worst-case' pandemic scenario, such as the 1918-19 influenza, which resulted in at least 50 million deaths worldwide," the report reads.Flu kills anywhere between 290,000 and 650,000 people a year in a normal year, according to WHO. Covid-19 has killed 5.1 millon people globally. The next influenza pandemic could kill 33 million people, the Academy said.It's hard to predict when a new flu pandemic might hit -- but it's certain one will come."Influenza pandemics have occurred repeatedly, and experts worry that the risk for an influenza pandemic may be even higher during the COVID-19 era due to changes in global and regional conditions affecting humans, animals, and their contact patterns. While it is difficult to predict when it will occur, a major influenza pandemic is more a matter of 'when' than 'if,' " it added.One major recommendation: a global "moonshot" to develop a universal flu vaccine that would protect people against current and future flu strains. Current flu vaccines must be reformulated regularly, tweaked every year, and do not protect against emerging new strains that might cause pandemics.And this needs to be done as a matter of global coordination."We have too many gaps, and too much is dependent on underfunded, often informal arrangements," one of the reports reads. "Against the scale of the threat, we are woefully underprotected. We urgently need to strengthen our collective defenses against pandemic influenza and must do so in a way that is sustainable."One report recommends having 4 billion to 8 billion doses of influenza vaccine ready to go just in case."Preparedness has to be an ongoing commitment  it can't be year to year, or crisis to crisis," Dr. Victor Dzau, president of the National Academy of Medicine, said in a statement. "COVID-19 has enabled the emergence of new capabilities, technologies, collaboration, and policies that could also be deployed before and during the next influenza pandemic. It's critical to invest in science, strengthen health systems, and ensure trust in order to protect people from the health, social, and economic consequences of seasonal and pandemic influenza."One report specifically recommends that the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, the Department of Defense and other agencies invest in research now on new and better flu vaccines. "This will allow selection of the candidates most fit for purpose to be brought to authorization and sufficient production and distribution to optimize the control of influenza across diverse settings and phases of pandemics and epidemics," the report read."The World Health Organization should advocate and coordinate with multilateral stakeholders (e.g., the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations), governments, funding agencies, the vaccine industry, and philanthropic organizations to build global capacity for robust and internationally comparable preclinical, clinical, and immunological assessments of influenza vaccine candidates, including novel candidates that use innovative structures, targets, and delivery systems to potentially broaden or improve protection," it added.One of the reports notes that the Covid-19 pandemic has shown that face masks and physical distancing contributed to the dramatic reduction of influenza activity globally. "Face masks would be simple and cost-effective during the next influenza pandemic, and public health agencies should mandate their use, when justified by the severity and incidence of influenza," the Academy said in a statement.
Here's when high inflation will come to an end. Mark Zandi is chief economist of Moody's Analytics. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. We can't catch a break. Since the Covid-19 pandemic struck in the spring of 2020, the United States has suffered hundreds of thousands of deaths due to the virus and lost millions of jobs. There was much hope the pandemic would soon be behind us when the vaccines were rolled out this spring, but no such luck. The Delta variant of the virus hit us hard this fall, costing more lives and doing more economic damage, this time by igniting long-dormant inflation.The consumer price index, which measures prices paid by the typical consumer, is up 6.2% over the past year through October, the highest inflation rate in more than 30 years. Prices are up strongly for everything from gasoline to a pound of ground beef to a used vehicle, which is putting a heavy financial weight on already hard-pressed families struggling with the economic fallout from the pandemic. For a household earning the median income of almost $70,000 per year, the acceleration in inflation is adding an estimated nearly $200 per month to living costs. But this uncomfortably high inflation isn't here to stay. It won't be lower a month or even three months from now, as quelling the chaos created by the pandemic will take time. But a year from now, as the pandemic recedes, inflation will be low enough that we won't be talking about it. The hair-on-fire discourse over high inflation is understandable, but it's overdone.Consider that inflation is up in part because businesses that suffered a direct hit from the pandemic, such as clothing stores, hotels, rental car companies and restaurants, are simply restoring prices they slashed earlier in the pandemic to survive. This is a one-time adjustment in their prices. To understand the size of the impact, consider that consumer price inflation over the past two years through October, which abstracts from the wild pandemic-induced swings in prices, is up 3.7% annually. Still high, but much less than 6.2%.The higher inflation is also the result of businesses only slowly increasing production in response to recovering demand. This isn't unusual coming out of a recession. Businesses are unsure whether the stronger demand has staying power and are cautious about ramping up production. And it takes some doing to get shuttered factories, oil rigs and hotels back up and running. But if history is a guide, the higher prices will convince consumers to buy less of what costs more and convince businesses to increase production given how much money can be made at these higher prices. Frictions that slow supply catching up with demand ease, and inflation moderates.This dynamic is playing out in the global oil market. Prior to the pandemic, the world was consuming, and oil companies were producing, more than 100 million barrels of oil a day, and gas cost $2.50 a gallon. Today, because of the pandemic, the world is still consuming roughly 100 million barrels a day, but oil companies are producing even less, causing gas prices to soar to close to $3.50 a gallon. It's not that the oil industry doesn't have the capacity to produce more, but it likes the higher prices and is thus reluctant to increase production. But it won't take long before the juicy profits and competitive pressures entice the industry to increase output. Oil and gas prices will come back down, and instead of adding to inflation, they will become a drag on it.There is no doubt that the gap between demand and supply, and thus inflation, will be much more persistent coming out of the pandemic. Global supply chains have been severely scrambled. Emerging economies, particularly in Asia, where many global supply chains begin, were especially hard-hit by the Delta wave. For example, Malaysian semiconductor plants were severely disrupted as infections surged in the country, forcing factories to shut down and upending vehicle production that depends on those chips across the globe. Vehicle inventories have never been lower in the US, and prices have surged. The Delta wave also reshuffled the already topsy-turvy job market. Millions of workers weren't able to fill the near-record number of unfilled open jobs because they got sick, were taking care of the sick or fearful of getting sick. Employers have had no choice but to provide signing bonuses and higher pay to attract and retain workers, and then raise prices to help cover their higher labor costs. But as Delta fades and workers get healthy and return to work, the acute labor shortages and outsize pay increases will end, which means higher prices will too. What's more, workers who permanently lost jobs during the pandemic will find a new employer; parents who've been home tending to children in school online will return to work as schools continue to return to in-person learning; and parents with younger children will take jobs as children eventually get vaccinated and daycare becomes more widely available. My inflation outlook could be Pollyannish, but only if inflation expectations  what investors, businesses, consumers and economists think inflation will be in the future  rise. If there is a widespread view that inflation will remain high, workers will demand higher wages to compensate and businesses will ante up, believing they can pass along their higher costs to their customers. This vicious wage-price spiral was behind the persistently high inflation we suffered 30 years ago. But there is no evidence that this is happening today. Investors' inflation expectations remain steadfast at just above 2%. This is spot-on with where the Federal Reserve Board, whose job it is to manage inflation, wants them.All of this refutes the notion that the government spending and tax breaks to support the economy through the pandemic, including the American Rescue Plan this past March, are somehow behind the higher inflation. These factors certainly gave a boost to demand last spring, but that faded when the Delta variant gained momentum this fall. There is also no good way to connect the dots between the Build Back Better agenda, which is currently being debated in Congress, and higher inflation. The legislation provides support for public infrastructure and various social programs, and longer term, it is designed to lift the economy's growth potential, which will ease inflationary pressures.The economy remains closely tethered to the pandemic. This summer's Delta wave of infections hurt growth and sparked inflation, but as infections subside, growth is already picking up and inflation will go back into hibernation.
Labor shortage? Not at Target. New York (CNN Business)A record number of Americans are quitting their jobs and businesses are desperately struggling to fill open positions. Target doesn't have either of those problems.Target (TGT) said Wednesday that its turnover rate for hourly workers was lower this year compared with 2019, even after accounting for new hires. The retailer is also adding 100,000 new temporary employees to meet holiday shopping demand and offering its existing workforce five million additional hours of work during the busiest stretch of the year. "The way we achieve our staffing goals is [to] retain the team we have," Target chief operating officer John Mulligan said on an earnings call with analysts Wednesday. The average hours a store employee works is "running significantly higher this year in comparison to past years," he added.In 2019, more than 20 workers criticized Target for cutting their hours, making it difficult to qualify for health insurance through the company and, in some cases, pay their bills.This year, Target has been giving employees more flexible schedules and training them in different positions, Mulligan said, which has helped open up additional hours for those who want more work. Target also has raised its starting wage to $15 an hour, offered spot bonuses to workers during the pandemic, and expanded its training and benefits packages.During the holidays, Target will give $2 more per hour to store staff who work every Saturday and Sunday from November 20 to December 19, plus December 24 and December 26. Supply chain workers will receive an extra $2 an hour for two week periods they work from October 10 to December 18.Other big chains also say they're well staffed for the holidays, despite the tight labor market.Walmart (WMT), which has raised its minimum wage to $12 an hour, has added 200,000 new workers to stores and its supply chain to meet holiday demand, the company said Tuesday.Walmart CEO Doug McMillon said that as federal stimulus payments have faded, staffing levels have picked up."When the stimulus dollars started to go away, the hiring situation changed faster," he said. "We saw people come back in a matter of weeks." 
Goldman Sachs CEO is worried about excessive market greed. New York (CNN Business)Unlike Michael Douglas' Gordon Gekko character, Goldman Sachs (GS) CEO David Solomon thinks greed is not good for Wall Street. "When I step back and I think about my 40-year career, there have been periods of time when greed has far outpaced fear. We're in one of those periods," Solomon said during an interview at the Bloomberg New Economy Forum in Singapore on Wednesday"Generally speaking, my experience says that those periods are not long-lived. Something will rebalance it and bring a little bit more perspective," Solomon added.His comments come at a time when the broader market is near all-time highs, and meme stocks and cryptocurrencies are surging on social media hype. Meanwhile unprofitable electric vehicle makers with little, if any, sales  such as Rivian and Lucid  are worth more than established auto companies.The Goldman Sachs CEO isn't the only one who's worried about excess and froth in the market. The CNN Business Fear & Greed Index, which measures seven indicators of investor sentiment, has been showing signs of Extreme Greed for much of this month.Solomon told Bloomberg he's concerned about how the pandemic-fueled "massive amount" of stimulus from central banks and governments around the world is pushing inflation higher, along with prices of assets like stocks.That's why the US Federal Reserve is now looking to pull back some of its crisis-era support by starting to unwind, or taper, the amount of bond purchases that have helped keep long-term rates low.Market unprepared for more volatility?Solomon said it's unclear if the market is prepared for how quickly the Fed is looking to taper, not to mention the possibility of interest rate hikes after the taper is done. "There is a chance that central banks can unwind this massive stimulus in a way that doesn't create some sort of a taper tantrum or some sort of real shock to markets, but there's also a chance that they can't be done that way," Solomon said. He also told Bloomberg that if long-term interest rates continue to move up, "that in and of itself will take some of the exuberance out of certain markets."    Solomon warned that many investors don't remember, or weren't yet around, when inflation skyrocketed during the 1980s and the Fed was forced to drastically raise rates: "It's been a long time since we operated in an environment where the general trend on interest rates has been higher."What's more, with so many stocks and other assets performing so well, investors may be fooling themselves by thinking that it's easy to make money in the market, he added."Everyone feels quite smart right now because most of the things you invest in are going up. That's not the way it normally works," he said. "My experience tells me this is a moment in time that's not a sustainable moment."Of course, Solomon's own Goldman Sachs has benefited handsomely from this environment. The bank's stock is up nearly 50% this year, making it one of the top performers in the Dow. Goldman Sachs said last month that it posted profit of $5.4 billion for the third quarter, topping forecasts. Revenue also surpassed expectations, surging 26% from a year ago to $13.6 billion. Bonuses are expected to rise sharply at Goldman Sachs and other top investment banks this year as a result.
'The only word I know to call it is hell': Turpin sisters share the details of their family's house of horror .  (CNN)Jordan Turpin was 17 years old when she found herself crawling out of a window of her family's home, hoping to save the lives of her 12 siblings.For two years, she had been planning her escape after decades of unspeakable emotional and physical violence inflicted by her parents in their Perris, California home. Equipped with nothing but an old cellphone she found in the house, Jordan ran out and called 911."I was always terrified that if I called the cops or tried to escape, I would get caught, and then I knew I would die if I got caught," Jordan, now 21, told ABC News' Diane Sawyer in an exclusive interview Friday. "But at the end, when I saw all my younger siblings, I knew that's what I had to do."During the chilling 911 call, she told police the house the family lived in smelled so badly that she could barely breathe, and she thought she and her siblings might need to go to the doctor. When the first police officer arrived, she immediately showed him the phone, full of photos and videos she took of herself and her siblings to prove the abuse.Her bold getaway in January 2018 led to the discovery of her siblings and uncovered what Riverside County District Attorney Mike Hestrin described as one of the "worst, most aggravated child abuse cases" he has ever seen. Some of the siblings, who ranged in age from 2 to 29, had been found shackled to beds with chains and padlocks. A few of the adults were so malnourished, they looked like young teenagers.That morning, Jordan sat in the back of a police car and watched as her parents, David and Louise Turpin, were arrested. The pair were each sentenced to 25 years to life in prison after pleading guilty to 14 charges of torture, adult abuse, child endangerment, false imprisonment and more. Their first glimpses of freedomWhen police arrived at the Turpin home and declared they were conducting a welfare check, it didn't take long for them to recognize the magnitude of the children's horrifying reality.They discovered a home reeking of human excrement, decaying garbage, and molding food, with every surface covered in trash, ABC News reported in the 20/20 program titled, "Escape From A House Of Horror." The children were found quietly sitting in filthy beds, limp, frail, caked in dirt, their arms covered in bruises.One child was found with his wrist and ankle chained to the bedpost; he had been in that state for weeks. Bodycam footage from that day show the heavy chains used on the children."'The only word I know to call it is hell," said Jennifer Turpin, the eldest of the children.The 13 Turpin kids were taken to a hospital, where their nurses and doctors began treating them for a long list of issues. Some were so emaciated they could barely walk, others suffered from heart damage due to a lack of nutrients. One preteen's arm was the size of a 4.5 month old baby, according to ABC.The children had limited language skills and knew little about the outside world.Besides suffering severe caloric malnutrition associated with muscle wasting, several had cognitive impairment and "neuropathy, which is nerve damage, as a result of this extreme and prolonged physical abuse," Hestrin said.The first thing Jennifer Turpin did to celebrate was dance in the middle of her hospital room."Music was playing, I got up," Jennifer, now 33, told Sawyer. "I made sure there was a little bit of a floor cleared out and I danced."There was also an exhilarating visit to a playground."I was so excited because I could smell the air, I could smell the grass. I was like, 'How could heaven be better than this'?" Jordan said. "Oh my gosh, this is so free, like, this is life.""If something happened to me, at least I died trying"The parents had starved their 13 children, shackling them with padlocks and taunting them with pies left on the counter of their home, authorities said. None of them had seen a doctor in more than four years, and none of them had ever visited a dentist.Usually, their only diet consisted of just peanut butter sandwiches, the sisters told Sawyer. On rare occasions, they were given frozen foods. And if they were still hungry and got caught trying to eat anything else, they were viciously punished.Sometimes the children were left so hungry, they ate packets of ketchup and ice cubes."When you have parents abusing their kids to this level, and they're their own flesh and blood, it begs this question 'How can any sane person do this?'" Hestrin said on the ABC News special. "And the truth of the matter is sane people commit evil acts all the time."The day before Jordan's escape, she said she overheard her parents saying they were moving the family to Oklahoma. If they moved, Jordan said, there was "a big chance" some of them would have died."That was my only chance," she continued. "I think it was us coming so close to death so many times. If something happened to me, at least I died trying."Jordan recalled when she first began considering what her life could be like if only she weren't trapped. It was because of singer Justin Bieber, she says, whose music and interviews spoke out to her.While her favorite Bieber songs are "As Long As You Love Me," "Boyfriend," and "Baby," it wasn't only his music that inspired her to take action."I started realizing that there's a different world out there," Jordan said. She enjoyed watching his interviews, learning new words from him while realizing the things they had in common. But one day, her mom caught her secretly watching a Bieber video and choked her."I thought I was going to die that day," Jordan said. "After that whole day happened, I kept having nightmares that she was killing me."Free, but still neglected Despite overcoming a life many could not even begin to imagine, the Turpin children aren't completely safe yet.ABC reported that a few of the Turpin children were placed with a foster family that was arrested and charged with abusing multiple children in their care, including at least one Turpin child.Another Turpin child who is now an adult was placed in a home where her foster parent told her she understood why her parents would chain her up."They felt betrayed," Melissa Donaldson, the Director of Victim Services in Riverside County, told the show. "Did we see kids having to not have a safe place to live or stay at times? Yes. Did they have enough food at times? They did not.""We have to fix it. You would think that this is the time to really get it together and do everything we can, and we didn't do it that way," she continued.At times, some of the Turpin children didn't have access to housing, and relied on couch surfing for shelter, Donaldson said, adding that they also went to churches to get food."I don't really have a way to get food right now," Jordan said. It began when she was released from the extended foster care system in July, without any help with food, healthcare, or housing, ABC reported.Unfortunately, her sister isn't in a much better position."Well, where I live is not the best area," Jennifer said.Despite receiving $600,000 from generous strangers across the country, the Turpin children have had difficulty accessing the money, and questions as to why have gone unanswered by county officials who cited court-ordered secrecy, ABC reported."They're living in squalor. They're living in crime-ridden neighborhoods. There's money for their education, they can't access it," Hestrin said."They have been victimized again by the system, and that's unimaginable to me that we could have the very worst case of child abuse that I've ever seen, maybe one of the worst in California history, and that we would then not be able to get it together to give them basic needs, basic necessities," he added.
'Ghostbusters: Afterlife' calls back to the original while adding a teenage twist.  (CNN)In a directorial father-son baton pass from Ivan Reitman to Jason Reitman ("Up in the Air"), "Ghostbusters: Afterlife" is undeniably nostalgic and fairly sweet, while who-ya-gonna-calling directly back to the 1984 original. And yet with its focus on teenage heirs to that legacy, the movie simultaneously feels as much like the Disney Channel version of "Ghostbusters" as a long-delayed sequel.Happily, the kids are the very talented Mckenna Grace ("Gifted," "The Handmaid's Tale") and "Stranger Things'" Finn Wolfhard, the grandchildren of Egon Spengler (originally played by the late Harold Ramis). Egon has died, leaving a remote farmhouse to his estranged daughter (Carrie Coon), who for financial reasons finds the move timely.Moving into the place, Phoebe (Grace) and Trevor (Wolfhard) discover a lot of strange stuff happening around town -- starting with all those unexplained earthquakes -- and some nifty artifacts among grandpa's possesses. Phoebe possesses scientific acumen far beyond her years, while her brother mostly just crushes on one of his new classmates (Celeste O'Connor).Mom, meanwhile, strikes up a somewhat unexpected relationship with one of the kids' teachers (Paul Rudd, seemingly everywhere at once), adding to an adult component that produces some laughs but frankly rides in the passenger seat for much of the movie. (Coon is a gifted actress, but there's a bit of the "E.T." mom syndrome here, where she can't see all the weirdness happening her.)Cleverly, the film (written by Jason Reitman, Dan Aykroyd and Gil Kenan) does set up a dense mythology connecting this flurry of spectral shenanigans back to the 1980s, while playfully incorporating visual touches that recall the "Ghostbusters" of the past. There are also funny unrelated gags, such as Rudd's character getting through summer school by simply running wildly inappropriate horror movies.In some respects, "Afterlife" represents a rather conspicuous exercise in fan service, after the bizarre temper tantrum thrown by some in response to the female version of the concept that premiered five years ago. While that movie was flawed, the reaction seemed completely out of whack, elevating "Ghostbusters" to an overblown level of "You ruined my childhood!" exaltation.The elder Reitman serves as a producer on the movie, which -- with Aykroyd, Bill Murray and Ernie Hudson promoting the movie -- isn't the only link to its Reagan-era roots. Still, this is one of those films that doesn't so much cross the streams as dip into a deep well of goodwill, hoping to bridge the gap between those who actually saw the original in a theater and kids and grandkids who will hopefully identify with the youthful protagonists.At its best "Ghostbusters: Afterlife" simply delivers a good time, combining the upgraded special effects with comedy and youthful angst, while taking a little too long to get to the good stuff.Broken down into those components, the younger Reitman has dutifully answered the call to carry on his family legacy, without quite conjuring the kind of sparks that would have made "Afterlife" completely rise to the occasion."Ghostbusters: Afterlife" premieres Nov. 19 in US theaters. It's rated PG-13.
Peng Shuai: UN calls for proof of Chinese tennis star's whereabouts; WTA chairman willing to pull out of China. Hong Kong (CNN)China is facing pressure from the United Nations over Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai's whereabouts as the organization called for an investigation into her allegations of sexual assault.Peng, who is one of China's most recognizable sports stars, has not been seen in public since she accused former Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli of coercing her into sex at his home, according to screenshots of a since-deleted social media post dated November 2."What we would say is that it would be important to have proof of her whereabouts and wellbeing, and we would urge that there be an investigation with full transparency into her allegations of sexual assault," Liz Throssell, the spokesperson of the UN Human Rights office, told reporters in Geneva on Friday."According to available information, the former world doubles No. 1 hasn't been heard from publicly since she alleged on social media that she was sexually assaulted. We would stress that it is important to know where she is and know her state, know about her wellbeing," Throssell said.The head of the Women's Tennis Association (WTA) Steve Simon has said he is willing to lose hundreds of millions of dollars worth of business in China if Peng is not fully accounted for and her allegations are not properly investigated. "We're definitely willing to pull our business and deal with all the complications that come with it," Simon said in an interview Thursday with CNN. "Because this is certainly, this is bigger than the business," added Simon."Women need to be respected and not censored," said Simon. The White House said Friday it is "deeply concerned". Jen Psaki, the White House Press Secretary, told reporters: "We are deeply concerned by reports that Peng Shuai appears to be missing after accusing a former PRC (Peoples Republic of China) senior official of sexual assaults. We join in the calls for PRC authorities to provide independent and verifiable proof of her whereabouts and that she is safe."  Peng's post on Weibo, China's Twitter-like platform, was deleted within 30 minutes of publication, with Chinese censors moving swiftly to wipe out any mention of the accusation online. Her Weibo account, which has more than half a million followers, is still blocked from searchers on the platform.The forceful intervention from Simon puts the tennis chief on a likely collision course with authorities in China, which have so far refused to publicly acknowledge Peng's allegations. Perceived criticisms of China, which is also due to host the 2022 Winter Olympics in February, have previously resulted in significant public and political backlash, as well as loss of access.'Staged statement of some type'Simon said the WTA had been in conversation with counterparts at the Chinese Tennis Association, who had provided assurances Peng was unharmed in Beijing. However, attempts to reach Peng directly had proved unsuccessful. "We have reached out to her on every phone number and email address and other forms of contact," he said. "There's so many digital approaches to contact people these days that we have, and to date we still have not been able to get a response."Earlier this week, Chinese state media released an email, purportedly sent to Simon from Peng, walking back her allegations and claiming she is fine.The alleged email was released only on English-language platforms and domestic Chinese media have not reported on its contents, despite Peng being a household name in China.When asked about the email, Simon questioned its veracity, describing it as a "staged statement of some type," noting he had yet to receive a follow-up reply, despite responding immediately. "Whether she was coerced into writing it, someone wrote it for her, we don't know," said Simon. "But at this point I don't think there's any validity in it and we won't be comfortable until we have a chance to speak with her," he added.Later on Friday, CGTN journalist Shen Shiwei tweeted three photos he claimed Peng had posted on WeChat along with the message "happy weekend."Shen said the photos were shared by one of Peng's friends. CNN could not independently verify when the photos were taken, whether Peng posted the photos herself, or whether they were posted at all.In a Twitter post on Saturday, Hu Xijin, editor of Chinese state-run tabloid the Global Times, republished the photos of Peng amid concerted efforts by government-controlled media to ease the intensifying concerns about the tennis star's whereabouts and welfare."I confirmed through my own sources today that these photos are indeed Peng Shuai's current state. In the past few days, she stayed in her own home freely and she didn't want to be disturbed," Hu tweeted. "She will show up in public and participate in some activities soon."Chinese state media Twitter accounts have been increasingly posting anonymously sourced information about the tennis star, ostensibly aimed at quelling the controversy without even acknowledging her claim against Zhang.All media organizations in China are strictly controlled by the country's propaganda authorities. Their tweets about Peng are not reported inside China, which has long banned Twitter and other international social media platforms.Tennis' popularity in China has grown rapidly over the past few decades, with several Chinese players breaking into the global rankings. The women's game, in particular, is a big market, thanks in part to the success of Chinese tennis star Li Na, who in 2011 became Asia's first grand slam singles tennis champion when she won the French Open, followed by a second major title at the 2014 Australian Open.In recent years, the WTA has made a big push into China. In 2019, the WTA Finals relocated from Singapore to the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen, entering into a lengthy ten-year deal. In an interview with the New York Times from 2018, Simon described the arrangement with authorities in Shenzhen, which reportedly includes the construction of a new multimillion dollar tennis stadium, as a "huge opportunity" for women's tennis in China."When you factor in the commitment to prize money and the commitments to the WTA, and you factor in the stadium build and real-estate elements, it's over a $1 billion dollar commitment they have made to the WTA Finals and the WTA," Simon was quoted as saying. On Thursday, Serena Williams joined a growing number of international tennis players to voice concern over Peng's whereabouts. "I am devastated and shocked to hear about the news of my peer, Peng Shuai. I hope she is safe and found as soon as possible," Williams wrote on Twitter. "This must be investigated and we must not stay silent."Tennis superstar Naomi Osaka on Tuesday said she was "in shock of the current situation." "Censorship is never OK at any cost, I hope Peng Shuai and her family are safe and OK," she wrote as part of a statement on Twitter alongside the hashtag #WhereIsPengShuai.The controversy risks impacting the forthcoming 2022 Winter Olympics, which are set to kick off in Beijing in less than three months. Calls for a boycott have been growing in recent months, owing to concerns over China's alleged human rights abuses. On Thursday, US President Joe Biden confirmed he is mulling a diplomatic boycott of the event. The international concern for Peng, who is a three-time Olympian, having represented China at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio, London in 2012, and Beijing in 2008, could now strengthen those calls. However, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) has distanced itself from putting pressure on Chinese authorities.In a response to CNN, the IOC said: "Experience shows that quiet diplomacy offers the best opportunity to find a solution for questions of such nature. This explains why the IOC will not comment any further at this stage." Human Rights Watch accused the IOC of being "silent on the Olympian's disappearance." In a statement, the global rights group said it is "astonishing that the IOC would accept the government's assurances, particularly at the expense of a female Olympian making grave allegations."Speaking at a press conference Thursday, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said Peng's accusation is not a diplomatic issue and declined to comment further.Amy Cassidy contributed to this report
Here's what legal experts say helped acquit Kyle Rittenhouse.  (CNN)After more than 25 hours of deliberations, a 12-person jury acquitted Kyle Rittenhouse of all five charges he faced after fatally shooting two people and wounding a third during protests in Kenosha, Wisconsin, last summer. Joseph Rosenbaum, 36, and Anthony Huber, 26, were killed, and Gaige Grosskreutz, now 27, was wounded. Rittenhouse was charged with five felonies: first-degree intentional homicide, first-degree reckless homicide, attempted first-degree intentional homicide and two counts of first-degree recklessly endangering safety.The two-week trial -- which captured America's attention and was in many ways emblematic of the divided nation -- featured testimony from more than 30 witnesses, including Rittenhouse himself, video clips from the night of the shootings and heated exchanges between the attorneys and the judge. And while the jury's decision drew harsh criticism from the victims' loved ones, legal experts say they were not surprised by the verdict. These were the factors experts said helped lead to Rittenhouse's acquittal. Rittenhouse's testimony was keyAmong the trial's most key moments was the testimony from Rittenhouse, who told the court he acted in self-defense when he shot Rosenbaum, who he said threatened him earlier, chased him, threw a bag at him and lunged for his gun. At one point, 18-year-old Rittenhouse broke down in tears while on the stand."If I would have let Mr. Rosenbaum take my firearm from me, he would have used it and killed me with it and probably killed more people," he testified.Rittenhouse referred to the other people he shot at as part of a "mob" chasing him, telling the court Huber came at him, struck him with a skateboard, and grabbed his gun. Rittenhouse shot him once in the chest, killing him. Finally, he said he saw Grosskreutz lunge at him and point a pistol at his head, so Rittenhouse shot him, he testified. Defense attorney Mark Richards told reporters Friday in his mind, 'it wasn't a close call' whether to put Rittenhouse on the stand. "We had a mock jury and we did two different juries, one with him testifying and one without him testifying. It was substantially better when he testified... and that sealed it," Richards said. "If you don't put a client on the stand, you're going to lose, period."His testimony was key for several reasons, according to legal experts. "Number one, you humanize him... More important, number two, he explained his uses of force," CNN legal analyst Joey Jackson said. Rittenhouse's testimony gave jurors the ability to hear what he thought at the time and whether he believed he was in danger -- a claim the prosecution, ultimately failed to undermine, former federal prosecutor Elie Honig said."They (prosecutors) pointed out some sort of minor inconsistencies and things he said on the night of, and said later, but nothing that undermines sort of the core defense argument, which was, he was attacked," Honig told CNN's Alisyn Camerota on Friday. "Every time he shot, he was attacked.""The prosecution did not make enough of a dent in Kyle Rittenhouse," Honig added.State did not prove Rittenhouse provoked violenceWhat the trial came down to, according to civil rights attorney Charles F. Coleman Jr. were two competing narratives: one of Rittenhouse being a victim who was attacked, and one of being a vigilante who provoked the violence."The jury bought the narrative of Kyle Rittenhouse being a victim, they thought that his self-defense claim was a lot stronger than the prosecution's provocation claim," he said. Wisconsin law allows the use of deadly force only if "necessary to prevent imminent death or great bodily harm." And because Rittenhouse's attorneys claimed self-defense, state law meant the burden fell on prosecutors to disprove Rittenhouse was acting in self-defense beyond a reasonable doubt. And it was an uphill battle to climb from the start, because of the facts in this case, experts said."(Prosecutors) weren't able to show that his response to each of these men, to each of these sets of threats was unreasonable," criminal defense attorney Sara Azari told CNN's Pamela Brown."When the jury came back a couple days ago and watched the videos... frame by frame, they were looking to see whether Kyle did something to provoke the threat and whether his response to that threat was reasonable in terms of using deadly force and they agreed with the defense that it was," Azari added.In addition, testimony from the trial challenged many assumptions previously surrounding the case and even some testimony from the state's witnesses supported Rittenhouse's self-defense claim, said criminal defense attorney Bob Bianchi. Former Marine Jason Lackowski, who testified for the state, said Rosenbaum acted "belligerently" and asked to be shot but was not perceived as a serious threat. Richie McGinniss, a video editor with The Daily Caller news site, testified Rosenbaum had lunged for the front of Rittenhouse's rifle moments before he was shot. Grosskreutz, who was wounded, testified he pointed a pistol at Rittenhouse and later clarified to the prosecution during redirect questioning he never intentionally pointed his gun at Rittenhouse."The prosecution ... has to disprove self-defense beyond a reasonable doubt to all 12 jurors. How do you do that when you saw no real provocation going on?" Bianchi said. "There wasn't a real trial lawyer ... that didn't sit here and say this is an amazingly good self-defense case."Prosecutors also took misstepsThere were mistakes the state made as well, including overselling the case by trying to paint Rittenhouse as an active shooter, Honig, the former federal prosecutor, said.In his closing arguments earlier this week, Kenosha County Assistant District Attorney Thomas Binger said Rittenhouse behaved in a way no reasonable person would, provoked the incident, fired his gun recklessly, lied numerous times and as a result, the crowd had a right "to try and stop an active shooter.""Trying to brand Kyle Rittenhouse as an active shooter did not stand up and the defense came back and showed, here he is walking through the streets, he's not shooting indiscriminately, that's what an active shooter does, he's only shooting people who have attacked him first," Honig said. Rittenhouse's defense attorney also pointed to the prosecution's active shooter argument during his news conference, saying, "justice is done when the truth is reached.""A prosecutor is supposed to seek the truth," Richards added. In addition, trying to paint Rittenhouse as provocative because he brought an AR-15 firearm did not work because of the culture of guns in Wisconsin, which aren't necessarily always equated with criminal activity, legal experts told CNN.'You've got to remember you're in a jurisdiction where this is not an unusual thing," Bianchi said.Honig added the prosecution team made other mistakes, which led to heated exchanges with Judge Bruce Schroeder. The judge twice admonished Binger for his line of questioning -- once for implicating Rittenhouse's silence after his arrest (a right guaranteed under the Fifth Amendment) and later for touching on questions related to an incident the judge had ruled would not be permitted to come into evidence."That is an absolute amateur move by the prosecutors," Honig said. Jury instructions were consequential, expert saysFinally, the jury instructions also helped lead to Rittenhouse's acquittal, CNN senior legal analyst Laura Coates said.Coates said the instructions said jurors had to look at the case through the eyes of then 17-year-old Rittenhouse, not in hindsight, and assess the reasonableness of his actions."The jury instructions were really centered around that term 'reasonable.' Defining the word 'reasonable.' And the jury instructions required this jury to look through the lens and perspective of Kyle Rittenhouse. Not Monday morning quarterback, not the jurors, or the court of public opinion in hindsight," Coates said. "What would he reasonably and what did he reasonably believe about the possibility of a lethal threat or harm and grave bodily harm?"That, in combination with having to disprove Rittenhouse's self-defense claim and show he provoked the violence during the chaotic night, meant the"deck was stacked against" prosecutors, Coates said."With all that combined, it's not surprising that an acquittal happened, but it came down really to that jury instruction about looking through the eyes of Kyle Rittenhouse," Coates said. 
Rittenhouse protesters shut down the Brooklyn Bridge. Portland demonstrators force open jail.  (CNN)Sporadic protests broke out around the country Friday after a jury in Kenosha, Wisconsin, found Kyle Rittenhouse not guilty in the shooting deaths of two people during protests there last year.In New York, demonstrators shut down the Brooklyn Bridge, and in Portland, Oregon, they forced open a jail gate, prompting the Multnomah County Sheriff's Office to declare a riot."The crowd, which was described as hostile, launched urine, alcoholic beverages, water bottles and batteries at deputies during the event," the sheriff's office said in a press release early Saturday morning.The protests were nowhere close to the scope of those in the aftermath of George Floyd's death in the summer of 2020, including the one in Kenosha, during which Rittenhouse shot and killed two people and wounded another. Still, some people were clearly upset that Rittenhouse was cleared of all five counts against him, including first-degree intentional homicide, first-degree reckless homicide, attempted first-degree intentional homicide and two counts of first-degree recklessly endangering safety.Rittenhouse claimed self-defense in the shootings. The Portland Police Bureau said that vandals broke the windows of the city government's print shop. "Additional vandalism was done to the Justice Center building," the PPB said. An image released by police showed spray-painted graffiti, including the message, "All Cops Are Kyles."One arrest was made, with five citations and 17 warnings issued, police said.In New York, protests began in Brooklyn, then moved over the Brooklyn Bridge and into lower Manhattan, CNN affiliate WABC reported. The bridge was closed briefly. The New York Police Department used Twitter to advise people to avoid the Manhattan-bound bridge and to expect closures and delays in the area.In Oakland, California, a crowd marched from city hall to the federal building, shouting "Revolution nothing else," according to CNN affiliate KGO. Demonstrators in Chicago marched downtown Friday night amid a "large police presence," CNN affiliate WBBM reported. A second demonstration is planned for Saturday afternoon. In Kenosha, about 65 miles to the north on Lake Michigan, things were "pretty quiet," CNN's Natasha Chen reported. There, families of Rittenhouse's victims were coming to terms with the verdict. "We're still in shock," the father of Anthony Huber, one of the victims, told CNN's Fredricka Whitfield on Saturday.  "That guy [Rittenhouse] gets to run free and he's now a hero, and this is my son right here. This is Anthony," John Huber said, holding up a small urn and a photo of his son. "We lost our son and there's no justice right now for our family and there's no closure."  "If one person's life, or two persons' lives don't matter, then none of our lives matter," Kariann Swart, the fiancee' of victim Joseph Rosenbaum, told CNN. "It feels like the victims' lives don't matter. And I don't think that's acceptable."The great-aunt of Anthony Huber told CNN's Chris Cuomo that while "people have a right to self-defense," her great-nephew "had a right to his life as well.""Kyle gets into a situation over his head in terms of his emotional maturity to handle it, walks away after killing two people and serious maiming another one. That doesn't seem equitable," the great-aunt, Susan Hughes, told CNN's Sara Sidner. In a trailer for a Tucker Carlson documentary, Rittenhouse said the jury reached the right verdict."Self-defense is not illegal," he said. Preparations for a civil suit are underway for the killing of his son, John Huber said on Saturday, but he did not provide any details. "We're gonna fight until there's justice," he said. CNN's Raja Razek, Sara Sidner and Melissa Alonso contributed to this report. 
Kyle Rittenhouse was acquitted on all charges. Here's what we know about the 3 men he shot.  (CNN)Kyle Rittenhouse -- accused of shooting three people, two fatally -- was acquitted on all charges on Friday by a jury in Kenosha, Wisconsin. The 12 jurors found him not guilty for the deaths of Joseph Rosenbaum, 36, and Anthony Huber, 26, and wounding Gaige Grosskreutz, now 27, using an AR-15-type rifle during protests on August 25, 2020, that followed the police shooting of Jacob Blake. Defense lawyers said Rittenhouse, then 17, was acting in self-defense.The jury also found Rittenhouse, now 18, not guilty of two felony charges of recklessly endangering safety. Rittenhouse took the stand and testified before the jury that he acted in self-defense. During emotional testimony, he broke down in tears as he recounted the shootings during the chaotic night of unrest. The prosecution sought to show Rittenhouse acted criminally and recklessly.   Here's what we know about the two men killed and the sole survivor of the shootings.Joseph RosenbaumOn the night of August 25, 2020, Kenosha's streets were filled with crowds protesting the police shooting of Jacob Blake, who was shot seven times in the back and side by a Kenosha police officer who said he was trying to detain him.During those demonstrations, Rittenhouse clashed with a crowd gathered near a car dealership and Rosenbaum, who did not have a firearm, threw an object that appeared to be a plastic bag at him and missed, according to a criminal complaint filed last year. Videos played at trial showed Rosenbaum throwing the plastic bag at Rittenhouse. His fiance testified Rosenbaum had just be discharged from a hospital in Milwaukee and was carrying papers, socks, deodorant, a toothbrush and toothpaste in the bag. Rosenbaum had been discharged from the hospital after a suicide attempt, according to The Washington Post.Kariann Swart, Rosenbaum's fiance, testified they were both homeless when they met in 2019 and were living in a motel at the time Rosenbaum was killed. "We just spent a lot of time talking, getting to know one another, and laughing and joking around. He was a very animated person like that," she said.She said Rosenbaum was on an antidepressant and medication she said was used to treat his bipolar disorder.Several clips played during the trial captured Rosenbaum briefly chasing Rittenhouse in a Car Source dealership before Rittenhouse fired four shots at him. Kenosha Police Detective Martin Howard testified one of the videos showed Rosenbaum hiding as Rittenhouse approached the lot and then Rosenbaum beginning to follow him.Rosenbaum and Rittenhouse moved across the parking lot and appeared to be close to each other when loud bangs were suddenly heard and Rosenbaum fell to the ground, the complaint said. Dr. Douglas Kelley with the Milwaukee County Medical Examiner's Office testified Rittenhouse shot Rosenbaum four times -- twice in the front, once in the back and once along the side of his head, and determined the fatal shot to his back came as his body leaned forward.As Rosenbaum lay on the ground, Rittenhouse made a call on his cellphone and said, "I just killed somebody" as he ran away, the complaint alleged.Defense attorney Mark Richards argued in court Rittenhouse feared for his life when he fatally shot Rosenbaum, describing Rosenbaum as the aggressor. But prosecutor Thomas Binger said during closing arguments Rittenhouse provoked the shooting by pointing his weapon at Rosenbaum and should have continued to run away instead of shooting."When the defendant provokes this incident, he loses the right to self-defense," Binger said." You cannot claim self-defense against a danger you create."Rittenhouse testified he knew Rosenbaum was unarmed when he ran at the teenager and said he pointed his rifle at Rosenbaum in an attempt to deter him, adding he knew pointing a rifle at someone is dangerous.Rosenbaum had spent more than a decade in prison in Arizona after being convicted of sexual conduct with a minor. "He wasn't down there as a rioter or a looter," Rosenbaum's fiance previously told the Post in reference to August 25. "Why was he there? I have no answer. I ask myself that question every day."A verified GoFundMe page said Rosenbaum had a daughter. Anthony HuberHuber, who was in the crowd of protesters with his girlfriend, was killed as Rittenhouse fled the scene of Rosenbaum's shooting, according to the complaint. Huber had turned 26 just four days earlier, according to an obituary. Huber spotted the armed man in the crowded street and he ran toward danger, his girlfriend, Hannah Gittings, told CNN in an interview last year. "He pushed me out of the way and ran off. I tried to grab him," Hannah Gittings said.Videos from the scene show Rittenhouse carrying an AR-15-style rifle, walking the city's streets with a group of armed men. Gittings told CNN her boyfriend launched at the armed individual to protect her and other people nearby.Huber appeared to reach for Rittenhouse's gun with his hand while holding his skateboard in the other, the criminal complaint said. As Huber tried to grab the gun, Rittenhouse pointed it at his body and fired one round, according to the complaint. Huber was seen staggering away and then fell to the ground, the complaint said. He died from his gunshot wound. During his testimony, Rittenhouse said Huber was "holding a skateboard like a baseball bat," which he swung down, hitting Rittenhouse in the neck. Richards, the defense attorney, said before Rittenhouse shot Huber, the shooting victim "strikes him in the head" and is going for a "second lick," adding Huber's "other hand goes for the gun" in Rittenhouse's hand.DNA analyst Amber Rasmussen testified Huber's DNA was not found on Rittenhouse's firearm but said it was still possible he touched out.Huber was "completely indescribable" and stood by his beliefs and convictions, Gittings, his girlfriend, said last year. "He was an incredibly intelligent person, literally the smartest person I've ever met," Gittings said. "He knew exactly what was at risk for him chasing down somebody with a weapon."Huber was born and raised in Kenosha, said Anand Swaminathan, an attorney for his family. "He loved Kenosha," Swaminathan said. "In the years leading up to this event he was making a good life and he was having fun and he was happy and he was trying to do the most he could with himself."Huber struggled with mental health challenges when he was younger and skateboarding was among the things that brought him the most joy. He had found a community of people in Kenosha who shared the same passion, the attorney added. "It was something that brought him a lot of happiness, brought him a lot of peace," Swaminathan said. "He had really fought to get himself to a healthy place."People who talk about Huber talk about "a kid who wanted to help people," the attorney added. "His family feels like that nature in him is part of why he took the actions he did that night, he wanted to help, he wanted to stop this person," he said. This week, Binger, with the prosecution, asked the jury to consider Rittenhouse's true motivations and to contrast the teen's behavior with Huber's behavior."A man who was there because he knew Jacob Blake, who carried his skateboard everywhere, and who rushed towards danger to save other people's lives," Binger said, referring to Huber.Huber's father filed a federal lawsuit in August 2021 accusing Kenosha authorities of deputizing the armed people who were patrolling the streets and conspiring with them, alleging their actions "directly caused" Huber's death and were a "license for the armed individuals to wreak havoc and inflict injury." CNN reached out to Kenosha police, the city of Kenosha and a representative of the county. The Kenosha County Sheriff's Department declined to comment.Gaige Grosskreutz Rittenhouse shot and injured Grosskreutz, who approached him shortly after Huber was shot, the criminal complaint alleged. Grosskreutz testified he was at the protest to provide medical care, and had packed his medical supplies, including a tourniquet and gauze, as well as his handgun, as he routinely did at other demonstrations.He testified that on the night of the shootings, he believed Rittenhouse was an active shooter, saying "people were pointing out the defendant, saying he had just shot somebody, that he's trying to get away." At some point, Grosskreutz  testified, he drew his pistol. During cross-examination by Rittenhouse's attorney, Grosskreutz said his handgun was pointing at Rittenhouse during the shooting. On redirect questioning by the prosecution, he clarified he never intentionally pointed his gun at Rittenhouse.He said he saw Rittenhouse fire at Huber and then moved toward Rittenhouse, telling jurors his hands were up, holding his own gun and phone. Grosskreutz said he "thought there was a high likelihood that I would be shot myself." Richards, the defense attorney, argued Grosskreutz should have "retreated" and not confronted Rittenhouse.This week, Binger, the prosecutor, showed Grosskreutz's shooting frame-by-frame which shows him appear to retreat before Rittenhouse is seen aiming his gun at him from two to three feet away. Once Grosskreutz was shot, the bullet severing his bicep, his arm lowered in an involuntary action, the prosecutor said."At this point, yeah, absolutely. That right arm is probably dangling down towards the defendant," Binger said. "It's not going to be able to pull that trigger without a working bicep muscle, and it's not a voluntary thing. It's done because the defendant just blew his arm off."Grosskreutz was wearing his "paramedic" hat that night. He said his goal during the protest was to provide medical care to anyone who needed it. He had trained as a paramedic before deciding to attend a liberal arts college in Wisconsin."While my work as a paramedic was important to the community I felt it was reactive: somebody gets shot, somebody overdoses," Grosskreutz told CNN's Sara Sidner in a September 2020 interview. "I wanted to further my understanding of the world and further educate myself and then be on the proactive side. Stop people from getting shot, stop people from overdosing."Since the shooting, he told CNN he had to undergo several surgeries and treatments."I'm missing 90% of my bicep," he said last year. "This has not been easy emotionally, physically. I'm in constant pain, like excruciating pain that just doesn't go away -- both in my arm, in my heart."In October, Grosskreutz also sued the city and county of Kenosha and many of its officers alleging "Kenosha law enforcement officers and white nationalist militia persons discussed and coordinated strategy" that led to the shooting. The lawsuit said Grosskreutz had a tourniquet in his medic bag the night he was shot, adding "but for his training as an EMT, Grosskreutz would have likely been Rittenhouse's third killing.""Nonetheless, Grosskreutz's life has been changed immeasurably."CNN reached out to the former police chief, the city of Kenosha and its police department. An attorney representing the Kenosha County sheriff and the county said they plan to file a motion dismissing the case.  CNN's Brad Parks, Ashley Killough, Melissa Alonso and Carma Hassan contributed to this report.
After Rittenhouse verdict, it's time to question the law. Jennifer Rodgers is a former federal prosecutor, adjunct professor of clinical law at NYU School of Law, lecturer-in-law at Columbia Law School and a CNN legal analyst. The opinions expressed here are her own. Read more opinion at CNN. (CNN)Kyle Rittenhouse, on trial this month for killing two unarmed men and injuring another during a protest in Kenosha, Wisconsin, last summer, was acquitted Friday on all counts -- including first-degree intentional homicide and four other felony charges -- after the jury deliberated for more than 25 hours. The trial came down to two dueling narratives. To the prosecutors, Rittenhouse was a vigilante with an AR-15-style weapon who went looking for trouble. To the defense, Rittenhouse was the sobbing teenager who testified that he found himself under attack and in those lightning-fast moments made a reasonable decision to protect himself. The jury clearly believed the latter, which, given the facts, the law and other circumstances of the trial, is no surprise. This case was always going to be an uphill battle for prosecutors. The key issue was whether Rittenhouse acted in self-defense, which means that he reasonably feared for his life when he pulled the trigger and shot Joseph Rosenbaum, Anthony Huber and Gaige Grosskreutz that night. Trying to weigh Rittenhouse's self-defense claim amid the two dueling narratives was not an easy job for the jury. One could reasonably argue that Rittenhouse provoked the attacks on him by openly carrying his weapon in a threatening manner, and that he had the option to retreat or otherwise avoid using deadly force, even if defending himself. If the jury had found either of these things to be true, it would have defeated the self-defense claim. But there was also evidence -- including the critical videos of the events in question and the testimony of Rittenhouse himself -- that in the key moments right before he pulled the trigger, Rittenhouse acted in response to imminent threats to his personal safety because he believed he was in danger. The laws and applicable legal standards also created a tough road for prosecutors trying to win a conviction here. Our criminal justice system generally favors the defendant, because of our core belief that it is better to see a guilty man go free than to convict an innocent one. Thus in criminal cases, prosecutors carry the highest burden of proof known to our legal system: proof beyond a reasonable doubt. Like in many other states, Wisconsin law is sympathetic to homicide defendants claiming self-defense. Once a defendant raises self-defense as an issue, it requires prosecutors to prove, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the defendant did not act in self-defense. Finally, Judge Bruce Schroeder, who presided over the case with a mercurial demeanor and frequent tongue-lashings, didn't make things easy for the prosecutors. The judge's behavior seemed to some to betray a pro-Rittenhouse bias -- for example, when he ruled that prosecutors would not be allowed to refer to Rittenhouse's victims as "victims" and encouraged a round of applause for a defense witness on the stand because he was a veteran. We don't know exactly what the jury's reasoning was in rendering its verdict -- jury deliberations happen in secret, so unless jurors choose to discuss the experience afterward, we will not get a view into how they made their decisions or what pieces of evidence were most compelling to them. But it appears that with evidence supporting both narratives, the jurors concluded that the prosecution failed to meet its burden -- and based on this record, it's impossible to find fault with that. This issue -- whether a defendant acted reasonably in a stressful moment -- is a quintessential jury question. This is exactly why we have a jury system where 12 members of the community come together to judge their fellow man. We, as a democracy, prefer the law to be administered by a group of ordinary individuals who rely on common sense and everyday experiences to reach a collective decision.  Without question, Rittenhouse did not have to be in Kenosha with his weapon strapped across his body as he ran around the streets in what was clearly an unpredictable and ultimately dangerous situation. If he had exercised better judgment and decided not to go that night, Rosenbaum and Huber would almost certainly still be alive. But in Wisconsin, that initial decision, as poor a decision as it was, does not constitute a crime, and the jury found his later actions justified.Those of us who don't want to have to worry about whether people like Kyle Rittenhouse will continue to brandish guns at public gatherings, thereby greatly increasing the danger of violence, should direct our energy toward changing the open carry laws in Wisconsin. Public sentiment after an episode that is viewed as unfair -- and there are plenty of people who are incensed that Rittenhouse went free because of a self-defense claim when he placed himself in the situation in the first place -- can spark change. For example, in Georgia, after the shooting of Ahmaud Arbery, the legislature repealed the citizen's arrest law that Arbery's alleged killer and his co-defendants are relying on for their defense (although the defendants in the Arbery killing are still able to assert it). If public concern about Rittenhouse's conduct and its results leads to a re-examination of Wisconsin's gun laws, that will be one positive thing to come out of this tragic episode. 
There's nothing more frightening in America today than an angry White man.  (CNN)The Brute. The Buck. And, of course, the Thug.  Those are just some of the names for a racial stereotype that has haunted the collective imagination of White America since the nation's inception. The specter of the angry Black man has been evoked in politics and popular culture to convince White folks that a big, bad Black man is coming to get them and their daughters. I've seen viral videos of innocent Black men losing their lives because of this stereotype. I've watched White people lock their car doors or clutch their purses when men who look like me approach. I've been racially profiled.  It's part of the psychological tax you pay for being a Black man in America -- learning to accept that you are seen by many as Public Enemy No. 1.  But as I've watched three separate trials about White male violence unfold across the US these past few weeks -- the Kyle Rittenhouse trial, the Ahmaud Arbery death trial and the civil case against organizers of the 2017 Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville -- I've come to a sobering conclusion:  There is nothing more frightening in America today than an angry White man.   It's not the "radical Islamic terrorist" that I fear the most. Nor is it the brown immigrant or the fiery Black Lives Matter protester, or whatever the latest bogeyman is that some politician tells me I should dread.   It's encountering an armed White man in public who has been inspired by the White men on trial in these three cases. Here's what legal experts say helped acquit Kyle RittenhouseThe US' legacy of White male violence  I'm not suggesting we start racially profiling White men. The vast majority of White men are no menace to society. Countless White men swallowed tear gas and braved rubber bullets while marching with demonstrators during last year's protests over the murder of George Floyd. Plenty of White men -- like the Rev. James Reeb, a White Unitarian minister -- died for Black people during the civil rights movement.   There is nothing inherently violent about White men, or any human being.  But recent events have convinced me it's time to put another character on trial: A vision of White masculinity that allows some White men to feel as if they "can rule and brutalize without consequence."  This angry White man has been a major character throughout US history. He gave the country slavery, the slaughter of Native Americans, and Jim Crow laws. His anger also helped fuel the January 6 insurrection at the Capitol. It's this angry White man -- not the Black or brown man you see approaching on the street at night -- who poses the most dangerous threat to democracy in America.  That's a sweeping claim. But these trials represent something bigger than questions of individual guilt or innocence. They offer a disturbing vision of the future, and a choice about what kind of country we want to live in.  The facts of the trials are well known to many Americans.  In Wisconsin, a jury found Kyle Rittenhouse not guilty of all charges in the shooting deaths of two men and the wounding of another during a racial protest last year. Rittenhouse, who was 17 at the time, said he was in Kenosha during the protests after the police shooting of Jacob Blake to help protect property. He said he shot the men in self-defense.In Georgia, three White men are accused of chasing and killing Ahmaud Arbery, a 25-year-old Black man, last year while he was jogging. The men say they were trying to conduct a lawful citizen's arrest, and the man who shot Arbery says he acted in self-defense.  And in Virginia, a civil trial is underway to determine if organizers of the "Unite the Right" rally intended to incite racial violence. One person was killed and dozens injured there after White supremacists clashed with counter-demonstrators.   Race is an inescapable theme that runs through all the trials. At the center of each are White men who are accused of using unjustified violence, either against an unarmed Black man or during racial protests. In Rittenhouse's case, a jury cleared him of criminal wrongdoing. It's what's happening outside these courtrooms, though, that is most frightening. It suggests these trials are a symptom of a dangerous shift.  Our politics are becoming more menacingIf there was an Exhibit A to describe this shift, it might be an anim video. Earlier this month, Republican Rep. Paul Gosar posted a photoshopped anim video to his Twitter and Instagram accounts showing him attacking President Joe Biden and appearing to kill Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez with a sword.  The House voted this week to censure Gosar, with virtually no Republicans backing the resolution. Gosar took down the video after facing criticism but did not apologize, and later retweeted a post that contained the video. Gosar's video wasn't an isolated incident. Violent political rhetoric has been escalating among some members of the Republican Party. And while not all of it is fueled by White men, much of it starts at the top -- with former President Donald Trump. Trump's violent and sexist rhetoric has been well-documented. More White men now identify as Republican, and the gender gap between both major parties is as large as it's ever been in the last two decades.One New York Times columnist, under the headline "The Angry White Male Caucus," said this anger is driven by White men who fear a changing America "in which the privilege of being a white man isn't what it used to be."  The anger also seems to be getting worse. After President Joe Biden signed an infrastructure bill into law this month, some House Republicans who voted for it reported receiving death threats. Election officials and school board members across the country are also reporting escalating threats.  A recent poll revealed that 30% of Republicans believe that violence is justified to save the country. Political violence is not limited to the GOP. A Bernie Sanders supporter who publicly declared his hatred of conservatives shot five people at a Republican baseball practice in 2017. But talking about assaulting and killing political enemies has become so normal -- and seemingly acceptable -- in conservative circles today that a White man felt comfortable enough to ask a right-wing activist at a public forum in Idaho last month:"When do we get to use the guns? ... How many elections are they going to steal before we kill these people?" Add to this toxic political atmosphere another element: Laws that not only protect White vigilante violence but, in some cases, seem to embolden vigilantes.  Activists hoped that widely seen videos showing White police officers and White men shooting Black men like Arbery would inspire the courts and state legislatures to revisit laws that made such actions possible.But even after nationwide protests over the murder of George Floyd by a White police officer, little has changed. A growing number of Americans now want police funding increased. And though Georgia overhauled its citizen's arrest law, a reform bill called the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act died in Congress two months ago.    We could see more guns on the streets  The conservative-leaning US Supreme Court now seems poised to make it easier for people to carry guns in public, based on recent oral arguments over a New York gun control law.    The US' civilian population is already the most heavily armed in the world. And our streets could soon become even more violent. "A significant portion of the gun safety movement's current agenda is likely to come under attack in the coming years," Adam Winkler, a UCLA law professor and author of "Gunfight: The Battle Over the Right to Bear Arms in America," recently told Newsweek. "I think bans on assault weapons and bans on high-capacity magazines are ripe for the new Supreme Court, with its newly invigorated Second Amendment, to strike down."  The Supreme Court has also recently ruled once again in favor of "qualified immunity," the legal doctrine that shields police officers accused of misconduct. There's been little national movement on reforming "stand your ground laws," some of which allow people who believe they're facing an imminent threat to use lethal force without first trying to escape. At least 25 states have such laws, according to the National Conference of State Legislators.  And despite the shocking nature of the Arbery video, there's been little progress on reforming citizen's arrest laws, which allow private citizens to detain or arrest someone they suspect in a crime.  The White men on trial in the Rittenhouse and Arbery cases both said they acted in self-defense. One of the men in the Arbery case testified that the unarmed Black jogger tried to take his gun, and his life was at risk. But consider the potential danger of other White men -- or any person wielding a gun in public -- feeling emboldened to use deadly force against even an unarmed person by evoking the logic in those defenses, said Eric Ruben, a Second Amendment expert.  "In other words, their own decision to carry a gun became a justification to use it, lest it be wrested away from them," Ruben recently told the New York Times.  While prosecutors didn't show that Rittenhouse was angry that night, there is a perception -- fair or not -- that he went to Kenosha for reasons more than simply maintaining public safety. The comedian Trevor Noah reflected this sentiment in a comment that became a meme: "No one has ever thought, 'Oh, it's my solemn duty to pick up a rifle and protect that TJ Maxx." And finally, there's a growing fear that no one will be severely punished for the January 6 insurrection because most of the rioters were White. The trials of various defendants are winding their way through the courts now. Jacob Chansley, the so-called "QAnon Shaman," was sentenced to 41 months in prison for his role in the US Capitol riot.   But many believe the punishment will never match the severity of the crime. What if, say, a mob of Black Lives Matter protesters attacked the US Capitol in an attempt to overturn the election of a Republican president? How do you think conservative lawmakers would react?   We are seeing more threats, more guns and more suspicion that the courts will go easy on White people who employ violence. This is the combustible mix that makes more violence almost inevitable.   Angry White men have damaged democracy  We have enough problems with White male violence as it is. Mass shootings in the US are committed more often by White men than by any other group. Top law enforcement officials now say the nation's biggest domestic terror threat comes from White supremacists. And many of the most indelible news images of recent years include angry, red-faced White men, often armed with guns.  Consider scenes from the US Capitol riot, which were filled with angry White men wielding crude weapons and pummeling police. Or the snarling faces of young White men holding tiki torches during the 2017 rally in Charlottesville. Or the angry White men who clashed with anti-racist protesters across the US last year.  White male anger has become one of the most potent political forces in contemporary America. That anger helped a White man win the White House. Trump's rise to power is inconceivable without his ability to tap into White male anger and embody it.   Has there ever been an angrier modern president? He is the White male id unleashed.  This White male anger is causing many people -- including other White men -- to look over their shoulder when they go out in public. The two men who were shot and killed by Rittenhouse in Wisconsin were White, as was the man he wounded. Ijeoma Oluo, author of "Mediocre: The Dangerous Legacy of White Male America," wrote that she lives with the constant fear that angry White men will turn violent toward her and "countless other black people, brown people, disabled people, queer people, trans people, and women of every demographic." White male anger could prove to be one of the biggest roadblocks we face in building a successful multiracial democracy.Lee Drutman, a scholar who has studied political violence, recently told the New York Times: "I have a hard time seeing how we have a peaceful 2024 election after everything that's happened now. I don't see the rhetoric turning down, I don't see the conflicts going away. I really do think it's hard to see how it gets better before it gets worse." This isn't hyperbole. It's history. It happened before.  After the Civil War, the US attempted to build the first biracial democracy by incorporating formerly enslaved people into the country's political and economic life. That period, known as Reconstruction, was destroyed primarily by the violence of White men who used terrorist and vigilante groups like the KKK to assassinate elected officials, prevent Blacks from voting and overthrow state governments.   In 1898, for example, a mob of primarily White men staged a coup against the city government of Wilmington, North Carolina, which had elected a multiracial coalition of leaders. More than 60 Black people were killed, and Black residents of the city were barred from voting, and from elected office, for decades afterward.   The January 6 insurrection wasn't unprecedented. In many ways it was a sequel. No more lectures about Black 'thugs'  Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham warned the GOP that "We're not generating enough angry White guys to stay in business for the long term."  He was wrong. The angry White guy business is booming. Yet no matter how obvious it becomes that the country has a problem with White male violence, most Americans will escape what Black and brown men experience on a weekly basis. Not many drivers will lock their doors when White men approach at a stoplight. Few women will clutch their purse when they pass a White man on the street. Someone recently posted a meme about this double standard by evoking the memory of Tamir Rice, the 12-year-old Black boy who was killed in Cleveland by a police officer who authorities said mistook his toy pistol for a real firearm.  "Tamir Rice was 12 and killed for having a fake toy gun. Kyle Rittenhouse, 17, killed two people. Walked by police after killing two people. Got to go home and sleep."  That meme is why it's hard for me for to tolerate hearing another lecture about "Black thug culture" or a "Black culture of violence." My response to the White men who use these tired phrases: Look in the mirror. And look at these three trials, because they point to one frightening future. This is what that future looks like: More angry White men emboldened by "stand your ground" and citizen's arrest laws, inspired by a conservative interpretation of the Second Amendment.  And more dead Americans.
Peng Shuai: Chinese state media claims to show new video clips of Chinese tennis star .  (CNN)A reporter with Chinese state media posted two short video clips of Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai to Twitter on Saturday."I acquired two video clips, which show Peng Shuai was having dinner with her coach and friends in a restaurant," wrote Hu Xijin, who is the editor of Chinese state-run tabloid the Global Times. "The video content clearly shows they are shot on Saturday Beijing time."CNN cannot independently verify the two video clips or when they were filmed.China has been facing pressure from the United Nations over Peng's whereabouts as the organization called for an investigation into her allegations of sexual assault. The White House also said on Friday it is "deeply concerned" about Peng's safety. Peng, who is one of China's most recognizable sports stars, had accused former Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli of coercing her into sex at his home, according to screenshots of a since-deleted social media post dated November 2.Peng's post on Weibo, China's Twitter-like platform, was deleted within 30 minutes of publication, with Chinese censors moving swiftly to wipe out any mention of the accusation online. Her Weibo account, which has more than half a million followers, is still blocked from searchers on the platform.The head of the Women's Tennis Association (WTA) Steve Simon has said he is willing to lose hundreds of millions of dollars worth of business in China if Peng is not fully accounted for and her allegations are not properly investigated. 
Subway co-founder Peter Buck, who turned $1,000 into a billion, dies. New York, NY (CNN)Subway co-founder Peter Buck, who turned his initial investment of $1,000 into more than a billion dollars, died Thursday at the age of 90, the company confirmed. With more than 40,000 locations worldwide, Subway today is now the world's largest submarine sandwich chain. Buck, the company's last surviving founder, left a net worth of $1.7 billion, according to Forbes. "We are deeply saddened by the passing of one of Subway's founders, Dr. Peter Buck. He was a shining example of a dedicated, hands-on leader, and an integral member of the Subway family," John Chidsey, CEO of Subway, said in a statement. In 1965, Buck gave his family friend, Fred DeLuca, the idea to open a submarine sandwich shop to help the then-college freshman make money for college. Buck, who was a nuclear physicist, provided an initial investment of $1,000, and "Pete's Super Submarines" opened in Bridgeport, Connecticut. By 1974, the two owned and operated 16 shops in Connecticut and then began franchising them. According to the food service research and consultant firm Technomic, sales at Subway's US locations have fallen in recent years. Amid competition from other fast-food companies, system-wide sales at Subway's US locations have fallen to $8.3 billion in 2020, down from $12.3 billion in 2013, its best year of the past 15, according to Technomic's analysis. When Subway first rose to prominence in the 1970s and 80s, it "owned" customization, said Robert Byrne, director of consumer and industry insights at Technomic, meaning customers could choose what they want in real time. Now, customers can build their own burritos, salads, sandwiches or bowls, making for fierce competition in the space. As more restaurants offer custom options, "we want to continue to ... dominate that space," said Chidsey earlier this year. Subway revamped its menu with new recipes and toppings in July, which helped the company increase its sales in August 2021.Buck's fellow Subway founder DeLuca died in 2015 at age 67.Buck was born in 1930 in South Portland, Maine. He graduated from Bowdoin College in 1952 and earned his master's and doctoral degrees in physics from Columbia University. His philanthropic efforts were managed by The Peter and Carmen Lucia Buck Foundation, which he founded with his late wife in 1999. CNN's Danielle Wiener-Bronner contributed to this report. 
Here's why gas is so cheap at Costco and Walmart. New York (CNN Business)Gas prices are skyrocketing, and Americans want to save at the pump. That plays right into the hands of Costco, BJ's Wholesale Club and Sam's Club.The national gas price average jumped to $3.41 a gallon Friday, according to AAA, 61% higher than the average at the same time last year. The Biden administration has called for an investigation into whether oil and gas companies acted illegally to push up prices. The spike has pushed more shoppers to rely on these chains to fill up their tanks, say the companies, retail analysts, and fuel experts. Gas prices at warehouse clubs can be as much as 30 cents lower than traditional gas stations, and the chains offer members coupons to use in their stores when they fill up. Gasoline sales at the warehouse clubs are an important part of their business and draw customers inside."People are seeking out the clubs because of the gas," said Michael Baker, a retail analyst at D.A. Davidson. "It's US consumers' nature to go out of their way for lower gas prices."Costco, for example, is typically 20 cents a gallon below the market average, according to Tom Kloza, the global head of energy analysis at IHS Markit's Oil Price Information Service. BJ's says it's 10 cents below average.These companies are "winners when gasoline prices go skyward," said Kloza.Costco (COST), Sam's Club and BJ's (BJ) want you to fill up your tank in their parking lots and then go stock up on giant jugs of ketchup, boxes of snacks and clothing. (And why not buy a flat-screen TV or a new couch while you're at it?) Their gas stations give these warehouse stores an advantage that many retail competitors can't match.  Gas makes up around 10%, $20 billion annually, of Costco's overall sales and 9% of BJ's. Walmart (WMT), which owns Sam's Club, does not disclose what portion of its sales come from gas.Gas is a notoriously low-margin business, but retailers can make money from selling huge volumes of gas -- even while charging much less than independent gas stations, said Kloza, adding that it's not unusual for sales at a Costco location to reach up to 1 million gallons a month compared to an average of 80,000 gallons a month at typical gas stations.Despite their big-brand names, the vast majority of Exxon, Chevron, BP and Shell gas statons are independently owned, so they aren't able to make a volume play like wholesalers do. Although wholesalers are able to make a profit on gas, they're not making much: Costco, for example, reported that gasoline has a lower profit margin than the rest of its business. Rising gas prices typically help Costco's sales, but hurt its profits. "When there are inflationary pressures and prices are going up, people look to save on gas," said Richard Galanti, Costco's chief financial officer. For every 100 people who come to Costco to fill up on gas, more than half go shop inside afterwards, he said.Gas sales at BJ's Wholesale Club jumped 20% during its most recent quarter ending October 30 compared with the same time a year ago. BJ's is growing market share in gasoline "in leaps and bounds," CEO Robert Eddy said on a call with analysts Thursday. When gas prices hit over $3 a gallon, "members love us" and shift their gas spending to the club.Gas discounts are a tool Walmart uses to encourage customers to sign up for Walmart+ memberships, which also offer free shipping and discounts on prescriptions.Walmart said on Tuesday that it's actively trying to keep gas prices down to attract customers worried about how much they're paying at the pump, especially as federal stimulus benefits wane."Gas prices are a concern....They're up dramatically versus a year ago," Walmart CEO Doug McMillon said on an earnings call. "The customers had money [then]. And at some point, that's going to come to an end." 
Biden deemed 'fit to successfully execute the duties of the president' after first physical in office.  (CNN)President Joe Biden underwent his annual physical Friday morning at Walter Reed Medical Center, his first such appointment since he was inaugurated as the oldest first-term president in US history.Afterward, his physician Dr. Kevin O'Connor wrote in a memo Biden "remains fit for duty, and fully executes all of his responsibilities without any exemptions or accommodations."The doctor, who has been with the President since he served as vice president, singled out two areas of "observation" he set aside for detailed investigation: an "increasing frequency and severity of 'throat clearing' and coughing during speaking engagements" and the President's ambulatory gait, or walking abnormality, which O'Connor said was "perceptibly stiffer and less fluid than it was a year or so ago." Both have been noticeable elements of Biden's public appearances since taking office. In a detailed, six-page summary of Biden's health, O'Connor said X-rays showed Biden has arthritis of his spine and normal wear and tear damage for someone of his age. The doctor characterized that damage as moderate to severe, but said it was not severe enough to warrant any specific treatment. He wrote it would help account for some of Biden's recent stiffness and clumsy gait. An "extremely detailed neurologic exam" was "reassuring," O'Connor wrote, and showed no evidence of a stroke, multiple sclerosis or Parkinson's.Biden also has a condition known as hiatal hernia, which causes him to have reflux -- something O'Connor said could account for his more frequent throat clearing.The document contained a detailed accounting of the physical exam, including his height of 5 feet 11.65 inches; his weight of 184 pounds; and his blood pressure of 120/70. Biden does not drink or use tobacco and works out five times a week, according to the report. "President Biden remains a healthy, vigorous, 78-year-old male, who is fit to successfully execute the duties of the president, to include those as Chief Executive, Head of State and Commander in Chief," O'Connor wrote in his summary.Biden received a routine colonoscopy Friday while at Walter Reed. The process, which required anesthesia, meant that he temporarily transferred power to Vice President Kamala Harris, who became the first woman to assume presidential power for 85 minutes Friday morning.As he left Walter Reed, Biden said he "had a great physical and a great House of Representatives vote," alluding to the House passing his Build Back Better bill on Friday morning.The last extensive update on Biden's medical state came in December 2019, when the doctor he eventually recruited to serve as White House physician described him as "a healthy, vigorous, 77-year-old male, who is fit to successfully execute the duties of the Presidency."Biden, who turns 79 on Saturday, hasn't released a full report on his health since.Biden is not behind in releasing medical information compared to his recent predecessors, who waited a full year before undergoing a physical and authorizing details to be released publicly.The latest update on Biden's health came after he, then-president-elect, fractured his foot in November while playing with his dog. In February, Biden's physician said the foot fractures "are completely healed."Presidents are not required to publicly disclose results of their annual check-ups but have done so to be transparent and assure the American people in the face of questions about their state of health. Presidents, however, have also hidden their illnesses, the severity of their illness, or medical treatments.Dr. Kevin O'Connor, Biden's primary care doctor since 2009 and the White House physician, wrote the three-page medical summary Biden's presidential campaign released nearly two years ago. The 2019 summary showed Biden was being treated for non-valvular atrial fibrillation, or AFib -- an irregular heartbeat that O'Connor said Biden experiences no symptoms of. He was taking Crestor to lower cholesterol and triglyceride levels, as well as Eliquis to prevent blood clots, Nexium for acid reflux, and Allegra and a nasal spray for seasonal allergies.The most significant medical event in Biden's history, O'Connor wrote, was when Biden suffered a brain aneurysm in 1988. He was serving in the Senate at the time. During surgery, doctors found a second aneurysm that had not bled, which they also treated. While in the hospital after that surgery, Biden suffered deep vein thrombosis and a pulmonary embolism. Doctors at the time inserted an "inferior vena cava filter," which would prevent future blood clots from reaching the heart and lungs and treated him with an oral anti-coagulant for several months.Biden also had his gallbladder removed in 2003, and according to O'Connor he has had multiple surgeries and physical treatments for orthopedic injuries and sports medicine. Biden also has had several non-melanoma skin cancer lesions surgically removed. This story has been updated with additional information. 
Fire breaks out near Place de L'Opera in central Paris. ParisA large fire broke out in a building on boulevard des Capucines, near the Place de L'Opera square in central Paris on Saturday, sending clouds of smoke rising into the air."Firemen are intervening, avoid the area," the Prefecture de Police said in a statement on Twitter.It was not immediately clear what caused the fire.This is a developing story and will be updated.
Trump's ire grows as DeSantis' popularity with Republicans takes off.  (CNN)In a matter of months, Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis has gone from being a shining example in Donald Trump's eyes of a MAGA leader molded in his image to an average politician who forgot his roots as he rose to Republican stardom. People close to both men first noticed the palpable shift in Trump's posture toward DeSantis earlier this year as enthusiasm for the Florida governor swelled among donors and GOP operatives who praised his laissez-faire response to the Covid-19 pandemic. The more DeSantis' popularity soared, the more obsessed Trump became with receiving credit for his political celebrity. In April, Trump had told Fox News that DeSantis would "certainly" be under consideration for the VP slot if he were to launch a third presidential campaign in 2024. By October, the former President was demanding that he publicly rule out a White House bid of his own. "It's not that Trump is complaining about Ron... but he likes to remind Ron and others that he made him," said a person close to the former President, who added that Trump has been telling people around him that DeSantis could show more gratitude. Politico first reported the tension in their relationship last Friday. A statement to CNN from Trump spokesman Taylor Budowich appeared to confirm Trump's obsession with receiving credit for DeSantis' success. Budowich said the former President's 2020 victory in Florida "paved the way for Republicans, including Governor Ron DeSantis, to sweep the state in 2022" and suggested that Trump "catapulted" then-Congressman DeSantis "into the Governor's Mansion" with his endorsement in the 2018 GOP primary for Florida governor. "President Trump remains committed and supportive of Governor Ron DeSantis, who has been a champion for President Trump's America First agenda," said Budowich. Though the two remain in regular contact, Trump has become increasingly irritated at DeSantis' refusal to publicly dismiss a 2024 bid of his own if the former President himself decides to run. Two people close to the situation said DeSantis has privately assured Trump and others that he has no intention of challenging him in a GOP presidential primary, but they noted that Trump won't be fully satisfied until the governor says so publicly. "I don't think Trump appreciates the conundrum DeSantis is in. He wants him to say, 'I won't run,' but DeSantis isn't going to weigh in like that," said a former Trump aide, who suggested that DeSantis' current approach was politically savvy given his interest in securing another term as governor. "It's a very smart view. Until you get reelected, don't start to have a conversation about 2024. If you're trying to ask people for your vote and you're leaning into presidential speculation, it makes it a lot harder," the aide said. Though DeSantis has previously dismissed 2024 chatter about him as "nonsense," he has avoided taking the unequivocal public vow not to challenge Trump that other prospective Republican hopefuls have made. Earlier this month, he officially filed to run for reelection for Florida governor in 2022 and he recently told Fox News host Sean Hannity that's where his focus lies."I'm not considering anything beyond doing my job," DeSantis said.A spokesman for DeSantis did not respond to a request for comment. Helen Aguirre Ferr, the executive director of the Republican Party of Florida who has worked for Trump and DeSantis, told CNN, "I'm not going to get into that at all. I'll leave that for somebody else."What sets DeSantis apart Trump allies say it's the organic enthusiasm for DeSantis -- among deep-pocketed donors and the grassroots flank of the GOP -- that has fueled Trump's frustration with the governor, especially as it relates to 2024. When Trump's name was removed from a presidential straw poll at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference in February, it was DeSantis who led the pack with 43% support among the MAGA-friendly audience. Months later, at a September 13 press conference where he decried the Biden administration's pending Covid-19 vaccine mandate for large companies, DeSantis offered a bashful smirk when another state official pointed to someone sporting a "DeSantis 2024" T-shirt in the crowd. And for months, billionaire Republican donors who bankrolled Trump have opened their checkbooks to boost DeSantis in his bid for a second term as Florida's governor. Former Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross donated $50,000 to DeSantis' campaign in April, according to publicly available campaign finance data, as did close Trump pal and Home Depot co-founder Bernie Marcus, who contributed $250,000 in March. Interactive Brokers Group chairman Thomas Peterffy, whose last six-figure donation to the Trump Victory fund occurred in September 2017, also gave $250,000 to DeSantis in April. Peterffy told Bloomberg News earlier this fall that he would prefer to see DeSantis as the Republican presidential nominee in 2024 because he is less impulsive than Trump.Nick Iarossi, a Florida lobbyist and DeSantis bundler, claimed Trump supporters are the ones reaching out to support DeSantis, not the other way around. Another person close to DeSantis, who requested anonymity to discuss private conversations, said he had personally witnessed instances where the governor had to tell donors "who are all excited about a presidential bid, 'No, I'm not focused on 2024.'" "Everyone is talking about my governor," said Shawn Foster, a GOP state committeeman who helped organize a county fundraiser headlined by DeSantis in September that operatives believe was the largest in state history -- other than one once hosted by Trump. DeSantis has raised $56 million so far this year through a political committee, and in a sign of his growing national stature, almost half of his 2021 haul has come from outside Florida. His committee has spent sparingly -- just $2.3 million in the past 12 months -- though it has paid to keep up with demand for the brash, DeSantis-themed merchandise for sale on his website. DeSantis famously sold "Don't Fauci my Florida" koozies this summer as the Sunshine State became the epicenter of the country's coronavirus outbreak. Now for sale: DeSantis-branded golf balls with the slogan "Florida's Governor has a pair."Trump keeping tabs on potential competitorsThe simmering tension between Trump and DeSantis comes as the former President himself inches closer to another campaign for the White House in 2024. Trump has been closely tracking what rumored Republican presidential hopefuls have said about their own interest in running, and is most interested in those -- like DeSantis -- who command significant popularity with his core supporters. With an eye toward 2024, Trump has been working aggressively since leaving office to exert his control over the Republican Party with endorsements of insurgent GOP candidates, regular appearances on the campaign trail and intense demands for loyalty from Republicans across the local, state and federal level. One former Trump White House official said the approach Trump has taken to ensure that he remains in charge of the party spares no one -- not even elected Republicans who have demonstrated the utmost loyalty to him in most situations. "He wants to be top dog, not just nationally, but in these states" that will matter if he becomes the Republican nominee in 2024, said the former White House official. The official noted that DeSantis isn't the only GOP governor who has been on the receiving end of the former President's praise one day and resented the next."He was at the border with (Texas Gov.) Greg Abbott three or four months ago and then a month later, you get that statement where he was critical of Abbott," the official recalled, referring to a letter Trump wrote to the Texas governor in September demanding that he support a forensic audit of the state's 2020 election results. (Trump joined Abbott on a tour of the US-Mexico border in late June amid a surge of unauthorized border crossings under the Biden administration). "He changes his tune every other day with some of these guys and what you're seeing with DeSantis -- Trump being hot and cold -- isn't necessarily unique to him," said the former Trump White House official. If asked, Trump advisers believe the former President would campaign for DeSantis' re-election. Iarossi said he wasn't sure what Trump's involvement will be in 2022, but added: "Trump's brand is still great in Florida so I think he's a great ally to have."Some Trump foes have picked up on the former President's jealousy and are using it to advance their own objectives. Next week, Palm Beach televisions, perhaps including those in Mar-a-Lago, will once again air a commercial by the Lincoln Project intended to remind Trump that DeSantis is the new GOP "it" guy. Rick Wilson, one of the ex-Republicans behind the Lincoln Project, is hoping to provoke a very specific reaction from Trump. "We want Trump to kill his own babies," Wilson said. "We believe if we narrow the field and it's only Trump in 2024, it's an easy choice for Americans to say 'no.'"DeSantis, who once aired a campaign commercial reading Trump's "Art of the Deal" to his infant son, has ably navigated Trump to his own political benefit for years. As a candidate for US Senate in 2016, DeSantis repeatedly declined to endorse Trump in the GOP presidential primary. But after Trump won and his popularity skyrocketed among Republican voters, DeSantis regularly appeared on Fox News where he was a staunch defender of the President. Trump took notice, and tweeted his support for DeSantis in the 2018 gubernatorial primary for governor over a better-funded establishment favorite.Trump has often reminded DeSantis of that history, claiming at a 2020 rally that DeSantis was polling at 3% and "had no money" before Trump got involved. "He ran, I endorsed him, his numbers went through the roof," Trump told the crowd. But if Trump is waiting for DeSantis to return the favor by publicly ceding the 2024 nomination, he shouldn't hold his breath. With a reelection campaign still ahead, and Democrats already accusing DeSantis of campaigning for his next office, the governor's allies say it doesn't make sense politically for him to speak about the future."He hasn't said he's running in 2024," Iarossi said. "Why would he dismiss something that he hasn't expressed interest in running for?"
Why the tide may be turning on Trump. Frida Ghitis, (@fridaghitis) a former CNN producer and correspondent, is a world affairs columnist. She is a weekly opinion contributor to CNN, a contributing columnist to The Washington Post and a columnist for World Politics Review. The views expressed in this commentary are her own. View more opinion on CNN. (CNN)What's that we hear? Is it the sound of prominent conservatives and Trump allies openly rebuking former President Donald Trump? Are these the early murmurs of a conservative backlash against Trump? And is it possible a political lane is opening for another Republican presidential candidate in 2024?It's too soon to know, of course, and there's plenty of evidence that those who stand up against the vindictive Trump will end up crushed by either his bullying ways or by his loyal followers, with little support from the rest of the GOP. And yet, it is noteworthy that in the past few days we have heard from two major figures in the conservative camp telling Trump that he should stop whining about the election he lost and let the Republican Party focus on real issues, instead of his self-serving fantasies.The statements from Rupert Murdoch -- who controls a media empire that includes, among other properties, the shamelessly pro-Trump Fox News -- and from former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie -- an adviser who worked with the former president and helped him prepare for the presidential debates during the 2020 election -- may serve as a test for Republicans who understand just how harmful Trump's dominance of the GOP is, and how it could ultimately sink the party.It was startling when Murdoch, addressing his company at the annual shareholder meeting on Wednesday, said that the United States faces a number of major political decisions that conservatives will fail to shape unless Trump moves on. "The current American political debate is profound," he said, citing education, welfare and economic opportunity. "It is crucial that conservatives play an active, forceful role in that debate," he added, "but that will not happen if President Trump stays focused on the past."Murdoch is not alone in arguing that Trump is a threat to conservatives. Christie, who has just published a new book that looks very much like his unofficial entry into the 2024 presidential race, is making the same case, only more forcefully.Consider the title of Christie's book -- which effectively labels Trump a threat to the GOP: "Republican Rescue: Saving the Party from Truth Deniers, Conspiracy Theorists, and the Dangerous Policies of Joe Biden." Notice that Trump fits two of the three reasons the party needs saving (by Christie, presumably).Murdoch and Christie are not the first Republicans who have stood up to the former president --  but their rebukes of Trump are markedly different. Trump's early critics, like Senators Marco Rubio, Ted Cruz, Lindsey Graham and others, melted into passionate defenders once their criticisms proved perilous to their own standing. Their reversals bring to mind a quote often attributed to Groucho Marx: "Those are my principles, and if you don't like them...well, I have others." Christie says many in the GOP are frightened of Trump, whose "conduct is meant to instill fear." Conservative Republicans who refuse to fall in line, such as Rep. Liz Cheney, are being hounded out of a party that is increasingly remade into the former president's raging, iconoclastic and intolerant brand.Sure, it's possible Murdoch and Christie's words may also fail to change the course of the GOP, but their criticism is different. They both helped Trump throughout his presidency, and it's significant that they are the ones now speaking out against him. Their plea that he stop complaining about the last election, however, will only fall on deaf ears, since Trump is simply incapable of admitting he lost. But Murdoch and Christie are sending an important message to other members of the party -- and the rest of the country -- that to continue supporting Trump is a dangerous folly.Coincidentally or not, the chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, Ronna McDaniel, finally acknowledged Biden's win on Thursday, more than a year after the 2020 vote. "Painfully," she said, "Joe Biden won the election and it's very painful to watch. He's the President. We know that." Murdoch and Christie undoubtedly have their own personal motives for speaking out against Trump in this moment, and there's plenty of evidence to warrant accusations of hypocrisy. Murdoch, whose Fox News -- home of Tucker Carlson, a purveyor of harmful lies and propaganda about everything from the Covid vaccine to American democracy -- is still serving Trump's goals. But Fox News now faces billion-dollar defamation lawsuits brought by two voting technology companies that allege the network spread false claims of election fraud. Murdoch might be driven by a fear of liability and the potential damage additional lawsuits could inflict on his bottom line if Fox News continues to follow Trump down a rabbit hole of conspiracy theories and baseless claims. There is, also the possibility that he cares about the future of conservative politics, and genuinely fears the GOP might get trampled if Trump doesn't let up.Christie, for his part, is trying to promote his book and his prospects of occupying the White House.Still, it is remarkable that they have done the calculus and decided they can benefit from speaking out against the former president, even after other Republicans have been badly hurt by doing the same thing. I think their calculation makes sense. With President Joe Biden's ratings sinking, the conventional wisdom seems to be that Democrats are doomed. But it is Republicans who may be doomed if they continue to stick with the former president.There's no doubt the Biden administration is terrible at messaging. The economy is booming and yet consumers are feeling pessimistic. Meanwhile, Biden is making important legislative progress, and the inflationary pressures that are creating the false impression that the economy is failing could be resolved in time to boost Democrats' fortunes.Even if Democrats are still in the doldrums in 2024, it's hard to imagine that voters will be yearning for another four years of Trumpian chaos. Biden may look uninspiring now, but the former president, who had the most consistently poor approval ratings of any president in the modern era, remains highly unpopular and controversial. Do Republicans want a candidate embroiled in endless -- and serious -- legal troubles? According to the New York Times, prosecutors are likely to impanel a grand jury in Georgia in the criminal investigation of the former president's attempt to overturn the 2020 election (In September, he suggested he was being unfairly targeted, saying, "Even the Fulton County DA, district attorney, is after me.") Meanwhile, prosecutors in New York have convened a second grand jury to hear evidence about Trump Organization's business practices, according to the Washington Post. (The first grand jury, which convened this spring, charged two Trump companies and an executive with tax evasion. Trump, who was not charged, blasted the indictment and called the investigation a "political witch hunt.")A Pew poll conducted in September found that two-thirds of Republicans want Trump to remain a major force in the party, but only 44% want him to run again. One-third of Republicans and 92% of Democrats don't want him to be a major national political figure going forward. That's not the arithmetic of victory. There's the potential for a post-Trump Republican Party to gain ground. It still seems like a long shot at this point, but if his critics are successful in persuading the GOP to move in a different direction, there's a chance American democracy can return some semblance of normality, where political leaders debate what policies are best for the country, without fear of upsetting the tender, explosive feelings of a very bad loser.
Recall announced for certain onions due to Salmonella outbreak.  (CNN)The US Food and Drug Administration along with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention are advising consumers to avoid purchasing certain onions due to a Salmonella outbreak reported in 38 states and Puerto Rico, according to a CDC press release. Multiple companies have recalled whole yellow, red, and white onions due to potential risk of Salmonella, all of which were "supplied by ProSource Produce LLC and Keeler Family Farms and imported from the State of Chihuahua, Mexico, between July 1, 2021, and August 31, 2021," the CDC says. The FDA listed some of Green Giant Fresh's whole yellow and white onions, as well as onions in certain meal kits from EveryPlate and HelloFresh as those being recalled due to potential contamination.Three- and five-pound bags of onions from Alsum Farms & Produce Inc, Potandon Produce LLC, and Pier-C Produce imported from Chihuahua, Mexico, which were distributed between July and August are also part of the recall, according to the FDA. The CDC reported at least 892 illnesses and 183 hospitalizations connected to the Salmonella outbreak.
CVS had every advantage, but it lost the pandemic. Here's what happened. New York (CNN Business)CVS' announcement Thursday that it will close 900 stores over the next three years  around 10% of its pharmacies  may have caught some shoppers off guard.Isn't CVS doing really well right now? Haven't lots of people gone to drug stores during the pandemic to stock up on hand sanitizer, cleaning wipes and toilet paper? What about all those Covid-19 vaccine shots CVS gives out?Actually, CVS' closures shouldn't come as a surprise. They are the latest moves in the long-running contraction of the US retail pharmacy sector. CVS (CVS), Walgreens (WBA) and Rite Aid (RAD) have been shuttering stores for years, while independent pharmacies have come under pressure from chains. Drug store closures can hurt local communities, creating access gaps for medications and essentials.CVS, the largest drug store chain in the United States, pointed to "changes in population, consumer buying patterns and future health needs" as factors in its decision to close stores. Here's why CVS will close 900 stores.Pivot to health careThe future of CVS is not selling snacks, candy, shampoo and greeting cards. It's in health care.To that end, in 2018 CVS completed a $69 billion acquisition of Aetna, the largest health care deal in history, to create a gigantic customer base of about 40 million Americans. CVS bet that the deal will increase its profits from those patients' health plans while helping to lower its costs. CVS also has been revamping its retail strategy and said Thursday that its stores will have three distinct models: locations that offer primary care services; "HealthHub" stores that have on-site dieticians, nurse practitioners and lab services, and on-site treatment for chronic conditions such as diabetes and asthma; and traditional stores.CVS is "really pivoting and leaning into the health care aspects of the business," said George Hill, an analyst who covers the company and the health care industry at Deutsche Bank. "You'd much rather be selling health care services that are high-dollar value, high-margin versus greeting cards."Too many storesWhen you walk down the street or drive around the suburbs you'll typically pass a CVS. And then hit a Walgreens right next door. Rite Aid is probably pretty close, too. "There's too many pharmacies in the country and there's too much pharmacy capacity. That gives CVS a reason to go," said Hill.CVS closed 244 stores between 2018 and 2020, yet it still has more than 9,900 stores. That's more than Walmart (WMT), Target (TGT) Kroger (KR) and Costco (COST)  combined.Its latest closings will "reduce store density in certain locations," CVS said Thursday, which translates into the fact that CVS has too many stores too close to each other in some places.Competition from Amazon and Dollar GeneralAlso, fewer people are heading to CVS and other drug stores to fill their prescriptions and shop for household staples these days. (And they're not going into CVS to buy tobacco, either, which the company stopped selling in 2014.)Some shoppers have replaced their trips to stores like CVS by buying their supplies online from Amazon (AMZN), or from brick-and-mortar giants like Walmart and Target. The chains have built their own strong e-commerce businesses in recent years.Dollar General (DG) has also grabbed market share from drug stores, undercutting the sector with lower prices on similar items. And now Dollar General is launching its own health care initiative as it continues to take business from pharmacies.Online pharmacies and telemedicine have gained traction, too. Amazon bought PillPack in 2018 for more than $700 million and started shipping prescriptions to Prime members last year. Capsule and other digital pharmacies that deliver directly to customers' homes are also growing. Although brick-and-mortar pharmacies are still an important stop for many elderly people,or those who don't use the web or have access to it, they are increasingly becoming a thing of the past to the growing ranks of online shoppers.Rising costsClosing stores also reduces CVS' costs while still keeping most of its sales. Its labor and store operations costs increased during the pandemic because of safety protections like plexiglass, floor decals and masks. The company said in August it planned to raise its minimum wage to $15 an hour from $11 in a bid to retain and attract workers."There are cost pressures in all directions," said Hill, the Deutsche Bank analyst.Seventy-five percent of CVS' sales comes from filling prescriptions, but its profits from that segment have declined in recent years because of lower reimbursement rates.But when CVS closes a store, it can hold onto most of those sales by shifting the prescriptions to its nearest pharmacies, Hill said.Covid-19 vaccines weren't a huge boostCVS got a lift from people coming into its stores for their Covid-19 vaccines and tests. The company has administered 43 million vaccines and around 38 million tests, CEO Karen Lynch said on an earnings call earlier this month.But the vaccines were only a short-term gain for the company, which said they will generate only $3 billion in revenue in 2021. That will decline by up to 40% next year, along with whatever sales CVS racked up as shoppers browsed aisles while they waited to get vaccinated, Lynch said.People also visited their doctors less frequently last year and into 2021, and elective procedures were suspended early in the pandemic, which meant that CVS filled fewer regular and chronic care prescriptions than in the years before the pandemic. And fewer people have also been coming into stores to pick up cough and fever medicines  big business for CVS  because they're still wearing masks and spending more time at home than they once did.
Adele is having a moment. Count us in for the heartbreak  and renewal.  (CNN)All Adele. All day. Because really, what else do we need?The British singer is back with a new album, a new love and a new attitude.It all looks good on her, so this week's Pop Life Chronicles is all about Adele to make her feel our love. Three things to watch'Adele One Night Only'The sumptuous location, Adele in that couture gown and, oh, the music.Adele's CBS special owes us nothing, as she slayed with the tunes, the banter and the interview in Oprah Winfrey's gorgeous garden.And did we mention the absolutely precious marriage proposal that happened during the show at LA's Griffith Observatory?You can watch (or rewatch) it all happen on Paramount+, where it's currently streaming. 'Skyfall'No, Adele didn't act in this one, but she sang the theme song for the 23rd installment of the James Bond franchise.So come for the car chases, high-tech gadgets and Daniel Craig's suave demeanor, but stay for the music that earned Adele an Academy Award for best original song in 2013.Adele's Album of the Year win at the 59th GrammysIt's not a streaming movie or TV show, but I had to include one of the greatest Grammy speech moments ever.Adele took to the Grammys stage in 2017 to accept the award for album of the year for "25," talked about her life, praised her son and husband at the time, then tearfully said she couldn't possibly accept because the album of her life was Beyonc's "Lemonade," which had also been nominated."It was so monumental, Beyonc," Adele said to her fellow nominee, who was seated in the front row.The camera went to a pregnant, tearful Bey in the audience, mouthing her love for Adele. They were crying and we were, too, at how wonderful it was to see two queens supporting each other.It's on the Recording Academy's Grammys YouTube channel.Two things to listen toThis one is so easy because her new album, "30," has dropped.Adele's fourth studio album felt a long time coming since her last one was released in 2015.Her debut single from the new collection, "Easy on Me," blew up on the charts and streaming services  and the album has been expected to be a massive seller from the moment it had been announced.I feel like any album with a single titled "I Drink Wine" can't help but win.It's out now.For a bit of nostalgia, go back and listen to her "21" album from 2011. With hits like "Rolling in the Deep" and "Set Fire to the Rain," Adele defied the sophomore jinx, which often finds successful artists unable to do well with their second album.Not only did she gain critical acclaim, she could barely hold all the Grammys she won the following year. One thing to talk aboutAdele seems different these days, and we are not talking about her weight loss.Instead, she seems more confident and willing to let fans in on her life and thoughts.Opening up in an interview with Vogue and her sit-down with Oprah Winfrey, she seems relaxed and happier in her skin.She talked to Winfrey about how being in this new place in her life helped her find love with superstar sports agent Rich Paul."It's just timing," she said. "But it'd be interesting to see what my reaction is like in general to anything that hurts me now that I feel so secure in myself, and I'm talking outside of romance as well."Speaking of Adele and Paul, they are one of the Hollywood couples discussed in the latest episode of my weekly show, Pop Life Pop Off! Check it out here:Something to sip on For years, Adele would disappear from the scene and only come back when she had new music to drop.It was a risky strategy in a time when fans have come to expect celebrity visibility on social media and everywhere else.But the thing is, I don't think Adele gave a flying, ahem, thought about strategy.She appeared to simply just be living her life, which enabled her to write the songs that we have come to love.Now she has done her first Instagram Live (where she couldn't have been more charming) and allowed her followers to share in the excitement of the new album.And even if she chooses to drop off the scene again  remember this is a woman who said her last tour might be her final tour  she owes us absolutely nothing because artistically she has already given us so much.
A court battle is brewing over Prince Philip's will. A version of this story appeared in the November 19 edition of CNN's Royal News, a weekly dispatch bringing you the inside track on Britain's royal family. Sign up here. London (CNN)Here in the UK, a deep-seated debate on privacy is taking place after the Guardian newspaper announced it was taking legal action over the media's exclusion from a hearing on Prince Philip's will earlier this year.In September, Andrew McFarlane, president of the High Court's Family Division, ruled that Philip's will would be sealed for 90 years. Among the few present was a lawyer representing the duke's estate from law firm Farrer & Co, the Queen's private solicitors, and the attorney general, the government's chief legal adviser. The media weren't told of the hearing or permitted to attend, with the public interest represented by the attorney general.A Guardian News & Media spokesperson told CNN in an emailed statement that the High Court's decision to ban the media from the court hearing without informing outlets or allowing them to make representations "is a clear threat to the principles of open justice.""It is also concerning that the court appears to believe that only the attorney general can speak to the public interest," the spokesperson continued. "We are seeking permission to argue that the behaviour of the high court in this instance constitutes a failure of open justice and that the case should be reheard."According to British law, if a person prepares a will prior to their death, it becomes a public document after being admitted to probate, and anyone can obtain a copy from the Probate Registry for a fee.  However, anyone can ask the court to "seal" a will and keep it private, according to Geoff Kertesz and Judith Swinhoe-Standen from UK law firm Stewarts. "The court must be persuaded that it would be 'undesirable or otherwise inappropriate' to make the will public," they told CNN. "Historically, the courts have approved such applications only for senior members of the royal family. It is unclear under what, if any, other circumstances the court might agree to keep a will private."One recent senior royal whose will was made public was Diana, Princess of Wales, who gave up her HRH title when she divorced Prince Charles.Judge McFarlane said in his ruling that "it has become the convention that, following the death of a senior member of the Royal Family, an application to seal their will is made" and that "it appears that such applications have always been heard in private and have invariably been granted."He said it was understood that the first member of the royal family whose will was sealed was Prince Francis of Teck, the younger brother of King George V's wife Queen Mary, who died in 1910.Legal and royal expert Michael L. Nash told CNN: "It was Queen Mary who used these unusual royal powers and prerogatives never used before."Francis died suddenly at the age of 40, following a botched medical examination of his nose, according to Nash, who also authored "Royal Wills in Britain from 1509 to 2008." He said the prince was a "reckless gambler" but also an "extremely lovable character," who bequeathed treasured family jewels to his mistress in a draft version of his will.Nash, who has seen a copy of the draft will that surfaced in archives in Northern Ireland, said the prince was constantly in financial trouble, and upon his death "Queen Mary knew that the creditors, once they saw the will, would descend and everything that Frank died possessed of would have to be sold in order to satisfy these massive debts."He continued, "And she was absolutely mortified that the public would be able to know about the state that her brother had got himself into."Nash also pointed out that the family has faced legal challenges to the secrecy of royal wills before, the most recent of which was considered by the court in 2007. He highlighted an application by Robert Andrew Brown, who claimed to be the illegitimate child of the Queen's sister, Princess Margaret. Brown sought to open Margaret's will, as well as that of the Queen Mother, but the claim was dismissed as a fantasy, Nash said. Privacy has become the debate of the modern era for the British monarchy, with the question of how much privacy a family member deserves routinely emerging. Critics often say royals use their positions and privilege to secure exemptions and evade scandal, while also noting that the Windsors are funded by taxpayers.In his judgment, McFarlane said he was the custodian of a safe holding more than 30 envelopes, each of which supposedly contains the secret will of a dead royal. The most recent additions were made in 2002 with those of the Queen Mother and Princess Margaret.  McFarlane also touched upon why privacy was afforded for royal wills, saying: "The answer to the question 'why should there be an exception for senior members of the Royal Family?' is, in my view, clear: it is necessary to enhance the protection afforded to the private lives of this unique group of individuals, in order to protect the dignity and standing of the public role of the Sovereign and other close members of Her family."Lawyers Kertesz and Swinhoe-Standen said there was a notable difference in the handling of the Duke of Edinburgh's wills and those of royals before him."All previously sealed royal wills are to be kept private indefinitely, but Prince Philip's will is different in that its privacy is time-restricted to 90 years," the pair said. "After 90 years, certain officials may inspect it, and they may then invite the court to rule on whether the will should be made public at that point, or kept private for a further period."Nash described the time limit as an "important advance," as the previous position meant wills were concealed in perpetuity. "That gave serious misgivings to historians, lawyers, researchers -- everybody that had a valid reason for reading the will," he added."I can see in future cases that 90 years tumbling down to, say, 50 years or even less. So that there is at least some possibility of people living now being able to read (a will) at some time in the future during their lifetime."HAVE YOUR SAYSo, what do you think: Should or shouldn't the public be allowed to read a royal will, and why?It's certainly an interesting one to ponder. Let us know your thoughts on email (royalnews@cnn.com). Don't forget to include your name and where you are writing from, and your views could feature in a future edition of Royal News.WHAT ELSE IS HAPPENING?Meghan dishes on life on the West Coast. Unlike when she sat down with Oprah, the Duchess of Sussex's chat on The Ellen DeGeneres Show yielded few bombshells. This time, she revealed Archie and Lili's Halloween costumes and pranked street vendors on the studio lot where the show is filmed. Get the whole story. Queen is all smiles at first engagement since health scare.Elizabeth II warmly greeted the head of the Armed Forces when they met at Windsor on Wednesday -- her first face-to-face engagement since she missed the Remembrance Sunday service in London last weekend. "Her Majesty received General Sir Nicholas Carter at Windsor Castle today upon relinquishing his appointment as Chief of the Defence Staff," Buckingham Palace said. Dressed in an orange, green and white floral dress, the 95-year-old monarch stood to greet the outgoing general before the pair chatted in the Oak Room at Windsor Castle. Read more here. William heads to Microsoft HQ.The Duke of Cambridge visited Microsoft's offices just outside London on Thursday to find out how new AI-scanning tech is helping to tackle the illegal wildlife trade. William spoke with developers following a recent successful trial at London's Heathrow airport, where the software proved capable of detecting illegal ivory products hidden among baggage and cargo. The prince, who set up the Royal Foundation's United for Wildlife, explored poaching cases from end-to-end, learning how partner organizations are assisting in disrupting criminal networks.IN THE ROYAL DIARYCharles and Camilla visit Jesus' baptism site.The Prince of Wales and wife Camilla took a special trip while on their tour in Jordan Tuesday. The pair, who conducted their first major overseas visit since the start of the pandemic this week, traveled to a site on the river Jordan where Jesus is believed to have been baptized. The couple were permitted to dip their fingers in the water and are taking "five or six dozen bottles" of holy water home for future royal baptisms, according to the Daily Mail. The royal couple kicked off their four-day autumn tour on Tuesday. Clarence House said the trip was at the request of the British government and engagements would focus particularly on addressing the climate crisis. In Jordan, they were welcomed to Al Husseiniya Palace by King Abdullah II and Queen Rania, complete with two honor guards. After a packed schedule across two days, the royals traveled to Egypt, where they met President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi and first lady Entissar Amer at Al-Ittahadiya Palace. Charles then attended an interfaith reception at Al Azhar Mosque, where he met with the Grand Imam. They concluded their first day with a visit to the Great Pyramid of Giza and the Great Sphinx before attending a reception. They separated for engagements on their final day in Egypt, with the duchess visiting a Cairo veterinary hospital while Charles went to a business meeting downtown.PHOTO OF THE WEEKThe Duke and Duchess of Cambridge dressed in their finest for a night out at the Royal Albert Hall in London on Thursday. The couple left the children at home to watch the Royal Variety Performance. The annual show -- which this year marked a century of royal patronage -- is held to fundraise and support members of the entertainment industry. After the show, the couple were photographed chatting with comedian Bill Bailey and musician Ed Sheeran, among others. Thanks for reading today's send -- we hope you enjoyed it. Just a heads-up that we're taking a brief break over Thanksgiving next week but will be back to bring you all the comings and goings of the Windsors on December 3. --Max & Lauren
Princess Charlene of Monaco: A timeline of her health issues and absence.  (CNN)Princess Charlene of Monaco spent half a year away from the European principality to recover from a severe ear, nose and throat infection in her native South Africa. Just 11 days after returning home, Prince Albert II announced in an exclusive interview with People on Friday that the princess has entered a treatment facility "outside of Monaco" for exhaustion. Her return home "went pretty well in the first few hours, and then it became pretty evident that she was unwell," Albert told the publication.Though speculation swirled that her move resulted from a rift in her relationship with her husband , the son of Grace Kelly and Prince Rainier III, the palace, Albert and Charlene have affirmed that her health struggles grounded her on another continent. Mid-May: During a trip to her native South Africa to advocate against poaching and killing rhinos for their horns, Charlene experienced an ear, nose and throat infection severe enough that it "does not allow her to travel," the palace told South African outlet News24. June 24: Charlene's foundation confirmed to News24 was "undergoing multiple, complicated procedures" after contracting the infection. Her medical team advised her to stay in South Africa as she continued to recover and waited to receive further procedures, the foundation said. July 6: Charlene, unable to return to Monaco to celebrate her 10th wedding anniversary, told News24 in a statement that her illness and grounding in South Africa has "been a trying time." "I miss my husband and children dearly," she said. "What has been extremely difficult for me was when I was instructed by my medical team that I could not return home for my 10th wedding anniversary. Albert is my rock and strength and without his love and support I would not have been able to get through this painful time."September 2: Albert, speaking exclusively to People, said that his wife was "ready to come home" after undergoing months of medical procedures. September 4: Charlene left a South African hospital after she was treated for an ear, nose and throat condition, Monaco's palace told Reuters at the time. She was admitted to the hospital after fainting earlier in the week, though the palace said her collapse wasn't a major concern. September 8: In another interview with People, Albert denounced rumors that Charlene remained in South Africa due to issues in their relationship. "She didn't leave Monaco in a huff!" he told the outlet. "She didn't leave because she was mad at me or at anybody else ... It was only supposed to be a weeklong, 10-day maximum stay, and [she is still there now] because she had this infection all these medical complications arose."October 26: Albert told People that Charlene will return to Monaco within weeks after she completed her recovery from an early October surgery. November 9: Charlene returned to Monaco after half a year away, eagerly greeted by her children and husband. On Instagram, she shared a photo of herself in a black face mask with her children and husband, captioned, "Happy day today Thank you all for keeping me strong !!" with a heart emoji. November 16: The palace announced that Charlene, within a week of returning to Monaco, would avoid public duties as she continued her recovery. "A period of calm and rest is necessary to ensure the very best recovery for Princess Charlene's health," the palace said in a statement, according to Reuters. November 19: Charlene was absent from celebrations for the National Day of Monaco.Prince Albert told People his wife is suffering from profound "exhaustion, both emotional and physical."  Appearing on a balcony with their father at the public event, Charlene's 6-year-old twins, Prince Jacque and Princess Gabriella, held handmade signs honoring their mother. Gabriella's sign read "We miss you Mommy" with hearts, and Jacque wrote "We love you Mommy." 
Natalie Morales says goodbye to 'Today' after 22 years at NBC. New York (CNN Business)Natalie Morales said farewell on Friday to her viewers and colleagues on "Today" after 22 years at NBC. Morales, who worked as an anchor for "Today" and correspondent for "Dateline NBC," is leaving the network to join CBS as a host of its afternoon program, "The Talk." On Friday, "Today" shared a touching farewell segment in which Morales reflected on her career at the network."Dear viewer, from the minute I stepped in front of the camera and into your living rooms I knew it was an honor to be a part of your morning tradition and sacred time," Morales said. "With you, I've had a front row seat to moments that captured our hearts, moments I will forever cherish as I witnessed history."Morales recalled her coverage of the rescue of 33 Chilean miners, two royal weddings, eight Olympics and survivors of the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing crossing the finish line at the following year's race.  "I, too, was inspired to run and raise thousands for their cause thanks to your support," Morales said. "So many extraordinary people touched our lives, trusting us with their awe inspiring journeys.""Dear viewer, you and my 'Today' family have given me a place I will forever call home. Thank you for all those mornings and the lifetime of memories we now share. With all my love and gratitude, Natalie," she concluded. Morales sat with her "Today" co-hosts  Al Roker, Craig Melvin, Savannah Guthrie, Hoda Kotb and Carson Daly  for a sendoff toast.  "For 22 years, no matter what you have done, Natalie, you are still the same person," Roker said. "You are wonderful, warm. You have always been a good friend to everybody who's been here. You treat everybody equal. I adore you." Morales' final story for "Dateline NBC" premieres Friday. 
U.S. screened highest number of air passengers since start of pandemic. WASHINGTON, Nov 20 (Reuters) - The U.S. Transportation Security Administration screened 2.24 million airline passengers on Friday, the highest number of passengers since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, it announced on Saturday.TSA spokesperson Lisa Farbstein announced the milestone on Twitter, saying it was the "highest checkpoint volume" since March 2020, when the pandemic took hold in the United States, bringing travel and business to a halt.Earlier in the week, the TSA said it had expected to screen about 20 million air passengers during the busy Thanksgiving travel period - from Nov. 19 to Nov. 28 - and predicted volumes may be close to pre-pandemic levels.Major U.S. airlines had predicted an uptick in air travel over the last few days.Delta Air Lines said it expects to fly up to 5.6 million passengers from Friday through Nov. 30, nearly 300% over 2020's 2.2 million Delta passengers for the period but still below the 6.3 million passengers during the same period in 2019.United Airlines said it anticipates more than 4.5 million passengers during the Thanksgiving travel period - about 88% of 2019 volume.Last week, the Biden administration lifted travel restrictions for fully vaccinated air travelers from 33 countries, including China, South Africa, Brazil and much of Europe. (Reporting by Valerie Volcovici and David Shepardson; editing by Jonathan Oatis)
Storm systems may cause a headache for Thanksgiving travel.  (CNN)A significant storm system is forecast to bring powerful winds, which could mean disruptions at major airports Monday through Wednesday. It may not pack a hefty punch of precipitation. Still, the precipitation will be a nuisance and bring blustery winds more fit for Christmas travel than Thanksgiving travel."Deepening low pressure should allow for a period of breezy/gusty winds across much of the East Monday and Tuesday and possibly into the middle and latter parts of the week across the Northeast as low pressure lingers offshore," the Weather Prediction Center (WPC) reported. The two most common airport delays are low ceilings -- low clouds -- and wind during the winter months."The combination of airport surface winds and low ceiling and visibility conditions account for about 75 percent of delays," the Federal Aviation Administration explained.Along with the winds will come unseasonably cold temperatures, some snow, and rain early in the week. Another 'significant storm' is possible later in the week, the Weather Prediction Center noted.Here is a day-by-day breakdown of what to expect. SaturdayThis will by far be the best day to travel all week since the vast majority of precipitation will only happen in the intermountain West. Snow and rain showers will occur in areas of Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Utah, and western Colorado.Some thunderstorms are also possible in southern Florida throughout the day. SundayThe storm system begins to take shape across the Midwest. Rain showers are possible in the region Sunday morning and then maybe even some snow showers in the evening. But the wind picking up could steal the show. "Current indications suggest wind gusts could peak in the 35 to 40 mph range," the Chicago National Weather Service (NWS) said. Stay on top of the latest delays and the most recent forecast modelsThe wind combined with the cold could send the "feel's like" temperature down into the upper teens or single digits. "A little farther east, a wintry mix could develop over the northern Mid-Atlantic Sunday morning," the WPC said Friday.Some light rain could creep into the Northeast Sunday evening ahead of the cold front. MondayThe exact timing of the rain is still uncertain, but it is likely from any time Sunday night to mid-afternoon Monday as the cold front sweeps through. The front will stretch from Florida to Maine through the morning hours. By midday, the front is off the coast and dry conditions will settle in for most. "Moderate to heavy rainfall should continue into parts of New England though with the heaviest totals (in excess of an inch) across far northeast Maine on Monday," the WPC said in its forecast. Lake-effect snow is also possible on the east side of the Great Lakes. As of Friday afternoon, the low pressure expected to form along the coast will stay far enough offshore to prevent the major metro areas from seeing any increased precipitation. However, the storm system will intensify winds across the region leading into Tuesday.TuesdayThe coastal low will crank up the winds in the Northeast.  Northwest winds of 15 to 25 mph with gusts of 25 to 35 mph, with the strongest near the coast, are possible throughout the day, the New York NWS projected. The winds will impact flights across the region. And it won't just be the impact to the planes; anyone working on the ground outside will have to deal with extremely blustery conditions. "In fact, Tuesday highs will most likely be in the 40s (20s in mountains) for most areas with lows in the 20s for most areas," the NWS in Washington, DC said. "This will make it feel more like late December (normal high for December 25th is 47 degrees at DCA and 45 degrees at BWI)."Out in the Pacific Northwest, it may be slightly warmer. Still, another storm system will move in early Tuesday morning, bringing more rain to the saturated region.WednesdayNot much changes as the Pacific Northwest continues to see rainfall while gusty winds will continue in the Northeast.The storm in the Northeast may take its time exiting the region, leaving some gusty winds, rain and snow showers in New England. Models have trended on a quicker exit, but it is still too early to nail down timing. If you are skiing this holiday weekend, you are in luck as snow showers are possible for the Intermountain West. The snow may even dip down to the lower elevations, including Denver, Salt Lake City and Cheyenne, Wyoming.  A storm entering the Midwest will begin to ramp up and pull in moisture from the Gulf of Mexico. This will produce an expanding area of moderate to heavy rainfall from eastern Texas into parts of the Lower Mississippi Valley. ThanksgivingModerate to heavy rain will continue Thanksgiving Day for much of the South from Texas to Tennessee with up to 2 inches possible in some locations. Temperatures rebound mostly back to normal by Thursday for much of the eastern half of the US, but keep in mind "normal" can still be cold.  For example, New York will likely see temperatures in the low 40s, so for anyone venturing out to watch the big morning parade, make sure you bundle up! Friday into the WeekendThe return trip could be dicey for some as the Midwest storm system continues to push east. The models do not agree on the intensity or timing of the storm. One computer weather model shows mainly rain across the Southeast. While the other brings rain, ice and snow into the Northeast. It will be certainly something meteorologists and travelers alike will keep their eyes on.
They just moved to the US and wanted to experience their first Thanksgiving. More than 100 strangers responded with help.  (CNN)For many, Thanksgiving involves traveling to spend time with family and loved ones around the dinner table eating turkey and green bean casserole. It's a time to watch football and reflect on everything you're thankful for.But for international students in the US, Thanksgiving is an unknown territory.That was the issue for Susana Orrego Villegas and her husband, Edward White, who recently moved from Colombia to Brookline, Massachusetts, a few miles southwest of Boston.Both of them are international students on student visas. Orrego Villegas is studying medical sciences at Harvard Medical School, while White studies English.When Orrego Villegas's fellow classmates began discussing their Thanksgiving plans she got curious about this American tradition, since Colombia does not have a holiday like Thanksgiving.So, she opened her Nextdoor app to ask for some help.On October 26 she posted a photo of her and her husband asking if anyone was willing to share Thanksgiving dinner with them. In the post she wrote, "We are a super lovely couple and want to know more about American culture. I want to have our first traditional thanksgiving with an American family."And the neighbors weren't shy. Within a few days more than 100 people commented, some from across town."I made the post with no expectations, only for people to give us recommendations of restaurants," Orrego Villegas told CNN.Welcoming others to the tableWith the outpouring of invites, Orrego Villegas explained that it was difficult for them to decide where to spend the holiday. They messaged back and forth with many people to get to know them and narrowed it down to about 30 options.Nurse practitioner Carol Lesser, who lives 10 minutes away from the couple, was the chosen host. "She got a lot of offers of where to go," Lesser told CNN. "I told her, 'Wow we won the lottery, you guys are coming to us!'"And for Lesser the decision to open her home to the couple was easy. "I woke up one morning and saw it come across my feed and I had this instantaneous reaction to reach out," she said. "This beautiful woman's post spoke to me. She had a genuine curiosity in what we do here for the holidays."Lesser has always gathered with family during the holidays and, for more than a decade now, has been the hostess of the dinner. "If anybody comes to Thanksgiving in my house and enjoys it, they can always come back," she said. "My mom always made room at the table if somebody didn't have a place to go, so I was raised that way." This isn't her first time opening her home to strangers. Lesser told CNN that for nearly 30 years she's been renting rooms out in her house to international students in the area. "When I was young, I traveled and if it wasn't for the kindness of strangers I wouldn't have learned as much as I did about the cultures." Lesser added.This year the table will be set for more than 20 people, as Lesser's extended family and new Colombian friends gather.Staying connectedIf neighbors weren't available on Thanksgiving Day, they offered to meet up with Orrego Villegas and White another time. In fact, they've already met two families. "The people were super friendly," Orrego Villegas said. "One family gave us an American heritage book and the other showed us pictures of when they visited Colombia."Orrego Villegas and Lesser both say this experience has given them hope about the community.Orrego Villegas says her view on Bostonians has changed, "Here in Boston my first impression was that many people don't say hello on the streets. After this post I realized that people are super kind and welcoming."Lesser said, "It's a no-brainer for me, to act as though what you do makes a difference. It does. I like seeing times where it feels like a sense of normalcy where we can reach out, we can trust each other."As for the future of this friendship, both hope to stay in contact past the holiday season. "I hope we will meet again, and I would love to experience food from her country as well," Lesser said.
Phone glitch leaves some Tesla drivers locked out.  (CNN)One of the perks of owning a Tesla is using your smartphone as a key to open and drive your car. It does away with carrying a separate key fob in your pocket.But what if your smartphone app glitches? You could be stuck not being able to use your car, which seems to be happening to Tesla owners around the world.On Friday a number of Twitter users reported getting a "500 server error" when trying to use the Tesla app. That indicates something has gone wrong with an Internet server the app is trying to connect to."Still stuck in Seoul" wrote Jaehwan Cho on Twitter after earlier reporting the server error when trying to use it with his Tesla Model 3.The website Downdetector showed a large spike in reported Tesla server problems at around 5pm on Friday. It is unknown exactly how many Tesla owners are affected by the outage, or how many are locked out of their cars. Tesla, which hasn't engaged with professional news media for over a year, did not respond to a request for comment.Tesla cars also come with a key card that works like the wireless key fob many vehicles have today. So in a pinch, Tesla owners can still use that to get into their cars and start them. If properly set up, the phone can also connect directly to the car without going through the Internet server. But drivers who relied solely on the app using an Internet connection were stuck.The smartphone app also shows things like the car's level of battery charge and whether it's charging.Zachary Kiefer who, had driven an hour from his home in Indiana when the app stopped working, was stuck outside of his car for hours. He had lost his key card about a month ago and also had a new phone, he said. He ended up calling AAA but, luckily, the app started working again before the tow truck arrived.Tesla's customers service did not seem particularly helpful, he said. "I was pretty disappointed," he said. "They just didn't seem to care."
The supply chain is messing with the squishy golden dumpling everyone wants. New York (CNN Business)An animated dumpling called "Dart," with a shiny gold chrome body that pops out of its head when you squeeze its squishy cheeks, is creating quite a stir as parents scramble to score one of this year's must-have toys.Dart belongs to a family of interactive dumplings from toymaker WowWee that hit stores in mid July. They're basically what the name suggests -- squeezable but inedible dumplings big enough to fit into the palm of your hand.And they're increasingly difficult to find. Like with everything, blame the supply chain."It's a s**tshow," said Michael Yanofsky, the company's managing director of sales. "It's not just the holdup at the ports, it's labor shortages and backups all along the transportation network that's been a struggle to get the toys to retailers.""Our bet is made for Black Friday," said Yanofsky. "Whatever inventory of dumplings is in is it and we hope it all makes it onto store shelve. There's no chance of getting more unless we put them on planes."WowWee is trying to navigate the serious supply chain issues to ensure it has enough inventory overall of its dumplings to satisfy strong demand through to Christmas. The dumplings, like most toys sold in the United States, are made in China. Sold outThe first four in the lineup are named "Doe," "Dip," "Dee" and "Dot." They each speak a weird "Squish-Pop" language and giggle and laugh. The cheeks change color and the top of their head lights up to a color code that matches their current "mood" -- energetic, happy, silly. Then along came "Mel the Marshamallow, " "Peace the Peach" and "Coco the Cotton Candy Cloud."But it's Dart, the golden dumpling who flaunts 24K gold glasses, that everyone desperately wants. He's sold out on Amazon (AMZN) where WowWee launched him at the end September. Dart has been popping up on eBay  (EBAY)at twice the retail price.Its popularity even caught the attention of MyBookie.com, an offshore gaming site, which was accepting bets this month on whether the squishy little golden dumpling would sell out on Amazon before Black Friday. Hitting all the trendsThe $15 dumpling toy is popular because it's hitting a few dominant trends in toys right now, said Marissa Silva, editor-in-chief of The Toy Insider, a toy review and news website.She said kids are obsessed with collecting tiny cute toys that come in tiny packages, as proven by the Shopkins mania. "Dumplings are a little bit bigger but collectible," said Silva. "They're also affordable and not overly complicated for kids to figure out."Plus, the soft squishy texture of the dumpling and the popping out of their body also cleverly plays into the current bubble fidget poppers toy craze.There's one other appeal: the food inspiration."Food-themed toys continue to be very hot trend. We've seen this with Shopkins and with Mini Brands," said Jim Silver, a toy industry expert and CEO of Toys, Tots, Pets & More, an industry review website. Mini Brands are tiny shrunken versions of popular consumer products like a can of Spam, or a bottle of Dove Body Wash that come hidden in tiny bags.""These food-inspired toys are also so easy for kids to have fun with on social media," said Silver.The squishy dumplings are the brainchild of Sydney Wiseman, vice president of brand development and creative strategy for WowWee. She came up with the idea for them 18 moths ago. "I wanted to do a toy based on a dumpling for a long time," she said. And she wanted the dumpling characters to be in a band. That aspect is infused in their look and the accessories they wear.More are comingWowWee in August announced a partnership with Nickelodeon to produce animated digital music videos that feature the squishy characters in a band.Wiseman is thrilled with the dumplings popularity overall, and especially of Dart's, which WowWee only produced 100,000 pieces of as a very limited character. She said Dart holds a special meaning for the WowWee team. "He's named after a dear friend of ours at WowWee, Art Janis, who recently passed away," she said.There's still a possibility to score Dart after Black Friday. WowWee is launching a two-pack set with the golden dumpling and a rose gold dumpling on November 30 on Amazon.
Grammy nominations 2022: See the list of nominees.  (CNN)Nominations for the 2022 Grammy Awards were revealed Tuesday.John Batiste, the soulful musician who also serves as the bandleader on "The Late Show with Stephen Colbert," led among all nominees with 11. He celebrated nominations by pointing out on Twitter that is birthday is 11/11.Chart toppers Justin Bieber, H.E.R., Doja Cat, Billie Eilish and Olivia Rodrigo all followed closely with multiple nominations. Rodrigo scored nods in all four of the top categories: record of the year, album of the year, song of the year and best new artist. The Grammys will take place on Monday, Jan. 31 on CBS and will stream live and on demand on Paramount+.A list of nominees in several major categories follows below. You can see the full list of more than 80 categories here.Record of the Year"I Still Have Faith In You," ABBA"Freedom," Jon Batiste"I Get A Kick Out Of You," Tony Bennett & Lady Gaga"Peaches," Justin Bieber Featuring Daniel Caesar & Giveon"Right On Time,"  Brandi Carlile"Kiss Me More," Doja Cat Featuring SZA"Happier Than Ever," Billie Eilish"Montero" (Call Me By Your Name), Lil Nas X"drivers license," Olivia Rodrigo"Leave The Door Open," Silk SonicSong of the Year"Bad Habits," Ed Sheeran"A Beautiful Noise," Alicia Keys Featuring Brandi Carlile"drivers license," Olivia Rodrigo"Fight For You," H.E.R."Happier Than Ever," Billie Eilish"Kiss Me More," Doja Cat Featuring SZA"Leave The Door Open," Silk Sonic"Montero (Call Me By Your Name)," Lil Nas X"Peaches," Justin Bieber Featuring Daniel Caesar & Giveon"Right On Time," Brandi CarlileAlbum of the Year"We Are," Jon Batiste"Love For Sale," Tony Bennett & Lady Gaga"Justice (Triple Chucks Deluxe)," Justin Bieber"Planet Her (Deluxe)," Doja Cat"Happier Than Ever," Billie Eilish"Back Of My Mind," H.E.R."Montero," Lil Nas X"Sour," Olivia Rodrigo"Evermore," Taylor Swift"Donda," Kanye WestBest New ArtistArooj AftabJimmie AllenBaby KeemFINNEASGlass AnimalsJapanese BreakfastThe Kid LaroiArlo ParksOlivia RodrigoSaweetieBest Pop Solo Performance"Anyone," Justin Bieber"Right on Time," Brandi Carlile"Happier Than Ever," Billie Eilish"Positions," Ariana Grande"drivers license," Olivia RodrigoBest Pop Duo or Group Performance"I Get a Kick Out of You," Tony Bennett & Lady Gaga"Lonely," Justin Bieber & benny blanco"Butter," BTS"Higher Power," Coldplay"Kiss Me More," Doja Cat feat. SZABest Traditional Pop Vocal Album"Love for Sale," Tony Bennett & Lady Gaga"'Til We Meet Again (Live)," Norah Jones"A Tori Kelly Christmas," Tori Kelly"Ledisi Sings Nina," Ledisi"That's Life," Willie NelsonA Holly Dolly Christmas, Dolly PartonBest Pop Vocal Album"Justice (Triple Chucks Deluxe)," Justin Bieber"Planet Her (Deluxe)," Doja Cat"Happier Than Ever", Billie Eilish"Positions," Ariana Grande"Sour," Olivia RodrigoBest Dance Recording"Hero," Afrojack & David Guetta"Loom," lafur Arnalds Featuring Bonobo"Before," James Blake"Heartbreak," Bonobo & Totally Enormous Extinct Dinosaurs"You Can Do It," Caribou"Alive," Rfs Du Sol"The Business," TistoBest Rap Album"The Off-Season," J. Cole"Certified Lover Boy," Drake"King's Disease 2," Nas"Call Me If You Get Lost," Tyler, the Creator "Donda," Kanye WestBest Rap Performance"Family Ties," Baby Keem, Kendrick Lamar "Up," Cardi B"My Life," J. Cole, 21 Savage & Morray "Way Too Sexy," Drake, Future, Young Thug "Thot S***" Megan Thee Stallion Best Rap Song"Bath Salts," DMX, Jay-Z, Nas"Best Friend," Saweetie, Doja Cat "Family Ties," Baby Keem, Kendrick Lamar"Jail," Kanye West, Jay-Z"My Life," J. Cole, 21 Savage & MorrayBest Latin Pop Album"Vertigo," Pablo Alborn"Mis Amores," Paula Arenas - Mis Amores"Hecho A La Antigua," Ricardo Arjona "Mis Manos," Camilo "Mend," Alex Cuba "Revelacin," Selena GomezBest Musica Urbana Album"Afrodisaco," Rauw Alejandro"El ltimo Tour Del Mundo," Bad Bunny"Jose," J Balvin"KG0516," KAROL G"Sin Miedo (Del Amor Y Otros Demonios) 8," Kali UchisBest American Roots Performance"Cry," Jon Batiste "Love and Regret," Billy Strings "I Wish I Knew How It Would Feel to be Free," The Blind Boys of Alabama and Bela Fleck "Same Devil," Brandy Clark Featuring Brandi Carlile"Nightflyer," Allison RussellBest R&B Performance"Lost You," Snoh Aalegra"Peaches," Justin Bieber Featuring Daniel Caesar & Giveon"Damage," H.E.R."Leave The Door Open," Silk Sonic"Pick Up Your Feelings," Jazmine SullivanBest R&B Song"Damage," H.E.R."Good Days," SZA"Heartbreak Anniversary," Giveon"Leave The Door Open," Silk Sonic"Pick Up Your Feelings," Jazmine SullivanBest Country Solo Performance"Forever After All," Luke Combs"Remember Her Name," Mickey Guyton"All I Do Is Drive," Jason Isbell"camera roll," Kacey Musgraves"You Should Probably Leave," Chris StapletonBest Country Duo or Group Performance"If I Didn't Love You," Jason Aldean & Carrie Underwood"Younger Me," Brothers Osborne"Glad You Exist," Dan + Shay"Chasing After You," Ryan Hurd & Maren Morris"Drunk (And I Don't Wanna Go Home)," Elle King & Miranda LambertBest Country Song"Better Than We Found It," Maren Morris"camera roll," Kacey Musgraves"Cold," Chris Stapleton"Country Again," Thomas Rhett"Fancy Like," Walker Hayes"Remember Her Name," Mickey GuytonBest Country Album"Skeletons," Brothers Osborne"Remember Her Name," Mickey Guyton"The Marfa Tapes," Miranda Lambert, Jon Randall & Jack Ingram"The Ballad Of Dood & Juanita," Sturgill Simpson"Starting Over," Chris StapletonBest Rock Performance"Shot in the Dark," AC/DC"Know You Better (Live from Capitol Studio A)," Black Pumas"Nothing Compares 2 U," Chris Cornell"OHMS," Deftones"Making a Fire," Foo FightersBest Rock Song"All My Favorite Songs," Weezer"The Bandit," Kings of Leon"Distance," Mammoth WVH"Find My Way," Paul McCartney"Waiting on a War," Foo FightersBest Rock Album"Power Up", AC/DC"Capitol Cuts- Live From Studio A," Black Pumas"No One Sings Like You Anymore, Vol. 1," Chris Cornell"Medicine at Midnight," Foo Fighters"McCartney III," Paul McCartney
Autopsy shows Brian Laundrie died by suicide, attorney says.  (CNN)Brian Laundrie died by suicide from a gunshot wound to the head, an attorney for the Laundrie family told CNN Tuesday."Chris and Roberta Laundrie have been informed that the cause of death was a gunshot wound to the head and the manner of death was suicide," said attorney Steven Bertolino. CNN has reached out to authorities for further comment, and has followed up with Bertolino regarding how Laundrie came to be in possession of a gun.Laundrie's remains were found in a Florida nature reserve last month after a weekslong manhunt. He disappeared just days after his fiance Gabby Petito was reported missing.The couple had been traveling across the country over the summer in a converted van and documenting their travels on social media. The case gained national attention as authorities searched for both.Laundrie returned to his parents' house in Florida on September 1 without Petito. As police were trying to question the family about Petito's whereabouts, Laundrie went missing on September 13 or 14 after leaving home with a backpack, according to his parents. Petito's remains were found in Wyoming on September 19. Her death was ruled a homicide by manual strangulation.Petito's family says they are "aware of the circumstances" regarding Laundrie. But they are not making an official comment at the request of the US Attorney's Office and the Teton County Prosecutor's Office in Wyoming, according to a statement from the family.The family was asked not to make any comments while the investigation into her death is ongoing, the statement said.A Florida medical examiner's office confirmed Tuesday Laundrie had died of suicide by a gunshot wound to the head.The office won't make the autopsy report public "until the law enforcement investigation is complete," the office said in a release.A timeline of the Petito caseWhat led to Petito's death remains a mystery. The FBI had described Laundrie as a "person of interest" in her murder, but he was not charged. He had, though, been indicted for allegedly using two accounts that belonged to someone else in the days after she died. Laundrie's remains were found October 20 in an area of Carlton Reserve that had been underwater during previous searches of the 25,000-acre nature reserve in North Port. Laundrie's father, who was searching with authorities the day his son's remains were found, discovered a notebook near where Laundrie's body was found. Experts said at the time the notebook could be key in providing answers. The notebook was wet at the time, and officials haven't yet said whether they have gained any information from it. Bertolini said in October Laundrie's parents had discussed "several times" the possibility their son had died by suicide. 
Jury begins deliberations in trial of three men accused of killing Ahmaud Arbery. Brunswick, Georgia (CNN)The prosecutor in the trial of three men accused of killing Ahmaud Arbery sought Tuesday to simplify the events that led to the 25-year-old's death, taking the podium the day after defense teams spent closing arguments trying to criminalize Arbery, alleging he brought his death on himself. Prosecutor Linda Dunikoski delivered her rebuttal early Tuesday, emphasizing to the jury Arbery was accused of no crime and the defendants told police they knew of no crime he'd committed. She had almost two hours remaining after delivering the first part of her closing arguments ahead of defense counsel. Live updates: Follow the trialLawyers for the three White men charged with murder used their final statements Monday to say Travis McMichael, Gregory McMichael and William "Roddie" Bryan Jr. had reason to believe Arbery was up to no good because he'd entered an under-construction home and he ran when confronted. Laura Hogue, one of Gregory McMichael's attorneys, referred to Arbery as a "recurring nighttime intruder" and implied he had nefarious intent when he arrived "in his khaki shorts with no socks to cover his long, dirty toenails." Dunikoski seized on the defense notion that the McMichaels were scared -- and their Glynn County, Georgia' s Satilla Shores neighborhood had been living in fear -- because of crime in the area. That the armed men decided to chase Arbery for five minutes in their trucks is evidence alone they weren't frightened, she said. They had alternatives -- including never chasing Arbery or calling police -- but instead they chose to pursue Arbery even after he repeatedly eluded them, said Dunikoski. They committed aggravated assault with their trucks -- and the McMichaels, with their guns -- while trying to falsely imprison Arbery, she said. During the course of these felonies, Dunikoski said, they killed Arbery. "If you take that out would he be alive?" she asked the jury. "It's real simple. The answer is you can't take out any of these crimes. If you take out any one of these crimes that they committed and he's still alive. All of the underlying felonies played a substantial and necessary part in causing the death of Ahmaud Arbery."Claims that they were protecting their neighborhood appear spurious, Dunikoski said, when you consider  the property owner never accused Arbery of any crime -- aside from entering the property without incident -- and nothing had been stolen there in the months prior to Arbery's fatal shooting. Dunikoski has also said the defendants can't claim self-defense when Arbery, unarmed and on foot, tried for five minutes to elude three men, two of them armed, chasing him in a pair of pickup trucks. She asked the jury: Why, if this was about stopping crime, did the McMichaels never mention a specific crime or citizen's arrest to the police at the scene?Following Dunikoski's rebuttal, Judge Timothy Walmsley gave jurors instructions and said, for Bryan, he'd permit them to consider simple assault, reckless conduct or reckless driving in lieu of aggravated assault with a truck. The jury, composed of nine White women, two White men and a Black man (with two White women and a White man as alternates), began deliberating shortly thereafter. The jury spent more than six hours deliberating on day one. Walmsley checked in on jurors twice to see if a verdict was imminent, with the foreperson reporting they had not returned one. The jury told the judge they considered continuing deliberations into the evening, but ultimately decided to break. Court adjourned around 6:30 p.m. ET and day two of deliberations will begin Wednesday at 8 a.m.Judge denies motion for mistrialDefense lawyers made remarks Monday that legal experts felt were racially insensitive, and Dunikoski has insisted the defendants targeted Arbery "because he was a Black man running down the street."Travis McMichael testified he never saw Arbery armed, never heard Arbery threaten him and Arbery showed no interest in conversing with McMichael.The men acted on "assumptions and driveway decisions," Dunikoski has said, and they had no immediate knowledge Arbery committed a crime, a key factor in claiming citizen's arrest. The defense moved for a mistrial, saying Dunkioski's misstated the state's now-defunct citizen's arrest law. Walmsley denied the motion.Along with his father, Gregory McMichael, and Bryan, his neighbor, Travis McMichael faces charges of malice murder, felony murder, aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony in the February 23, 2020, killing. The trio say they pursued Arbery only after suspecting him of burglary.Travis McMichael testified he shot Arbery in self-defense after Arbery grabbed his gun. He told Dunikoski he was "scattered" and traumatized when he initially told police he didn't know if Arbery grabbed the shotgun. The men have pleaded not guilty. If convicted, they face maximum sentences of life in prison without parole. Family objects to comments from defense attorneyOn Monday, Hogue claimed Arbery repeatedly trespassed -- and perhaps more -- when entering a construction site in the neighborhood outside Brunswick. "Turning Ahmaud Arbery into a victim after the choices that he made does not reflect the reality of what brought Ahmaud Arbery to Satilla Shores in his khaki shorts with no socks to cover his long, dirty toenails," Hogue said.Arbery's mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones, almost tripped leaving the courtroom, saying, "I gotta get out of here."Arbery was never charged with any crimes in the neighborhood. The owner of the property never said Arbery committed a crime, just that he was caught on camera at the site. Race has been a key focus. Arbery is Black, and 11 of the 12 jurors are White. Ben Crump, an attorney for Arbery's father, suggested race played a factor in the killing."They had dozens of other people who visited the home. Nobody chased them. Nobody said that they burglarized the home. Why is that?" Crump asked Monday.It was a point important to Dunikoski's rebuttal. Arbery had been to the under-construction property multiple times, she said, but he never stole anything. Responding to defense implications Arbery could've been responsible for items stolen from a boat in 2019, Dunikoski noted property owner Larry English told police he had no idea who stole the items, the items may have been stolen at another location and he suspected subcontractors might be responsible. Video from December 2020, showing Arbery inside the home looking around and nothing more, also appears to provide counterpoint to the argument Arbery was never known to jog in Satilla Shores. In the video, Arbery exits the home empty-handed toward the street and breaks into a jog, disappearing from view as he runs down Satilla Drive. "What's Mr. Arbery doing? More importantly, what's Mr. Arbery not doing?" she asked the jury in reference to the video. If Arbery committed a crime, Dunikoski said, it was criminal trespass, or maybe prowling or loitering, all misdemeanors -- none meeting the prerequisite for citizen's arrest. The McMichaels told police they didn't know if Arbery had been in English's house, she reminded jurors. "If the (McMichaels and Bryan) were not conducting a lawful citizen's arrest, you do not have to consider ... self-defense because if it's not a lawful citizen's arrest -- that they were the first unjustified aggressors and they were committing felonies against Mr. Arbery, and therefore they don't get to claim self-defense."During jury instructions, Walmsley told jurors in a citizen's arrest, the person making the arrest must have witnessed the crime with her or his own senses or the perpetrator must've admitted a crime. It is not legal to make a citizen's arrest based on "unsupported statements of others alone," and the person making the arrest -- either after the crime, or in the case of a felony, during an escape -- must exact the arrest immediately, the judge said. Lawyers: Defendants just protecting neighborhood"Travis McMichael spent almost a decade of his life learning about duty and responsibility," his attorney Jason Sheffield said Monday, referring to McMichael's time in the US Coast Guard. "He received extensive training on how to make a decision that will ultimately impact his beliefs." Dunikoski countered Travis McMichael didn't follow his training and couldn't have been adhering to de-escalation techniques when he chased Arbery -- his armed father cursing at Arbery from his truck bed -- and then exited his truck with a shotgun. In closing, Sheffield reiterated the feelings of neighbors who testified they were afraid because of incidents in the neighborhood, including burglaries. Travis McMichael felt a "responsibility" to help protect the neighborhood, Sheffield said. "These are real experiences with real people who were very scared, and so they took it upon themselves to do something about it -- got cameras, called the police, notify each other, citizens' watch, neighborhood watch," he said.   Hogue told the jury they needed only to consider two questions."Did Greg McMichael have reasonable and probable grounds of suspicion to believe that Ahmaud Arbery had committed a burglary ... and did he have reasonable and probable grounds to believe that Ahmaud Arbery was escaping or attempting to escape yet again?" she said.Attorney Kevin Gough, who represents Bryan, described his client as a witness, arguing jurors should consider Bryan was the one who filmed the chase and killing, changing the course of the investigation. "He did not know and could not know that Arbery would be shot. By that time, sadly, there was nothing that Roddie Bryan could do to prevent this tragedy. He didn't shoot anyone. At the time of the shooting, he was some distance back. He was armed only with his cell phone," Gough said."Ladies and gentlemen, without Roddie Bryan, there is no case," he said.In her closing, Dunikoski emphasized everyone is responsible. Because all three men committed felonies before Travis McMichael shot Arbery, they are parties to the crime, she said. "Under the law in Georgia, it's as if they were all holding the gun together," she said. CNN's Alta Spells, Travis Caldwell, Angela Barajas, Martin Savidge, Jade Gordon, Theresa Waldrop and Christina Maxouris contributed to this report.
Manchester United qualifies for Champions League knockout stages with 2-0 victory against Villarreal.  (CNN)Manchester United started life without Ole Gunnar Solskjaer with a 2-0 victory against Villarreal on Tuesday courtesy of goals from Cristiano Ronaldo and Jadon Sancho. The win means United, which parted with manager Solskjaer at the weekend after a poor string of results, qualifies for the knockout stages of the Champions League.Michael Carrick stood in as caretaker manager ahead of the game at the Estadio de la Ceramica, and he watched on as United struggled to create chances for much of the contestBut his side burst into life towards the end of the second half, the two goals ensuring United reaches the Champions League last 16 with a game to spare. Ronaldo opened the scoring with 12 minutes of the match remaining as he capitalized on a poor pass from Villarreal goalkeeper Gernimo Rulli to Etienne Capoue -- who was put under pressure by Fred -- to chip the ball over Rulli. Sancho then grabbed his first United goal and wrapped up the win in the game's final moments as he finished off a counter-attacking move involving Marcus Rashford and Bruno Fernandes.The victory will be a huge boost for United and Carrick following the team's 4-1 defeat against Watford on Saturday. "When you've suffered results-wise and you're not in a great vein of form individually and as a team then it's not easy to come out and just let everything click," Carrick told BT Sport after the game."In some ways, it was the best way to win for me, that we had to show some character, we had to dig in, we had to fight."Villarreal, which defeated United to win the Europa League last season, dominated possession in the first half and had chances to take an early lead through Moi Gmez and Yeremi Pino. United goalkeeper David de Gea was then twice called into action by Manu Trigueros -- once in the first half and again midway through the second half -- and twice produced good saves to deny the midfielder. Visit CNN.com/sport for more news, videos and featuresThat kept United in the game and able to find the breakthrough via Ronaldo, who scored the winning goal when these two sides met in September.More chances came for the visiting side for Ronaldo and Rashford, but it was Sancho who got the second with a thumping shot into the top of the net.Villarreal faces Atalanta next week in its bid to qualify for the Champions League knockout stages. 
Why some US cities are facing a spree of 'smash-and-grab' crimes .  (CNN)A wave of "smash-and-grab" crimes is plaguing upscale stores in major US cities, with mobs of thieves making off with expensive goods in brazen, nighttime raids. At least 18 people broke into a Nordstrom department store in Los Angeles Monday night and stole thousands of dollars in merchandise, the city's police chief said.The thefts followed a rash of similar incidents over the weekend in the San Francisco Bay Area. A group of thieves swarmed the Southland Mall in Hayward on Sunday evening, wielding hammers to smash cases at a jewelry store before grabbing items and fleeing.Three suspects were arrested Saturday night after a mob ransacked a Nordstrom department store in Walnut Creek, east of San Francisco. Some 80 suspects were involved, and they fled the outdoor mall in at least 10 different vehicles, police said. That robbery came after similar raids Friday night near San Francisco's Union Square, where thieves targeted Louis Vuitton, Burberry and Bloomingdale's stores, a Walgreens and cannibis dispensaries. And California isn't the only place grappling with "smash-and-grab" crimes. Fourteen robbers barged into a Louis Vuitton store in suburban Chicago last week and fled with more than $100,000 in handbags and other merchandise. So why so many recent incidents? Are they linked to the holiday season? Is it pandemic restlessness?  "This has nothing to do with the pandemic," said Pete Eliadis, a former law enforcement official and founder of security company Intelligence Consulting Partners. "The pandemic is overused at this point."But security experts cited a mix of several other factors.Such cases aren't always a priority for law enforcement San Francisco has seen a surge in crime since it reopened in the pandemic. In the Central district, for example, larceny and theft incidents are up almost 88% from a year earlier, and overall crime is up almost 52%, according to police statistics.Many of the store thieves wear masks or hoods, making them difficult to identify even when they're spotted on security cameras.Police in Los Angeles and San Francisco have made some arrests, but thieves often face few consequences, Eliadis said. One reason for this is law enforcement's lack of resources, which means theft cases sometimes are put on the back burner, he said. And, he added, the "defund the police" movement has sapped some officers' morale."There's no political will to prosecute the people in this climate. Why should a police officer waste time getting into an altercation when the person is not going to jail because it's overcrowded and a prosecutor is not going to prosecute that case because it's not high on the priority list?" Eliadis said. "The takeaway is we need the political will, more prosecution and backing of law enforcement."Thieves may face few consequences The decriminalization of low-level offenses in some states has created opportunities for criminals to manipulate the system, said Lynda Buel, president of Ohio-based security consulting firm SRMC. For example, Proposition 47, a California ballot initiative passed in 2014, sought to alleviate prison overcrowding by reducing the penalties for some crimes. The measure raised the threshold for felony theft from $500 to $950."For the low-level criminal, the benefit far outweighs the risk, since the threshold for a misdemeanor offense is $950 -- meaning that a person can steal up to that amount and only be charged with a misdemeanor," Buel said.Organized crime rings are often behind these types of "smash-and-grab" operations and pay low-level criminals to steal for them, she said.  Security experts said dismantling these sophisticated crime groups must be a law enforcement priority."People see the ability to commit these 'smash-and-grab incidents' knowing that there is little consequence, especially if the thefts are kept below the threshold of a felony offense," Buel said. "It's easy, it's fast, and the payback is good."   The holidays provide more opportunities for theftIt's not unusual for "smash and grabs" to increase around the Christmas holiday season, Buel said. Stores stock up before the holidays, which means there's a bounty of merchandise to pick from. That means more opportunities and more convenience for the smash-and-grabbers, she said. But retail theft by organized gangs is not limited to the holiday season. In July, California Gov. Gavin Newsom signed a law reinstating a task force to investigate organized theft at stores. "This is not new in the state ... We've been organized in a very deliberative manner to address the issue of organized retail crime for a number of years," Newsom said. "We are doubling down on those efforts today."In Illinois, Attorney General Kwame Raoul said in September that crime rings are costing retailers across the country an estimated $45 billion in annual losses. He created a task force to crack down on organized crime rings that target stores."These brazen, violent crimes are committed by sophisticated criminal organizations that are involved in drug trafficking, human trafficking and other serious crimes," Raoul said.There are numerous places to sell stolen itemsOnce items are stolen, there are several ways to sell them -- all extremely easy and with little regulation and monitoring from law enforcement, experts said. Most items grabbed in such cases have no serial numbers, making tracing them almost impossible, Eliadis said. "It is incredibly easy to sell stolen merchandise online through e-commerce platforms," Buel said. "E-commerce has really taken off as the place to sell stolen goods."Other thieves don't need to sell their stolen goods on Craigslist or eBay. They can also use flea markets, pawn shops and street vendors.  Thieves can sell expensive items at slashed prices, meaning there's no shortage of buyers, Eliadis added.The result is a ruthless cycle that affects everyone, Eliadis said. Some affected stores will shut down or relocate. And retailers plagued by thefts see their insurance rates and private security costs increase -- costs that eventually get passed on the customer. 
3 arrested after at least 18 people break into Nordstrom store in Los Angeles, police say.  (CNN)At least 18 people broke into a high-end department store in Los Angeles and stole thousands of dollars in merchandise Monday night, the city's police chief said, in one of the country's latest store burglaries involving sizable groups of thieves.The group used a sledgehammer and an electric bicycle to smash a window, allowing them to enter the closed Nordstrom department store at The Grove retail complex in Los Angeles around 10:40 p.m. PT, city police said.The group, consisting of 18 to 20 people, stole at least $5,000 in merchandise and caused $15,000 in damage, Los Angeles Police Chief Michel Moore said Tuesday at a city police commission meeting.Nearby police officers "heard the event" and saw vehicles driving away, and the officers pursued one of the vehicles, Moore said.The pursuit ended in South Los Angeles, and three people in the vehicle were arrested in connection with the burglary, Los Angeles police spokesman Officer Drake Madison told CNN.Officers recovered merchandise from the vehicle and one of the three people arrested, Moore said.Los Angeles police will increase overnight patrols at high-end retail stores starting Tuesday, Moore said.The burglary is one of the most recent in a series of similar crimes in some major US metropolitan areas, including San Francisco and Chicago.About 80 people were involved in what police are calling a "smash-and-grab" incident Saturday night at a Nordstrom location in Walnut Creek, near San Francisco. People fled the store in at least 10 different vehicles, Lt. Ryan Hibbs at the Walnut Creek Police Department told CNN. Three suspects were arrested.The manager of a nearby restaurant told CNN affiliate KPIX that the suspects were wearing masks and carried what appeared to be crowbars."There was a mob of people," Brett Barrett said. "The police were flying in. It was like a scene out of a movie. It was insane. ... It was a scary scene for a moment."Police have not yet estimated a dollar amount for the stolen items, Hibbs said.The incident followed a series of similar thefts Friday night in Union Square and surrounding areas in San Francisco, including at a Louis Vuitton store, a Burberry store, a jewelry store, a Bloomingdale's, a Walgreens, cannabis dispensaries and even an eyeglass shop, San Francisco Police Chief Bill Scott said at a news conference Saturday.Similar crimes reported in IllinoisOn Wednesday, at least 14 people forced their way into a Louis Vuitton store in Oak Brook, Illinois, and made off with at least $100,000 in merchandise, according to CNN affiliate WLS, based on interviews with the Oak Brook Police Department.Police told WLS the individuals rushed into the store at Oak Brook Center Mall, took out garbage bags and began filling them with items. Surveillance video from the store, obtained by WLS, shows the chaotic scene as the masked shoplifters pour into the store grabbing handbags and other merchandise while shoppers rush out of the way.Investigators have information on the three vehicles the thieves drove away in, according to Police Chief James Kruger. Oak Brook is about 25 miles west of Chicago.Kruger told WLS his investigators are working with investigators in the Chicago suburb of Northbrook, where police say eight people took off with $66,000 worth of merchandise from a Louis Vuitton store at Northbrook Court Mall in October.On November 1, at least 13 men wearing masks and gloves entered the same Louis Vuitton store and stole several items valued at $100,000. Northbrook is about 30 miles from Oak Brook. "We don't know if there is an actual connection yet, but certainly there are similarities," Kruger said.CNN's Jason Hanna contributed to this report.
14 people rushed into a Louis Vuitton store outside Chicago and ran out with at least $100,000 in merchandise, police say.  (CNN)At least 14 people forced their way into a Louis Vuitton store in Oak Brook, Illinois, last week, and made off with at least $100,000 in merchandise, according to CNN affiliate WLS-TV, based on interviews with the Oak Brook Police Department.Police told WLS the individuals rushed into the store at Oak Brook Center Mall on Wednesday, took out garbage bags and began filling them with items. Surveillance video from the store, obtained by WLS, shows the chaotic scene as the masked shoplifters pour into the store grabbing handbags and other merchandise while shoppers rush out of the way.Investigators have information on the three vehicles the thieves drove away in, according to police Chief James Kruger. Oak Brook is about 25 miles west of Chicago. "We're working those leads in order to potentially identify the suspects," Kruger told WLS.Kruger told WLS his investigators are working with investigators in the Chicago suburb of Northbrook, where police say eight people took off with $66,000 worth of merchandise from a Louis Vuitton store at Northbrook Court Mall in October.On November 1, at least 13 men wearing masks and gloves entered the same Louis Vuitton store and stole several items valued at $100,000. Northbrook is about 30 miles from Oak Brook"We don't know if there is an actual connection yet, but certainly there are similarities," Kruger said.The thefts are similar to incidents in California over the weekend.San Francisco police said multiple people were arrested after a Louis Vuitton store was ransacked Friday night, and Saturday night in Walnut Creek, California, a Nordstrom was ransacked by "approximately 80 suspects," who got away in at least 10 different vehicles, CNN previously reported.CNN's Amir Vera contributed to this report. 
Best Buy CEO: Jump in theft is traumatizing staff. New York (CNN Business)Best Buy CEO Corie Barry said theft is a growing problem at the company's stores  and it is implementing added security measure to safeguard employees and shoppers."This is traumatizing for our associates and is unacceptable," Barry said on a call with analysts Tuesday. "We are doing everything we can to try to create [an] as safe as possible environment."Barry said the company is implementing a number of tactics to minimize theft and protect staff and customers. For example, Best Buy is locking up more products and hiring security when appropriate.Barry said organized retail crime is on the rise at Best Buy. The tactic involves an organized  "gang" of people who steal entire shelves of high-value products, such as electronics, to resell them for a profit. The crime surge is becoming such a problem that it is hitting Best Buy's (BBY) profits and could hurt its ability to retain and attract more employees in a tight labor market, Barry said in an interview Tuesday on CNBC's "Squawk on the Street."Some incidents involved individuals bringing a weapon, such as a gun or crowbar, she said.The retail industry is struggling to handle the escalation in organized retail theft. A 2020 survey of 61 retailers from the National Retail Federation, the industry's largest trade group, showed organized retail theft jumped nearly 60% from 2015 and cost stores an average of $719,548 per $1 billion dollars in sales.Smash and grab on the riseBarry's comments come on the heels of a string of retail thefts in San Francisco in just the last few days in which thieves targeted a Louis Vuitton store, a Burberry store, a jewelry store and Bloomingdale's and Walgreens locations.On Saturday, a Nordstrom (JWN) department store near San Francisco was ransacked in what police described as a "smash-and-grab" incident. Industry experts say store theft is now an acute problem and getting worse. "While retailers have always suffered from general shoplifting there is a growing scourge of organized gangs which are stealing to order," said Neil Saunders, retail analyst and managing director at GlobalData Retail. "The gangs are much more dangerous for retailers and for customers shopping in stores," he said. "The problem is that while store security and associates can take individual shoplifters to task, they are not able to do much against gangs as they are outnumbered."Saunders said its local communities that will ultimately suffer if this trend isn't reversed. "If theft grows too bad, then retailers will simply pull out of certain locations, as we have already seen with some of the drugstores," he said.
Jewel thieves jailed for $35 million celebrity burglaries . London (CNN)A gang of jewelery thieves have been jailed for a string of burglaries on the homes of celebrities, where they made away with 26 million ($34.9 million) worth of luxury stolen goods.Jugoslav Jovanovic, Alessandro Donati and Alessandro Maltese targeted high profile figures, including soccer manager and former England player Frank Lampard, television presenter Christine Lampard, Formula 1 heiress Tamara Ecclestone and the late chairman of the Leicester City soccer club, Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha.Police described the thefts as the "highest value series of residential burglaries in UK history." The men were sentenced to lengthy jail terms on Monday after being convicted at an earlier hearing.The trio, from Milan, Italy, flew into the UK just days before committing their first burglary, where they stole items worth about 60,000 ($80,600) at an address in the upmarket London borough of Kensington and Chelsea on 1 December 2019, according to London's Metropolitan Police.Days later on December 10 they stole 1 million ($1.34 million) of watches and cash from an address in Knightsbridge.They then targeted a house on Palace Green, where they grabbed items worth more than 26 million, including diamonds, precious stones, watches and cash.Most of the stolen jewelry and watches have not been recovered, authorities said. Police said that the gang were so meticulous in keeping their identities hidden -- paying only in cash, wearing disguises and caps and never walking in a group -- that the "three of them individually praised us for working out who they were and locating them."From a 13-second clip of grainy CCTV footage showing the burglars creeping through the back garden of the Palace Green property and back out again, police were able to establish a crime scene.The security camera footage showed the group getting into an unknown black taxi during their getaway, which led officers to identify at least 1,007 cabs that were in the area at the time.Police attempted to trace every single taxi, and it was only in speaking to cab driver 1,004 that they traced the driver who picked the thieves up, and were able to determine a regular route for the gang."This story is comparable to what you will see in a Hollywood movie but unfortunately this was real life and involved real victims," Detective Constable Andrew Payne, from Central Specialist Crime, said in a statement.Jovanovic, 24, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy to burgle and conspiracy to money laundering, was sentenced to a total of 11 years in jail.Donati, 44, and Maltese, 45, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to burgle and were both given sentences of eight years and nine months.'I feel unsafe in my home'In victim impact statements, the targets of the burglaries spoke of how the raids had affected them."I would say that this incident has had a major impact on our general feeling of security, particularly with having a 16 month old baby," Frank Lampard said. "The fact that my job means that I travel frequently again raises my concerns. Neither my wife nor I are sleeping too well as a consequence of this incident."His wife, Christine Lampard, said she struggled to sleep since the burglary, adding: "I am much more fearful of being alone in my own home, I am less trusting of visitors to the house and feel unsafe in my home. I have a young daughter and feel vulnerable in a home which I had previously always felt safe and happy in."Meanwhile, the family of the late Srivaddhanaprabha said that their father's residence had previously been "a place of reflection and to pray.""We felt it was the strongest connection to him as he spent his last night there before his death. Since the burglary, our sacred and special connection has been damaged and violated beyond repair," they added.Ecclestone, daughter of former Formula 1 chief executive Bernie Ecclestone, said: "I'm so scared I will not leave my daughter alone in the house at night because I just feel like the people I am meant to trust, I don't, I'm not sure that I can trust anyone.""(My daughter) talks about burglars now as well, which is really really hard and that's the worst part trying to pretend to her nothing actually did happen, and to try to make her feel the house is a safe space," she added.
Biden spins a message of hope as an anxious nation readies for Thanksgiving.  (CNN)When a president has to assure Americans there'll be enough turkey for Thanksgiving, it's a sure sign of national malaise.That was the case Tuesday as the holiday season begins with citizens, already wearied by the worst public health crisis in 100 years, now punished by rising prices, the painfully high cost of gasoline and fears that winter's arrival could mean another spike in Covid-19 cases. President Joe Biden's transformational agenda is designed to reorient the economy toward working people. But American wallets and morale are hurting now, so its complex programs, which may take months or years to deliver relief, won't lighten the dark mood music on a holiday he is spending on Nantucket.While there are some strong signs in the economy pointing to job and wage growth, Republicans are seizing upon the country's difficulties to lambast Biden's leadership, increasingly confident of big wins in the House and Senate next year. Every day brings new evidence for their case, with headlines about Dollar Tree raising its eponymous baseline price to $1.25 and with staples like breakfast cereal set to cost more in 2022. As the reverberations of his coup attempt still threaten democracy, former President Donald Trump, meanwhile, appears to be accelerating a nascent reelection bid, using a series of interviews with genuflecting conservative media figures to portray his corrupt and lawless presidency as a prosperous golden age and claiming the nation is barreling into an economic abyss.Many of the problems assailing Biden are beyond his control, including supply chain crunches and high global inflation brought on by the pandemic and elevated gas prices. But the political environment is getting so toxic that the White House felt obliged to underscore this week that the President fully plans on running for a second term in 2024. This treacherous backdrop explains Biden's last major appearance before Thanksgiving, when he tried on Tuesday to convince Americans he intuits their pain, is listening and has plans that are already beginning to work. He painted a picture of a strengthening nation, overcoming Covid-19 and its economic reverberations and getting back to work as travelers throng airports for the first full-scale holiday gathering in nearly two years."We've made historic progress over the last 10 months," Biden said, noting a much reduced 4.6% unemployment rate. "There's a lot we can be proud of and a lot we can build on for the future."Ironically, Biden addressed current economic challenges after one of the most successful periods of his presidency. He just signed into law a bipartisan infrastructure package that passes for a legislative miracle in today's polarized and gridlocked Washington. His companion $1.9 trillion social spending bill finally cleared the House last week, though its fate in the Senate is uncertain given the Democrats' minuscule majority. Even some Biden voters think Democrats don't get itOne of the lessons some Democrats took from their shocking defeat in the Virginia gubernatorial election earlier this month -- which saw a 12-point swing in just a year to the Republicans -- was that they had stopped listening to voters. After the GOP triumph, the center-left think tank Third Way conducted focus groups among Biden voters to find out why they had backed Republican Glenn Youngkin this year. The findings were chilling for Democrats, revealing that these voters could not name anything Democrats had done, were unhappy with the direction of the country -- including labor shortages and high prices -- and didn't think the party gets it. The groups also believed the economy is bad, despite some encouraging statistics, and think Democrats care more about social issues than the factors currently making it hard for families to make ends meet.In recent days, Biden has appeared to have initiated a rhetorical reset, perhaps to address such liabilities, after earlier this year insisting that inflation was transitory, that his influence was limited in bringing down high gas prices and that the pandemic was virtually over in a premature July Fourth speech."Moms and dads are worried, asking, 'Will there be enough food we can afford to buy for the holidays? Will we be able to get Christmas presents to the kids on time? And if so, will they cost me an arm and a leg?'" Biden said Tuesday.Seeking to project control and instill confidence, he announced the largest-ever release of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in a bid to ultimately increase supply and drive down pump prices. The President went out of his way to counter another GOP attack line -- that his effort to tackle climate change was to blame for higher gasoline costs. And he explained how his White House had reduced the back-up of containers in ports and leaned on top executives of major retailers like Walmart and Target to move supplies faster. Such moves could not only ensure store shelves remain stocked but could also temper the raging demand that is driving inflation. "Families can rest easy. Grocery stores are well-stocked with turkey and everything else you need for Thanksgiving. And the major retailers I mentioned have confirmed that their shelves will be well-stocked in stores this holiday season," Biden said. "That's good news for the those moms and dads worried about whether the Christmas gifts will be available. It goes for everything from bicycles to ice skates," he added, pushing back against a GOP narrative that Americans face the most deprived and expensive holiday season in history.While Biden's moves might be politically effective at the margins, there are real questions about their potency in the long-term and therefore about their capacity to reverse the slump in his approval ratings into the low 40s, and below, in some polls.Much is out of Biden's controlThe biggest challenge for the White House is that while Biden can show he cares about current national problems, he may not be able to quickly alleviate them. While Republicans charge that inflation is being driven by high Democratic spending, the fact that this is a worldwide scourge means it's hard for him to fix it. The supply chain crisis that is hiking prices is caused by Covid-19's ravaging of the manufacturing base in Asia -- something beyond Biden's control. While his release of 50 million barrels of oil is historic and will be accompanied by similar spigot openings by US allies, it may only have a limited effect. Americans generally use around 20 million barrels a day. And Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries still have a stranglehold on global supply and prices. The big and perhaps only hope for the White House and Democrats running in 2022 is that the political situation will ease. An end to the pandemic, more job growth and repaired supply chains could improve the nation's mood considerably and boost the President's approval ratings, which are critical to the party's midterm hopes. By then, the administration hopes that the first effects of the infrastructure law and social spending bill, if it passes, will begin to be felt, giving them a strong platform of renewal and reform.Still, the party must also hope that the damage to Biden's image as a straight-shooter and reputation of competency, suffered during a brutal political period that included the chaotic withdrawal from Afghanistan, will not linger. As years of turbulence have shown, no one -- least of all Republicans already taking a premature victory lap -- should make any assumptions about future elections. But this Thanksgiving, the country is yet to emerge from the crisis that Biden was elected to end -- the pandemic -- and is confronting new and knock-on political and economic challenges. So while announcing that Biden plans to run for reelection is an easy play for the White House now, the President's long-term political future rests on the same proposition it always has -- his ability to restore some kind of economic and political normality. That destination remains elusive and, for multiple reasons, may be getting even harder for him to drag the nation toward.
'Toxic is spot-on': House members describe roiling animosity among lawmakers.  (CNN)Many members within the House of Representatives have told CNN in recent days that they find themselves in a toxic work environment, wrought with bitter exchanges, threats and fears about what the erosion of decorum in the chamber will mean for a body that has still not recovered 10 months after the Capitol Hill riot.In interviews with more than a dozen members, CNN heard from Democrats and some Republicans who say things are as bad as they can remember, with no sign things will get better soon, and the fears and concerns aren't just coming from members, but their families as well.Last week alone, Democrats and two Republicans voted to censure Rep. Paul Gosar, a Republican from Arizona, for posting an anim video depicting the killing of fellow member Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a Democrat from New York. Initially, Gosar took the video down, but he retweeted another tweet containing the video just an hour after he endured the highest form of rebuke a member can get in the House. As he took his punishment in the well of the House, he was surrounded by a group of colleagues rushing to his defense. His leadership never came to the floor to admonish him, only attacking the process Democrats were using. Rep. Lauren Boebert, a Republican from Colorado, defended Gosar on the floor by calling some of her progressive Democratic colleagues the "Jihad squad," a term she defended to CNN on Friday. "It is shocking to me that Leader McCarthy would stand for eight and a half hours spewing disinformation about a bill that is for the American people and yet not speak a word about the atrocity of his own member putting out a video that glorifies the murder of a colleague and threatens violence against the President of the United States," said Rep. Madeleine Dean of Pennsylvania. "I don't know where the next basement is."It's all part of the challenge members are facing now in the House, and some have opted to retire rather than endure more caustic behavior. On the outskirts of the House chamber, metal detectors are still stationed at every door, a reminder of the fears that remain. And an effort to investigate the root cause of the attack on January 6 has been politicized and met with resistance by most Republicans. Some have even downplayed whether the events of that day were all that bad. It's a constant reminder for some members about the state of their workplace. "January 6th made things so much worse. I was on the floor that day. That was a forever life-changing moment on a personal level, but it was also a moment that changed Congress," Rep. Cheri Bustos, a Democrat from Illinois, told CNN. "It started with the incessant lies that weren't challenged and were amplified to January 6th to a member of Congress threatening lives of friends and colleagues." In an interview with Rep. John Garamendi, a Democrat from California, Garamendi's wife Patricia could be heard in the background during the interview responding along with her husband that yes, the threats were as bad as they had ever been. Patricia Garamendi, who works closely with other congressional spouses on events and provides guidance on how to navigate Congress, agreed to speak with CNN for the story. She said that it's the scariest time she can remember for the spouses of members who worry not just about their member of Congress, but their entire families."It took away a lot of the fun. Service is hard. Travel is hard and the issues are hard, but when you are worried about your family, it has been difficult," she said. "I mean some kids are being escorted to school." 'I'm not running again'And those are just the security threats. A massive battle over Covid-19 has only exasperated the divisions. A handful of conservative members regularly defy the House speaker's mask mandate, racking up thousands of dollars in fines while some members publicly admit they aren't getting vaccinated. Standing on the steps of the US House Friday, Bustos told CNN that all of the bitterness and lies impacted her decision not to run for reelection. "My interns are down there," she pointed. "I always write them five pieces of advice and one of those is 'don't take things personally.' I've tried to live that in politics. This, you can't help but take personally. All of this has contributed to the fact that I'm not running again. I want to love what I do. I want to love who I work with. I want to respect the people I work with and that has been compromised in ways that I hope can be repaired at some point, but right now I do not feel like I can repair."Some of the anxiety members feel stems from bitter disagreements with the opposite party, while others say the spiral of toxicity has metastasized even to how members within the same party engage with one another. For months, progressives and moderates in the Democratic party grappled with how to pass both a bipartisan infrastructure bill and a Democrat-only bill to expand the social safety net. But the divisions within their ranks threatened both bills and resulted in sometimes public and pointed personal jabs."Toxic is spot-on," Rep. Stephanie Murphy, a Democrat from Florida, said. "I think there is plenty of Dem-on-Dem violence as well as Republican and Democratic divisions. I think it is not conducive to a healthy legislative environment for colleagues to make these debates both so personal and caustic."'People here need to get thicker skin'In a series of interviews with Republicans, many downplayed the divisions outright or blamed House Speaker Nancy Pelosi for setting the wrong tone when she announced all members would need to walk through metal detectors to get to the House floor after the insurrection. "I believe it is a consolidation of power in the Speaker's office in the House and an abuse of power by the Speaker because she has one-party control and she is completely shutting down the voices of the minority and hiding behind Covid to accomplish it," Rep. Cathy McMorris Rogers, a Republican from Washington state, told CNN. Rep. Chip Roy, a Republican from Texas who advocated ahead of January 6 to certify the electoral college results, told CNN that part of the problem is that members have not moved on from January 6th."People here need to get thicker skin," Roy said. "At some point here, you gotta let some things roll."Asked if he was including the insurrection in the things that people needed to let "roll," Roy said "people here have got to get thicker skin about representing the people and doing their job and not making everything personal on the floor of the House."'I feel safe, but it is incredibly concerning'But for some members, the threats are very personal. "Congressman Boebert referred to us as the 'Jihad squad' on the House floor. What that does is it empowers and inspires people who want to do us harm, to actually go and do that harm. She is on the House floor spewing 'Jihad squad,' " Rep. Jamaal Bowman said. "I feel safe, but it is incredibly concerning that she is speaking this way and we have to respond to that in some way."Ocasio-Cortez, who was the subject of Gosar's anim video, told CNN last week that sometimes it is impossible to separate the political from the personal, even as she has tried to build relationships with some Republicans. "It is not just because they dislike me as a person. In fact, I have had many a Republican come to me on the House floor and say 'I tell folks back home that while I don't agree with you, I think you are a quite kind person.' I have had Republicans come up to me after the 6th, one of them even weeping and with guilt over what happened," Ocasio-Cortez said. "So for some ... publicly, this is a performance. But it is also personal because I cannot separate myself from my gender, I cannot separate myself of how I was born, so their hatred of non-White people, their hatred of women is a hatred of me."
Trump says Rittenhouse visited him at Mar-a-Lago.  (CNN)Former President Donald Trump said he was recently visited at his Palm Beach, Florida, resort by Kyle Rittenhouse, the teenager who was acquitted last week on all charges after fatally shooting two people and wounding a third during protests in Kenosha, Wisconsin, last summer."He called. He wanted to know if he could come over, say hello, because he was a fan," Trump said during an interview with Fox News' Sean Hannity that aired Tuesday night.Trump said Rittenhouse, 18, had left Mar-a-Lago "a little while ago," and Hannity had earlier said that his interview with Trump took place on Monday. During the interview, Fox showed a picture of Rittenhouse posing with Trump."He came over with his mother. Really a nice young man. ... That was prosecutorial misconduct. He should have not have had to suffer through a trial for that. He was going to be dead," the former President said.The comments were in line with ones Trump had made while in office.A 12-juror panel deliberated more than 25 hours in the closely watched case, ultimately acquitting Rittenhouse on Friday of first-degree intentional homicide and four other felony charges in a verdict that cannot be appealed.The two-week trial -- which captured America's attention and was in many ways emblematic of the divided nation -- featured testimony from more than 30 witnesses, including Rittenhouse himself, and video clips from the night of the shootings during unrest sparked by the police shooting of Jacob Blake, a Black man. The verdict opened a fresh debate over state laws on self-defense and the concept of vigilantism.The politicization of the case comes amid an already tense political environment ahead of the 2022 elections and even the 2024 presidential race.Trump, who appears to be preparing another run for the White House, has been praising Rittenhouse as the "poster boy" for the right to self-defense.President Joe Biden, meanwhile, told reporters on Friday that he stood by the not-guilty verdict, saying the jury system of trial in the United States works and must be respected."Look, I stand by what the jury has concluded," he said. "The jury system works, and we have to abide by it."  In a statement later that day Biden acknowledged that the verdict "will leave many Americans feeling angry and concerned, myself included," but reiterated that "the jury has spoken."
Jeffrey Epstein denied having any suicidal thoughts and prison staffers made litany of errors prior to his death, prison documents reveal .  (CNN)Jeffrey Epstein denied having any suicidal thoughts before he died by suicide, despite some prison staffers noting signs of troubling behavior, according to newly released documents from the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP).In addition, BOP staff made a litany of procedural errors prior to the convicted pedophile and wealthy financier's death on August 10, 2019, the documents show.A "Psychological Reconstruction of Inmate Death" report prepared by the Bureau of Prisons National Suicide Prevention Coordinator, Psychology Services Branch, Central Office, constructs a timeline of events and circumstances prior to Epstein's death and notes that risk factors for suicide "specific to sex offenders," as well as "more general risk factors for suicide, were likely present" in Epstein prior to his death.  "Despite his many associates, he had limited significant or deep interpersonal ties. Although Mr. Epstein appeared to cultivate a large social and professional network, he was estranged from his only brother. Indeed, his identity appeared to be based on his wealth, power, and association with other high-profile individuals," the report states.CNN obtained the documents from the BOP via a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request. The documents were first obtained by the New York Times. The release of the documents comes less than a week before Epstein-associate Ghislaine Maxwell is set to face trial for criminal sex trafficking charges. Maxwell has pleaded not guilty to all charges against her.  BOP declined to comment on any specific inmate, but said in a statement to CNN that "the safe, secure, and humane housing of inmates is BOP's highest priority." "As a general matter, BOP has launched a task force that will address mental health implications of housing individuals alone in a cell, and is committed to improving its suicide prevention program. In addition, BOP is increasing the number of beds available as secure mental health units, which will support moving inmates with serious mental illness out of restrictive housing and into secure treatment programs. BOP is also taking a number of other steps to address mental health issues, including enhancing peer support programs, and continuing to train BOP staff on suicide prevention, risk assessment, and emergency responses," the agency said in its statement.  The text of the BOP report notes that it's an "interim report" due to "an inability to gather all necessary data," particularly the lack of formal interviews because there was an effort to avoid interference with pending Department of Justice investigations, and the lack of video since it was confiscated by the FBI prior to the report. Documents reveal Epstein denied having any suicidal thoughts, despite signsWhen Epstein arrived at the Metropolitan Correctional Center on July 6, 2019, a facilities assistant is noted in the report as describing Epstein as "distraught, sad, and a little confused." Despite Epstein saying he was OK, she was not convinced of this, writing that "he seems dazed and withdrawn." She advised in an email that someone from Psychology come and talk with him to "just be on the safe side and prevent any suicidal thoughts," but there is no evidence the email recipient, a lieutenant, contacted the on-call psychologist at the time, according to the report.According to the report, after a court proceeding on July 8, Epstein denied being suicidal but was placed on Psychological Observation -- less restrictive than Suicide Watch -- due to his risk factors. The next day, a BOP psychologist formally assessed Epstein's risk for suicide and determined he should remain under observation "out of an abundance of caution." On July 10, the report says Epstein was taken off Psychological Observation. The report also states that Epstein "denied any history of mental health problems, substance abuse and treatment" during a routine intake screening at the MCC facility in Manhattan on July 8, and denied any suicidal thoughts. Later that month, Epstein was placed on suicide watch after an in-person suicide risk assessment on July 23, but was taken off watch and put back on psychological observation a day later. It's unclear when he was taken off "psychological observation" due to a discrepancy in paperwork but he attended a court hearing on July 31 when the US Marshals Service noted "suicidal tendencies," according to the report. The report goes on to say however that "Epstein was experiencing challenges adjusting to his environment and changes in his lifestyle," including trouble sleeping, complaints about noise in the facility and concerns for his safety. On two occasions, the report says Epstein described himself as a "coward" and someone "who doesn't like pain."The report also states that the unsealing of documents that alleged new details of sexual abuse claims against Epstein the day before his death "further erod[ed] his previously-enjoyed elevated status and potentially implicating some of his associates. The lack of significant interpersonal connections, a complete loss of his status in both the community and among associates, and the idea of potentially spending his life in prison were likely factors contributing to Mr. Epstein's suicide."Procedural mistakes by BOP staffers prior to Epstein's deathCNN previously reported prison guards failed to check on Epstein for several hours the night of his death by suicide, but the BOP report further notes several additional errors made by BOP staff in the time prior to his death. On one occasion, the report states that someone who was filling out a "Psychology Services Intake Screening" form for Epstein checked a box that said "No Sexual Offense Convictions" when in fact, Epstein had prior convictions relating to soliciting underage persons for prostitution. The report also says Epstein, who was White, was erroneously identified as a Black male. Furthermore, a review of prison records "revealed a number of incomplete entries" with regards to provisions and receipt of basic services such as recreation, medical records, showers, and meal consumption. The report states that there were several instances where it wasn't clear if Epstein ate, took a shower, or was offered recreation. Additionally, according to the report, a review of logbooks showed "significant discrepancies" from the approved procedural memorandum for the facility. The BOP report also states that the day before his death, Epstein terminated his legal visit early to place a phone call. He told BOP staffers he was calling his mother, but records show she has been dead since at least 2004.  CNN's Brian Vitagliano and Lauren del Valle contributed to this report. 
Jury finds Unite the Right defendants liable for more than $26 million in damages. Charlottesville, Virginia (CNN)A jury has awarded more than $26 million in damages after finding the White nationalists who organized and participated in a violent 2017 rally here liable on a state conspiracy claim and other claims.But the jury in the federal civil trial said Tuesday it could not reach a verdict on two federal conspiracy claims.The violence during the Unite the Right rally turned the Virginia city into another battleground in America's culture wars and highlighted growing polarization. It was also an event that empowered White supremacists and nationalists to demonstrate their beliefs in public rather than just online.Though the jury deadlocked on the two federal conspiracy claims, it slammed the defendants on the other claims with major awards to the plaintiffs, who included town residents and counterprotesters injured in the violence four years ago.Some of the most prominent figures of the alt-right -- Jason Kessler, Matthew Heimbach, Richard Spencer and Christopher Cantwell -- were among the defendants."We are thrilled that the jury has delivered a verdict in favor of our plaintiffs, finally giving them the justice they deserve after the horrific weekend of violence and intimidation in August 2017," plaintiffs' attorneys Roberta Kaplan and Karen Dunn said. "Today's verdict sends a loud and clear message that facts matter, the law matters, and that the laws of this this country will not tolerate the use of violence to deprive racial and religious minorities of the basic right we all share to live as free and equal citizens."One defense attorney called the verdict a win."It's a politically charged situation. It's going to be hard to get 11 people to agree," said attorney Joshua Smith, who represented three defendants. "I consider a hung jury to be a win, considering a disparity of resources."The events surrounding August 11-12, 2017, saw White nationalists and supremacists marching through Charlottesville and the University of Virginia campus chanting, "Jews will not replace us," "You will not replace us" and "Blood and soil," a phrase evoking Nazi philosophy on ethnic identity. The violence -- which enveloped the rally to protest the planned removal of a statue of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee -- reached a crescendo when James Alex Fields Jr., who was protesting the statue's removal, sped his car through a crowd of counterprotesters, injuring dozens and killing 32-year-old Heather Heyer. Half of the $24 million in punitive damages awarded were against Fields. In addition, the jury awarded punitive damages against Kessler, Spencer and Cantwell at $700,000 each, and Heimbach for $500,000.Despite the large jury award, there's the question of whether the plaintiffs will see much of that money. Fields is serving multiple life sentences. Some of the other defendants -- individuals and White supremacist organizations -- have indicated they are financially stressed."The defendants in the case are destitute, none of them have any money," Smith said. "I don't know how any of the plaintiffs are going to get anything for any of this." Attorneys for the plaintiffs said they intend to relitigate the two federal conspiracy charges.The first federal conspiracy claim was the most prominent against the defendants because it alleged the defendants conspired to commit racially motivated violence while the second alleged the defendants had knowledge of a conspiracy and failed to prevent it."We intend to get a verdict on those counts in the future," Kaplan said.Amy Spitalnick, executive director for Integrity First for America, the group that funded the suit, called the multimillion dollar decision a message."This verdict sends a very clear message that violent hate will not go unanswered," Spitalnick said. "There will be very serious consequences for the sort of extremist violence we saw here four years ago. And that's incredibly powerful, particularly at a moment when we know that extremism is on the rise, when democracy is under threat, and when there has been so little accountability."Millions in damages awardedA jury awarded the plaintiffs $11 million in punitive damages on a Virginia conspiracy claim. On that claim, each defendant is liable for $500,000 each. Five organizations are liable for $1 million each.The jury only awarded $7 to the plaintiffs in compensatory damages on the civil conspiracy claim.In general, compensatory damages compensate (or make whole) the injured party for their loss or injury. Punitive damages are considered punishment when the defendant's behavior is found to be particularly harmful, such as if the defendant intentionally engaged in willful misconduct.  For the claim that some defendants subjected plaintiffs to racial, religious or ethnic harassment, violence or vandalism, Kessler, Spencer, Cantwell, Elliott Kline and Robert "Azzmador" Ray were each found liable for punitive damages.Plaintiffs Natalie Romero and Devin Willis were awarded $250,000 each in compensatory damages.In the same claim, the jury also found Fields liable, but did not award any damages.It also found Fields liable for $12 million in punitive damages total for claims of assault or battery and intentional infliction of emotional distress.Jurors awarded $803,277 in compensatory damages to five plaintiffs for the assault or battery claim. On the other claim, the jury awarded $701,459 in compensatory damages.Fields didn't testify in the trial but was represented by an attorney.Lawsuit sought long-awaited consequencesA few criminal cases resulted from the events surrounding the rally -- including state and federal convictions of Fields, who is serving multiple life sentences for killing Heyer -- but there were no large-scale trials of organizers from the Justice Department under the Trump or Biden administrations.The civil lawsuit in federal court sought to impose consequences on those who planned the rally and Fields for the people he injured or traumatized when he ran his Dodge Challenger into the crowd. But even before the trial, the plaintiffs had won in some ways due to the national outrage over the violence. Richard Spencer stopped his public speaking tour and has called the case "financially crippling." Jeff Schoep and Heimbach renounced White supremacy and stopped organizing White power activity in public. Schoep gave the group he led for more than two decades, the National Socialist Movement, to a Black civil rights activist who died shortly thereafter. Identity Evropa, one of the groups named in the suit, rebranded under a new name twice before disbanding. CNN legal analyst Jeffrey Toobin said that even though the full verdict amounts likely won't be paid, the lawsuit will brings significant consequences. He compared the verdict with a decision in the 1980s in which a lawsuit by the Southern Poverty Law Center crippled the Ku Klux Klan."It is a significant verdict," Toobin said of Tuesday's decision. "It is important to realize as one of the defense attorneys said that these defendants don't have millions of dollars and they won't pay millions of dollars. But they will face consequences and they will face the prospect of having wages garnished, property taken."Fourteen people and 10 White supremacist and nationalist organizations were originally named in the lawsuit that prompted the trial, but a few were not involved in the verdicts because they didn't show up for court and were the subjects of default judgments. In closing arguments last week, attorneys representing the plaintiffs told the jury that the defendants prepared for the "Battle of Charlottesville" and messages sent between them and their actions after the violence were proof of a conspiracy. Defense attorneys and Spence and Cantwell, represented themselves countered that none of the plaintiffs had proven the defendants had organized racial violence. The case was Sines v. Kessler.CNN's Mark Morales reported from Charlottesville and Steve Almasy reported and wrote in Atlanta. CNN's Artemis Moshtaghian, Aaron Cooper, Aya Elamroussi and Amir Vera contributed to this report. 
Ohio jury finds pharmaceutical chains responsible in precedent-setting opioid suit.  (CNN Business)A jury in Ohio ruled Tuesday that three major pharmaceutical chains bore responsibility for the opioid epidemic in two Ohio counties.The civil case, brought in federal court against CVS (CVS), Walmart (WMT) and Walgreens, marks the first time pharmacies have been found responsible in the nationwide epidemic."It is a precedent setting case," Mark Lanier, the lead trial attorney for Lake and Trumbull Counties, told CNN Tuesday.Damages are set to be adjudicated in the spring. Lanier said that each county would be seeking over $1 billion in damages. Together, the counties represent some 440,000 Ohioans, according to court documents.The suit, which was initially filed in 2018, was part of the federal multi-district litigation created that year to address the manifold claims against opioid manufacturers and distributors.The counties alleged that the pharmacies "abused their position of special trust and responsibility" as registered dispensers of controlled drugs, and in so doing "fostered a black market for prescription opioids.""Prescription opioid pill mills and rogue prescribers cannot channel opioids for illicit use without at least the tacit support and willful blindness of the Defendants, if not their knowing support," the complaint read.In statements to CNN on Tuesday, all three pharmaceutical chains indicated that they would appeal the verdict."We are disappointed with the outcome of this trial. The facts and the law do not support the verdict. We believe the trial court committed significant legal errors in allowing the case to go before a jury on a flawed legal theory that is inconsistent with Ohio law," Fraser Engerman, a Walgreens spokesperson, told CNN."As we have said throughout this process, we never manufactured or marketed opioids nor did we distribute them to the 'pill mills' and internet pharmacies that fueled this crisis," Engerman added.In a statement, Walmart criticized the trial as "riddled with remarkable legal and factual mistakes.""Plaintiffs' attorneys sued Walmart in search of deep pockets while ignoring the real causes of the opioid crisissuch as pill mill doctors, illegal drugs, and regulators asleep at the switchand they wrongly claimed pharmacists must second-guess doctors in a way the law never intended and many federal and state health regulators say interferes with the doctor-patient relationship," Walmart's statement read, in part. "As a pharmacy industry leader in the fight against the opioid crisis, Walmart is proud of our pharmacists, who are dedicated to helping patients in the face of a tangled web of conflicting federal and state opioid guidelines."CVS similarly defended its pharmacists in a statement."We strongly disagree with the decision," CVS spokesperson Mike DeAngelis said. "Pharmacists fill legal prescriptions written by DEA-licensed doctors who prescribe legal, FDA-approved substances to treat actual patients in need." "We're proud of the substantial work we've done to support our pharmacists in detecting illegitimate prescribing," he continued. "But the simple facts are that opioid prescriptions are written by doctors, not pharmacists; opioid medications are made and marketed by manufacturers, not pharmacists; and our health care system depends on pharmacists to fill legitimate prescriptions that doctors deem necessary for their patients."Counties reactThe verdict was happy news to officials in Lake and Trumbull counties, where damages are expected to fund opioid abatement measures."Today's verdict means a lot to Lake County, because it is a substantive step forward to real healing in this epidemic," Lake County Commissioner John Plecnik told CNN.  "On behalf of all Lake County families, we thank the jury for sending a powerful message to rebuke those responsible for overselling opioids." "This verdict will also mean greater resources to combat opioid addiction, which are desperately needed," Plecnik said. "I can't say this strongly enough, no one is immune to the impact of addiction and opioid abuse, and this is not just a victory for Lake and Trumbull, it is a victory for all Americans.""Truly, in Lake County, we have not had a corner of the county that has not been impacted by this epidemic," Kim Frasier, head of Lake County's department of Alcohol, Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services, said in a Tuesday afternoon press conference. "This verdict gives voice to those individuals and those families who have been so traumatized."April Caraway, head of Trumbull County's Mental Health and Recovery Board, echoed the sentiment."We appreciate some vindication," she said. "This was difficult, but we wanted to do it for the people who've lost people."Next stepsLanier told CNN that attorneys for both sides are still scheduling the damages phase, where Judge Dan Polster will put a dollar figure to the damages suffered by Lake and Trumbull counties. In the meantime, an appeal is expected in the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals.
NASA will launch mission to crash into a near-Earth asteroid to try to change its motion in space. Sign up for CNN's Wonder Theory science newsletter. Explore the universe with news on fascinating discoveries, scientific advancements and more. (CNN)A NASA spacecraft that will deliberately crash into an asteroid is preparing to launch this week. The DART mission, or the Double Asteroid Redirection Test, will lift off at 10:20 p.m. PT (1:20 a.m. ET) on November 23 aboard a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket from Vandenberg Space Force Base in California. Live coverage of the event will air on NASA TV and the agency's site.But the true test for this asteroid deflection technology will come in September 2022, when the spacecraft reaches its destination, to see how it impacts the motion of a near-Earth asteroid in space.The mission target is Dimorphos, a small moon orbiting the near-Earth asteroid Didymos. This will be the agency's first full-scale demonstration of this type of technology on behalf of planetary defense. It also will be the first time humans have altered the dynamics of a solar system body in a measurable way, according to the European Space Agency. Near-Earth objects are asteroids and comets with orbits that place them within 30 million miles (48 million kilometers) of Earth. Detecting the threat of near-Earth objects, or NEOs, that could potentially cause grave harm is a primary focus of NASA and other space organizations around the world.Asteroid Didymos and its moon DimorphosIn Greek, Didymos means "twin," which is a nod to how the asteroid -- nearly half a mile (0.8 kilometer) across -- forms a binary system with the smaller asteroid, or moon -- 525 feet (160 meters) in diameter -- that was discovered two decades ago. Kleomenis Tsiganis, a planetary scientist at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and a member of the DART team, suggested that the moon be named Dimorphos, which means "two forms."It's the perfect time for the DART mission to occur. Didymos and Dimorphos will be relatively close to Earth -- within 6,835,083 miles (11 million kilometers) -- in September 2022. The spacecraft will come speeding in at about 15,000 miles (24,140 kilometers) per hour, targeting Dimorphos, said Nancy Chabot, DART coordination lead at the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory in Laurel, Maryland.A camera on the spacecraft, called DRACO, and autonomous navigation software will help the spacecraft detect and collide with Dimorphos. DRACO is short for Didymos Reconnaissance & Asteroid Camera for OpNav.The mission's aim is to deliberately crash into Dimorphos to change the asteroid's motion in space, according to NASA. This collision will be recorded by LICIACube, or Light Italian Cubesat for Imaging of Asteroids, a companion cube satellite provided by the Italian Space Agency. It's the Italian Space Agency's first deep space mission. The briefcase-size CubeSat will travel on DART and then be deployed from it prior to impact so it can record what happens. Three minutes after the impact, the CubeSat will fly by Dimorphos to capture images and video.The video of the impact will be streamed back to Earth, which should be "pretty exciting," said Elena Adams, DART mission systems engineer at the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory."Astronomers will be able to compare observations from Earth-based telescopes before and after DART's kinetic impact to determine how much the orbital period of Dimorphos changed," said Tom Statler, DART program scientist at NASA Headquarters, in a statement. "That's the key measurement that will tell us how the asteroid responded to our deflection effort."A few years after the impact, the European Space Agency's Hera mission will conduct a follow-up investigation of Didymos and Dimorphos. While the DART mission was developed for NASA Planetary Defense Coordination Office and managed by the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, the mission team will work with the Hera mission team under an international collaboration known as the Asteroid Impact & Deflection Assessment, or AIDA. "DART is a first step in testing methods for hazardous asteroid deflection," said Andrea Riley, DART program executive at NASA Headquarters, in a statement. "Potentially hazardous asteroids are a global concern, and we are excited to be working with our Italian and European colleagues to collect the most accurate data possible from this kinetic impact deflection demonstration."A mission of firstsDimorphos was chosen for this mission because its size is relative to asteroids that could pose a threat to Earth, but the double asteroid system itself is not a threat to Earth. The spacecraft is about 100 times smaller than Dimorphos, so it won't obliterate the asteroid."This isn't going to destroy the asteroid, it's just going to give it a small nudge and deflect its path around the larger asteroid," Chabot said. This means there isn't a chance of changing the trajectory of the asteroid to make it more of a threat.The fast impact will only change Dimorphos' speed as it orbits Didymos by 1%, which doesn't sound like a lot -- but it will change the moon's orbital period by more than a minute. That change can be observed and measured from ground-based telescopes on Earth. Dimorphos completes an orbit around Didymos every 11 hours and 55 minutes. If the impact is successful, it will change that period by at least 73 seconds, said Andy Cheng, DART investigation team lead at the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Lab.Measuring the momentum transfer between the spacecraft and Dimorphos will show how much is needed to change the course of an asteroid."If one day an asteroid is discovered on a collision course with Earth, then we will have an idea how much momentum we need to make that asteroid miss the Earth," Cheng said. Planetary defense strategiesWhile there are currently no asteroids on a direct impact course with Earth, there is a large population of near-Earth asteroids -- more than 27,000 in all shapes and sizes."The key to planetary defense is finding them well before they are an impact threat," said Lindley Johnson, planetary defense officer at NASA Headquarters. "The principle with all of them is just to change the orbital speed of the asteroid just a small amount. Changing that speed of the asteroid in its orbit changes its orbit so in the future, it won't be in the same place it was going to be to impact the Earth."Three years after the impact, Hera will arrive to study Dimorphos in detail, measuring physical properties of the moon, studying the DART impact and the moon's orbit. This may sound like a long time to wait between the impact and follow-up, but it's based on lessons learned in the past. In July 2005, NASA's Deep Impact spacecraft launched a 815-pound (370-kilogram) copper impact into a comet, Tempel 1. But the spacecraft was not able to see the crater that resulted because the impact released tons of dust and ice. However, NASA's Stardust mission in 2011 was able to characterize the impact -- a 492-foot (150-meter) gash.Together, the valuable data collected by DART and Hera will contribute to planetary defense strategies, especially understanding what kind of force is needed to shift the orbit of a near-Earth asteroid that may collide with our planet. After analyzing the results of the mission, "this technique would be a part of a toolbox that we're starting to build of capabilities to deflect an asteroid," Johnson said.
15-year-old charged with attempted murder in connection with a shooting near a Colorado school that left six teens injured, police say.  (CNN)A 15-year-old boy has been arrested in connection with a shooting at a park in Aurora, Colorado, that left six teenagers recovering from gunshot wounds, police said Tuesday. The teen was charged with attempted first-degree murder, according to a news release from the Aurora Police Department. His identity isn't being released due to his age, police said.The shooting happened November 15 at Nome Park, near Aurora Central High School. The victims were a 14-year-old boy, a 15-year-old girl, a 16-year-old boy, a 16-year-old girl, a 17-year-old boy and an 18-year-old male, police said.Police Chief Vanessa Wilson said last week that investigators found shell casings from different caliber guns and witnesses said there were multiple suspicious vehicles."My understanding is it was a drive-by shooting, as well as there may have been people on foot," Wilson said.Two vehicles, a Chevrolet Tahoe and Chrysler 300, connected with the shooting have been located, police said Tuesday."The 15-year-old male was identified as the driver of the Chrysler 300," the police statement said.Police said at least two other people inside of Nome Park were shooting back at the vehicles."Detectives are actively working to identify those people, as well as all the others involved," the release said.School resource officers responded to shootingAfter the gunfire erupted, school resource officers from the nearby high school applied a tourniquet to two victims, one of whom went into surgery, police said last week.Aurora Central High School had more than 2,000 students as of 2019, according to the National Center for Education Statistics.The city of Aurora's website says Nome Park is 0.8 acres and features a playground and community garden.One witness who lives near the park told CNN affiliate KCNC he heard dozens of shots."It's sad to see young people just throwing their lives away for nothing," Henry Martinez said. "I'm sad about that. ... Heard like 30-50 shots. It was hard to count with them coming so fast like that, but at least 30."CNN's Jeremy Harlan, Sarah Moon and Steve Almasy contributed to this report.
Harris and Buttigieg could be allies instead of rivals. Lincoln Mitchell (@LincolnMitchell) teaches in the School of International and Public Affairs at Columbia University. His most recent book is "The Giants and Their City: Major League Baseball in San Francisco, 1976-1992." (Kent State University Press, 2020) The opinions expressed here are his own. View more opinion at CNN. (CNN)The next presidential election is three years away. Recent reports about early concern over whether President Joe Biden will run for reelection in 2024 and about tension between potential 2024 rivals, Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg and Vice President Kamala Harris are, to some extent, standard Washington gossip that can be safely ignored. Still, there may be something more than that.  Buttigieg is clearly very ambitious, ran an impressive presidential campaign in 2020 and has only strengthened his political skills since then. Harris, as the vice president, is a leading contender to be the face of the post-Joe Biden Democratic Party. Each may see the other as standing in their way as 2024 approaches. This is particularly important because the 79-year-old Biden, despite wisely sending signals that he will seek reelection in 2024, may decide that he doesn't want to run three years from now.If Biden does run, as an incumbent, he has an advantage. But if he chooses not to, that doesn't mean Democrats are doomed.A primary campaign between Harris and Buttigieg could pit two key Democratic constituencies against each other: African Americans, particularly African American women, and LGBTQ voters. The impact of that fight would be even worse if it began in 2023 and took over the second half of Biden's current term. Fortunately, this is a problem that can be easily solved without either politician having to give up anything lasting. Harris and Buttigieg instead could agree that, if Biden does not run again, they would run together in 2024, with Harris the nominee for president and Buttigieg for vice-president. This could put an end to whatever feuding exists between them now, while giving the Democratic Party a very strong ticket in 2024 that would seem like a natural continuation of Biden's first term. A Harris-Buttigieg ticket would showcase two dynamic politicians and represent the breadth and diversity of the Democratic Party, and indeed the whole country, while not veering too far left and alienating key swing voters who Biden won in 2020.This ticket would be balanced with regards to geography: Harris is unmistakably Californian while Buttigieg is from Indiana, and brings with him a deep understanding of the Midwest.  Harris would be 60 years old on Election Day 2024, while Buttigieg would be 42, so there would be generational balance there as well. Both nominees represent important Democratic Party constituencies -- Harris is an African American and Asian American woman, while Buttigieg is a gay man. This would help mobilize important parts of the Democratic base. However, both politicians are essentially moderates, so it would be hard for the Republican Party to effectively tar them as radicals, socialists or anything like that -- something they would undoubtedly try to do. During, and since, the 2020 election, the right wing has tried to paint Harris as being on the far left, but that attack never got much traction.A Harris-Buttigieg ticket would also have a fair amount of star power. Although Harris did very poorly when she ran for president in 2020, we have seen glimpses of what she can be,  including the first presidential debate of the primary season when she landed some very effective attacks on Biden. Later, during the vice-presidential debate, she more than held her own against a very polished Mike Pence. It's also visible in the easy and strong rapport she has with many voters. Buttigieg has shined in recent months, as well during the 2020 general election, due to his media skills, fast wit and sharp intellect.Not every faction of the Democratic coalition would be happy with this ticket. The left wing of the party has long viewed Buttigieg as too moderate and have been wary of Harris due to her work as San Francisco's district attorney and California's attorney general. These concerns are legitimate, but by the time they have served four years in the Biden's administration, what Harris did as DA almost 20 years earlier or as attorney general a decade ago will seem less relevant. Rather, the two will be seen as national leaders whose popularity will be tied to the Biden administration rather than anything they did before that. By taking the second spot on the ticket, Buttigieg would be putting his own presidential aspirations on hold, but he is so young that he would still have plenty of opportunities to run for president. One way to see this is that if Harris and Buttigieg ticket got elected in 2024 and reelected in 2028, Buttigieg would still be only 50 if he chose to run in 2032. Harris-Buttigieg could turn out to be a dream ticket for the Democrats while simultaneously avoiding a potentially damaging dynamic both within the administration and in a possible Democratic primary. However, a lot must happen between now and then to make it a reality. In addition to getting buy-in from both people directly involved, it is also important to avoid the appearance that a backroom deal is being made. This is something to which the progressive wing of the Democratic Party is particularly sensitive. The way to do this is to tamp down any speculation about a deal while at the same time bolstering Harris and making it clear to Buttigieg that the administration is not going to abandon the vice president in the face of media criticism. When Biden picked Kamala Harris as his running mate, he indicated that she was the future of the Democratic Party. It is natural that other politicians who see themselves as that future might chafe at that. Nonetheless, regardless of how she is viewed by many now, Harris will be a strong frontrunner to succeed Biden. The best way to ensure victory for the party may not be a drawn-out effort to nominate another flawed candidate, but to put together a balanced ticket with two rising Democratic Party stars. 
Monday Night Football: Tom Brady and the Bucs back to winning ways with victory over NY Giants.  (CNN)Tom Brady and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers returned to winning ways on Monday Night Football, beating the New York Giants 30-10 at Raymond James Stadium. Brady threw 307 passing yards and two touchdowns as the Bucs ended their two-game losing streak on Monday night, continuing the Giants' season of struggles. The 44-year-old also avoided losing three in a row for the first time since 2002. It was the 104th time in Brady's career that he's finished with over 300 passing yards. Only Drew Brees with 123 has more such games in NFL history.After the Tampa Bay's disappointing Week 10 loss to the Washington Football Team, Brady cut a frustrated character in his postgame press conference. However, on Monday night, the veteran quarterback looked much more content. "We played better," a smiling Brady said. "Better for all of us when we play better."He added: "We're at a decent point, but we can play a lot better than we've played. Hoping our best football is ahead of us."A 300-pound record-breaking eveningAfter two underwhelming performances, Monday night started much better for the Bucs. Brady connected with Chris Godwin for a 13-yard touchdown in the first quarter to give the home team the lead early on. However, the former New England Patriots quarterback's second quarter intercepted pass allowed New York to draw level. Giants quarterback Daniel Jones threw a touchdown to offensive lineman Andrew Thomas to tie the score at 10-10, but the Bucs turned the screw from there. Brady was almost flawless for the rest of the game, and the Tampa Bay defense stymied the Giants' offense.Jones was sacked twice and threw two interceptions to Steve McLendon and Mike Edwards while Ronald Jones ran in the third of Tampa Bay's touchdowns.For the first time in NFL history, a 300-pound player had a touchdown (Thomas) and a 300-pound player had an interception (McLendon) in the same game.It was a particularly momentous game for Bucs wide receiver Mike Evans, who -- when he caught a five-yard TD pass from Brady -- entered himself into the team's history books. It was Evans' 72nd touchdown for the franchise, breaking the previous record for the most Bucs touchdowns of 71 set by Mike Alstott. Evans can add the record to his ever-growing resume of Tampa Bay all-time records. He already holds Bucs franchise records for receptions, receiving yards, touchdown catches and 100-yard receiving games. Visit CNN.com/sport for more news, features, and videosHe also has the single-season records for receiving yards and touchdown catches and is tied for the most overall touchdowns in a single season.He's now got 10 touchdowns on the year, the fourth time in eight NFL seasons he's reached double digits in that category. "He's amazing in every way, as a player, teammate, friend, leader," said Brady of Evans. "I love being out there with him, I love playing with him. He really sets the tone for that group. He had a great night."
Pentagon announces plans to streamline UFO reports and analysis.  (CNN)The Department of Defense announced its plans to streamline the collection and analysis of UFO reports across the government Tuesday, following the government's acknowledgment earlier this year that these reports are worth studying and may pose a national security threat.The department will create a unified group to handle the reports of UFOs, formally known as Unidentified Aerial Phenomena (UAPs), across the military branches and other government agencies. In June, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence released its long-awaited report, which examined 144 cases of UAP sightings, only one of which investigators were able to explain, though they did say they found no evidence that the sightings were either extraterrestrial life or major technological advancements from Russia or China. The issue of UAPs has fueled years of Washington infighting, including bureaucratic battles within the Pentagon and pressure from Congress, about how seriously to treat the reports.But the release of the report was an indication that the US government was finally taking seriously what for so long was considered a fringe issue. The Navy led the UAP Task Force, but no other service had a similar effort to catalogue and analyze sightings of UFOs. Most of the 144 sightings covered in the ODNI report were recorded by Navy pilots.Following the release of the report, Hicks instructed the under secretary of defense for intelligence and security to develop a plan to deal more seriously and thoroughly with UAP sightings. The new unified group, called the Airborne Object Identification and Management Synchronization Group (AOIMSG), will standardize the process for reporting UAP incidents, as well as "identifying and reducing gaps in operational and intelligence detection capabilities; collecting and analyzing operation, intelligence, and counterintelligence data; recommending policy, regulatory or statutory changes as appropriate; identifying approaches to prevent or mitigate any risks posed by airborne objects of interest; and other activities as deemed necessary by the Director," Deputy Defense Secretary Kathleen Hicks wrote in a memo.The newly created AOIMSG, led by a director, will now take over the work of the Navy's UAP Task Force as the Defense Department works to get a better grasp on what's behind the UFO sightings and how much of a threat they could pose to national security. The work of the AOIMSG will be overseen by an executive council.
Tori Spelling explains why husband Dean McDermott not in family Christmas photo .  (CNN)Dean McDermott didn't make his family's holiday card photo shoot.His wife, actress Tori Spelling, shared the card on her Instagram Monday and explained why.The photo showed her and the couple's five children."It's that time again," the caption on the photo began. "And it's a winter wonderland at my house!"It was noted in the comments that her husband was absent, further fueling reported speculation that the pair have hit a rough patch in their marriage, which was amplified in June when she shared during a SiriusXM interview that they were sleeping in separate beds. But Spelling had a simple explanation for her husband not joining her and their kids Liam, 14, Stella, 13, Hattie, 9, Finn, 8, and 4-year-old Beau."Fact: @imdeanmcdermott was filming his new feature film in Canada," she wrote in the comments in response to one of her followers.The couple, who met on set of the Lifetime film "Mind Over Murder" in 2005, have been married since 2006. 
Mammoth tusk recovered from an unlikely place: the bottom of the ocean.  (CNN)Mammoths are long to be known as ancient land dwellers, so scientists were shocked to find remains from the animal at the bottom of the ocean. Pilot Randy Prickett and scientist Steven Haddock, researchers with Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute (MBARI), discovered a Columbian mammoth tusk 185 miles offshore and 10,000 feet deep in the ocean in 2019, the institution said in a news release.At the time they were only able to collect a small piece of the tusk, so they returned in July 2021 to get the complete sample. "You start to 'expect the unexpected' when exploring the deep sea, but I'm still stunned that we came upon the ancient tusk of a mammoth," said Haddock. "Our work examining this exciting discovery is just beginning and we look forward to sharing more information in the future."University of Michigan paleontologist Daniel Fisher, who specializes in the study of mammoths and mastodons, said it is unlike anything he has ever seen. "Other mammoths have been retrieved from the ocean, but generally not from depths of more than a few tens of meters," Fisher said. A variety of research facilities are examining the tusk to determine a variety of information about it including the age of the animal at its death, the release said. The researchers said the cold, high pressure environment helped to preserve the tusk, so it can be studied in greater detail. The scientists believe it could be the oldest well-preserved mammoth tusk recovered from this region of North America, and the UCSC Geochronology Lab estimates it is more than 100,000 years old after analyzing the radioisotopes. Researchers hope the data collected can not only tell them more about the mammoth they found, but the species in general. "Specimens like this present a rare opportunity to paint a picture both of an animal that used to be alive and of the environment in which it lived," said Beth Shapiro, lead researcher at the UCSC Paleogenomics Lab."Mammoth remains from continental North America are particularly rare, and so we expect that DNA from this tusk will go far to refine what we know about mammoths in this part of the world."
Priyanka Chopra Jonas isn't acting like she and Nick Jonas are having problems .  (CNN)Someone apparently forgot to tell Priyanka Chopra Jonas that there's speculation she and Nick Jonas are having marital issues.It all started when the actress/producer dropped "Jonas" from her name on her Instagram and Twitter accounts.That began chatter that the star couple may have split.But then on Monday Nick Jonas posted a video on his Instagram account showing him working out with some weights as he did bicep curls.His wife had quite the reaction."Damn! I just died in your arms..." she wrote in the comments, along with three emoticons including a face with heart eyes.The couple married in 2018. 
'Hellbound' is the new 'Squid Game'.  (CNN)South Korean dramas are killing it this year.And we aren't even talking about the deaths that are happening on screen."Hellbound" is the latest Netflix Korean drama to captivate audiences.The dark fantasy is "a story about otherworldly beings who appear out of nowhere to issue a decree and condemn individuals to hell," according to Netflix."These supernatural events cause great mayhem and enable the religious group The New Truth to grow in influence," the description goes on to read. "A few people, however, become suspicious about its activities and begin investigating its involvement in mysterious events."Netflix had a huge global hit earlier this year with "Squid Game."That series centers around contestants who are deeply in debt that play children's games in order to win a ton of cash. Losers forfeit their lives. In October, Netflix told CNN the drama was its "biggest-ever series at launch" and  viewed by 111 million accounts since debuting on September 17."Squid Game" creator Hwang Dong-hyuk has confirmed that a second season is coming. 
The surprising reason why Ocean Spray cranberry sauce labels are upside-down. New York (CNN Business)Perhaps one of the greatest mysteries of Thanksgiving is the cranberry sauce  and we're not talking about why people eat it: Why are the labels on Ocean Spray cans upside down?Observant consumers have noticed that the labels on jellied cranberry sauce cans are flipped, meaning the rounded edge that's typically on the bottom of most canned goods is on top of Ocean Spray cranberry sauce cans. According to Ocean Spray, that's intentional: It creates a seamless serving experience. The cans are "filled and labeled upside down with the rounded edge on top and the sharp can-like edge on the bottom to keep the jelly whole," an Ocean Spray spokesperson told CNN Business. That creates an air bubble on the rounded side (a.k.a. the top) so customers can "can swipe the edge of the can with a knife to break the vacuum and the log will easily slide out."This process has been in use since the early 2000s. Adweek, which recently reported this important can caveat, noted that about 67 million cans are sold between Thanksgiving and Christmas. But like other Thanksgiving meal staples, canned cranberry sauce might be hard to come by. The sauce has 79% availability across national retailers,  which is down from 89% in that same period, according to IRI, a market research firm that tracks US retail sales.Ocean Spray, a farmer co-operative that makes cranberry sauce and sells bagged cranberries, said that "consumers may experience some availability issues at times on a variety of cranberry products," because of supply chain issues. The co-op noted that it doesn't expect "significant impacts" on the availability of its products.-- CNN Business' Danielle Wiener-Bronner contributed to this report.
Target's bold holiday move is a win for us all. Kara Alaimo, an associate professor of public relations at Hofstra University, is the author of "Pitch, Tweet, or Engage on the Street: How to Practice Global Public Relations and Strategic Communication." She was spokeswoman for international affairs in the Treasury Department during the Obama administration. Follow her on Twitter @karaalaimo. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author. View more opinion at CNN. (CNN)Every retailer in the nation should take note of Target's bold announcement this week that it will never again open its stores on Thanksgiving.The company's chief executive, Brian Cornell, said he made the decision after employees told him they wanted to spend the holiday with their families -- which is, of course, exactly where they should be.The move to prioritize the well-being of Target's staffers sends a powerful message about the company's values at a time when Americans are rethinking our approaches to work. And, whether customers realize it or not, this benefits them, too. Other companies would be smart to follow suit.In September, 4.4 million Americans quit their jobs -- a jaw-dropping record that starkly indicates how the pandemic has prompted Americans to think more deeply about what they value most. The mass exodus, which many are calling the Great Resignation, reflects the country's newfound recognition that there is more to life than work (or overwork).Though being closed to customers doesn't necessarily mean some employees won't be working, Target's announcement still sends a strong public signal that the company is getting the message. The new policy is also shrewd. At a time when many employers are struggling to find and retain workers, it will likely give Target an edge in the hiring wars. Retail workers are traditionally overworked during the crush of consumer demand during the holiday season, and perhaps are even enticed to pick up extra shifts to pay for the holiday festivities of their own families. Of course, to do so means these workers have to sacrifice what they should be able to put above all else: Time with their loved ones, and rest and care for themselves. As a person whose spouse frequently has to work on major holidays, I can attest to the fact that it takes a real toll on a family not to be able to spend time together on important occasions. This year, my husband is off for Thanksgiving, but it's a tradeoff for other major holidays. He won't be around to put out cookies for Santa with our toddler on Christmas Eve, or to watch our baby open presents on her first Christmas morning. These are moments you don't ever get back.In my family, these sacrifices are worth it because my husband's work protects public health. As an emergency room doctor, when he's not with us he's often saving people's lives. The same goes for police officers, firefighters, EMS and other essential workers who we all rely on to keep us safe, even on special days -- and to whom we owe a debt of gratitude.But there's absolutely no excuse for nonessential employees to be forced to work on major holidays so that people can buy consumer goods.Americans who are desperate to shop on Thanksgiving can still do so online -- or they can buy their products in person before or after the national holiday. But Target's decision, in addition to sending a message to the business community, also carries a social meaning: it subtly encourages people to focus on the things that really matter, like the people in our lives, instead of consumer culture.That's also a very good thing for our country. Research shows that what makes us truly happy is close relationships with other people -- not the latest fashions or doorbuster bargains -- and that's exactly what we all should have the ability to seek on Thanksgiving.Ultimately, this policy stands to be good for Target's employees, its consumers and its bottom line. This decision burnishes the company's reputation as an organization that puts people before profits, and research consistently shows that consumers prefer to patronize companies that have a positive social impact. This is why other retailers and companies which don't absolutely have to be open on major holidays should quickly announce similar policies.      Thanksgiving is a time when we're all prompted to think about what really matters. It's refreshing to see a company do this, too. And if other companies follow Target's lead, prioritizing rest and personal time when it can mean the most, Americans will have something more to be grateful for this year.
Stores are closing on Thanksgiving, but thousands of retail staff are still working. New York (CNN Business)Store workers at major US chains are getting to spend Thanksgiving at home as more retailers decide to close their doors for the holiday. But not all retail staff will get the day off.Target (TGT) said Monday that it will close all of its stores on Thanksgiving every year from now on, a move that may prompt rivals to follow suit  and make shopping in stores on Thanksgiving obsolete.In 2020, many other chains closed stores on Thanksgiving for the first time, including Walmart (WMT), Best Buy (BBY) and Dick's Sporting Goods (DKS). These companies will again close stores on the holiday this year, although none have made permanent changes to their Thanksgiving policies going forward. Some companies, such as Costco (COST) and Home Depot (HD), have closed stores on Thanksgiving for years.Home for ThanksgivingThat doesn't mean stores and warehouses will be completely empty Thursday. Black Friday is quickly approaching, and retailers need workers to prepare for the biggest shopping day of the year.A small percentage of Target's workforce, such as supply chain and service center workers, will still work on Thanksgiving, said a spokesperson for the company.Target said it worked with employees to understand their scheduling preference early in the season, and employees who work on Thanksgiving will receive extra pay. Most Target stores will reopen at 7 a.m. local time on Black Friday.Staying open on Thanksgiving had been a source of tension between retailers and labor advocates in the past, especially as many retailers opened their doors on the holiday to try to get a jump on Black Friday.Labor advocates have argued that workers should be at home with their families on Thanksgiving instead.Over the last several years, public pressure on retailers to close on Thanksgiving has faded. Workers' rights groups have instead focused on broader issues such as the minimum wage, benefits and schedules.Some states, including Massachusetts, Maine and Rhode Island, have prohibited big-box stores from opening on Thanksgiving. A California legislator proposed a law in 2016 that would have required some companies to pay employees double for working on Thanksgiving, but it did not pass.Why closing on Thanksgiving won't hurt retailersThe holiday period used to be marked by a few key days  Black Friday being the biggest. Stores would use the occasions to rack up most of their holiday sales. But with the growth of online shopping, retailers aren't as reliant on holidays to drive sales anymore.Retailers also don't want everyone buying at the same time. So, in recent years, they have started their deals and events earlier and spread them out across the season  helping avoid a crush of demand, which can strain their stores and delivery networks.This year, stores moved up their deals earlier than ever to get in front of supply chain snafus and limit empty shelves. The extended shopping season means that stores can close on Thanksgiving without much of an impact on sales.Staying open on Thanksgiving may not make much business sense either. Some retailers have found that keeping stores open on the holiday takes away from sales on Black Friday and over the long weekend.
The most infamous balloon mishaps from the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade.  (CNN)You know what they say, the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade is all fun and games until one of the balloons goes down. Since the parade started marching balloons around Manhattan in 1927, the massive floating figures have occasionally come untethered, blown clear away, or been punctured, stabbed, deflated and subjected to all sorts of ignominy. While most of the balloon incidents are at least a little humorous (the hubris of man, to create such beasts!), a small handful of accidents have ended with people being seriously injured. Some of those cases have led the parade's organizers to change the rules regarding their most beloved -- and problematic -- parade participants. After all, a deflated Kermit here and there is just the way the parade floats, but there's nothing festive about people getting hurt. 1927: Felix is released to the giant cat motel in the skyImagine you're a parade-goer in 1927. There was no TV, no Disney World, and the Empire State Building wouldn't be constructed for another few years. Seeing the parade's first balloon, a giant and not at all spooky Felix the Cat, was probably big stuff. It all went swimmingly until it came time to deflate the dang thing. Apparently everyone had gotten so caught up in getting the cat in the air, they hadn't given much thought to, you know, getting it down and flat again. So, the balloon's handlers just kinda...let it go. Like a pie-eyed feline Icarus, dear Felix flew too close to the sun, and popped. 1956: Oh, how the Mighty Mouse has fallen Even the more routine balloon deflation always carry a bit of dramatic zeal. Take the fall of the Mighty Mouse balloon in 1956. It was a tale as old as time: Balloon meets street sign, street sign wins, balloon crumples helplessly to the ground. This one's just funny well, because, it's Mighty Mouse! He's supposed to fly! And be mighty! And yet, that day, he accomplished neither. 1957: Popeye hates you Popeye the Sailor Man has always been known for his coarse manner. True to form, in 1957 the Popeye balloon had  had all that he could stand, and couldn't stands no more. As a chilly rain blanketed the city, it collected in the top of Popeye's iconic sailor's cap. One tight turn was all it took for it to tip and dump gallons of water on unsuspecting spectators. Ah-gahgahgahgahgah!1991: Kermit the Frog is scarred for life Life was hard for the first Kermit balloon. In 1985, the frog was eviscerated after crashing into some trees, but managed to survive the rest of the parade. The more crippling blow came in 1991, when it lost in another encounter with a tree, which left is head deflated in a decidedly un-festive way. The balloon was never the same, and was retired shortly afterward. A new, improved and tree-resistant version was debuted in 2002. It did some journeyman work for the parade, retiring after two years and then returning for a few years starting in 2007, but things were never the same. The poor frog's balloon spirit had simply seen too much. 1997: The bad one If it is possible for every worst-case scenario to happen at once, the 1997 Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade came really close. During the parade, high winds caused the the Cat in the Hat balloon to strike a lamppost, and part of the post came crashing down on the head of a bystander. The woman suffered serious injuries and was in a coma for a month. On high alert, police at the parade reined in, stabbed and stomped down the Barney and Pink Panther balloons to make sure they couldn't do any more damage. The incident caused parade officials to change requirements for the balloons, banning the super large and unwieldy ones. It also gave everyone a wake-up call about wind. That's why, if you ever hear chatter about the balloons being grounded due to high winds, you shouldn't groan in disappointment. It could be much, much worse if they're allowed to fly. 
Holiday travel is always a nightmare, but this year will be worse. New York (CNN Business)The holiday travel season is off to a relatively smooth start, with good weather and few canceled flights. But many in the industry are worried that luck won't hold all the way until the holiday season ends just after New Year's. Major US airlines are operating with fewer pilots and flight attendants than they were before the pandemic. With domestic airline bookings nearly back to normal, airlines are trying to do more with less this holiday season.Service meltdowns in October at Southwest Airlines and American demonstrate what happens when schedules get disrupted without the staffing levels needed to rapidly recover from canceled flights. Problems quickly cascade, resulting in hundreds of additional cancellations."I do think all of the airlines are stretched thin," said Casey Murray, president of the Southwest Airlines Pilots Association. "A major blizzard or event could cause prolonged delays and cancellations."And anyone who has their flight canceled is going to run into problems finding an alternative way to get where they're going."If there are issues, reaccommodating people whose flights are canceled will be tough. The planes are very full," said Savi Syth, airline analyst at Raymond James.Staffing shortagesThe airlines that have experienced recent service disruptions admitted they didn't have enough staff to deal with the problems.Bob Jordan, who is set to become CEO of Southwest early next year, told investors last month that weather and air traffic control issues caused "a significant number of crews and aircraft to be out of position and then that took several days to recover.""We inconvenienced thousands of customers and we further challenged our stellar employees," he said. "And I just want to apologize to both our customers and our employees."Jordan said Southwest is making additional trims to its schedule to make sure that doesn't happen again.When air traffic ground to a near halt during the early months of the pandemic, all the airlines used early retirement packages and buyouts to reduce staff voluntarily. All are scrambling to staff up now, but it takes time to hire, train and certify pilots and flight attendants, so much of the current hiring is being done with an eye toward next summer's travel season  not this fall and winter  said Syth.All the airlines say they're prepared to deal with disruptions caused by weather or other issues like air traffic control snafus."To ensure we're providing certainty for both our customers and team members, we're doubling down on our efforts related to our schedule and staffing," said David Seymour, American's chief operating officer, in a note to the airline's staff. "On the scheduling front, we've ensured that our November and December are built to meet customers demand and that they are fully supportable by our staffing."But Dennis Tajer, spokesman for the Allied Pilots Association, the pilots union at American and an active pilot himself, said he's concerned that American is stretching its staffing too thin."We want to fly these flights. But the evidence from earlier this year shows what happens when things don't go as planned," he said. "They're building the schedule right to the maximum number of flights possible and it provides no flexibility for when things go wrong. Airplanes don't fly on hope." Southwest is trying to operate its current schedule with about 15% fewer pilots than it had before the pandemic, according to Murray, even though the number of flights hasn't been trimmed by nearly that much. That leaves much less ability to recover when issues do crop up.Fewer flightsOverall the number of domestic flights planned from last weekend to just after New Year's Day is down 12% compared to the same period in 2019, according to data from Cirium, an  airline data tracking service. Among the big four US airlines that handle about 80% of air traffic, Southwest and American have the most aggressive schedules compared to their pre-pandemic levels. The number of flights is down just 10% at Southwest and 9% at American, while Delta and United are both down more than 13% compared to 2019.Executives at United and Delta say their more limited schedule should allow them to avoid the service issues experienced at Southwest and American earlier this fall."If we wanted to be bigger than we are, quite honestly we couldn't be. We could be a little bit, maybe, but not much bigger without risking the operational performance issues like you've seen at some of [the] other carriers," Delta president Glen Hauenstein told investors last month. "So we want to stay where we're confident that we can actually fly the schedules that we put out there.""Our North Star in this recovery is making sure we do the right thing for customers and if that means sacrificing some possible short-term profits to ensure a reliable operation, then so be it," said United CEO Scott Kirby in a letter to customers explaining his airline's reduced schedule.Murray, the head of the Southwest pilots union, says his airline has made changes in its operations since the service meltdown in October that resulted in 2,000 flights being canceled over a weekend, and tens of thousands of stranded passengers. "I'm not as gravely concerned as I was throughout the summer," he said.
Breakfast is going to be more expensive next year. New York (CNN Business)Expect to pay more for some of your favorite cereals, snacks, soups and cooking brands next year.General Mills (GIS) notified retail customers that it's raising prices in mid-January on hundreds of items across dozens of brands. They include Annie's, Progresso, Yoplait, Fruit Roll-Ups, Betty Crocker, Pillsbury, Cheerios, Cinnamon Toast Crunch, Lucky Charm's, Wheaties, Reese's Puffs, Trix and more, according to letters General Mills sent to at least one major regional wholesale supplier last week. For some items, prices will go up by around 20% beginning next year.The wholesaler shared General Mills' letters with CNN Business on the condition of anonymity to protect the company's relationship with its suppliers. A leader at the company said it plans to push along all of the increases to its grocery and convenience store customers. He expects they will then pass them down to shoppers.A spokesperson for General Mills did not provide a comment for this story.If more General Mills' customers  including the leading big box stores, supermarkets, drug stores and other chains in the United States  decide to do the same, these familiar brands will get more expensive for shoppers.General Mills' plans are the latest evidence that rising prices won't be going away anytime soon for some of the most recognizable food and household brands. The company is the latest consumer manufacturer to announce price hikes beginning next year, joining Tyson (TSN), Kraft Heinz (KHC), Mondelez (MDLZ), Procter & Gamble (PG), Kimberly Clark (KMB) and others.Rising pricesGrocery prices have increased sharply during the pandemic, after stagnating from 2015 through 2019. Prices climbed 1% in October from September and were 5.4% higher than at the same time last year, according to the latest data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.Inflation on food, beverages and household basics will climb to 8% during the first half of 2022 before settling at 4% during the latter half of the year, projects IRI, a market research firm. IRI tracks prices, point-of-sale and volume data, promotions and trends at big-box stores, wholesale clubs, supermarkets, pharmacies and other consumer channels. Food manufacturers and grocery chains have faced higher costs for commodities, labor, transportation and other expenses during the pandemic. Those costs have escalated in recent months, prompting them to raise prices to minimize the impact.The producer-price index, which measures the price manufacturers receive for their goods and services, jumped 0.6% last month from September and rose 8.6% annually.General Mills said in the letters that it was responding to higher materials and labor costs. "The current operating environment is as dynamic as we've experienced in at least a decade, resulting in significant input cost inflation, labor shortages, and challenges servicing the business," General Mills said. General Mills said in September that it expects its input cost inflation to be 7% to 8% for its 2022 fiscal year.Uneven impactRising inflation does not impact all shoppers equally. "Inflation has been more painful for lower-income households," Bank of America economists said in a research report last week. That's because they are more exposed to the goods that are seeing prices rise the fastest, such as gas and rent, and they save less than higher-income groups. Some grocery chains are raising prices more quickly than competitors, depending on how much flexibility they have to handle higher costs. Walmart (WMT), the largest grocer in the United States, said its price gaps with competitors are wider than they were before the pandemic because the company is absorbing some costs instead of passing them on. Walmart accounted for 29% of General Mills' sales last year.
Tiffany is selling its most expensive piece of jewelry ever. New York (CNN Business)Tiffany & Co. just unveiled its newest most-expensive bling ever."The World's Fair Necklace," unveiled in Dubai on Sunday, features a stunning 180 carats of diamonds set in platinum. Its centerpiece is an 80-carat oval, flawless, D-color (highest grade and virtually colorless) "Empire Diamond," named for the iconic jeweler's hometown. The Empire Diamond was ethically sourced in Botswana, cut and polished in Israel and set in Tiffany's workshop in New York City.Tiffany (TIF) said the necklace is its most expensive piece ever created.The good news for jewelry lovers with deep pockets is that this necklace is available for sale  unlike Tiffany's famous 128.54 carat "Tiffany Diamond," which Tiffany said is priceless and not for purchase.The luxury retailer has not yet put a price on The World's Fair Necklace, but industry experts estimate its value to be between $20 million and $30 million.Tiffany's diamond jewelry is famous for adorning celebrities over the decades, from Audrey Hepburn to Beyonc Knowles. Beyonc made fashion history as the first Black woman to wear the iconic 128.54 carat Tiffany Diamond for Tiffany's new "About Love" campaign.The retailer said the design for The World's Fair Necklace is inspired by a Tiffany necklace made for the 1939 World's Fair held in Queens' Flushing Meadow-Corona Park. That design featured a 200-carat aquamarine stone and more than 400 diamonds. The reimagined World's Fair necklace can be worn in an unexpected way: The wearer can carefully pop out the Empire Diamond and mount it onto a platinum ring, with the aid of a Tiffany jeweler who will be on call whenever that service is required. Naturally.
Brooks Koepka says he 'just wanted to spank' Bryson DeChambeau after soundly beating rival in 'The Match'.  (CNN)It proved less of a match, more a walk in the park for Brooks Koepka.So much so that the fifth edition of "The Match" in Las Vegas, which was scheduled to be over 12 holes, didn't go the distance.Bryson DeChambeau didn't win a single hole, before conceding on the ninth as Koepka won 4&3  at the Wynn Golf Course."Man, I haven't seen a beatdown like this since me and Phil put it on [Peyton Manning] and Steph [Curry]," quipped commentator Charles Barkley, referring to when he partnered with six-time major champion Phil Mickelson in the third edition of "The Match." READ: Pigs run amok on golf courseAlongside Barkley, Mickelson was also a TV commentator for the match between Koepka and DeChambeau.The rivalry between Koepka and DeChambeau has brewed for over two years. It's been played out on golf courses and social media and has encompassed plenty of jibes and memes.It all began with a dispute over slow play, and Koepka's criticism of DeChambeau's meticulous approach.But it was Koepka who won the bragging rights on Friday -- and then some."It was fun to come out here and settle this," said Koepka. "I'm not going to lie. I just wanted to spank him."DeChambeau handed out cupcakes to the gallery on the first tee -- a nod to how you pronounce Koepka's name -- but thereafter struggled to find the sweet spot in his game.With Koepka so dominant, DeChambeau's opportunities to trash talk his rival were limited, though he did his best."Where is this on the PGA Tour, man?" DeChambeau asked Koepka. "You play so good right now." That was a barbed reference to Koepka missing his last two cuts."It's kind of like my major right now, right?" responded Koepka."Does this want to make you play with [Bryson] more?" Koepka was then asked. "Nah, I'm good."The clash between the two US golfers helped raise money for Advocates Pro Golf Association Tour and Feeding America, as well as DeChambeau donating to Shriner's Hospital and Koepka to St. Jude Children's Research Hospital.Over the four previous installments of the series, more than $30 million has been raised for various charities and initiatives. Visit CNN.com/sport for more news, features, and videosTNT exclusively broadcasted the event, although its coverage simulcasted on TBS, truTV and HLN. CNN is a division of WarnerMedia, along with HBO, Warner Bros, TNT, TBS and other media assets.
The new Omicron variant is a pandemic gut check.  (CNN)The emergence of the newly identified Omicron coronavirus variant feels like a pandemic gut check.Scientists have long known that the world would see emerging coronavirus variants. Viruses mutate constantly.But when South Africa's health minister announced Thursday the discovery of the B.1.1.529 variant, which appears to be spreading rapidly in parts of the country, it was the strongest reminder yet that the pandemic is not over.In the hours following that Thursday announcement, several nations -- including the United States and the United Kingdom -- banned travel from South Africa and surrounding African countries.The new travel restrictions announced by President Joe Biden on Friday will buy the US federal government more time to investigate the new Omicron variant that has emerged in South Africa, officials say. But not much.Inside the government, it is seen as inevitable that the new variant will appear in the US at some point, but the new restrictions should give federal health agencies and their global counterparts more time to learn about the variant, including the severity of the disease it causes. Officials do not believe, based on current surveillance, that the variant is in the US yet.Officials acted quickly to implement new restrictions. While the emergence of the variant had been flagged in the last several weeks, it was only in recent days that they learned how serious it was.US officials are expected to speak to scientists in South Africa again potentially on Sunday.The growing concernThe World Health Organization quickly convened a group of advisers and designated the B.1.1.529 strain a "variant of concern," giving it the Greek name Omicron. WHO also called on countries to enhance their surveillance and sequencing efforts to better understand coronavirus variants.Vaccine makers were fast to identify the variant as a concern. Moderna said the Omicron variant represents a 'significant potential risk' to its Covid-19 vaccine."The recently described Omicron variant includes mutations seen in the Delta variant that are believed to increase transmissibility and mutations seen in the Beta and Delta variants that are believed to promote immune escape. The combination of mutations represents a significant potential risk to accelerate the waning of natural and vaccine-induced immunity," Moderna said Friday in a news release.Omicron was also quick to make an economic hit. The new Covid variant sent oil plummeting 13% on Friday as investors feared new government restrictions and slower economic growth. US crude finished the day at a two-month low of $68.15 a barrel, down 13.1% from Wednesday's close. It was the worst day for oil since April 27, 2020, when Covid was spreading rapidly in the United States.Now, as scientists work quickly to learn more about the variant, global health officials are urging people to wear masks, avoid crowded places and get vaccinated if they haven't already. Omicron is another example of how Covid-19 is here to stay.'Variants are going to continually be generated by this virus'"We understand that people are concerned. The good thing is that we have monitoring systems around the world to detect these variants very quickly. This variant was detected a few weeks ago, and already scientists are sharing research with us, information with us, so that we can take action," Maria Van Kerkhove, WHO's technical lead for Covid-19, said in a video statement Friday."What's really important as an individual is to lower your exposure," Van Kerkhove said. "These proven public health measures have never been more important: distancing, wearing of a mask, making sure that it's over your nose and mouth with clean hands, making sure you avoid crowded spaces, be in rooms where there's good ventilation, and when it's your turn, get vaccinated."And as the world learns more about the Omicron variant, current guidance on mitigation measures -- such as wearing masks -- could change.Even as the pandemic nears its end and the coronavirus becomes endemic -- meaning, it could have a constant presence but not affect an alarmingly large number of people -- it's still likely that new variants will continue to emerge."New variants are going to continually be generated by this virus, most of which will be inconsequential. It will remain an important task, however, to characterize and track new variants to determine their significance," Dr. Amesh Adalja, senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins University Center for Health Security, wrote in an email to CNN on Friday."There will never be a time when there is a zero COVID threat as the virus transitions to endemicity," Adalja wrote. "Once the virus is tamed  by losing the ability to threaten hospital capacity through high levels of population immunity and treatments  I think public health recommendations will be more relaxed, though some people may voluntarily choose to continue to use them in high risk contexts."Vaccine scientists are already testing OmicronAs we look to what the future might hold, Covid-19 vaccine makers have said that they are prepared to update their coronavirus shots to target newly emerging variants.Scientists at BioNTech have already started investigating the impact the Omicron variant has on its vaccine developed with Pfizer, with data expected within the next couple of weeks."We understand the concern of experts and have immediately initiated investigations on variant B.1.1.529," BioNTech said in a statement Friday. "We expect more data from the laboratory tests in two weeks at the latest."Moderna announced in a statement Friday that it is "working rapidly" to test the ability of its current vaccine dose against the Omicron variant and data is expected in the coming weeks.If the current vaccine and booster shot are insufficient against the variant, one possible solution is boosting people with a larger dose, which Moderna said it is testing.The company is also evaluating two multi-valent booster candidates to see if they provide superior protection against Omicron. Both candidates include some of the viral mutations present in the new variant.Moderna is also evaluating an Omicron-specific booster candidate."Since early 2021, Moderna has advanced a comprehensive strategy to anticipate new variants of concern," the company statement said, adding that "this strategy includes three levels of response" should the currently authorized booster dose of its vaccine is insufficient to boost waning immunity against the Omicron variant.In response to the emergence of the Omicron variant, Johnson & Johnson said in a company statement Friday: "We are closely monitoring newly emerging COVID-19 virus strains with variations in the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein and are already testing the effectiveness of our vaccine against the new and rapidly spreading variant first detected in southern Africa."Vaccine maker AstraZeneca is looking to understand the impact the Omicron variant has on its coronavirus vaccine, and it is also testing its antibody combination therapy against the new variant, a spokesperson for the company said on Friday.The spokesperson said that the platform used in the vaccine enables the company to respond quickly to new variants."AstraZeneca is also already conducting research in locations where the variant has been identified, namely in Botswana and Eswatini, that will enable us to collect real world data of Vaxzevria against this new virus variant," they said.The company's antibody treatment, AZD7442, is also being tested against the variant, and AstraZeneca says it is "hopeful AZD7442 will retain efficacy since it comprises two potent antibodies with different and complementary activities against the virus."CNN's Kaitlan Collins, Virginia Langmaid and Naomi Thomas contributed to this report.
Omicron concerns should spur millions of unvaccinated Americans to get their Covid shots, experts say.  (CNN)As the new Covid-19 Omicron variant spurs global travel bans, experts say concerns over its impact should prompt millions of unvaccinated Americans to get their shots -- and for those who are eligible, to get their boosters."I would hope that within the next week or two weeks, so many of those people will take advantage of the vaccine," Dr. William Schaffner, a professor at Vanderbilt University Medical Center, told CNN's Alisyn Camerota Friday. "That will help us in the immediate term. And I would anticipate that, as bad as Omicron might be, our vaccine still will be partially effective."Dr. Anthony Fauci echoed that, pointing to vaccinations and boosters as effective mitigation tools. "I'm saying this absolutely clearly, that if ever there was a reason for unvaccinated people to get vaccinated and for those who have been vaccinated when your time comes up to go and get a booster shot," Fauci told NBC News on Friday.  "The booster shots give you a very, very important edge," he said, noting boosters increase the level of antibodies that protect against the virus. Data from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention showed 196 million Americans, or 59% of the US population, was fully vaccinated as of Friday. An additional 37.5 million have received booster shots, the data shows.After a pandemic that has lasted nearly two years, experts and global leaders are anxious about the impact of the Omicron variant, and many nations have issued travel bans. Besides South Africa, the newly identified variant has been detected in Botswana, Hong Kong, Belgium, Germany, Italy and the Czech Republic.Two cases of the variant have also been detected in the UK, Secretary of State for Health Sajid Javid said Saturday, prompting British Prime Minister Boris Johnson to announce a series of "targeted" measures to combat the variant.On Friday, the US moved to restrict travel from eight mostly southern African countries starting Monday as the World Health Organization deemed Omicron, first detected in South Africa, a variant of concern. Travel into the US will be restricted for those entering from Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique, Malawi and South Africa. Fauci: 'Would not be surprised' if variant is already in USOmicron has raised concerns for health officials because there's a possibility it could be more contagious than the original novel coronavirus strain, the WHO said, and it also has a significant number of mutations.  No cases of the variant have been identified in the US, the CDC said in a statement Friday, adding the agency is working with health officials both in the US and across the globe to learn more. The CDC continues to monitor variants, the agency's statement Friday said. "We expect Omicron to be identified quickly, if it emerges in the U.S."On Saturday morning, however, Fauci told NBC he "would not be surprised" if the variant was already in the US. "We have not detected it yet," he said, "but when you have a virus that is showing this degree of transmissibility, and you're having travel-related cases they've noted in other places already, when you have a virus like this, it almost invariably is going to go all over."Dr. Peter Hotez, a professor and dean of tropical medicine at the Baylor College of Medicine, agreed, telling CNN's Jim Acosta in an interview Saturday, "Yeah, it's likely here." Hotez indicated more would be known in the next week or two. In the meantime, it was important to keep things in perspective, he said, including the fact "we've not seen any evidence that Omicron produces more severe disease than any of the other variants." "In terms of whether or not this variant is going to resist the immune response to our current vaccines: it's possible, but it's unlikely to be totally resistant," he said. It could be "partially resistant," he added, like other variants that "never really took off, even though they had a lot of concerning mutations in the spike protein.""The most important thing we really need to know right now is how transmissible is this variant," he said, and whether it is "sufficient to outcompete" the Delta variant. "A week from now, if we have this discussion, we'll have a lot more information," Hotez said.Vaccine makers are working to determine effectiveness against OmicronVaccine makers have said they are taking action to address the emergence of a new variant. Moderna is working quickly to test the ability of its vaccine to neutralize Omicron, the company said Friday, and data is expected in the coming weeks.The strain includes mutations "seen in the Delta variant that are believed to increase transmissibility and mutations seen in the Beta and Delta variants that are believed to promote immune escape," Moderna said in a news release. "The combination of mutations represents a significant potential risk to accelerate the waning of natural and vaccine-induced immunity."If its current vaccine and booster are insufficient against the variant, Moderna explained one possible solution is boosting people with a larger dose, which the company is testing. The company is also evaluating two multivalent booster candidates to see if they provide better protection against Omicron -- both of which include some of the viral mutations present in the variant. Moderna said it is also testing an Omicron-specific booster."For several days, we have been moving as fast as possible to execute our strategy to address this variant," Moderna CEO Stphane Bancel said in the news release.Scientists at BioNTech, the German company that partnered with Pfizer to make its Covid-19 vaccine, are also investigating the impact of the variant on their shot, with data expected within the upcoming weeks.A Johnson & Johnson spokesperson told CNN in a statement the company was also testing the effectiveness of its vaccine against Omicron.Covid-19 travel restrictions aren't all that effective, experts say The Biden administration's decision to curtail travel from eight countries is a precautionary measure as the US government learns more about the Omicron variant of coronavirus.But some experts say travel restrictions aren't as effective as they may seem. "Travel bans are modestly effective. They can obviously influence travel directly from that country to the United States," said Schaffner, the doctor at Vanderbilt University Medical Center. "But obviously US citizens will be permitted to come back. They could bring the virus. And people could go from the country of interest, South Africa for example, and go to other countries that are not on the travel ban, and enter, if you will, by the side door. So travel bans are somewhat effective, but let's not expect a miracle," he said. US citizens, lawful permanent residents and noncitizens who are the spouses of citizens or permanent residents are exempted from the new restrictions. Dr. Megan Ranney, a professor of emergency medicine and Associate Dean of Public Health at Brown University, said universal vaccination requirements for all air travel would be more effective. "Or having quarantines when people arrive in the U.S. from other countries. Neither of those are particularly politically palatable right now, but they would make a much bigger difference in the spread of this variant," Ranney told CNN's Jim Acosta Friday.CNN's Jacqueline Howard, Virginia Langmaid, Michael Nedelman, Frederik Pleitgen and Kaitlan Collins contributed to this report. 
Omicron variant puts a chill on Thanksgiving weekend. Julian Zelizer, a CNN political analyst, is a professor of history and public affairs at Princeton University and author of the book, "Abraham Joshua Heschel: A life of Radical Amazement." Follow him on Twitter @julianzelizer. The views expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion on CNN. (CNN)After South Africa sounded the alarm on a new Covid-19 variant, the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 900 points on Black Friday, marking a dire start to what was forecast to be a record-shattering holiday spending season. News of the Omicron variant, which has an unusually high number of mutations, will certainly throw a spanner in the works for the Biden administration as the President struggles with flagging approval ratings and a pessimistic view of the economy.The administration will need to work quickly to get ahead of the new variant. The administration has already announced it will restrict travel from South Africa and seven other countries, but the president needs to do more, as the new variant has already been detected in places including Belgium and Hong Kong.  While the world waits for more data on vaccine efficacy against the Omicron variant, Biden needs to continue the push to vaccinate those who have not yet gotten the jab and to direct funds to ramp up the production and development of medical treatments for Covid. Despite the news that sent stock markets tumbling on Friday, there are plenty of positive signs for the US' economic recovery. Shortly before Thanksgiving, the Bureau of Economic Analysis reported the real gross domestic product (GDP) grew by 2.1% in the third quarter. Meanwhile, last week's unemployment claims totaled 199,000 when adjusted for seasonal swings -- marking the lowest level since November 15, 1969. With 62% of the eligible population fully vaccinated, the US has enjoyed a return to some semblance of normality -- especially with most children back in school and kids ages five and up now eligible for the Covid-19 vaccine.  Yet the good news doesn't seem to be breaking through to many Americans. Under more normal circumstances, we would expect the President to enjoy some political benefit from the economic recovery and strong legislative wins, including the passage of the $1 trillion bipartisan infrastructure package. But Biden's approval ratings remain in the 40s and Democrats are likely to get pummeled in the 2022 midterm elections. What's going on? Some of Biden's supporters have argued the media has systematically ignored the positive, focusing instead on the turmoil and conflicts plaguing the Democratic Party. While there is certainly some truth to the notion many media outlets tend to emphasize bad news, this analysis misses a number of other relevant factors.  The pandemic is far from over, and after nearly two years and more than 775,000 deaths, many Americans are traumatized and on edge. One does not have to be watching "The Morning Show" to look back at the horrible months of February and March 2020 and remember what it was like when the world shut down and the deadly virus swept through the world. With the Delta variant stymying hopes of a full recovery during the summer, it has become increasingly difficult to embrace any good news, as fear and uncertainty continue to dictate so much of our lives.There are also, of course, real economic problems such as inflation and supply chain issues Americans are confronting every time they go to the supermarket or gas station. Even if these are, as the economist Paul Krugman recently argued, temporary problems akin to the price spike from 1946 to 1948, they are very much the lived experience of millions of families trying to restore order in their lives after mass layoffs and other economic disruptions. In a polarized polity, it's also difficult for any president to break through to the other side. With a Democrat in the White House, Americans who consume information from conservative media outlets like Fox News are likely to view Biden through a partisan lens. There is little the commander in chief can do to change this. But Biden still has to try to get his message across and explain in plain language exactly how the infrastructure and reconciliation packages will have a positive impact on people's lives.It is also worth noting many of the structural issues exposed last year have not been fully addressed. The reconciliation package, which would lower the cost of health care and childcare, and help fight climate change, still faces an uncertain future in the Senate after months of infighting among Democrats. And despite the racial reckoning after George Floyd's death in May 2020, progress on policing reform on the federal level has stalled, while conservatives have tried to stir up a backlash over "critical race theory." Meanwhile, extreme weather events like Hurricane Ida have ravaged the country, all while world leaders squabble over how best to "phase down"  -- rather than "phase out" -- the use of fossil fuels. Given the ongoing pandemic and the major problems our country faces, the horrible memories of the times we have all lived through will continue to lurk in our psyches. Despite the economic recovery, we may be a long way off from feeling good about the state of our nation.  
Even in Nantucket, Biden can't escape the harsh reality of the pandemic. Nantucket, Massachusetts (CNN)President Joe Biden and first lady Jill Biden descended on the island of Nantucket this week looking to preserve the sense of normalcy that the nation was so looking forward to over this holiday season.The President and first lady brought a brood of children, grandchildren and their significant others to their island Thanksgiving getaway -- along with the Secret Service apparatus, small flock of staff and gaggle of reporters that travels with the president -- looking to send a signal to the rest of the country that it was time to return to traditions that had been skipped in 2020.They went through their Thanksgiving routine: They had their feast with family on Thursday before walking through Nantucket on Friday, dining at a local restaurant and shopping at stores they have visited for decades before attending the lighting of the town's Christmas tree. The President tweeted in support of small businesses and restaurants Friday, making good on his pledge to shop small during that afternoon stroll.But as has happened so often in the past year and a half, the pandemic is never far away for the President, as he -- like other Americans -- woke up to new worries over a concerning variant of the coronavirus spreading abroad.As the Bidens smiled through their Thanksgiving traditions, the harsh reality of Covid-19's unpredictability interrupted the celebrations on Black Friday. Reports of the new Omicron variant of the virus -- B.1.1.529, discovered in South Africa -- prompted fresh concerns among scientists and the Biden administration. As South African officials briefed the World Health Organization on Friday, a new wave of travel restrictions were imposed abroad as countries like the United Kingdom, Germany and Japan moved unusually quickly to set new travel bans for South Africa and other countries in the region. Stock markets in the US and abroad fell sharply Friday on the news, with the Dow Jones industrial Average logging its worst day since October 2020 as investors reacted to the new uncertainty of the virus's trajectory. On Friday afternoon, the President announced new travel restrictions on South Africa and seven other African nations -- a move that he said was meant to be "cautious" over a new "big concern."The stock slide, reports of cases of the new variant showing up in additional nations around the world and travel restrictions on affected nations brought back echoes of the pandemic's early days rather than the optimistic view the administration has sought to project in the last several weeks. The news from southern Africa turned Biden's annual trek to Nantucket from a signal of better days to come into a message that the nation's new normal can be preserved -- at least for now.Biden and his team view effectively tackling the pandemic as the only way for the economy to improve and for the President to recover his political fortunes. Questions are now circulating about how the administration will handle the new variant and its economic havoc, as federal health officials like Dr. Anthony Fauci warn that there is much to learn about how it spreads and how vaccines can fight it.The continued economic fallout from the pandemic -- still far from over this holiday week -- was clear both on Wall Street and in the seaside town where the Bidens broke bread. Conversations with local business owners and workers across Nantucket underlined the growing economic disparities between the summer season residents and many of the islanders who live here year-round. That gap has been exacerbated by the pandemic and resulting inflation, supply chain issues, labor shortages and a lack of affordable housing. Richard Vargas, a manager at Murray's Beverage Store, on the town's main street, told CNN that the labor shortages mean he is seeing businesses having trouble "being able to gain enough people out here for work, people wanting to go to work, and getting the supplies to be able to provide a service for everybody around the island.""There are a lot of hardworking people here," he said -- many of whom, he explained, hold at least two jobs to pay rising housing rental costs and to buy food. Vargas, who holds a second job at FedEx, said a scarcity of J-1 visas for people coming to the US seasonally to work has also made it hard to recruit workers. "We know there's a lot of people that wanted to come back this year that couldn't because they couldn't get a visa. It's just absolute craziness -- like, all the stores along here, any of the businesses over here, they say the same thing: They could not get enough help," Vargas said. Biden is staying at the home of billionaire philanthropist David Rubenstein, a sprawling waterfront compound. But on an island often described as "elite," "tony" or "posh," the economic concerns affecting the nation are acutely felt among those who keep the place running -- the landscapers, the servers, the cooks, the hotel housekeepers, the shop employees. Despite continued prosperity for the very rich, there is a "growing year-round population living at or below the median income level" and a "severe shortage of year-round affordable rental housing," according to the Nantucket Food, Fuel, Rental Assistance program.Food insecurity is on the rise, with the Greater Boston Food Bank identifying Nantucket County as one of four counties in Massachusetts that have "seen their projected food insecurity rates increase by over 70.0%" in the past year, per the town's Nantucket Cottage Hospital. And the labor shortage extends to teachers, police officers and first responders, with the Nantucket Current reporting in August that a staff exodus from the Nantucket Department of Public Works had "crippled" its workforce. Concerns about the gap between rich and poor on the island were echoed by local business owners at the Nantucket Chamber of Commerce's "Business After Hours" happy hour Wednesday evening, with one attendee describing "the different Nantucket economies" of the rich and privileged and of those supporting their lifestyles.It's no secret that presidential vacations historically do not reflect the experiences of ordinary Americans, from President Donald Trump's frequent Mar-a-Lago escapes in Palm Beach, Florida, to President Barack Obama's summer vacation in nearby Martha's Vineyard. They've often been aware of the political dangers in selecting tony locations -- in 1995, President Bill Clinton's political adviser conducted a poll to determine a voter-approved vacation spot for the Clintons, settling on Grand Teton National Park. But for the Bidens, the trip this year is meant to be a symbol to the country that Americans can enjoy the holiday traditions that the coronavirus kept them from experiencing last year. The Bidens have been spending Thanksgiving on Nantucket for 46 years. It was the spot the President spent his first Thanksgiving with Jill Biden, and the place where his late son, Beau, and son Hunter encouraged him to run for president in 2016."This year, the blessings of Thanksgiving are especially meaningful," the President said in a video message released Thursday.The first lady added, "After being apart last year, we have a new appreciation for those little moments we can't plan or replicate."
A Los Angeles woman invited an Afghan refugee family over for Thanksgiving. Here's what happened at their first Thanksgiving meal.  (CNN)For his family's first experience with a traditional Thanksgiving meal, Wahidullah Asghary had to explain to his children what turkey is: "I said, 'turkey is like a big chicken.'"Asghary, a former translator and interpreter for the U.S. Military in Afghanistan, came to the United States on a special immigrant visa in September 2020. He brought his four children, who tried to learn English while enrolled in what was then all-virtual school at the time. His wife joined them five months later.Thursday was the first time they had been invited by an American household to experience a Thanksgiving meal."Every homeland, every nation, every people, every person, they have got a culture or tradition, right? So it is our first time, and now we want to learn a little bit about what this is, really," Asghary said.Their host, Kiki Nagy, volunteers for Miry's List, a Southern California-based group that helps refugee families settle in the U.S. In August, during the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan, Miry's List enrolled more than 20 refugee families, about five times the number of families compared to the month before. Next year, the organization is working to prepare to help more than 300 families settle in Southern California.Nagy had asked the organization's founder, Miry Whitehill, if she could host an Afghan family for their first Thanksgiving. She was connected with the Asgharys, whom she had never met until the day of the feast.Nagy made a big turkey, cranberry sauce, potatoes and spinach. But she also prepared a halal lamb to make sure the Asghary family could have something familiar to eat. Asghary said his daughter, especially, liked all the food.Nagy was eager to not only introduce them to Thanksgiving dishes, but to also show them the tradition of giving thanks."From the right and the left, everyone is kind of like, 'America has got problems -- x, y, z," Nagy said. "In the midst of this conflicting cultural moment, this narrative of division that we hear so much about, that there is something essential to the American experience that is rooted in gratitude, that is rooted in the volunteerism that you leave your country, you leave a situation and you come here with sometimes very little -- sometimes with nothing. And you start over. And you create this opportunity for your family."Asghary said they have much to be thankful for: "We may have more opportunities in our life in our hands. So of course the foremost example is this, that we are together. Family."He said they're lucky his wife was able to join them before so many others tried to make a chaotic exit in August during the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan.The image of the many families trying to escape Afghanistan in August especially resonated with another guest at the same Thanksgiving party, Tam Van Tran.Tran, a friend of Nagy's, was a refugee from Vietnam in 1975. Tran told CNN he and his siblings arrived in the U.S. one week before the fall of Saigon."When I saw the photo of the Afghans and the cargo plane, it reminded me very much of just -- I was in the same, but it was a gigantic cargo ship," Tran said.When Tran came to California, he was about the same age as Asghary's oldest children. He said he and his siblings escaped initially without their parents, so they were welcomed in the home of Richard and Rejean Schulte, a foster family in Mountain View, California.He said he could offer the Asgharys a warm welcome: "Brotherhood and camaraderie. In a sense, you know...I went through that experience in '75."Like at many holiday gatherings across the country, several people at the table were at one point new to the country and had to learn American traditions. And many of them worked to seize the opportunity available in their new home country.Asghary said he tells his children, "We are here for you, the United States is here for you, and everything you have got in your hand. What are you going to do is you have to study. That's it."Nagy hopes one of their first lessons would be from their first Thanksgiving: "To see that that kind of tolerance is really possible in the United States and, um, I guess I would want them to feel, I would appreciate, that Americans are at heart, really a generous people."
Why hundreds of thousands of kids in the US dread their 21st birthdays .  (CNN)Most college students can't wait for their 21st birthdays. But Lakshmi Parvathinathan is terrified. It's the moment when everything she's worked for could slip away. "All my friends excitedly talk about turning 21 -- hitting the bars, all of that...but it's just something that I dread," she says.The day she turns 21, Parvathinathan will no longer be protected by the work visa that allowed her parents to immigrate to the United States from India. And she may face deportation.It's known as "aging out," and experts estimate that about 200,000 people like Parvathinathan are living in a similar limbo. Brought legally to the United States as children, many are scrambling to find ways to stay in the country they love. Some are forced to leave the US when they run out of options. They've dubbed themselves "documented Dreamers," and they say their plight shows how broken the US immigration system is. Even those who immigrate legally find themselves facing roadblocks that are impossible to surmount, Dip Patel says. The 25-year-old pharmacist is the founder of Improve the Dream, a group of "documented Dreamers" pressing Congress and the Biden administration to help save their futures. "The whole situation is something that most people don't really know even exists," he says, "that it's possible for an immigrant child to be brought here legally, do all their education here, but still not have a chance to become an American." 'Victims of outdated immigration laws'The issue is affecting a growing number of people, according to Julia Gelatt, a senior policy analyst at the Migration Policy Institute.One major reason: the green card backlog is immense -- especially for immigrants from India; it can take decades for them even to have a chance to apply. That means many people who came to the US as young children are still waiting for their family's turn by the time they turn 21. At that point, the adult visa holders' children are no longer considered dependents, and they're kicked out of line and forced to find their own way to remain in the country legally.Another factor: some families who come to the United States on certain temporary work visas aren't ever eligible to apply to become permanent residents. And because young adults in these groups had visas allowing them to live legally in the United States, they weren't protected by Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, the Obama-era program that provided work permits and protection from deportation to hundreds of thousands of undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children."'Documented Dreamers' are just one of many victims of our outdated immigration laws that are no longer aligned with the way immigration is really working today," Gelatt says.Members of Improve the Dream are hoping to fix that. They've been making the rounds in Washington, pushing members of Congress to pass a proposed law that would give "documented Dreamers" a chance to become permanent residents of the US, provided they've lived here for at least 10 years on a valid visa and graduated from an institution of higher education."We're just hoping there's a future for all of us, and we can stay and contribute to the country we call home," Patel says.If not, Parvathinathan says, the consequences would be devastating.She's living on edge while she waits for a student visaThe 19-year-old sophomore at Drexel University in Philadelphia hopes to become a doctor someday. Parvathinathan is majoring in biological sciences and trying to focus on her studies. But fears about her future loom over her. She first came to the US when she was 3 years old. And she doesn't want to be forced to abandon everything she's worked for and move to India, where she says she feels like a foreigner.Parvathinathan says she tried to get a student visa so she can stay in the United States past her 21st birthday. It still hasn't arrived, 14 months after her application. She's on edge, waiting for word and jumping every time an email notification flashes across her cell phone screen. "It's something that I think about all the time," she says.Applying for student visas can be difficult for documented Dreamers, says Gelatt of the Migration Policy Institute, because applicants are required to show they don't plan to stay in the United States -- something that's hard to prove for teens who've spent most of their lives here.And even securing a student visa doesn't end their worries -- it merely buys them time until they must scramble to find another temporary way to remain in the country, such as an employer-sponsored work visa."It's like you're drowning, and every couple of years you get to take one breath, then are pulled back down," says Anagh Kulkarni, who will turn 21 in January. Kulkarni is a student at Ohio State University and also hopes to become a doctor. But he knows his chances are slim, since he'll be seen as an international student -- which means most US medical schools are unlikely to even entertain the notion of accepting him. He also can't get any hospital work experience to improve his application, since his dependent visa doesn't provide employment authorization. All that leaves Kulkarni full of anxiety and unsure of whether he has a future in this country."Even if I do the best that anyone has ever done," he says, "I don't know if I'll be able to stay."She was forced to leave after she couldn't find a jobIt's a dilemma Erin Crosbie knows all too well. After living in Florida for nearly 17 years and getting a nursing degree from the University of South Florida, she says she had no other choice but to move back to Northern Ireland over the summer when she couldn't find a way to remain in the United States.She'd secured a student visa that let her stay in the country past her 21st birthday, but with its expiration date looming, Crosbie started searching for work. The pandemic had made her more determined than ever to become a critical care nurse, she says, but job after job that she applied to told her they couldn't hire her because of her immigration status. Each rejection phone call sent her into a panic. "It was hard. They weren't saying 'no' because of me. It wasn't that I had done something wrong, or didn't have the right qualifications," she says. "lt was because of something that was out of my control. I felt powerless."Now the 24-year-old is trying to start her life over in another country -- more than 4,000 miles away from her closest friends and family. The pain of having to leave them behind still stings. She hasn't been able to bring herself to update her social media profiles yet with her new location.Her parents, Nigel and Alison Crosbie, say the separation has been heartbreaking. They came to the United States in 2004 on an E-2 visa for investors in US businesses, bringing Erin, then 7, and her sister Morgan, then 3. Now the parents say they're faced with an agonizing possibility -- that the only way their close-knit family can be together again may be for them to sell the Florida business they've spent 17 years building and move back to Northern Ireland."It's frustrating to me that we've done everything legally, but if you do things illegally, you seem to get further," Nigel Crosbie says.Congress could fix this. But that may be unlikelyAnd it's hard to believe help will come from Washington, Nigel Crosbie says. Immigration matters, he says, always seem to be too toxic for any politician to touch."No matter what party is in power, it seems to be like the poison chalice. Nobody wants to do it. They keep kicking the can down the road," he says. "They just don't realize the impact that it has on people's lives that are being torn apart."Parvathinathan says she's feeling optimistic after a recent visit to Washington with other members of Improve the Dream. The group shared their stories with lawmakers on both sides of the aisle. They're hoping legislation introduced to help them earlier this year will eventually secure enough bipartisan support to pass -- and also that the Biden administration will include them in the planned revamp of DACA. The massive social spending bill House Democrats recently passed would give them some protection, but it faces an uphill battle in the Senate. When -- and whether -- any relief will come is anyone's guess. So Parvathinathan is trying to remind herself to be patient. But she finds herself still facing too many questions she can't answer.In a recent interview for a program at her university, someone asked where she sees herself in 5 or 10 years.She didn't know what to say.
A stowaway was found in the landing gear of a plane at the Miami airport, authorities say.  (CNN)Authorities discovered an apparent stowaway Saturday in the landing gear of a flight from Guatemala at the Miami International Airport, local and federal officials said. US Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers at the airport apprehended a 26-year-old man who "attempted to evade detection in the landing gear compartment of an aircraft," a CBP statement said. The flight was American Airlines #1182 from Guatemala City, according to Greg Chin, Communications Director for the Miami-Dade Aviation Department.American Airlines said in a statement the flight was met by law enforcement "due to a security issue," after landing at 10:06 a.m.The airline said it was working with authorities on the investigation.Miami-Dade Fire Rescue confirmed to CNN they transported the man to a local hospital for medical assessment.In a video posted on Instagram by the account @onlyindade, a person is seen dazed, standing in the shadow of an airplane wing with airport personnel in reflective vests, before he appears to slightly lose his balance and sits on the ground.In another video posted by the same account, law enforcement and emergency medical services are seen around the man as he is given water and other aid."Persons are taking extreme risks when they try to conceal themselves in confined spaces such as an aircraft," the CBP statement said. "This incident remains under investigation."
Thieves target Home Depot in California, making off with hammers, crowbars and other tools.  (CNN)Up to 10 people entered a Home Depot store in California on Friday night and left with a range of stolen tools, according to police officials.The incident took place at approximately 8 p.m. local time in Lakewood, Los Angeles Sheriff's Department Deputy Miguel Meza told CNN. Lakewood is a city in Los Angeles County.The thieves made off with hammers, sledgehammers, crowbars and other tools. After grabbing the items, they ran out of the store and got into a getaway car parked outside, Meza said.The theft comes as similar tools have been used in a number of smash-and-grab robberies at high-end stores in several major US cities this month. At least 18 people broke into a Nordstrom department store in Los Angeles Monday night and stole thousands of dollars in merchandise, the city's police chief said. Similar crimes have been reported in the San Francisco Bay Area, Chicago, and other cities.The Los Angeles Sheriff's Department did not have details about the getaway vehicle nor the number of items stolen Friday night at the Home Depot store, but are investigating.
Wisconsin senators warn in rare joint statement outsiders may try to exploit Waukesha tragedy for 'political purposes'.  (CNN)In a rare joint statement, Wisconsin Sens. Tammy Baldwin, a Democrat, and Ron Johnson, a Republican, warned Saturday outsiders may be looking to exploit the tragedy that unfolded last weekend in Waukesha."It has come to our attention that outside individuals or groups may attempt to exploit the tragedy that occurred last Sunday in Waukesha for their own political purposes," the statement said. "As the U.S. Senators representing Wisconsin, one from each political party, we are asking anyone considering such action to cease and desist."Six people, including an 8-year-old boy, were killed and more than 60 were injured after a driver rammed an SUV through a Christmas parade in downtown Waukesha last Sunday.An 11-year-old who was injured was on a ventilator and fighting for her life. Nearly a week later, her mother shared in a medical update.Jessalyn Torres is recovering from a broken pelvis, skull fracture and other injuries, according to one of two verified GoFundMe pages created to help the girl's mother, Amber Kohnke. The young girl "needs more time to heal," Kohnke said in the update on her daughter's condition posted Saturday.Prosecutors believe the driver was Darrell E. Brooks, 39, and they have charged him with five counts of first-degree intentional homicide and will consider a sixth homicide charge over the boy's death.The senators' statement did not provide details about why they issued the warning, but said they both have "full confidence in the local officials who responded with extraordinary professionalism, competence, integrity and compassion.""They have many difficult duties to perform in the coming days, weeks, and months, and they should be afforded the respect and support they deserve to undertake their responsibilities without outside interference," the senators' statement said. They added officials' top priorities now are to "begin the healing process" and conduct a "thorough investigation and afford the accused full due process.""These will not be easy tasks, and will be made even more difficult if conducted within a politically charged atmosphere," the statement said. "We ask everyone to demonstrate their interest and concern by praying for the victims, their families, and the entire community of Waukesha."CNN's Melissa Alonso contributed to this report.
A 5-year-old child was fatally shot by teenager making a video for social media, Minnesota police say.  (CNN)A 5-year-old in Brooklyn, Park, Minnesota, was shot and killed on Thanksgiving by a 13-year-old who accidentally fired a gun while a group of kids were making a video for social media, according to local police. Brooklyn Park Police responded to a home on Florida Avenue around 10:20 p.m. Thursday in response to reports of a child who had been shot, police said in a statement on Facebook Friday. Officers "attempted to render first aid; however, the child died at the scene," police said. Police determined through a preliminary investigation that a 13-year-old boy was "handling a gun" inside the home, police said. "Several other juveniles were present as they were attempting to make a social media video." It remains unclear exactly what circumstances led up to the shooting, but at some point the teen "shot the gun striking the 5-year-old," police said, adding investigators believe the shooting was accidental. The teen was arrested and is currently in custody at the Hennepin County Juvenile Detention Center, police said. The investigation is ongoing. CNN's Dakin Andone contributed to this report.
Moderate House Republican warns McCarthy over embracing far-right members.  (CNN)A moderate House Republican is firing off a warning shot at House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy as he caters to his right flank in a quest for the speaker's gavel.  "He's taking the middle of the conference for granted," the GOP lawmaker told CNN, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss internal conference dynamics. "McCarthy could have a bigger math problem with the moderates."Specifically, the lawmaker said a number of moderates are upset with how McCarthy, of California, has embraced some of the extremists in the GOP conference and warned it could hurt the party in swing districts and undermine their chances of winning back the majority. McCarthy has promised to reinstate Reps. Paul Gosar of Arizona and Marjorie Taylor Greene of Georgia to their committees if the GOP wins back the House. Greene -- who recently laid out a list of demands for her speaker's vote and said she has no respect for the current GOP leadership -- said Friday evening she had spoken to McCarthy by phone, describing it as a "good call." She also said she likes "what he has planned ahead."McCarthy said he spoke to Colorado Rep. Lauren Boebert Friday in the wake of her anti-Muslim remarks about Democratic Rep. Ilhan Omar, for which she has since apologized, and is encouraging she meet with the Minnesota lawmaker.Boebert "has reached out to Congresswoman Omar to meet next week," McCarthy said in a statement. "I spoke with Leader Hoyer today to help facilitate that meeting so that Congress can get back to talking to each other and working on the challenges facing the American people."CNN reached out to McCarthy's office multiple times Friday for a comment about Boebert, but they did not provide a statement to CNN until Saturday.The moderate GOP lawmaker warned the two wings of the party were headed for a "collision course," and predicted other moderate lawmakers would start speaking out publicly if McCarthy doesn't do more to rein in the fringe members in the party.  "Our side isn't going to take this much longer," the lawmaker said.This story has been updated with additional information Saturday.
How anti-Trump conservatives have fled Fox News .  (CNN)Former Fox News contributors Jonah Goldberg and Stephen Hayes decided to leave the network last week. The two have long been concerned over former President Donald Trump falsely claiming the 2020 election was stolen. The publication of Tucker Carlson's falsehood-filled "Patriot Purge" on Fox Nation, about January 6, was the last straw. The Goldberg/Hayes saga is a manifestation of a larger trend. The audience of right-wing media such as Fox News, Newsmax and One America News Network wants little to do with resisting Trump, even if that means they are resisting the truth. Republicans who don't get news from these networks are far more unfavorable to the former President.We can see this well in a CNN/SSRS poll conducted in August and September. In the poll, I isolated Republicans and independents who leaned Republican who preferred to get their television or digital news only from Fox News, Newsmax or One America News Network. Almost uniformly (88% to 11%), Republican voters who like getting their news from those conservative media outlets believe President Joe Biden did not legitimately get enough votes to win the presidency. In other words, almost all of the Republicans in the conservative media audience think a glaring falsehood is true. A majority of Republican voters (57%) who follow digital or cable news and didn't list Fox News, Newsmax or OANN (e.g. The New York Times or said they didn't have a favorite) as their primary source also falsely believe Biden didn't win the election legitimately. This level, though, is far smaller than among those who like getting their news from conservative media. Additionally, a significantly larger share of these Republicans (42%) believe the truth that Biden legitimately received enough votes to win the presidency. The difference between these two audiences, however, isn't merely about views on the 2020 election. It's how important those views are to their identity as Republicans. Republican voters who prefer to get their news from Fox, Newsmax or OANN are three times as likely (57% to 18%) to indicate that thinking Trump won in 2020 is very important to what being a Republican means to them. That is, even if a majority of Republicans, regardless of where they like to get their news, have untrue beliefs about 2020, those views are much more deeply held among those who prefer those conservative news outlets. A different slice of the data perhaps indicates this better. Just 11% of those who prefer conservative media say that thinking Trump won in 2020 is not at all important to what being a Republican means. This jumps to 38% among Republican voters who prefer other news outlets. Importantly, this demonstrates that the percentage of the non-conservative media audience who say Trump winning is not at all important to their GOP identity is far bigger than those who say it is very important. The reverse is true among Republican voters who prefer conservative media. Now, perhaps the big question is whether this is correlation (i.e. Trump fans were less likely to watch conservative media all along) or causation (i.e. conservative media is causing people to believe Biden didn't win legitimately). The answer is likely both. Yes, Republicans who prefer to get their news from conservative media were more likely to vote for Trump in 2020 (99% to 83%) among those who cast a ballot.  But even among Republicans who voted for Trump, 31% of those who prefer to get their news outside of conservative media believe Biden legitimately won. This is a low percentage, but it's significantly higher than the 10% of those who like getting their news from Fox News, Newsmax or OANN. Likewise, the percentage of Republican Trump voters who prefer their news from non-conservative outlets and think Trump winning in 2020 is very important to the Republican identity (21%) is only about a third of what it is among those who prefer to get their news from conservative media (60%). This shouldn't be surprising, given how much some in conservative media have played up the idea that Biden didn't win legitimately. Going forward, it seems unlikely that the differing views on Trump among Republicans by news consumption choice will dissipate. The Republicans who prefer to get their news from Fox News, Newsmax or One America News Network remain far bigger fans of Trump than those who don't. A large 53% of Republican voters who get their news from the conservative media say supporting Trump is very important to being a Republican. It's just 21% among those who get their media from other television or digital sources. Another way to gauge this is by examining those who argue that backing Trump is not at all important to their Republican identity. It can be argued that these are some of the most ardent anti-Trump Republicans. Just 8% of Republican voters who prefer conservative media think it's not important at all to support Trump. Among those who prefer to get their news from other sources, it's 35%. The anti-Trump resistance within the GOP is low no matter where you go, but it's far lower among those who like conservative media. Looking ahead to the 2024 presidential primary, any Republican looking to beat Trump (assuming he runs) will likely need to dominate among those who don't prefer conservative media. It probably won't be enough to win. This lane is likely a minority of Republicans (20% to 40% under the most generous definition). Without it, though, any challenge to Trump will have a very hard time succeeding. 
Her terrifying accident on a porch swing pushed her into the ultimate mission of goodwill.  (CNN)After nearly losing her life in a porch swing accident, Lalia Susini is committed to helping other injured and sick children overcome the obstacles they face.The 12-year-old Los Angeles girl had been pursuing a career in acting and fashion, but now has her mind set on becoming a doctor, the result of a harrowing accident that led to several brain surgeries. "I thought I was going to die," Susini, who most recently starred in ABC's "Station 19," told CNN. "I just had no idea what happened."More than a year ago, an eyebolt holding the swing's bungee cord snapped out of the porch ceiling and shot through Lalia's skull."It started as a cute, All-American moment, her grandfather was pushing her," said her mother, Stacey Susini. "The next thing you know there's blood everywhere and I thought I'm going to lose my daughter."Los Angeles Fire Department crews found Lalia had suffered a stroke, was unconscious and had lost movement on her left side.Members of Station 97 helped her regain consciousness and rushed her to Cedars Sinai hospital.Stacey Susini recalls her daughter underwent two blood transfusions before doctors could operate because Lalia bled so much."That projectile had traversed through her skull and into an area of the brain that is responsible for voluntary motor control," said Dr. Moise Danielpour, a neurosurgeon in Cedars' pediatric department."She was unable to move one side of her body with an open wound. Time was critical." Dr. Danielpour explained doctors and nurses fought to save Lalia's life while preserving as much of Lalia's damaged brain as possible."The life of this beautiful child was in our hands and there was no room for error," said Danielpour. Miraculously, Lalia survived the nearly five-hour operation.Inspired to give backMore than a year later, Laila's left arm is still paralyzed.But she embraces extensive physical therapy, and is back acting, as well as doing other normal kids stuff -- like riding bicycles, easing into soccer, running track and chasing after her three brothers in their Hollywood Hills home."I'm working my hardest to get back to all of that," Lalia said. "Some would think this (her injuries) is so bad my life is ruined, but you have to be positive."The upbeat attitude propelled her to help fellow pediatric patients by creating a line of fashionable and comfortable clothes for kids who live with medical devices. Laila had already been designing clothes before the accident with her best friend under the brand name LATE Clothing LA. But her accident inspired her to also focus on sick and injured children."We donate clothes to kids who have a cast on their arm, PICC lines, or feeding tubes going into their arms -- anything where clothes need be modified," said Lalia. The acronym PICC line stands for peripherally inserted central catheter and it's used for administering intravenous fluids.The seventh grade student said during her recovery she saw how she and other children would have benefited from any comfortable clothing that would have openings for those lines or casts.One of those children was her friend Jack Boulas, who also survived a massive brain injury as well as a heart attack.Six-year-old Jack suffers from rare, Catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia that causes an irregular heart rhythm."A lot of families, children, parents live in isolation at a pediatric hospital," said Jack's father, Matt Boulas."I appreciate Lalia for the kindness she has shown to Jack. He always talks about her, adores her.  "The first thing he says is 'hide' when he sees her, because he likes to play hide and seek with her."Lalia's pediatric clothing line is just getting started, with a handful of items donated.But clothes are just the beginning, Laila says. She also wants to follow in her doctor's footsteps to the operating room, and someday become a pediatric neurosurgeon.She's a straight-A student, and is confident she can do it. But for now, Laila is taking one day at a time."It's wonderful when you can have an impact on a young person's life," Danielpour said.
He ordered a letterman jacket in high school but couldn't afford to pick it up. His brother just found it at a thrift shop 28 years later.  (CNN)Jed Mottley played varsity football 28 years ago at Chaparral High School in Scottsdale, Arizona, when nothing screamed ultimate pride in your sport and school like a letterman jacket -- but Mottley didn't have one."I went down to the store that year and picked everything out," Mottley told CNN. "You had to kind of design the jacket yourself ... but I never saw the final product."When it came time to pick it up, Mottley's mother told him they didn't have the money to buy it."She was one of the greatest mothers you could ever ask for," Mottley said, "and she really did the best that she could. I mean, there were Christmases where there was IOUs under the Christmas tree, and if you've (never) had an IOU during Christmas ... you don't know what that feels like. We definitely had it rough, and she just always made it OK, but she was so loving."But Mottley's older brother Josh happened to be in the right place at the right time on November 3. He found Jed's letterman jacket hanging on the rack of a thrift shop in Pinetop, almost 180 miles away from his high school, for $25 -- a stark difference from its original $300 price tag, Mottley estimated.'The price was right, 28 years later'"My mom was one of the most religious people I knew and she always said, 'I'm going to give you guys a sign from the other side,'" Jed said. "She passed away in 2012 but we never got that sign."Josh moved to Pinetop a few years ago after touring the country as a musician. He was walking around Veterans Village Thrift Store in the area when he spotted the bright red jacket, he told CNN affiliate KNXV.The jacket had the name "Jed" stitched under the left pocket, "94" stitched under the right pocket, and a football, the letters "WR" and the number 1 stitched on the right arm. "Chaparral" was stitched inside a big letter "C" on the top left part of the jacket."We were just like, in this moment on the phone," Jed said. "The price was right, 28 years later." Jed, also a musician, lives in Los Angeles and flew to Arizona just so Josh could hand over the extraordinary find in person, he said, making this the first time the brothers had seen one another in years.Based on the condition of the jacket, Jed said, he doesn't think anyone ever wore it. The "inspected by" tag was still in its pocket."It feels like my mom's been with me this entire week," he said. "It's just given me this natural high that I hope never goes away."After a two-week visit to Arizona, Jed returned home to Los Angeles on Wednesday and said he's been wearing the jacket every chance he gets, including on stage at some of his shows with his band, Feed The Kitty."As a musician, I just love making people happy and it seems in this past week or two it's just been nothing but happiness," Jed said. "People are crying tears of joy. ... They're just so happy for me. It's made me shed some tears."Since the discovery, some of Jed's former football teammates have reached out asking why he didn't tell them his mother couldn't afford to buy the jacket."I was embarrassed," he said. "I felt like we grew up with a lot of money around Scottsdale and I came from a broken family. ... It was nice because I got to borrow their clothes, ride in their nice cars and hang out at their houses, but you know, (at home) it was just a little bit different."From one shop to another The jackets were donated by a man from Mesa, 174 miles from Pinetop -- less than 20 miles from Chaparral High School, Maggie Heath with Veterans Village told CNN."His wife passed and because of Covid he could not keep his shop opened," she said. "He drove a trailer of jackets and patches to donate to our Veterans Village Thrift Store. We have sold hundreds before we realized the jackets with names are numbers were not just samples."When Josh came in and saw Jed's name and number on the jacket, Heath said, he "flipped out." "It is wonderful to learn that one of our grads is now in possession of the letterman jacket that was intended for him so many years ago," Nancy Norman with the Scottsdale Unified School District told CNN. "Such items are of great sentimental value, and we hope that his having the jacket now brings back happy memories of his days as a Chaparral Firebird."Norman said it's unclear what happened to the jacket after Jed was unable to pick it up.As for the remaining jackets, Heath said, the shop is offering them to others who may be in search of a long-lost jacket. Since the discovery, Heath said, she's been inundated with calls and emails and plans to spend a whole day sorting jackets and patches.
US Customs officials seize nearly 4,000 bongs at DC airport.  (CNN)US Customs and Border Protection officials seized a shipment of almost 4,000 bongs at Washington Dulles International Airport, the agency said. The $56,000 shipment arrived from China on October 2 manifested as "gravity pipes," the CBP said in a release Wednesday. CBP import specialists "confirmed that the glass bongs violated U.S. laws on the importation of drug paraphernalia," the release said. The bongs were headed to an address in Los Angeles County, California. CBP officers screen international passengers and cargo for "illicit narcotics, unreported currency, weapons, counterfeit consumer goods, prohibited agriculture, and other illicit products that could potentially harm the American public, U.S. businesses, and our nation's safety and vitality," the release said. Last month, CBP officers in Pharr, Texas, seized more than $960,000 worth of cocaine weighing almost 125 pounds that was hidden in a tractor-trailer coming from Mexico, according to CBP. In last week's release, the CBP seized $23,000 in currency from a couple on a flight bound for Ghana. The couple reported having just $10,500. "While inspecting the couple's carry-on bag, officers discovered an envelope concealed behind the carry-on bag's zippered liner. Officers verified the couple's combined currency at $23,641. Officers seized the currency for violating U.S. currency reporting laws and then released the couple with $641 as humanitarian relief," the release said. Federal law requires travelers to report all currency of $10,000 or more, according to CBP. 
Prince William's overpopulation remarks will do women no favors.  (CNN)When it comes to overpopulation as the cause of wildlife loss in Africa, Prince William just won't let it go. As I was looking for reactions to the speech the second in line to the British throne gave at an awards ceremony on Monday where he said: "The increasing pressure on Africa's wildlife and wild spaces, as a result of human population, presents a huge challenge for conservationists," I stumbled upon near-identical remarks he made four years prior. "In my lifetime we have seen global wildlife populations decline by over half," the Prince is reported as having said in 2017 at a gala for the same charity, The Tusk Trust. "Africa's rapidly growing human population is predicted to more than double by 2050 -- a staggering increase of three and a half million people per month. There is no question that this increase puts wildlife and habitat under enormous pressure." Then, as now, people have been quick to point out two things: the first is the Duke of Cambridge's hypocrisy. Here is a man who's determined his own family size, travels frequently by air and lives a lavish lifestyle (read: has a high carbon footprint) in one of the world's top 15 energy-consuming countries. (Mind you, energy consumption is a limited measure of the UK's environmental impact as Britain largely imports its goods. Someone else -- China -- is accounting for the energy used to produce those goods.) The second challenge to the Prince's statements centers on the inaccurate conclusions drawn about Africa's rising population. While Africa's population is indeed growing, it remains more sparsely populated than Europe or Asia; indigenous communities that live closest to wildlife are typically excellent custodians of the environment as their survival depends on it; and again, it is human behaviors not human numbers that more directly harm the biosphere. But there is more that is wrong with what Prince William said: identifying population growth as the problem, logically presents population control as the solution. This automatically transforms wombs into legitimate sites for climate policy. In other words, women's rights to contraception and education are weaponized: they are no longer tools that help women access greater choice, but instead this gender equality goal is hijacked to impose someone else's agenda. Let's imagine for one minute that we accept that population growth -- and specifically, population growth in Africa -- leads to greater pressure on wildlife, an argument that Prince William believes is undeniable. How should this be addressed? A one-child policy as a condition for development aid? How will the impact of that reduction in population be measured? Who is to say if it is going far enough to mitigate environmental damage? If it isn't, what then? Prince William seems to have avoided speculating on how to fix his problem. His grandfather, the Duke of Edinburgh, was not so wise and was known to have called for "voluntary family limitation" to address a growing human population.  This is not the first time, nor will it be the last, that women's bodies are implicated in policy games. In 2017 Denmark, which regularly tops best-country-to-be-a-woman rankings, pledged additional funds to help women access family planning because "part of the solution to reducing migratory pressures on Europe is to reduce the very high population growth in many African countries."  It should be obvious to all that panic about population growth in Black, brown and Indigenous parts of the world is underpinned by race and class prejudice. It should be equally obvious that what every woman needs is the freedom to choose for herself if, when and how many children she will have. If despite years of talking about conservation Prince William has not considered that his concern for Africa's wildlife could stigmatize Africa's women, perhaps now is the time for him to do so. Story of the week Read or listen to the opening investigation from the new As Equals series, White Lies, on how the misuse of topical corticosteroids as a skin lightening agent is leading to drug dependencies for millions of people in India. The story by Pallabi Munsi also explores how "the deep-seated belief that lighter skin tones are better than darker ones" is manifest in India's marriage culture. Fairness mania is fueling a dangerous drug dependency in India  Women behaving badly: Kanno SugakoWritten by Vanessa Offiong Kanno Sugako (1881 -- 1911) was one of Japan's first female journalists and notable feminists, famous for her writing which explored the countless oppressions women faced in a modernizing society. She often condemned society's praising of "feminine virtues" such as chastity: "Where do all of these depraved men get the right to emphasize chastity? Before they begin stressing women's chastity, they ought to perfect their own male chastity, and concentrate on becoming wise fathers and good husbands!" But Sugako was also opposed to sex work, seeing geishas at first as "morally corrupt individuals" and later as "fallen women." Born into hardship (she reportedly lost her mother at 10, was raised by a stepmother and raped at 15) Sugako became a central figure in the early Japanese anarchist and socialist movements and urged women to develop self-awareness. "For us women, the most urgent task is to develop our own self-awareness ... women with some education and some degree of social knowledge must surely be discontented and angry about their status," she wrote. In 1910, she was accused by the Japanese government for her alleged role in the High Treason Incident, to assassinate Emperor Meiji. This led to her death by hanging at age 29, making her the first woman political prisoner to be executed in the history of modern Japan. Other stories worth your time Skin whitening is an $8.6 billion industry. This woman is trying to stop it -- CNN The woman risking it all to help child brides annul their marriages -- CNN  Diaper need is an invisible part of poverty in America -- The 19th  Experiments in Imagining Otherwise -- music playlist to accompany British writer Lola Olufemi's new book of the same name. Join the conversation Over the next six months, White lies will be investigating skin whitening practices worldwide, with the aim of exposing the underlying drivers of colorism, the industry that profits from it and the cost to individuals and communities globally. Share your story with us on social media using the hashtag #FightingWhitening, or send us a tip by emailing asequals@cnn.com  
Christina Applegate shares a message on her 50th birthday after MS diagnosis.  (CNN)Christina Applegate is marking a milestone birthday after revealing her multiple sclerosis diagnosis in August.Applegate celebrated her 50th birthday on Thanksgiving Day with a message for her fans on Twitter. "Yup. I turned 50 today. And I have MS. It's been a hard one," she wrote."Sending so much love to all of you this day," Applegate continued. "Many are hurting today, and I am thinking of you. May we find that strength to lift our heads up. Mine currently is on my pillow. But I try."Multiple sclerosis affects the central nervous system. It's considered an autoimmune disease in which the immune system attacks its own healthy cells. It affects quality of life and can be disabling.In her announcement earlier this year, the actor known for her roles in "Bad Moms," "Married ... with Children" and "Dead to Me" shared that it's not been easy living with the disease. "But I have been so supported by people that I know who also have this condition," Applegate said. "It's been a tough road. But as we all know, the road keeps going."There is no cure for multiple sclerosis -- known as MS -- but many people are able to manage their symptoms and adapt to new lifestyles after diagnosis.Researchers believe that the disease is the result of both environmental and genetic factors, but the underlying cause is not known.CNN's Jack Guy contributed to this report
Stanley Tucci and John Krasinski spent Thanksgiving together .  (CNN)Stanley Tucci and John Krasinski had a Thanksgiving Day filled with brotherly love. The author of "The Tucci Cookbook" and host of CNN's "Searching for Italy" is married to literary agent Felicity Blunt, while Krasinski's wife is actress Emily Blunt. They're brothers-in-law married to the British siblings. "Happy Thanksgiving from my family to yours," Tucci posted on Instagram, along with a photo of him with "The Office" star.  He included a TikTok video by user Alexa Shoen explaining that whenever she feels "stressed out about the weight of the world," she feels better when she remembers the actors are related by marriage."John Krasinski and Stanley Tucci are both the American sons-in-law in the Blunt family," Shoen says in the video shared by Tucci. "And that means there's probably been a situation where  I feel better already  ... they have, I don't know, worn those paper hats that you wear on Boxing Day ... and also that they probably have, like, shook hands while carrying a side dish they were bringing into a Thanksgiving dinner somewhere in America. It's my deepest meditative practice."Their Hollywood connections run deep. Tucci starred in the 2006 movie, "The Devil Wears Prada" with Emily Blunt. He's been married to her sister for nearly a decade after they met at the Krasinskis' wedding. 
Adele's '30' becomes 2021's fastest-selling album in both the US and UK.  (CNN)Adele has made another record-breaking return to the charts, as her latest album "30" claims the title of fastest-selling album of 2021 in both the US and the UK.Released on November 19, the British singer's fourth studio album also became the most successful album of the year in the US just three days after release, according to MRC data reported by Billboard.Selling more than 660,000 equivalent album units -- which includes audio and video streaming and individual track sales -- "30" has already triumphed over the other major releases of 2021. In the UK, Adele debuted at the top spot in the albums chart, with first-week sales of 261,000 according to the Official Charts, which said it was the biggest first week for an album since Ed Sheeran's "Divide" () in 2017. The album's lead single "Easy on Me" also claimed a sixth consecutive week at number one on the UK singles chart, after breaking the record for most streams in a single week after its release. The Official Charts said Adele was the only female act with three or more studio albums to reach number one with all her records -- a title she has now cemented further with "30," which marks her fourth number one.However, "30" has not quite hit the heights of Adele's third studio album, "25," which became the fastest-selling album of all time in both the US and the UK in 2015 -- selling 800,000 copies in the UK and 3.3 million in the US. Although this week's album chart is yet to be released in the US, it is all but guaranteed that Adele will claim her third consecutive number one album, and "Easy on Me" previously spent four weeks in the top spot of the Hot 100 singles chart.The sales figures reflect Adele's love of conventional methods of listening to music, with 560,000 of the equivalent album units sold in the US being traditional album sales, while 67% of her sales in the UK were physical sales. The singer has shunned streaming in the past, although she appears to have now embraced it at the risk of lower physical sales -- even getting Spotify to remove the shuffle button as a default option for albums on their platform."30" has received widespread acclaim from critics, and Adele told American Vogue in October that the album was her way of explaining her divorce to her son and was very close to her heart, saying she was "not letting go of this one."  
'The Beatles: Get Back' may surprise even hardcore fans .  (CNN)There are a few surprises in "The Beatles: Get Back."One that grabbed Stephen Colbert was how pianist Billy Preston came to be known as "the fifth Beatle."During an interview on his late show that aired on Thanksgiving, Colbert talked with Peter Jackson, who directed the newly released Beatles docuseries.They discussed how Preston came to hop on the keys with the iconic band, made up of John Lennon, Paul McCartney, George Harrison and Ringo Starr."He wasn't even supposed to be on the album," Colbert said. "He was just a friend of George's who stopped by.""The album" is 1970's "Let It Be." The new docuseries builds on audio and film from the 1970 "Let It Be" documentary."The Beatles: Get Back" explores Harrison quitting the band and McCartney assuming more of a leadership role as John Lennon focused on his marriage and work with Yoko Ono.Jackson talked to the Washington Post about working on the project."I tried to make a very honest movie," he said. 
Mariah Carey proves she's the undisputed queen of Christmas.  (CNN)Every year, we can pretty much count on Mariah Carey to remind us that Christmas season actually kicks off the day after Halloween.Now, while many of you may have waited until post-Thanksgiving to put out the decorations (we don't mean you early folks who ate your turkey beside your Christmas tree), we have to roll with Carey.After all, "The All I Want for Christmas" singer represents for the holiday season big time.Whether Carey is tweeting her support after a homeowners association threatened to fine a man for putting his Christmas decorations up too early, or appearing to offer to go warrior princess when a Dallas bar put a limit on playing her perennial Christmas classic hit, the holiday season probably doesn't have a stauncher advocate. That 1994 song, b-t-dubs, is back on the charts, of course. So, how can I not lead off this week's Pop Life Chronicles with the diva, now that we are firmly in the season?Three things to watch'Mariah's Christmas: The Magic Continues'Who does a Christmas special better than Mariah Carey? Guests include Khalid and Grammy-winning gospel star Kirk Franklin. And the special features an exclusive interview with Carey and her 10-year-old twins, son Moroccan and daughter Monroe.We are also promised "a dazzling, new rendition of fan favorite, 'Christmas (Baby Please Come Home).'"You will have to wait until it starts streaming December 3 on Apple TV+, but it looks to be worth the wait.'Hawkeye'Marvel keeps on giving.Yet another one of The Avengers has gotten a series, this time Clint Barton, played by Jeremy Renner, who teams up with Hailee Steinfeld as another Marvel character, Kate Bishop.The archers take aim at some enemies, and you don't have to be a Marvel aficionado to get into the action.It's streaming on Disney+.'Hellbound'Shifting gears in a big way here ... but part of my job is to keep you in the know, so I have to include this one. "Hellbound" is the latest South Korean drama to take fire on Netflix.No spoilers, but it's about how "supernatural events cause great mayhem and enable the religious group The New Truth to grow in influence."Like another Netflix Korean hit, "Squid Game," it's definitely not for those who are squeamish or scare easily."Hellbound" is streaming now.Bonus: Let's take it back to 2006, when the paparazzi snapped a now-famous photo of Britney Spears, Paris Hilton and Lindsay Lohan in Beverly Hills. Fast-forward to present day, and see how the stars aligned for these Hollywood celebrities in the latest episode of my weekly show, Pop Life Pop Off! Check it out here:   Two things to listen toBryson Tiller has made a holiday album for the brokenhearted.The R&B singer titled it "A Different Christmas," and he told Billboard the pandemic, coupled with a bad breakup, inspired him, though he has always wanted to make a Christmas album."Experiencing that loneliness and the thought of spending Christmas alone made me (say), okay, I think I could make a Christmas album  but I'm going to do it my way," he told the publication.The album is currently streaming.If you are a fan of the "Real Housewives of New Jersey," I've got just the podcast for you.Cast member Melissa Gorga is launching "Melissa Gorga on Display" on PodcastOne on December 2. "Each week my celebrity guests and I will share stories and chat about all sorts of things like fashion, family, show business, entrepreneurship, and of course, treating yourself," Gorga told People magazine. "Believe it or not, there are stories that the cameras do not tell. And that's what you're going to get with this podcast. It's life unfiltered." Fingers crossed that Andy Cohen is one of her first guests.One thing to talk aboutChrissy Teigen has introduced me to something new: eyebrow transplants.Perhaps I am late to the party (or maybe because I have such full eyebrows that I live to have them threaded), but I had zero idea that this was even a thing.Dr. Jason Diamond, who performed the procedure for Teigen, shared her after photo on his Instagram account."Eyebrows play a huge part of the facial aesthetic," he wrote in the caption. "They frame the eyes and can either be an asset to the eyes, or they can be the annoying part of your morning you have to spend ten minutes filling in."The transplanted hair came from the back of her head, according to Teigen. No judgment over here. Whatever makes you feel you look your best. Something to sip on Plenty of celebrities talk about mental health, but Selena Gomez is walking the walk.The singer/actor/producer/cooking show host has launched Wondermind, a mental health platform that aims to help end the stigma surrounding mental illnesses and connect people with much needed educational resources.Gomez, who shared in April that she has bipolar disorder, is a big proponent of addressing mental health concerns, and her public stance could go a long way toward helping others.Because let's be honest: We are a society that looks up to the rich and famous. The more open they are about their struggles, the more it encourages others to be honest and seek support.So, thank you, Selena Gomez for letting us all know that it's OK not to be OK and that help is out there.If you are interested in this subject, please do sign up for CNN's Stress, But Less newsletter.
TV OT: 'Licorice Pizza,' 'The Beatles: Get Back' and 'The Waltons' serve up nostalgia over Thanksgiving . TV OT is a weekly look at what CNN's entertainment team is watching since too much television has us all working overtime. (CNN)Thanksgiving weekend is theoretically all about family. Yet in terms of entertainment options -- to consume with them or as a means of escaping them -- the prevailing theme is heavily tilted toward nostalgia, with projects rooted in the 1960s, '70s and '90s.Music plays a sizable role in all this, not surprisingly, with director Peter Jackson's multi-part documentary "The Beatles: Get Back" making its debut on Disney+, a few days after a film devoted to another '60s act, the Beach Boys, hit theaters and on demand with the touching "Brian Wilson: Long Promised Road."There are also strong musical undercurrents to the movies "Licorice Pizza," an unorthodox look at Southern California's San Fernando Valley during the 1970s, from directing auteur Paul Thomas Anderson; and "House of Gucci," a salacious true-crime tale about the fight over the fashion empire that spans a period from the late '70s (disco dominate the soundtrack) to the mid-'90s.Finally, the weekend features a pair of made-for-TV movie reboots and revivals, with the CW's "The Waltons' Homecoming" -- based on the 1970s TV show set in the 1930s -- and USA's "Nash Bridges," reuniting Don Johnson and Cheech Marin two decades after the cop show cracked its last case on CBS.That's obviously a relatively small part of the holiday viewing feast, which includes the customary deluge of Christmas-themed movies (which seems to start earlier every year) and other nostalgic items like Disney+'s "Home Sweet Home Alone," which strands another unlucky kid more than 30 years after the original exercise in bad parenting.Here are a few meatier thoughts on some of these titles. And whatever you choose to watch before, during or after Thanksgiving, Bon Appetit."Licorice Pizza" (theaters, Nov. 26)In a way, "Licorice Pizza" is the embodiment of nostalgia without sentiment, capturing a time and place in the 1970s when Nixon was on TV, Vin Scully called Dodger games on radio, gas lines formed because of shortages, and a boss could brazenly slap the behind of his female employee without fear of repercussions.At its core, the movie is a peculiar love story, one involving Gary (Cooper Hoffman, the son of the late Philip Seymour Hoffman), who's about to turn 16, and the older Alana (Alana Haim, of the rock band), who finds direction in an otherwise unfocused life thanks to Gary's get-rich-quick schemes, which include peddling water beds.A few actual '70s characters find their way into the pair's Hollywood-heavy plot, with Bradley Cooper portraying producer Jon Peters as a wildly flamboyant lunatic who actually purchases one of the beds. Sean Penn also turns up as an actor (the name is changed, but only slightly) full of strange stories, although it's not entirely clear that he can separate reality from his movies."Licorice Pizza" really doesn't have much of a plot, playing like a series of loosely connected episodes, in a way that becomes more obvious during the second half. Nor does it really address some of the nagging questions about Alana, whose periodic tantrums are among the film's only poorly written scenes.Those disclaimers aside, for the most part Anderson (who has directed a number of Haim videos since his last film, "Phantom Thread") has delivered another highly entertaining movie, capturing a very particular time but also the enduring and universal nature of relationships developing in the most unexpected ways.The title, incidentally, comes from a chain of record stores that were popular in the '70s but no longer exist -- a fitting symbol of the desire to give this bygone era another spin."The Beatles: Get Back" (Nov. 25, Disney+)Director Peter Jackson essentially lets loose "The Lord of the Rings" approach on the Beatles, in a three-part documentary that runs nearly eight hours. With access to previously unseen footage shot by Michael Lindsay-Hogg, the filmmaker takes a (very) deep dive into the Fab Four's creative process as they worked on the landmark 1970 album "Let It Be."It's a stunningly intimate labor of love, offering a fascinating glimpse of the group's interpersonal dynamics -- and creative tensions -- in what feel like unguarded moments despite the camera's presence. The only drawback is the exhaustive length, which in some respects requires wading through the material that operates in a lesser key, though there's an obvious method to that madness.While Jackson is clearly content to let the Beatles do the talking, a bit more curating certainly wouldn't have hurt. Still, for any student of musical history, "Get Back" presents the kind of fly-on-the-wall access and insight into why the band subsequently broke up that's pretty irresistible, even if it's perhaps better consumed in smaller bites as opposed to one great gulp.Then again, that's not bad advice for this weekend in general.As a footnote, Jackson's ode to the Beatles comes on the heels of "Brian Wilson: Long Promised Road," an extraordinary look back on the Beach Boys mastermind's life and career that features all the right voices lauding him, including Bruce Springsteen and Elton John."He had an orchestra in his head," John marvels. "The Beatles had [producer] George Martin to do it for them, but Brian did it himself."Not every musical mainstay warrants this kind of expansive treatment, but as Wilson himself wrote, wouldn't it be nice?"The Waltons' Homecoming" (Nov. 28, 8 p.m. ET, CW)Fifty years after the movie that launched the original series, Richard Thomas returns to introduce and narrate this very earnest (what else?) return to Waltons Mountain, again in TV movie form. The story hinges on whether dad will make it home for Christmas. The new cast features "Scandal's" Bellamy Young as Olivia, with Logan Shroyer ("This is Us") as John Boy. And yes, everyone says "goodnight." (It's from Warner Bros. Television, like CNN, part of WarnerMedia.)"Nash Bridges" (Nov. 27, 9 p.m. ET, USA)Nash and Joe are back in a movie-length adventure, with a lot of younger colleagues who tease the former about being a dinosaur and the occasional old-man gripe about things like using directional apps during a car chase.In perhaps the most inspired wrinkle, Marin's character has found success running a cannabis dispensary, which is certainly on brand with his Cheech & Chong comedic routes. "Aren't you glad you came back for this one?" Nash asks him. Whether fans will be glad remains to be seen, but the whole thing is breezy in a way that could easily go up in smoke.
Going to the store may be your smartest bet to navigate the supply chain crisis this holiday. New York (CNN Business)The supply chain crisis means last-minute gift buyers may have little choice but to go shopping the old-fashioned way this holiday season.High demand, combined with supply chain delays, materials' shortages and troubles hiring workers, are shrinking the availability of items both online and at stores. As customers get closer to the last minute, physical stores will become a more appealing option for shoppers than waiting around for delivery, analysts expect. Even if customers can't find exactly what they're looking for at a store, it's usually easier to browse around for an alternative in person  and they can try it on."Brick and mortar may be more attractive for consumers later in the season," Rod Sides, a vice chairman at Deloitte and leader of its US retail and distribution practice, said in an email. "Shoppers can leave with goods in hand, versus waiting on promised dates from shippers." Consumers saw more than 2 billion out-of-stock messages while browsing online in October, according to Adobe Analytics. That's a big reason why, in physical stores, sales will rise by 8% this year  a 10-year high  as shoppers return to in-person shopping and try to avoid shipping delays, according to real estate research firm CBRE.Analysts also believe buy online, pickup in store orders will boom this holiday because of shipping concerns.Shoppers will lean on curbside pickup "more than ever to give them peace of mind about their holiday purchases" with wait times and items out of stock high on consumers' minds, said Andrew Lipsman, a retail analyst at market research firm Insider Intelligence.Retailers will heavily promote pickup as an option for customers on their websites and mobile apps, in marketing emails, and on television to appeal to customers anxious about buying online late in the season, Lipsman expects.Stores say they have greater control over inventory in stores and through curbside pickup than they do on home delivery orders  meaning it's less likely there will be a mistake or delay on an order."The closer I got [to the holiday], I would absolutely be using the ship to store because that's going to give more confidence in being able to actually get the thing in time," Ben Johns, the general merchandising manager for action sports at outdoor equipment retailer REI, said in a recent interview.When customers order online and pick up their items in stores, products are either in the store already or REI sends them from one of its warehouses using its own trucks. That means REI doesn't need to rely on third-party delivery carriers it has less control over to deliver to customers' homes, he said.$5 off orders and free blanketsRetailers have an incentive to draw shoppers into their stores. It's typically more profitable for retailers to have you shop in person than order to your home because they have to pay expensive last-mile delivery costs. Return rates are also higher for items purchased online, and retailers have to eat the costs for customers' returns.Top retailers are pushing customers this year to visit their physical stores to shop or order online and scoop up their items in person. Kohl'  (KSS)is offering customers $5 off orders when they pick them up in stores. It's also trying to make the pickup process smoother for customers by adding temporary new pickup locations and more designating parking spots for pickups, as well as a self-pickup test where customers can access their orders using a link and code. Kohl's expects increased demand for pickup orders this year in part because it "eliminates the added stress of waiting for packages to arrive on your doorstep," Paul Gaffney, Kohl's chief technology and supply chain officer, said in an email.Carter', (CRI) the children's clothing chain, is offering customers gifts as an extra perk if they purchase items on certain days in stores  but not online  such as blankets from November 19 to November 21 and a Skip Hop toy from December 10 to December 12.Randa Apparel & Accessories, which sells brands such as Levi's, Tommy Hilfiger, Calvin Klein and others, has shifted a large portion of its advertising spending to push customers to stores, instead of buying online. It's also directing more of its inventory to stores than e-commerce."When inventory is limited, we prefer to drive consumers to in-store purchases over online purchases," said David Katz, Randa's chief marketing officer.Customers purchasing products in stores is more profitable for Randa than online sales, which often come with "very large reverse logistics costs" on return orders. "We've paid the tuition for this education, and it was an expensive lesson to learn," he said.When shoppers come into stores, they also tend to make impulse purchases or buy related items nearby  belts, for example, near the pants they're buying. This happens less frequently when buying online.Overall, Katz said, "the frustration level is lower when you go to mortar and brick, particularly when inventory is limited."
Craft beer might get even more expensive. San Francisco (CNN Business)Your next can of craft beer might be a lot more expensive.Ball Corp (BLL)., one of the world's largest suppliers of aluminum cans, is sending shockwaves throughout the craft beer world after lifting the minimum number of cans certain producers must order and saying it will raise prices. Ball said it will now require that non-contract customers -- who include many smaller breweries -- order no fewer than five truckloads (roughly 1.02 million cans) per each of their beverages starting on January 1. The previous purchase minimum was one truckload per product.Additionally, starting in 2022, Ball wrote that it would no longer be able to store excess cans from those non-contract customers in its warehouses and that the price-per-can would increase by nearly 50% for at least some non-contract customers, according to notices sent to breweries. The news has many small and regional breweries scrambling to secure cans and has spurred fears of heftier costs, reduced variety and higher prices for consumers. "I do see this as an economic killer for some, and certainly most small brewers are going to have to raise prices significantly or rethink their entire models," said Garrett Marrero, chief executive officer and co-founder of Maui Brewing Co. in Hawaii.The tight-knit craft beer industry was already reeling from pandemic-spurred restaurant and taproom closures, inflationary pressures, can shortages and other supply chain disruptions.Then, a little over a week ago, notices from Ball landed in the inboxes of hundreds of craft brewers across the country, according to the Brewers Association, the trade organization representing small and independent brewers. The Denver Westword was the first to report about Ball's purchase minimums. In the letters, copies of which were provided to CNN Business, Ball wrote that demand for aluminum cans continues to outstrip supply."Ball is making investments to bring additional capacity online, and in the meantime we remain in a tightly constrained supply environment for the foreseeable future," according to the letter. "This environment is making it difficult for us to deliver the quality customer experience our customers expect from Ball, and we are making some adjustments to how we do business to remedy that."With fewer than six weeks until the new year, hundreds of craft brewers will no longer be able to buy their pre-printed cans directly from Ball and instead will have to secure one of the most critical components of their business from new sources, said Bob Pease, president and chief executive officer of the Brewers Association."This is still pretty darn new, so we're still trying to gather information from our members that are being impacted," Pease told CNN Business. The Brewers Association is weighing its options and considering reaching out to policymakers, Pease said, and was hoping to talk with executives at Ball, which is a longtime member, he added. On Friday, Pease said he heard back from Ball's senior leadership, and the two sides are working to set up a meeting in December to discuss the recent changes. Ball isn't completely abandoning the craft beer industry, a company spokesperson told CNN Business. "The new model will increase our overall efficiency and allow us to actually produce more cans for our contracted customers, including craft brewers," Ball spokesperson Scott McCarty wrote in an email.  McCarty added that Ball is building five plants in the United States to produce more cans, adding that "each year, we evaluate supply and demand and will continue to invest where it makes sense."As potential solutions for customers that couldn't meet the raised minimums, Ball offered up contact information for four distributors that could take smaller orders, provide warehousing, and offer labeling options such as stickers and plastic shrink wrap. 'It will force us out of business'When Upslope Brewing Company launched in Boulder, Colorado in 2008, it was one of only a handful of craft brewers to package their beer solely in aluminum cans. "My first phone call for cans was to Ball," co-founder Matt Cutter told CNN Business. "They said, 'That's fine, you can buy a truckload.'"That wasn't doable then for Upslope, a business whose startup funds came from the second mortgage of Cutter's house. But a few years later, when Upslope's snowmelt-based beer was being consumed throughout the Mountain West region, it certainly was possible. "And Ball kept knocking on our door," he said. Ball, also a Colorado-based company, had a can-making facility just down the highway, and offered up services such as storage and cheaper shipping. Upslope, which has bought its cans by the truckload from Ball since 2014, now feels left out in the cold. Cutter fears that the higher costs -- including raw material, storage and any added margins from working with new distributors -- could ultimately lead to craft six-packs sold at stores being $1 to $2 more expensive by next spring. Ultimately, he said, these higher costs might not be sustainable for smaller businesses. "As craft brewers, we're not rolling in the dough here," he said. "We can't absorb this. It'll force us out of business." In Pueblo, Colorado, one of the co-founders of Walter Brewing Co. was frantically trying to get up to speed on what Ball's plans may mean for his brewery.Walter Brewing has purchased cans for its Walter's Original Pilsner and Walter's Pueblo Chile Beer from groups that buy from Ball, as well as directly from Ball. "It would take us more than a year's time to go through [a truckload]," said Andy Sanchez, one of Walter Brewing's co-owners. The newly required five truckloads is out of the question."With six weeks' notice, it's a lot to digest in that short time," Sanchez said. "It would be crucial for all small breweries if Ball would rethink the path and maybe think of a way to mitigate the short-term impacts."Maui Brewing, because of its scope of operations in Hawaii and close relations with Ball's plant there, should be relatively insulated from major disruptions, Marrero said. However, he fears that breweries on the Mainland and Maui Brewing's efforts to expand production there face complications. He's concerned brewers that can't float the costs to shift suppliers will be forced to change their operations, close or consolidate. He said he's also worried this may lead to a greater use of less-sustainable materials, such as plastic labels."This is going to create a paradigm shift in craft beer moving forward," he said.
Bad Bunny and Olivia Rodrigo topped Spotify streams in 2021.  (CNN)In what may come as no surprise, two names dominated this year in music streaming: Bad Bunny and Olivia Rodrigo.For the second year in a row, Puerto Rican rapper and singer Bad Bunny was the most streamed artist, according to Spotify's 2021 Wrapped, the annual breakdown of Spotify's streaming data. (Users can also check out more personal breakdowns of what they listened to in 2021.)With more than 9.1 billion streams this year, Bad Bunny beat out Taylor Swift, who came in at No. 2, followed by BTS, Drake and Justin Bieber, respectively.But the most streamed song in the world, almost predictably, is Olivia Rodrigo's smash hit "drivers license," which became so ubiquitous that it inspired its own sketch on "Saturday Night Live" and scored Rodrigo an invite to the White House. The song was streamed over 1.1 billion times, with Lil Nas X's "MONTERO (Call Me By Your Name)" coming in second.That's not the only success Rodrigo saw -- her hit "good 4 u" was the fourth most streamed song of the year, and her album "SOUR" was the most streamed album in the world -- beating Doja Cat's Grammy-nominated "Planet Her," which came in at No. 5. New albums by Dua Lipa, Justin Bieber and Ed Sheeran rounded out the top streamed albums of the year.Here's more of what the world listened to, according to Spotify's "2021 Wrapped."Most Streamed Artists GloballyBad BunnyTaylor SwiftBTSDrakeJustin BieberMost Streamed Songs Globally"drivers license" by Olivia Rodrigo"MONTERO (Call Me By Your Name)" by Lil Nas X"STAY" (with Justin Bieber) by The Kid LAROI"good 4 u" by Olivia Rodrigo"Levitating" (feat. DaBaby) by Dua LipaMost Streamed Albums GloballySOUR, Olivia Rodrigo"Future Nostalgia," Dua Lipa"Justice," Justin Bieber"=," Ed Sheeran"Planet Her," Doja Cat
Here's why the suspected Michigan school shooter has been charged with terrorism. Oxford, Michigan (CNN)Ethan Crumbley, who is accused of killing four fellow students at a Michigan high school, will be tried as an adult and faces murder, assault and weapons charges.He will also face one count of terrorism causing death, a rare charge for a school shooting.The events unfolded Tuesday at Oxford High School when, law enforcement officials say, the 15-year-old shot at people in a school hallway, firing more than 30 shots at people and through classroom doors. Three people died Tuesday and another passed away at a hospital Wednesday.Seven others -- six students and a teacher -- were wounded, Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard said.The county's top prosecutor addressed the terrorism charge."There is no playbook about how to prosecute a school shooting and candidly, I wish I'd never even had -- it didn't occur so I wouldn't have to consider it, but when we sat down, I wanted to make sure all of the victims were represented in the charges that we filed against this individual," Oakland County Prosecutor Karen McDonald told CNN. "If that's not terrorism, I don't know what is."She said there is a lot of digital evidence in the case -- video and things on social media."But you probably don't even need to see that to know how terrifying it is to be in close proximity of another student shooting and killing fellow students. I mean, it's terror," she added."Like every other child that was in that building, and I address that about the terrorism charge, we must have an appropriate consequence that speaks for the victims that were not killed or injured but also, they were affected, how do they go back to school?"She said many students can't eat or sleep."Their parents are sleeping next to them and we shouldn't ignore that," she told CNN. "There are obviously four children who were murdered and many others injured but over 1,000 were also victimized as well."At Crumbley's arraignment Wednesday, prosecutor Marc Keast said Crumbley came out of a school bathroom and started firing. Crumbley walked down the hall at a "methodical pace" and fired more shots.This continued for another four or five minutes and he went to another bathroom, Keast said. When deputies arrived, Crumbley put the gun down and surrendered, the prosecutor said.Michigan law defines an act of terrorism as a "willful and deliberate act that is all of the following:""An act that would be a violent felony under the laws of this state, whether or not committed in this state."An act that the person knows or has reason to know is dangerous to human life."An act that is intended to intimidate or coerce a civilian population or influence or affect the conduct of government or a unit of government through intimidation or coercion."The criminal complaint against Crumbley refers to the third condition and says the act was committed against the Oxford High School community.Charging an accused school shooter with terrorism is rare. In 2018, an Ocala, Florida student who shot through a door and wounded another student, was charged with terrorism and later pleaded no contest to that count and other charges. That incident occurred two months after gunman Nikolas Cruz shot more than 30 people as he moved for more than 10 minutes through Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida.Cruz was charged with 34 counts of premeditated murder and attempted murder. He did not face a terrorism charge. He recently pleaded guilty and is awaiting sentencing.CNN's Shimon Prokupecz reported from Oxford and CNN's Steve Almasy reported and wrote in Atlanta. CNN's Carolyn Sung in Michigan and Kristina Squeglia contributed to this report.
Authorities look for motive with 15-year-old Michigan high school shooting suspect in custody. Here's what we know.  (CNN)School bells were replaced by police sirens Tuesday after a shooting at Michigan's Oxford High School left four students dead.Six other students and a teacher were wounded by gunfire, and a 15-year-old suspect is in custody and has been charged as an adult, authorities said.  The attack was the deadliest US school shooting since eight students and two teachers were slain in May 2018 at Texas' Santa Fe High School, according to a CNN tally. There have been 48 shootings this year on K-12 campuses, 32 of them since August 1.Here's what we know about Tuesday's mass shooting:How the incident unfoldedDeputies were dispatched to the school at 12:52 p.m., Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard said, noting that more than 100 911 calls were placed. As police were swarming the campus, students and staff began barricading doors and hiding in classrooms.Law enforcement officers quickly entered the building and had the suspect in custody within three minutes of their arrival, the sheriff said.Once the suspect encountered the officers, he put his hands up and they took a gun from him before placing him in custody.The weapon deputies said was used in the shooting, a 9mm Sig Sauer SP2022 semiautomatic pistol, was purchased by the suspect's father on Friday, four days before the shootings at the school, Bouchard said.Three 15-round magazines were found at the scene, and the gun had seven rounds of ammunition, Bouchard said. Investigators recovered more than 30 shell casings, said the sheriff, who'd earlier said at least a dozen rounds were fired."We believe he fired at least 30 shots," he said.Bouchard said two 15-round magazines were recovered by investigators and a third was recovered in the overnight hours. Investigators also learned the suspect had 18 rounds left, with seven in his pocket."With this much ammunition still with him ... the quick actions of the school and the lockdown as well as the deputies going to the danger, saved lives," Bouchard said.An Oakland County Sheriff's Office deputy assigned to the school helped take the suspect into custody, Undersheriff Michael McCabe said. Investigators believe there were no other weapons involved, and there's no indication the suspect was wearing body armor. No shots were fired by responding law enforcement and the suspect was not injured, McCabe said.What we know about the victimsInvestigators identified the victims who died as Madisyn Baldwin, 17, Tate Myre, 16, Hana St. Juliana, 14, and Justin Shilling, 17. Tate died in a patrol car as a deputy was attempting to rush him to the hospital due to the "severity of his wounds," Bouchard said. Justin died Wednesday morning, according to the Oakland County Sheriff's office.Seven others -- six students and a teacher -- were shot, Bouchard said.Among the wounded were a 14-year-old girl who was on a ventilator following surgery, Bouchard said Tuesday night. On Wednesday, it was announced she had been taken off the ventilator and was in stable condition. A 14-year-old boy also had a gunshot wound to the jaw and head. The teacher, a 15-year-old and 17-year-old boy were discharged, Bouchard said Wednesday. There were multiple other non-life-threatening injuries sustained by people as they rushed out of the school, Bouchard said. Most were treated and released at a staging area, he said.What we know about the suspectThe suspect was identified as Ethan Crumbley, 15, a sophomore at the school. He was held at Oakland County Children's Village -- a juvenile detention facility -- and later transferred to the Oakland County Jail. "We don't have a motive at this point in time," McCabe said Tuesday. "We are still investigating that."Michigan law prevents police from talking to a juvenile without parental permission, and the suspect's parents have refused that permission and requested a lawyer, Bouchard said.Oakland County Prosecutor Karen D. McDonald said the suspect has been charged with the following: one count of terrorism causing deathfour counts of first-degree murderseven counts of assault with intent to murder12 counts of possession of a firearm during the commission of a felony."It is possible there could be additional charges" when the investigation is complete, McDonald said. McDonald's office will consider charges against the suspect's parents, she said. The potential charges stem from the parents owning a gun. McDonald said that means securing it properly, ensuring ammunition is kept separate, among other legal responsibilities."We have to hold individuals accountable who don't do that," she said.CNN has pressed the prosecutor to speak on whether evidence was recovered to support potential charges, and which charges are being considered. The prosecutor declined to go into detail citing the investigation, but reiterated that an announcement would be made as soon as possible regarding whether charges would be brought.CNN has attempted to reach out to the Crumbley's parents and is attempting to identify an attorney for them.Bouchard said the 15-year-old had not been on law enforcement radar prior to the shooting.Authorities did learn after the shooting that Crumbley and his parents met with school officials a few hours before the shooting. Officials met with just the suspect the day before and with the suspect and parents the day of the shooting, Bouchard said."The day before, it was a meeting with school personnel about some concerning behavior and the meeting the day of was with school personnel and parents about a different issue," Bouchard said.The sheriff declined to go into issues on either day."Prior to those two meetings there was no contact or nothing in his file by either concerning behavior or discipline," he said.What we know about the investigationInvestigators have a "tremendous amount of video footage" to review from cameras in the school, Bouchard said.A search warrant was executed at Crumbley's home Tuesday, McCabe said. Authorities seized a phone and are examining other seized items, Bouchard said.Authorities also are investigating pictures of a target and the weapon posted on social media by the suspect, he added.During Crumbley's arraignment Wednesday, Lt. Tim Willis said two separate videos were recovered from the suspected shooter's cellphone in which he talked about shooting and killing students the next day at Oxford High School.In addition to the cellphone, a journal was recovered from Crumbley's backpack detailing his "desire to shoot up the school," Willis said."We believe we have some writings that contain some of his thoughts," Bouchard said Wednesday, adding he didn't immediately know whether the writings reveal intent.Video from the school shows the assailant was "shooting people at close range -- oftentimes toward the head or chest," Bouchard told CNN's "New Day" on Wednesday."It's chilling. It's absolutely cold-hearted, murderous," he said.Prosecutors said during the arraignment they've seen video from the school surveillance cameras showing Crumbley "methodically and deliberately" walking the hallways, aiming a gun at students and firing."What is depicted on that video, honestly judge, I don't have the words to describe how horrific that was," said prosecutor Marc Keast.Correction: An earlier version of this story misspelled the name of Hana St. Juliana.
A beloved football player and a senior with college scholarships among Michigan school shooting victims.  (CNN)Friends, family and an entire Michigan high school are grieving the loss of four students after a 15-year-old boy opened fire during the school day, killing four peers and shooting seven others on campus.A suspect was in custody after Tuesday's shooting at Oxford High School in Oxford, Michigan, authorities said. More than 100 calls to 911 were made. About two to three minutes after officers arrived, they found the 15-year-old -- and took him into custody without incident, Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard said.The students who lost their lives were Tate Myre, 16; Hana St. Juliana, 14, Madisyn Baldwin, 17 and Justin Shilling, 17, authorities said. Shilling died Wednesday morning, according to the Oakland County Sheriff's office.Here's what we know about some of the victims:Tate Myre, 16It's clear Tate Myre was dedicated to his sport. He was a star football player who had earned a spot on the varsity team since he was a freshman at Oxford High School, the team said in a tweet. Not only was he talented on the field, he excelled academically and was an honor student."It is with great grief that one of the victims of the tragic event at OHS today was one of our own, Tate Myre," the team tweeted Tuesday evening. "Tate was a great young man with a bright future and beloved by all. You will be missed, Tate." Myre's own Twitter account is full of game highlights and scrimmage videos showcasing his abilities. One of his last tweets, on November 28, thanked the University of Toledo football team for having him at one of their games. A deputy had loaded Myre into their car after the shooting, but he died on the way to the hospital, the sheriff said.An online petition has surfaced calling for the school's football stadium to be renamed after Myre."Tate is not just a hero to his fellow students at Oxford High School but a legend, his act of bravery should be remembered forever and passed down through generations, he put his life in danger to try and help the thousands of other students at Oxford High School," the petition says.As of Wednesday morning, it had collected more than 48,000 signatures. Madisyn Baldwin, 17Madisyn Baldwin was expected to graduate this year, her family told CNN affiliate WDIV, and had already been accepted to several colleges -- some with full scholarships. Her grandmother, Jennifer Graves Mosqueda, known to Baldwin as "GiGi,"  announced the family's loss on Facebook and created a GoFundMe campaign on behalf of Baldwin's mother and father."This beautiful, smart, sweet loving girl was tragically taken from us all today leaving a huge hole in all of our hearts ... ," Graves Mosqueda wrote on Facebook. "This horrific day could never have been imagined or planned for.""My daughter and son-in-law would never ask for anything during this time, however I want them to be able to be with each other, their other children and family during this time without worrying about work, bills and arrangements," she wrote on the campaign site.Baldwin was an artist who loved to draw, read and write, her family told WDIV. She was the eldest of three siblings, had a younger half brother and two sisters she loved dearly, they said.Hana St. Juliana, 14The Oxford High School women's basketball team shared a tribute Wednesday to 14-year-old school shooting victim Hana St. Juliana. "We will never forget your kind heart, silly personality, and passion for the game," the team wrote on Twitter. "Since 6th grade camp you have stayed dedicated to Oxford Basketball, soaking in the game."The team stated Tuesday night it would have been her debut with the team."This season we play for you Hana," the team wrote.Justin Shilling, 17Justin Shilling, who died Wednesday morning, according to the Oakland County Sheriff's Office, was described by his employer as co-captain of the bowling team, a devoted friend and so much more.Anita's Kitchen, where Shilling worked, shared a statement on social media about him."We've just learned of the passing of one of our bright, young Lake Orion employees, Justin Shilling, in relation to the tragic events that took place at Oxford High School yesterday," his workplace wrote. "Justin was an exemplary employee, a devoted friend and co-worker, co-captain of his bowling team, and simply a pleasure to be around. Our thoughts are with his family and friends at this difficult time."The family-owned business has three locations in Michigan and they have employed many Oxford High School students."Since we opened our doors in Lake Orion in December of 2019, much of our staff has consisted of Oxford High School students," the business wrote. "We often marvel at how blessed we are to have such amazing kids as part of our Lake Orion team. Simply put - we would not be a restaurant without them. Our heart aches for them all today, as they begin to heal from this terrible tragedy."Six other students and a teacher shotSeven others -- six students and a teacher -- were shot, authorities said.Among the wounded were a 14-year-old girl who was on a ventilator following surgery, Bouchard said Tuesday night. A 14-year-old boy also had a gunshot wound to the jaw and head, while the teacher who was shot has been discharged. Senior Aiden Page was in a classroom when he heard two gunshots Tuesday afternoon -- part of what authorities called a sophomore's "absolutely cold-hearted, murderous" rampage. Just like in the active shooter drills they'd practiced, Page watched his teacher run in and lock the door, then students shoved desks against it, he told CNN's Anderson Cooper."We grabbed calculators, we grabbed scissors just in case the shooter got in and we had to attack them," he said, describing how a bullet pierced one of the desks they'd used to block the door.The attack was the deadliest US school shooting since eight students and two teachers were slain in May 2018 at Texas' Santa Fe High School, according to Education Week. There have been 28 school shootings this year -- 20 since August 1 -- by its tally.CNN's Amanda Jackson contributed to this report.
January 6 committee moves to hold former DOJ official in contempt but also gives him one last chance to cooperate.  (CNN)The House select committee investigating the January 6 attack on the US Capitol approved on Wednesday night the report to hold former Department of Justice official Jeffrey Clark in contempt of Congress for defying his subpoena by refusing to answer questions during a recent deposition and failing to hand over documents to the panel. But the panel is also giving Clark another opportunity to appear, on Saturday, in light of a new letter he sent to the committee stating that he intends to claim Fifth Amendment protection.A select committee aide tells CNN that due to Clark getting the new deposition date, the plan is to wait to hold a full House vote on the contempt report until at least after the weekend.If Clark answers the committee's questions by pleading the Fifth Amendment, the panel will likely have to stop the process of holding him in criminal contempt. If Clark continues to stonewall the committee, and invoke the Fifth Amendment in ways the committee deems illegitimate, the panel will proceed with a floor vote as soon as next week.Committee Chairman Bennie Thompson, a Mississippi Democrat, said in his opening remarks on Wednesday that Clark will be given the opportunity to appear in front of the panel on Saturday for a new deposition in light of him sending the new letter to the committee indicating that he intends to claim Fifth Amendment protection.  "Even though Mr. Clark previously had the opportunity to make these claims on the record, the Select Committee will provide him another chance to do so. I have informed Mr. Clark's attorney that I am willing to convene another deposition at which Mr. Clark can assert that privilege on a question-by-question basis, which is what the law requires of someone who asserts the privilege against self-incrimination," Thompson said. "We have just learned that Mr. Clark has agreed to appear again to continue his deposition."But Thompson said the committee would proceed with considering the contempt request, and all nine members voted to pass the report out of committee Wednesday night. Following passage in the House chamber, it would get referred to the Justice Department, which would then have to decide whether to prosecute. Republican Rep. Liz Cheney of Wyoming, the vice chair of the committee, said Wednesday that the committee "will not finalize his contempt process if Mr. Clark genuinely cures his failure to comply with the subpoena this Saturday."Rep. Jamie Raskin, who also serves on the committee, told CNN after the meeting that Clark's attempt to assert his Fifth Amendment right at this point in the process "may reflect an eroding confidence in the executive privilege argument."The Maryland Democrat warned, however, that pleading the Fifth will not be a simple process and it will still force Clark to confront specific questions about what he may or may not know about the events leading up to January 6."You can't plead the Fifth to an entire prosecution. You can't plead the Fifth to every question you might be asked. So it applies only when you have a specific and reasonable apprehension that your answer could be used against you in a criminal prosecution," Raskin said.He pointed out that when asked a specific question Clark will be forced to confront what about the query may put him in a compromised legal situation: "He didn't state which criminal statutes he was referring to -- whether it was election fraud or criminal conspiracy or whatever -- but presumably he would have an opportunity to explain what are the underlying criminal statutes he's afraid of being prosecuted under."Although Raskin said the committee would not "begrudge anyone in honest invocation of the Fifth Amendment," he added that Clark's case to invoke it here is "certainly unusual" and noted that Clark's former Justice Department superiors, Jeffrey Rosen and Richard Donoghue, had spoken to the committee without invoking the Fifth Amendment.The criminal contempt report marks another critical milestone in the investigation as the panel hopes that even the remote threat of jail time inspires more Trump-aligned witnesses to cooperate. A decision by Clark's former department to prosecute him on criminal contempt charges would make him the second person to face a serious legal penalty for blowing off the select committee's requests.Former President Donald Trump ally Steve Bannon is awaiting trial for a misdemeanor criminal contempt charge after he refused to show up for a deposition or provide documents to the committee, citing executive privilege claims made by Trump.The contempt report on Clark, which was released Tuesday night, outlines the efforts the committee made to get him to comply with the subpoena, and Clark's failure to do so.Hours before the meeting was scheduled to take place, Thompson told CNN the new letter to the committee suggested Clark may invoke his Fifth Amendment right to not answer the committee's questions.The letter indicated a new strategy by Clark, who has gone to great lengths to avoid cooperating with the committee, including claiming that any information he'd be able to provide is protecting by either executive or attorney-client privilege.Clark has not formally invoked the Fifth Amendment with his dealings with the committee, but Thompson said his actions indicated that was the direction he was headed. The chairman made it clear, however, it was not something that would prevent the committee from moving ahead with its plans to refer him for criminal contempt."He walked out on a deposition," Thompson said. "That kind of puts you in a weak position to make any type of assertion."Democratic Rep. Zoe Lofgren of California, one of the members on the panel described the new letter from Clark's legal team as "frivolous" earlier in the day."They've just sent a very long letter that I've read through that just seems like frivolous honestly, but I want the lawyers on the committee staff to give us their advice," Lofgren said.In its 22-page report, the committee said Clark had violated Justice Department policy when he met with Trump to discuss efforts to overturn the 2020 election and, further, held conversations with members of Congress about delegitimizing the election.The report states that the committee communicated with Clark's attorneys multiple times, even allowing an extension for them to produce records and appear for a deposition. But when Clark did finally appear, the committee said, his attorney handed the panel's staff a 12-page letter objecting to almost every question on the grounds that Trump was entitled to confidential legal advice -- what Clark's attorney called a "sacred trust."The letter further argued that "the general category of executive privilege, the specific categories of the presidential communications, law enforcement, and deliberative process privileges, as well as attorney-client privilege and the work product doctrine, all harmonize on this point," according to the report.After being pressed to answer questions that the committee believed wouldn't justify executive privilege claims, Clark "abruptly left" the deposition.The documents Clark was asked to hand over included communications with Trump, senior members of the White House, Trump's reelection campaign, John Eastman -- a conservative lawyer working with the then-President's legal team -- and state officials.Ahead of the vote, Thompson said he felt confident the measure will pass the committee with ease, but did not guarantee a unanimous vote. "I think we've made the effort to be as agreeable as we can, and now it's time for us as a committee to make a decision and move on," Thompson said.  "We can't continue to waste time on a person who was subpoenaed who doesn't follow through on what's required."This story and headline have been updated to reflect additional developments Wednesday.
Symone Sanders, Harris' chief spokesperson, to leave White House.  (CNN)Symone Sanders, Vice President Kamala Harris' chief spokesperson and senior adviser, is leaving the Biden administration at the end of the year, according to a source familiar with the decision."Symone has served honorably for three years," the source told CNN. "The President and vice president are grateful for Symone's service and advocacy for this White House. She is a valued member, a team player, and she will be missed. We are grateful to have her working through the end of the year."Her expected exit marks the second departure among Harris' top communication staff in recent weeks. Last month, a White House official told CNN that the vice president's communications director, Ashley Etienne, was leaving to pursue "other opportunities." News of each departure followed a myriad of reports, including by CNN, of staff infighting and dysfunction. Still, the source dismissed that Sanders' exit has to do with reports of dysfunction, calling it the right time for her to go.Harris has known for some time about Sanders' upcoming departure, according to a second source familiar. Anita Dunn, a former top Biden aide, praised Sanders as "an extraordinary talent" in an interview with CNN on Wednesday night."Symone has been working at the highest levels and in an extraordinarily intense environment for three years for Joe Biden. And now also for Vice President Harris," Dunn said. "When you look at the three years, two on the campaign, one in the White House, nobody can question her decision that she needs a break and it's time to move on. And she'll always be a member of the Biden-Harris family."Sanders, a 31-year-old African American political strategist, joined the White House from Joe Biden's 2020 presidential campaign, on which she served as a senior adviser. She was also the national press secretary for Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders' 2016 presidential campaign and was a political analyst for CNN prior to joining Biden's campaign.During her time in the vice president's office, Sanders helped lead messaging for Harris, who has been tasked with what allies and supporters view as a thorny portfolio. Adding another dimension to Sanders' efforts, Harris -- who has been dogged with messaging challenges since her unsuccessful presidential campaign -- has publicly fumbled the White House's message during her time as vice president.In February, West Virginia Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin expressed frustration over a television interview Harris did in his home state to promote the American Rescue Plan, suggesting the administration did not give him a heads up. During her first foreign trip, Harris -- who heads diplomatic efforts to stem migration from the Northern Triangle -- had to deal with the fallout over her response about why she has not at that point visited the US-Mexico border as vice president. And over the summer, White House had to dive into damage control following reports of dysfunction within Harris' staff. The interview during which she made the border comment came after Harris had participated in a wide-ranging media training session to improve her delivery and presentation in interviews and speeches. That training had been one of several sessions over the last year, according to multiple sources. In September, the vice president's office also attempted to contain the fallout over Harris' lack of pushback in an exchange with a student who characterized Israel's actions toward Palestinians as "an ethnic genocide and a displacement of people."Since the messaging missteps, the vice president's office has hired two communications veterans -- Lorraine Voles, a crisis communications specialist, and Adam Frankel, a former Obama speechwriter -- to focus their efforts on "organizational development, strategic communications and long-term planning," according to the White House. Sanders had previously made her White House ambitions known, writing in her 2020 memoir, "No, You Shut Up," "One day I want to be White House press secretary." Bakari Sellers, a friend of Sanders, told the Washington Post this past spring that the decision to make Jen Psaki the White House press secretary "stung" Sanders and that being passed over "hurt." Harris' team will likely see other exits over time."Offices reconstitute themselves. Symone is not the last person who will leave the White House," Dunn told CNN. This story has been updated with additional details Wednesday.CNN's Jeremy Diamond, Arlette Saenz and Rachel Janfaza contributed to this report.
Alec Baldwin: 'I didn't pull the trigger' of gun on 'Rust' set.  (CNN)Alec Baldwin told ABC News he never pulled the trigger of the gun that shot director of photography Halyna Hutchins on the set of "Rust.""The trigger wasn't pulled. I didn't pull the trigger," Baldwin said in an excerpt released Wednesday from the sit-down interview -- his first since the October shooting.When asked why he pointed the gun at Hutchins and pulled the trigger when that wasn't in the script, Baldwin said, "I would never point a gun at anyone and then pull the trigger, never."Baldwin also said he has no idea how a live bullet got in the Colt .45 revolver he used in the scene. "Someone put a live bullet in the gun, a bullet that wasn't even supposed to be on the property," he said.An emotional Baldwin visibly fights back tears when talking about Hutchins. "She was someone who was loved by everyone who worked with her, liked by everyone who worked with her -- and admired," Baldwin said, adding, "it doesn't seem real to me."  When asked by George Stephanopoulos if the shooting was the worst thing that had ever happened to him, Baldwin said yes, "because I think back and I think, what could I have done?"ABC is set to air the interview Thursday night.Hutchins was killed and director Joel Souza injured in October after Baldwin discharged a weapon during a rehearsal that contained what authorities suspect was a live round.The incident, which remains under investigation, has renewed calls for better safety practices on sets with regards to the use of weapons.Baldwin has said he believes police officers should be present on "every film/TV set that uses guns, fake or otherwise" to monitor weapons safety. 
Stacey Abrams announces she's running for governor in Georgia.  (CNN)Georgia Democrat Stacey Abrams announced on Wednesday that she is running for governor, setting up a possible rematch with Georgia GOP Gov. Brian Kemp in what could become one of the most closely watched races in the country.The voting rights advocate and former top Democrat in the Georgia House of Representatives tweeted her announcement, saying she is running "because opportunity in our state shouldn't be determined by zip code, background or access to power."Abrams' announcement is a boon for Democrats. Abrams ran for governor in 2018, losing to Kemp by 1.4 points, but her campaign vaulted her into the upper echelons of the Democratic Party and made her a fundraising force who will be able to throw millions at a run. Democrats believe demographic and political changes in Georgia -- as evidenced by President Joe Biden's electoral victory there last year and the state being represented by two Democrats in the Senate -- make it more possible for a Democrat to become the top executive in the state."That's the job of governor -- to fight for one Georgia, our Georgia," Abrams said in her announcement video. "And now, it is time to get the job done."Abrams is also expected to clear the Democratic field in the race, something that has not been the case for Kemp and Republicans. After drawing the ire of former President Donald Trump for not more forcefully going along with his baseless claims of voter fraud in Georgia and elsewhere in the 2020 election, Trump turned on Kemp and has pledged to make him politically pay for his disloyalty.A possible vehicle for Trump's revenge tour: Former Sen. David Perdue, who lost reelection to Sen. Jon Ossoff in a runoff at the beginning of the year.Republicans in the state have told CNN they expect Perdue to make a decision soon about running against Kemp in next year's primary, after Perdue allies floated the possibility in October.A match-up between Kemp and Perdue could not only upend Georgia's governor race but split the GOP at a time when the party's dominance in the state has been threatened by recent electoral wins by Democrats. Some Republicans fear that a contested primary over the issue of the 2020 election could only further damage the GOP.Trump's anger at Kemp is so deep that he has at times lauded Abrams as a way to attack the Republican governor. While speaking in Georgia earlier this year, Trump said of Kemp, "Stacey, would you like to take his place? It's OK with me."He added: "Of course having her, I think, might be better than having your existing governor, if you want to know what I think. Might very well be better."GOP division would give a boost to Abrams in an election year that is otherwise looking difficult for Democrats."The odds are only in her favor if the Republicans have a bloody primary," said Erick Erickson, the Atlanta-based conservative talk-radio host.The Republican Governors Association has said it will support GOP incumbents, including Kemp, who face primary challenges. Dave Rexrode, the RGA's executive director, reiterated that position in a tweet that also went after Abrams."We defeated her once (even though she failed to admit it) and we'll do it again," Rexrode tweeted Wednesday. "[The RGA] are all-in to re-elect [Kemp] and keep GA heading in the right direction."Abrams first ran for office in 2007, when she won her Georgia House seat. Over the next 10 years, she built a strong reputation within the Democratic Party in Georgia, a standing that helped her launch her 2018 gubernatorial campaign -- a bid that would've made her the nation's first Black woman state leader.She lost that election, but the exposure during the race turned Abrams into a well-known and sought-after Democrat. After the election, Abrams founded Fair Fight, an organization that advocates for voter protection across the country, and found herself high on Biden's list of possible vice presidential nominees in 2020.Abrams' rise in the Democratic Party made her more of a target to Republicans, who have repeatedly criticized the way she refused to concede the 2018 race to Kemp because of voter suppression concerns."So, let's be clear -- this is not a speech of concession, because concession means to acknowledge an action is right, true or proper," she said when she ended her campaign. "As a woman of conscience and faith, I cannot concede that. But, my assessment is the law currently allows no further viable remedy."Kemp responded to Abrams' Wednesday announcement by saying "next November's election for Governor is a battle for the soul of our state.""I'm in the fight against Stacey Abrams, the failed Biden agenda, and their woke allies to keep Georgia the best place to live, work, and raise a family," the governor added.
Sobbing Capitol rioter described his assault of police Officer Michael Fanone: 'My God. What did I just do?'.  (CNN)The Capitol rioter accused of firing the Taser at one of the most outspoken police officers wounded on January 6 had told federal investigators in March he had come to Washington, DC, to respond to then-President Donald Trump's call -- and that he regretted what he had done.The Justice Department released video on Tuesday of the extensive March 2021 interview two federal investigators did with alleged Capitol rioter Daniel Joseph Rodriguez. The 38-year-old Californian is accused of shocking Metropolitan Police Officer Michael Fanone with a stun gun amid an intense standoff between Trump supporters and law enforcement during the insurrection, and of participating in a conspiracy to attack of the Capitol. He has pleaded not guilty."This is not how we back the blue. And I tased one of them," Rodriguez said in the interview. When asked what he would tell Fanone now, Rodriguez sobbed, then muttered, with his head down: "I'm sorry he had to go through that. It's not right that he had to suffer like that. And it puts fear in him and worrying about his life. He was scared for his own life and thought about having to kill us. And he was willing to die because of his beliefs, too.""Do you think he was doing the right thing?" the agent asked him. "Yeah. He was doing his job," Rodriguez said.Rodriguez also described the moment of the assault: "When I did it, I was like, oh, my God. What did I just do? And I got out of there. I left. I did it and I left," he said.In the interview, conducted with Rodriguez behind a table cornered by the agents, Rodriguez said he felt prompted to take part in right-wing political rallies because of InfoWars, and because he was called by Trump to battle. He also spoke about a belief he was being antagonized by leftist activists from Black Lives Matter and Antifa before January 6."Trump called us. Trump called us to D.C. ... If he's the commander in chief and the leader of our country, and he's calling for help -- I thought he was calling for help," Rodriguez said in the interview. He also described preparing for a "big battle" or "civil war" with leftists."Are we all that stupid that we thought we were going to go do this and save the country and it was all going to be fine after? We really thought that. That's so stupid, huh?" he said near the end of the interview. The video is the first of its kind released as part of the Capitol riot investigation. It became part of the court record after Rodriguez's attorneys attempted to suppress it from his case, so his admissions could not be held against him at trial. A federal judge ordered the video's release this week, after a media coalition led by CNN that has sought public access in the Capitol riot cases asked for it to be made public.Rodriguez was indicted last week as part of a group that prosecutors say planned to be violent together on January 6. He was originally charged in March and is in jail while he awaits trial.The video of his interview provides a gripping window into the approach the FBI has taken toward many of the rioters -- pressing them for hours shortly after their arrests but before their court proceedings are in full swing. With Rodriguez, two agents, one identified as Enrique Armenta and the other only identified as "Special Agent Elias" coax him to open up about why Rodriguez came to Washington on January 6.They also warned him how serious the charges he faces could be, the importance that he not lie to them, and by telling him they can help him if he helps them get the facts straight. "Danny, you understand how serious this is, right?" Armenta asks him during the interview. "Full disclosure, all the cards are out on the table, you're looking at seven federal felony counts. Seven.""What is that? The rest of my life in prison?" Rodriguez responded. Rodriguez currently faces eight federal criminal counts, in one of the most serious sets of charges among the almost 700 riot defendants. In addition to assault and conspiracy, prosecutors also allege Rodriguez destroyed property inside the Capitol and stole an emergency hood from a congressional office.In parts of the interview, the investigators press Rodriguez for the names and actions of other alleged rioters with whom he interacted on or before January 6, and where he got the Taser he used on Fanone. He insisted it was not the same Taser his group brought to Washington.
CNN suspends Chris Cuomo indefinitely. New York (CNN Business)CNN has suspended prime time anchor Chris Cuomo "indefinitely, pending further evaluation," after new documents revealed the cozy and improper nature of his relationship with aides to his brother, former New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo.A second hour of "Anderson Cooper 360" aired in Cuomo's place on Tuesday night. A town hall about Covid-19 will air Wednesday night.Tuesday's announcement about the suspension was the equivalent of a cable news shockwave. Cuomo's 9 p.m. program is frequently CNN's most-watched hour of the day. He is a larger-than-life presence at the network. And he was determined to stay on TV this year despite a flurry of sexual misconduct allegations against his brother, which culminated in the governor's resignation three months ago.But new documents released on Monday showed that the veteran journalist was more intimately involved than previously known in shaping his brother's defense."The New York Attorney General's office released transcripts and exhibits Monday that shed new light on Chris Cuomo's involvement in his brother's defense," a CNN spokesperson said Tuesday evening. "The documents, which we were not privy to before their public release, raise serious questions.""When Chris admitted to us that he had offered advice to his brother's staff, he broke our rules and we acknowledged that publicly," the spokesperson continued. "But we also appreciated the unique position he was in and understood his need to put family first and job second.""However, these documents point to a greater level of involvement in his brother's efforts than we previously knew," the spokesperson added. "As a result, we have suspended Chris indefinitely, pending further evaluation."The spokesperson did not share any further details, but it's possible that Cuomo will remain on the bench for weeks.The anchorman declined to comment on Tuesday night, but he took to his radio show Wednesday to address the suspension. "It hurts to even say it. It's embarrassing," he said on his SiriusXM show. "But I understand it."Chris Cuomo said that he never wanted to "compromise any of my colleagues" and said he will respect the process evaluating his conduct. He added he will refrain from talking about the issue further. The suspension came after significant criticism from people who noted that Cuomo had violated widely accepted journalistic norms. Inside CNN, some staffers expressed dismay about the anchor's conduct. Charlotte Bennett, a former aide to Andrew Cuomo who came forward in February to accuse him of sexual harassment, called for CNN to "immediately take action.""Anything short of firing Chris Cuomo reflects a network lacking both morals and a backbone," Bennett said in a tweet Tuesday.The "Cuomo Prime Time" team had been planning for Tuesday's broadcast up until the suspension announcement around 6:15 p.m. Eastern, a person familiar with the matter said. Cooper's team was also blindsided by the news and left scrambling to fill the extra hour.After the news was made public, an emotional Chris Cuomo met with the show's staff.While many media critics said the suspension was necessary, some viewers expressed disappointment that he was taken off the air.CNN has not said what will fill the time slot while Cuomo is sidelined.The documents released by New York Attorney General Letitia James on Monday included text messages and transcripts of interviews with investigators who led the probe into allegations against the governor.The cache of documents included text messages between Chris Cuomo and Melissa DeRosa, a then-top aide to Gov. Andrew Cuomo, that suggested he was instrumental in working to craft a defense against a flood of sexual misconduct allegations.The text messages also revealed that Chris Cuomo sought to use his connections in the press to help prepare the then-governor's team as accusers started to make their stories public.Chris Cuomo also acknowledged to investigators that he did attempt to learn more about a story by journalist Ronan Farrow. The anchor defended the practice as conventional."The idea of one reporter calling another to find out about what's coming down the pipe is completely business-as-usual," he said.When Andrew Cuomo resigned as governor in August, Chris Cuomo told CNN viewers that he was "not an advisor," but "a brother." He acknowledged that he talked with his brother's aides and gave his "take" until CNN told him to stop doing so in May.The "Cuomo Prime Time" anchor also said on the air in August, "I never attacked nor encouraged anyone to attack any woman who came forward. I never made calls to the press about my brother's situation."Monday's revelations cast some doubt on his statement about his interactions with the press."I would -- when asked, I would reach out to sources, other journalists, to see if they had heard of anybody else coming out," Chris Cuomo said during testimony.Chris Cuomo also said under oath what he told CNN viewers earlier this year: That he "never influenced or attempted to control CNN's coverage of my family."During the questioning, he reiterated that sentiment, saying, "If I had tried to influence any of the reporting at CNN or anywhere else, I guarantee you people would know, and so would a lot of others."In its May statement, CNN had said, "Chris has not been involved in CNN's extensive coverage of the allegations against Governor Cuomo  on air or behind the scenes." The network's statement added, "In part because, as he has said on his show, he could never be objective. But also because he often serves as a sounding board for his brother. However, it was inappropriate to engage in conversations that included members of the Governor's staff, which Chris acknowledges. He will not participate in such conversations going forward."The anchor at the time also took to his show to say that he is "family first and job second" and apologized for how he helped his brother."It will not happen again. It was a mistake, because I put my colleagues here, who I believe are the best in the business, in a bad spot," he said. "I never intended for that I would never intend for that and I am sorry for that."While a report on the sexual misconduct allegations against Andrew Cuomo was released in August, James' office continues with a separate investigation into allegations he misused state resources for the development, production and promotion of a book he wrote on the pandemic.Rich Azzopardi, a spokesman for Andrew Cuomo, called the latest release of transcripts, documents and videos a "manipulated release.""New Yorkers are no one's fool and James and her colleagues' obvious misuse of government resources to damage political opponents is as obvious and repugnant as it is unethical and illegal," Azzopardi said in a statement.CNN's Sonia Moghe contributed to this report.
Ex-White House official says Trump showed 'flagrant lack of regard for public health' in keeping positive Covid test secret. Washington (CNN)Former President Donald Trump showed "a flagrant lack of regard for public health" and endangered White House staff by not disclosing a positive Covid-19 test he received last year, his former communications director said Wednesday. "Full stop, this demonstrates a flagrant lack of regard for public health and for the well-being of others," Alyssa Farah Griffin, who served for a time as the director of strategic communications and assistant to the president in the Trump White House, told CNN's Jake Tapper on "The Lead."She added: "At this time in the White House, I had staffers who were pregnant. I had one who is a multi-time cancer survivor. We had plenty of people in the West Wing who are over 65. We could have killed one of our colleagues and instead they decided to not tell anyone, putting every single one of us at risk." The previously unknown positive test was disclosed in a memoir by Trump's former chief of staff Mark Meadows, a copy of which was obtained by The Guardian ahead of the book's publication next week. According to Meadows, Trump received the positive test on September 26, 2020, three days ahead of his first presidential debate with Joe Biden. The then-President also received a negative test in that timeframe. The day of the reported positive test, Trump hosted a ceremony in the White House Rose Garden for then-Supreme Court nominee Amy Coney Barrett, which was later deemed a super spreader event, by medical experts. At least 12 people who attended the event later tested positive.Farah Grffin, who was serving in the White House at the time, told Tapper that she had not been aware of the positive test detailed by Meadows. Trump denied that positive test in a statement Wednesday, saying, "The story of me having COVID prior to, or during, the first debate is Fake News. In fact, a test revealed that I did not have COVID prior to the debate."Meadows claims in his book that the positive test was done with an old model kit, The Guardian reported.Trump was subsequently tested with "the Binax system," an antigen test for Covid-19, and returned a negative result, Meadows wrote. It is unclear if the first test that returned the positive result was an antigen test or PCR test.According to the FDA's guidelines, when using the Binax test, "negative results do not rule out SARS-Covid-2 infection and should not be used as the sole basis for treatment or patient management decisions, including infection control decision."Farah Grffin, who has on occasion criticized her former boss since leaving the White House, also took aim at Meadows on Wednesday, calling out his decision to just now reveal the positive Covid test. "He doesn't seem to have reflected on the fact this was a terrible move in how to handle this and he absolutely should have disclosed to the public and quarantined the President," she said, adding Meadows' decision "was deeply reckless." During the debate, Trump and Biden adhered to social distance protocols, but the two candidates -- both in their 70s -- were indoors in a room with dozens of people in the audience, some of whom were not masked.Trump on September 30 traveled to Minnesota for an outdoor rally in Duluth and a private fundraiser in Minneapolis.He announced on October 2, 2020, that he and first lady Melania Trump had tested positive for Covid-19. He was hospitalized later that night.This story has been updated with additional details Wednesday.
Antiperspirant recall: What the finding of a cancer-causing chemical means for you.  (CNN)Benzene, a known cancer-causing chemical, was found in over half of 108 batches of antiperspirant and deodorant body sprays from 30 different brands, according to a citizen's petition filed this month with the US Food and Drug Administration. Benzene should not be used in the manufacture of drug substances or products because it is a class one solvent with "unacceptable toxicity," according to the FDA. However, the FDA did allow a "temporary" use of benzene in liquid hand sanitizers during the pandemic, setting the upper limit to 2 parts per million. The US Environmental Protection Agency has set a much lower limit -- 5 parts per billion (ppb) -- for exposure to benzene in drinking water. The agency has also set a "goal of 0 ppb for benzene in drinking water and in water such as rivers and lakes because benzene can cause leukemia."Last week, "in an abundance of caution," manufacturer Procter & Gamble voluntarily pulled 17 different types of Old Spice and Secret antiperspirant off the shelves, according to a press release.A number of other brands have not yet been recalled, including batches of Tag, Sure, Equate, Suave, Right Guard and Brut that had levels of benzene at or above 2 parts per million, said David Light, CEO and founder of Valisure, the independent lab that ran the tests and filed the petition.Additional batches of antiperspirants and deodorants, which Valisure said tested at levels up to 2 parts per million, include products made by Summer's Eve, Right Guard, Power Stick, Soft & Dri and Victoria's Secret. To date, CNN was not able to verify that any of these products except Old Spice and Secret have been recalled following Valisure's early November request to that effect to the FDA.CNN reached out to all of these companies for response. The Village Company, which makes Soft&Dri, declined to provide a comment. Unilever, which makes Suave, told CNN in an email: "Unilever takes all safety concerns seriously, and we are conducting a robust investigation into the Valisure petition's assertions about two Suave antiperspirant aerosols."CNN did not receive a response from the rest of the brands before publication, but the Personal Care Products Council, an industry association that speaks for 600 consumer product companies, put out this statement."Benzene is not an intentionally added ingredient in body spray products; however, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), as well as product manufacturers, are aware that it may be present in food and drug products at very low levels," PCPC wrote."PCPC and its member companies are firmly committed to ensuring consumers have access to cosmetics and personal care products with ingredients that have been thoroughly tested for safety and follow the requirements of the law," the statement said. "Companies and individuals have a legal responsibility to ensure their products and ingredients are safe for the intended use."High levels of benzene detectedBenzene is created by natural and man-made processes. The chemical, which can trick the body's cells into not working properly, is also a natural part of crude oil, gasoline and cigarette smoke, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.It's also used to manufacture a variety of "plastics, lubricants, rubbers, dyes, detergents, drugs, and pesticides," according to the American Cancer Society.  Exposure can be dangerous, by increasing the "risk of developing leukemia and other blood disorders," the National Cancer Institute said.Exposure to high levels of benzene in the air can cause death, and if "you spill benzene on your skin, it may cause redness and sores," according to the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR). "Benzene in your eyes may cause general irritation and damage to your cornea." In its recall, P&G said it has had no reports of adverse reactions, adding that "daily exposure to benzene in the recalled products at the levels detected in our testing would not be expected to cause adverse health consequences."Tests by Valisure, however, found concerning levels of benzene in some batches of P&G products. The most highly contaminated -- two lots of an Old Spice antiperspirant called Pure Sport (Lots 11671458SQ and 11671458SB; UPC 012044001912) -- contained 17.7 and 17.4 average parts per million of benzene, said Valisure CEO David Light."That's nearly nine times the upper limit of 2 parts per million the FDA has set for emergency use," Light said. Secret Powder Fresh, 24 HR Aerosol (Lots 11721458SG and 11701458SH; UPC 037000711087) had about 16 average parts per million, tests showed."With aerosols, you might be using it every day, probably in a closed space like a bathroom," Light said. The company tested the product with the highest levels of benzene (Old Spice Pure Sport with 17.7 ppm) in a closed bathroom, spraying once under each arm as a consumer would. By doing so, you "could bring the entire bathroom air to 15 times the limit for what the EPA has said is an increased risk for leukemia," Light said.How does the product become contaminated?In overall testing, levels of benzene varied greatly from batch to batch, even within a single brand, Valisure noted, while initial analysis of at least one sample of 49 lots of body sprays from 19 different brands showed no benzene at all.In total, "24 lots of body spray products from 8 different brands contained between 2.24 -- 17.7 ppm of benzene; 14 lots from 8 brands contained detectable benzene between 0.20 -- 1.89 ppm; and 21 lots from 8 brands contained detectable benzene at < 0.1 ppm," Valisure said in a press release.None of the products have benzene as an ingredient, experts say, so the only way the chemical could have been introduced is via an error in the manufacturing process -- or by the way the chemical is delivered to the body.Valisure said one possibility is that benzene could come from ingredients such as hydrofluorocarbon 152a, butane, isobutane, propane and alcohol used to propel sprays onto the skin."Our investigation showed that traces of benzene came from the propellant that sprays the product out of the can," said Kate DiCarlo, senior director of communications for the Personal Care Portfolio of P&G. "Due to the highly specialized nature of aerosol products, we use a manufacturing partner to produce these products," Dicarlo continued. "That manufacturing partner identified an issue with their propellant supply and is implementing additional measures to address the issue identified in the investigation. "Once the recall is complete, we are preparing to ship new product that meets our quality standards to re-stock shelves."Other products with benzeneIs avoiding the propellants in spray products the answer to reducing risk? Possibly, experts say. However, Valisure also found higher levels of benzene in non-aerosol body odor products, including powders and sticks, Light said."I think there's good evidence that propellants are a significant source of this contamination but there's a variety of potential sources in the raw materials used to create the products as well," Light said."Impurities may be present in the manufacturing environment due to the use of certain chemicals, equipment or containers. We need more testing," said David Andrews, a senior scientist for the Environmental Working Group (EWG), a non-profit environmental and consumer health advocacy group."We need independent analysis as part of the overall supply chain. It's really critically important to find these problems before they get on the shelves," Light added.Benzene has been found in other consumer products as well. The FDA warmed consumers not to use certain hand sanitizers early in the pandemic due to high levels of the solvent, and this summer Johnson & Johnson (J&J) voluntarily pulled four brands of Neutrogena sunscreen and one of Aveeno after Valisure's lab found alarming levels of benzene and filed a petition with the FDA.CVS Health and Coppertone also voluntarily stopped selling several sunscreen or after-sun care products due to similar findings. Light said to the best of his knowledge other sunscreens and after-sun cosmetics, which also tested positive for the toxin, remain on the market."There is not a safe level of benzene that can exist in sunscreen products," said Dr. Christopher Bunick, associate professor of dermatology at Yale University, in a press release at the time. "Even benzene at 0.1 ppm (parts per million) in a sunscreen could expose people to excessively high nanogram amounts of benzene."The vast majority of tested sunscreens, however, were free of benzene, and experts stress the importance of sunscreen use to protect skin from the aging and cancerous effects of the sun.The sunscreens tested by Valisure were only a tiny sample of the more than 11,000 registered sun care products on the market.In response to Valisure's petition on sunscreens, the FDA told CNN that it "evaluates and assesses the information provided in citizen petitions of this type and, generally, initiates an independent testing and verification process."In response to the new petition on antiperspirants and deodorants, the FDA said: "The FDA is committed to helping ensure that the products we regulate are safe for use. We continually gain new knowledge which allows us to identify and quickly address previously unknown risks. When we identify drug quality lapses that pose potential risks for patients, we make every effort to understand the issues and provide our best recommendation to the public as quickly and accurately as possible. We will continue to investigate and work to ensure these types of impurities do not exceed acceptable limits."
What you don't understand about Lauren Boebert.  (CNN)On Day 3 of the controversy caused by Lauren Boebert's suggestion that a Muslim member of Congress might be a terrorist, the Colorado Republican said that she "can't wait" to debate the issue with Rep. Ilhan Omar on a Fox News primetime show.Yup. That's what she said.What the two would debate is not entirely clear to me. Boebert said on multiple occasions that Omar, a Democrat who represents Minnesota in Congress, was a terrorist. She also said that Omar was "black-hearted" and "evil."  And she regularly refers to Omar as well as Reps. Rashida Tlaib of Michigan, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts as the "Jihad Squad." Omar, for her part, asked Boebert in a phone conversation Monday to issue a public apology. Boebert refused to do so, saying later in an Instagram post, "I will fearlessly continue to put America first, never sympathizing with terrorists. Unfortunately Ilhan can't say the same thing and our country is worse off for it."On Tuesday afternoon, Omar played a recording of a voice message she had received following Boebert's comments in which several slurs were used and the caller told the congresswoman that she "will not live much longer."After all that happened is when Boebert made her comment that she "can't wait" to debate Omar on Laura Ingraham's Fox News Channel show.As ugly and unsavory as Boebert's actions are, they do provide insight into just how radically the mission of serving in Congress has changed -- particularly for those, like Boebert, who have come into politics in the age of Donald Trump.Whenever I see an episode like this one, I am reminded of this quote from Trump -- long before he was president: "The show is Trump, and it is sold-out performances everywhere."That quote, from a 1990 Playboy interview with the then-business mogul, not only illuminates how he approached his political career beginning in 2015 but also how a whole generation of Trump acolytes view politics now too.Gone is the idea that politics is about making the country (and its people) better through compromise. Or even that passing any sort of legislation -- or sponsoring any -- matters at all.In its place is politics as performance. Running for office and being in office are about promoting your personal #brand (barf).  The best way to show "effectiveness" is not in bills passed but in appearances on Fox News. Boebert -- as well as Georgia Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, who has rushed to her defense -- is a perfect encapsulation of this modern Republican politician. Prompted by House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy into calling Omar to offer an apology, Boebert turned that call into yet another opportunity to virtue-signal to a party base ready to hate whomever their leaders tell them they should.Take even the seemingly offhand reference to Omar as a member of the "Jihad Squad" by Boebert.  Does she actually believe that Omar (and Tlaib and Ocasio-Cortez and Pressley) are engaged in a holy war on behalf of Islam against America? (Worth noting: Neither Ocasio-Cortez nor Pressley are Muslims.)Of course she doesn't. It's just name-calling as a way to wink at a party base in which intolerance for the other simmers just below the surface -- and increasingly frolics freely above the surface.The unfortunate thing for our politics is that there are a whole lot of Republican politicians like Boebert in the pipeline. She's the rule, not the exception, in the modern Republican party.
John Roberts has a plan that would gut -- yet save -- Roe v. Wade. Can it work? .  (CNN)Chief Justice John Roberts came to Wednesday's abortion arguments with an idea, an idea that no other Supreme Court justice would likely want but one that a slim majority might eventually accept.  By his questions during the intense session that ran nearly two hours, Roberts suggested the high court reverse a significant part of Roe v. Wade but preserve some constitutional right to abortion. Roberts would end the existing protection for a woman's abortion decision before viability -- that is when the fetus can survive outside the womb -- at about 23 weeks. He suggested he would let states ban abortion at 15 weeks of pregnancy, as Mississippi has done in the case before the justices, but that he would not go further to completely ban abortion. The chief's gambit, however, would require at least one of the five other conservatives to join him. Otherwise, this newly remade Supreme Court appears ready to reverse the Roe landmark altogether. One way or another, the court is poised to retrench on nearly a half century of constitutional protection. RELATED: Takeaways from the historic Supreme Court arguments on abortion rightsThe five conservatives to Roberts' right, including three appointees of former President Donald Trump, have signaled through the years their opposition to abortion rights. Trump vowed to appoint justices who would overturn Roe, and Neil Gorsuch, Brett Kavanaugh and Amy Coney Barrett have all previously criticized decisions giving women a choice to end a pregnancy.  Despite his history of fighting abortion rights, the institutionally minded Roberts showed little interest Wednesday in going further than the precise question that the justices had agreed to take up: May states ban abortions before fetal viability without infringing the Constitution? All told, the robust Q&A demonstrated the new era of reproductive rights for American women. Not since 1992 has the court heard such a direct threat to Roe, and today's bench lacks the moderate Republican-nominated justices who steered the 1992 compromise decision that endorsed the core of Roe's essential holding that gave women the right to end a pregnancy before fetal viability. Because of Covid-19 restrictions, the tableau in the courtroom was spare, as well as solemn, belying the clamor of hundreds of demonstrators outside. The few dozen spectators inside (mainly journalists and law clerks) donned high-grade, tight-fitting masks and were well spaced on the red upholstered benches in a courtroom that usually seats 300. The justices -- all but Sonia Sotomayor were unmasked -- wore the weight of the moment on their faces, and their questions cut to important issues of a woman's autonomy, fetal life and the court's institutional integrity -- built on regard for precedent. The 1973 Roe v. Wade and 1992 Planned Parenthood v. Casey decisions used viability as a cutoff point for when a state's interest in protecting the life of a fetus could overtake the woman's ability to end a pregnancy.RELATED: Roe has lasted almost 50 years. How unusual would it be to overturn it?Roberts repeatedly suggested the viability line was arbitrary and irrelevant to the fundamental holdings of Roe and Casey -- a point contradicted by lawyers challenging the Mississippi law. At the same time, Roberts revealed an openness to retaining some right for women to terminate a pregnancy at an early stage.   Three justices to his left, Stephen Breyer, Sotomayor and Elena Kagan, want to preserve the full breadth of Roe v. Wade and Planned Parenthood v. Casey. They noted that for more than a half century, women have relied on those rulings, they are woven into the American legal and social fabric, and to reverse any part of them would compromise the high court's usual adherence to precedent.  But the votes of those three liberals -- in the minority -- are unlikely to determine the resolution of this make-or-break controversy. Will any justice go along? Trump appointees Gorsuch and Kavanaugh appeared inclined to eliminate Roe v. Wade. Barrett, perhaps less so, by her questions.  Gorsuch responded to Roberts' strategy with skepticism, questioning whether, if the viability cutoff line were dissolved, the justices could ever develop a new "workable standard." RELATED: Brett Kavanaugh, who touted importance of precedent during confirmation fight, downplays it as he considers reversing RoeOf the court's other two conservatives, Clarence Thomas vigorously challenged the validity of Roe but Samuel Alito was not so clear. Alito appears a definite vote to uphold the 15-week Mississippi ban but perhaps to postpone a final judgment on Roe. It seemed that if any right to abortion emerges from this case, it would be through the votes of Roberts with the three liberals (who would nonetheless dissent from upholding the Mississippi law), and a fifth vote from Alito or one of the three Trump appointees. As a lawyer in the Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations, Roberts opposed Roe and even urged the Supreme Court to reverse it. But since taking the bench, he has adopted a more cautious stance. He has voted to uphold abortion regulations, but, in a 2020 Louisiana dispute, cast a vote to strike down a restriction on physicians who perform abortions, based on 2016 precedent with which he had disagreed. As chief and as a justice near the ideological center of the bench, he has tried to keep it from lurching too far to the right. He has voiced concerns about public attitudes toward the court and the potential for political taint. Sotomayor addressed that possibility in harsh terms Wednesday. She referred to remarks from Mississippi sponsors of the abortion ban that suggested they believed the court, with its new justices and cemented conservatism, would welcome the prohibition. "Will this institution survive the stench that this creates in the public perception that the Constitution and its reading are just political acts?" she asked, adding, "I don't see how it is possible." READ: Transcript of Supreme Court oral arguments in Dobbs v. Jackson Women's HealthFellow liberals Breyer and Kagan emphasized the court's usual regard for precedent, especially when, as in this situation, the court seriously reconsidered Roe's validity and upheld it in 1992. "Usually there has to be a justification, a strong justification, in a case like this beyond the fact that you think the case is wrong," said Kagan. "And I guess what strikes me when I look at this case is that, you know, not much has changed since Roe and Casey, that people think it's right or wrong based on the things that they have always thought it was right or wrong for." From the other side of the ideological divide, Kavanaugh has expressed an interest in turning over the issue to state legislators, which would mean the end of any constitutional right to abortion. He prefaced one question with the notion that "the Constitution is neither pro-life nor pro-choice on the question of abortion but leaves the issue for the people of the states or perhaps Congress to resolve in the democratic process." Is a shorter legal viability standard practical? When the court first established a right to abortion in 1973, it rooted it in the 14th Amendment's due process clause, which protects a right to privacy.  The justices in Roe acknowledged that the Constitution contains no explicit reference to a right of privacy but said that in a line of decisions dating to the late 1800s, "the Court has recognized that a right of personal privacy, or a guarantee of certain areas or zones of privacy, does exist under the Constitution."  The Roe court said the right extends to activities related to marriage, contraception and child rearing, and "is broad enough to encompass a woman's decision whether or not to terminate her pregnancy." As Roberts trod toward some position that would undercut but not eliminate that right, he asked Julie Rikelman, representing the Jackson Women's Health Organization, if his idea was workable. "If you think that the issue is one of choice, that women should have a choice to terminate their pregnancy, that supposes that there is a point at which they've had the fair choice ... and why would 15 weeks be an inappropriate line?" the chief justice asked. Roberts added that he failed to see how the viability cutoff had "anything to do with choice." Rikelman countered that, in a practical vein, some women, those in "the most challenging circumstances" farther along in their pregnancies, would be unable to obtain needed medical care. She said that any alternative standard would be "less principled and less workable than viability."  She also warned that states would likely drop to fewer weeks, such as occurred in Texas, which has an abortion ban after roughly six weeks. The Supreme Court has allowed that prohibition to remain while it assesses the merits of the law's procedures. The court in 1973 tried to balance a woman's interests with those of the fetus and chose viability as a cutoff, it said at the time, "because the fetus then presumably has the capability of meaningful life outside the mother's womb. State regulation protective of fetal life after viability thus has both logical and biological justifications." Barrett asked about any burden women who cannot obtain abortions would face, in light of the ability to give a child up for adoption or to relinquish parental rights under state law. Why don't such options "take care of that problem?" Barrett asked. "It seems to me that it focuses the burden much more narrowly. There is, without question, an infringement on bodily autonomy, which we have in other contexts, like vaccines. However, it doesn't seem to me to follow that pregnancy and then parenthood are all part of the same burden."   Rikelman stressed that the abortion right encompasses "bodily integrity" as well as "decisional autonomy and specifically decisions relating to childbearing, marriage and procreation." Pregnancy, Rikelman said, "imposes unique physical demands and risks on women and, in fact, has impact on all of their lives, on their ability to care for other children, other family members, on their ability to work."  Alito tried to poke holes in the justification for the viability cutoff. In past cases, he has sought to limit reproductive rights and might be inclined toward complete reversal of Roe. But during Wednesday's session, he sounded as though he was struggling, like Roberts, for an option that was not as definite as those on the far right or left seek, for or against Roe. At one point Alito asked if "the only real options we have are to reaffirm Roe and Casey as they stand or to overrule them in their entirety?" If he or any other justice were to join Roberts in some attempted middle ground, the result would still halt abortion rights as they exist today. The question then would be: What is left for the future? 
This rare McDonald's treat is making a comeback. New York (CNN Business)'Tis the season for McDonald's to bring back a fan favorite sweet treat: the Holiday Pie. The dessert has returned to menus in "select regions" across the United States, the company confirmed. McDonald's has released the festive pastry for the past 10 years, but the areas of availability vary. Fans have spotted the pies in places including Oregon, Illinois and Texas so far this year.According to the chain, the Holiday Pie is a "mouthwatering pastry" that's filled with vanilla custard and baked in a buttery crust (similar in shape to its rectangular apple pie) and topped with rainbow sprinkles. McDonald's (MCD) said the pie will be available until early January, and as usual won't be released nationwide  making it a rare treat . The McRib was sold in a similar manner, but last year McDonald's finally launched it nationwide. The pie is just one of McDonald's holiday promotions. From December 13 to December 24, the fast food chain is partnering with singer Mariah Carey to offer a different free menu item each day  dubbed the "Mariah Menu"  featuring some of her favorite selections. Eligibility for the free item requires an order placed on the McDonald's app with a minimum $1 purchase price.McDonald's recently said that in the three months ended September 30, sales at global restaurants open at least 13 months jumped 12.7% compared to the same period last year, in part because of the buzz around its celebrity meals.
Fox host doubles down on outrageous comparison of Fauci to Nazi 'Angel of Death' doctor as network remains silent. New York (CNN Business)Lara Logan, a Fox News personality and host on the network's streaming service, appeared on Wednesday to stand by her widely condemned comparison of Dr. Anthony Fauci to an infamous Nazi doctor  all while the right-wing channel remains silent about the matter.Logan tweeted a number of articles about how the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, which Fauci heads, decades ago funded clinical trials of drugs on HIV-positive foster children.The suggestion seemed to be that the research was somehow akin to the grotesque  and often lethal  experiments that the infamous Nazi doctor Josef Mengele performed on unwilling prisoners at Auschwitz with no regard to their safety or physical and emotional pain.Wednesday's tweets come one day after Logan was condemned by the Anti-Defamation League, Auschwitz Museum, and American Jewish Committee for comparing Fauci and to Mengele, who was known as the "Angel of Death" for performing brutal experiments on those at the Auschwitz death camp.But instead of apologizing, Logan doubled down, continuing in her aim to demonize Fauci.While on her Twitter rant, Logan bizarrely posted links to two websites that promoted the fringe and false claim that AIDS is not caused by HIV. Logan also amplified an attack on the Auschwitz Museum, retweeting a user who slammed the organization for criticizing her comments the day before. A representative for the Auschwitz Museum told CNN that she meanwhile had blocked the organization's account on Twitter.A Fox News representative did not respond to requests for comment on Logan's Wednesday behavior, which comes during the Jewish holiday of Hanukkah.Consistent with how it handles many controversies, the right-wing channel has ignored questions about Logan's incendiary rhetoric since the backlash first erupted when she made her comments Monday night.But Logan's choice to stand by her remarks, and Fox News' refusal to address the matter, earned both fresh criticism on Wednesday."It's not surprising that neither Logan or Fox News have apologized for the incredibly offensive remarks Logan made on a program earlier this week comparing Dr. Fauci to Nazi war criminal Josef Mengele," Anti-Defamation League spokesman Jake Hyman told CNN Business in a statement."Logan and the network seem to be immune to shame and allergic to remorse," Hyman added. "It's equally disturbing, yet also not surprising, Logan would double-down this morning on Twitter. Make no mistake, these odious comparisons only serve to trivialize and distort the meaning and memory of the Holocaust."Holly Huffnagle, the American Jewish Committee's director for combating antisemitism, said in a Wednesday statement that it is "deeply upsetting that not only has Lara Logan failed to apologize for likening Dr. Fauci to Nazi war criminal Josef Mengele, she also appears to be doubling down on this disgusting comparison on social media.""Holocaust distortion is an attack on Jewish identity and memory, and Logan should apologize immediately," Huffnagle said. "We also call on her employer Fox to voice their disapproval of her statements. Their silence has been deafening."Michael Bornstein, a survivor of the Auschwitz death camp, also appeared on CNN's "New Day" Wednesday morning and called Logan's comments "disgusting."Bornstein told anchor John Berman that "there is absolutely zero comparison" to be made between Mengele, who committed unspeakable atrocities, and Fauci, who is working to save lives amid a global pandemic.His daughter, Debbie Bornstein Holinstat, who co-wrote a book about the Holocaust with her father, described Logan's comment as "sickening." She also blasted Fox News for remaining silent on the matter."For a network to not stand up ... is equally disturbing," she said.Logan was formerly a correspondent for CBS News' famed program "60 Minutes." At the network, she faced significant scrutiny for errors in a report she did on the Benghazi attack, ultimately resulting in her apologizing for the inaccuracies and being forced to take a leave of absence.Logan left CBS News in 2018 and joined Fox News in 2020. She told The Los Angeles Times when she joined that she wasn't "trying to be an opinion person," but has since become one of the right-wing channel's most conspiratorial talking heads.
Jacqueline Avant, wife of music exec Clarence Avant, shot and killed in home robbery.  (CNN)Jacqueline Avant, a philanthropist and the wife of music icon Clarence Avant and mother-in-law to Netflix CEO Ted Sarandos, was fatally shot in her home early Wednesday, according to a spokesperson for Netflix.Police suggested Avant may have been targeted."I don't think it's a random attack, but I can't speculate on that right now," Beverly Hills Police Department (BHPD) Chief Mark Stainbrook said at a press conference on Wednesday afternoon.The suspect or suspects are at large and the motive is still unknown, Stainbrook said. An investigation is ongoing.Stainbrook also read a statement shared by the Avant family."Jacqueline was an amazing woman, wife, mother, philanthropist, and a 55-year resident of Beverly Hills, who has made an immeasurable positive contribution and impact on the arts community," said Stainbrook. "She will be missed by her family, friends, and all of the people she has helped throughout her amazing life."The Avants married in 1967 and had two children together. Clarence Avant was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame earlier this year. He was the subject of the 2019 documentary "The Black Godfather," which looked at his political influence, musical legacy and work with musicians like Bill Withers and Babyface. After news of her death, leaders in the Los Angeles community paid tribute to Avant."I'm heartbroken by this morning's news of the tragic and shocking murder of Mrs. Jacqueline Avant," Congresswoman Karen Bass (D-CA) said in a statement. "Mrs. Avant was a force of compassion and empowerment locally and nationally for decades, as well as a model of service and giving back to those who needed it most." "Cookie and I are absolutely devastated at the loss of one of our closest friends Jackie Avant," Magic Johnson tweeted. "This is the saddest day in our lives." CNN's Sarah Moon contributed to this story.
Jussie Smollett 'wanted me to beat him up,' Abimbola Osundairo testifies. Chicago (CNN)On January 25, 2019, a few days before Jussie Smollett reported an alleged hate crime attack, he told an acquaintance he "wanted me to beat him up," the man testified Wednesday.Abimbola Osundairo, also known as "Bola," said the "Empire" actor's comment was puzzling."I was confused," Osundairo continued to testify. "Then he explained he wanted me to fake beat him up."Osundairo said he agreed to do it because he felt indebted to the actor."I believed he could help further my acting career," Osundairo testified. "He told me that we would need another person to fake beat him up. He mentioned could my brother do it. I said yes."He said the discussion happened in a car as Smollett was driving him home from near the show's Chicago studio.Court adjourned for the day at 7 p.m. with Osundairo still on the stand. He was not cross-examined by a defense attorney, but that is expected to happen Thursday morning after court resumes at 9:15 a.m. CT (10:15 a.m. ET).Smollett, who is Black and gay, has said two men struck him, yelled anti-gay and racist remarks, put a noose around his neck and poured bleach on him.Authorities have argued evidence, including texts and accounts from Osundairo and his brother, Olabinjo, point to Smollett paying the pair $3,500 to stage a hate crime attack against him so he could get publicity and a career boost. Smollett has pleaded not guilty to faces six counts of disorderly conduct for allegedly making false reports to police that he was a victim of a hate crime.Neither of the brothers has been charged with a crime.In 2019, one of Smollett's attorneys said he paid the brothers for training services and nutritional advice.Testimony in Smollett's trial began Tuesday with police officers describing the extensive investigation into the case.Osundairo: Plan was discussed while parked in an alleyAbimbola Osundairo testified Wednesday that after the two eventually drove back to the Osundairo residence, they parked in an alley as Olabinjo Osundairo came out to join them in the car."We went over the details of what he wanted us to say and do," Abimbola Osundairo told jurors. Smollett allegedly told him to say, "Empire, f****t, n***er, MAGA" then the conversation moved to the more physical aspect, he said.Osundairo testified, "He wants me to attack him, but he wanted me to pull the punch so I don't hurt him, give him a bruise." The final part of the plan would be to "pour bleach on him and then he would run away," Osundairo testified."Who was in charge of this thing?" Special Prosecutor Daniel Webb asked."Jussie was," Osundairo told the jury. Osundairo told Webb that Smollett "wanted to use the fake attack or camera footage for media."He said Smollett also told the brothers not to take a rideshare to where they planned to meet so there wouldn't be a record of their trip.  Osundairo testified that while he didn't expect payment for helping Smollett stage the attack, the actor still gave him a check for $3,500.   "If he hadn't given you money, were you going to do the attack for nothing?" Webb asked."Yes," Osundairo replied, saying Smollett was like a brother and he felt he owed the actor. Osundairo also told the jury that Smollett had instructed him to write a letter in the days after the reported attack in an effort to show sympathy.    "I was supposed to send him a condolence letter, to show that I wasn't a part of this," he said.Osundairo also told the jury that he and Smollett shared private messages on Instagram the night of the attack and the actor kept him updated on the status of his delayed flight to Chicago. The delay pushed the alleged attack hours back and into the early morning hours of January 29, he said.  Osundairo testified his brother left for Nigeria later on the 29th and Smollett called him to ask whether he and his brother were still on their way. Hours after that call, after the Osundairo brothers landed in Turkey for a layover, Smollett called him again asking if they were still on their way, he said. Osundairo testified he believed Smollett wanted to know whether they were "alright" and if there were any problems.
Takeaways from the historic Supreme Court arguments on abortion rights.  (CNN)The Supreme Court heard oral arguments Wednesday on one of its most important cases in decades and considered the future of abortion rights in America. Front and center was the fate of Roe v. Wade, the 1973 landmark Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion nationwide prior to viability, which can occur at around 24 weeks of pregnancy, and has been at the center of US politics ever since. Here's what to know from a dramatic day in court: Majority is ready to green-light Mississippi's 15-week ban It appears the Supreme Court is going to uphold the Mississippi law that bans abortion 15 weeks into a pregnancy, long before the viability line set by prior precedent.  The law -- that has no exception for rape or incest -- was passed in 2018 but immediately blocked by two federal courts that held it was contrary to Roe.  Judge Carlton Reeves of the US District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi struck down the law and said the state legislature had chosen to pass something "it knew was unconstitutional to endorse a decades long campaign, fueled by national interest groups, to ask the Supreme Court to overturn Roe v. Wade." Reeves also concluded that the legislature's "professed interest in women's health is pure gaslighting."  A federal appeals court also blocked the law, noting that it conflicted with Roe, which had been "affirmed, and reaffirmed."  But with a 6-3 conservative majority, only the court's liberals and the lawyers fighting the law made a case for keeping it intact. Roberts floats a middle ground Chief Justice John Roberts was quick to float a middle ground position that would uphold the Mississippi law but stop short of ending the right to abortion rights nationwide entirely.  He seemed to be suggesting that the court could move up the viability line to the 15 weeks in the Mississippi law and leave for another day whether the justices had to overturn Roe. "Why is 15 weeks not enough time?" to decide whether to get an abortion, he said. As for supporters of abortion rights, they have long said there would be no way to uphold the law without gutting Roe -- even if the justices don't say that part out loud. It's unclear if there are any justices interested in Roberts' idea.If the court does overturn Roe, people in large swaths of the South and the Midwest would be left without access to an abortion. The impact would be felt most by poor women who may be unable to travel or to get the necessary time off of work.  Trump's nominees were sometimes hard to read President Donald Trump, during his original White House campaign, prioritized judicial confirmations hoping to fill the courts with what he called "pro-life" judges. The very fact that the court agreed to hear this case showed that Trump's emphasis on the courts paid off. The lingering question is whether Trump's three nominees are ready to overturn Roe this term.For his part Justice Brett Kavanaugh -- who has not always revealed his true feelings at oral arguments -- noted pointedly that if the Court were to overrule Roe, the issue would return to the states and a "majority" of them could continue to "freely allow abortion."  At another point he told one lawyer in support of abortion that she was making a "forceful argument" but then shifted gears. He said if the issue was balancing the "interests of the pregnant woman and the interests of the fetus," it might be better resolved by state courts or legislatures. He said that opponents of abortion think the court should be "scrupulously neutral."  Barrett, who as a law professor signed a letter in opposition to abortion, was a little harder to read at oral arguments. Supporters of abortion were alarmed, however, when she brought up so-called "safe haven" laws that allow a woman to legally relinquish a newborn and adoption. It seemed to play into Mississippi's argument that the landscape is better for women in those areas now, decades after Roe and Casey were decided.   Liberals stress importance of precedent  All three liberals -- Stephen Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan -- looked almost pained during oral arguments at times.   Sotomayor was the most strenuous in defending precedent, especially towards the beginning of arguments when Mississippi's solicitor general was at the lectern. At one point she noted that "15 justices" in 50 years have voted to reaffirm the viability rule in court precedent. She suggested that the only thing that had changed was the composition of the court.  "Will this institution survive the stench that this creates in the public perception that the Constitution and its reading are just political acts?" Sotomayor asked. Meanwhile, Texas' 6-week ban remains in place While this was the first time the justices discussed the Mississippi law while they were all together on the bench, they have been talking about abortion for weeks behind the scenes.   That's because on September 1 they allowed Texas' abortion law to go into effect that bans abortion at six weeks. They have since held expedited oral arguments on that case, but they have yet to issue an opinion. It's even likely that they already know how this case is going to come out. A ruling may not come until next summer. 
Capital One is the first big bank to get rid of overdraft fees. New York (CNN Business)What's in your wallet? If you're a Capital One customer, it might soon be more money: The company will be the first large bank to eliminate overdraft charges.Capital One (COF) made the announcement Wednesday, saying is it getting rid of all fees for overdrafts and non-sufficient funds. It will also continue to allow customers to get free overdraft protection on their accounts.That makes Capital One, which is the sixth-largest retail bank in the United States, the first top-ten bank to stop penalizing clients for taking out more cash or writing checks for more money than they have in their account.Smaller banks such as Ally and digital-only financial firm Alliant have also recently eliminated overdraft fees."The bank account is a cornerstone of a person's financial life," said Capital One CEO Richard Fairbank in a press release, adding that "Overdraft protection is a valuable and convenient feature and can be an important safety net for families."Advocacy groups hope is other banks will follow Capital One's lead in eliminating these fees, which have been moneymakers for companies that levy them."This move by Capital One will have tremendous benefits for the most vulnerable consumers," said said Lauren Saunders, associate director of the National Consumer Law Center, in Capital One's release. "It's critical we keep working to make the banking system more inclusive and fair for all."Many lawmakers and regulators have criticized banks for penalizing already cash-strapped customers with onerous overdraft fees that have generated billions of dollars in revenue for financial institutions.  Capital One had more than $425 billion in assets as of the third quarter and reported a profit of $3.1 billion in the three months that ended in September.Senator Elizabeth Warren lambasted JPMorgan Chase (JPM) CEO Jamie Dimon earlier this year, referring to him as "the star of the overdraft show." The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau said in a statement Wednesday that banks pocketed nearly $15.5 billion in overdraft fees in 2019. The CFPB added that more than 40% of the fees generated by big banks were brought in by JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo (WFC) and Bank of America (BAC)."Rather than competing on quality service and attractive interest rates, many banks have become hooked on overdraft fees to feed their profit model," said CFPB Director Rohit Chopra in a press release. "We will be taking action to restore meaningful competition to this market."One prominent analyst wrote that other banks may soon follow Capital One's lead  or else risk having regulators impose even tougher restrictions. "Our expectation is that more banks will try to avoid CFPB enforcement actions," said Cowen Washington Research Group's Jaret Seiberg in a report."Enforcement actions are likely starting next spring. Enforcement is the fastest way for the CFPB to try to change banking industry behavior," he added. CNN Business' Jeanne Sahadi contributed to this report.
Elizabeth Holmes testifies she reached out to Rupert Murdoch to try to kill a damning Wall Street Journal story.  (CNN)When Elizabeth Holmes got wind that then-Wall Street Journal reporter John Carreyrou was working on a damning expose that would publish in October 2015 about her blood testing startup Theranos, she went straight to the top in an effort to get the story killed.Holmes, who is on trial over criminal fraud charges, testified Tuesday that she appealed to media mogul and Theranos investor Rupert Murdoch to see if she could have him throw his weight behind her fight over the Journal story. Murdoch is the executive chairman of News Corp, which owns The Wall Street Journal. "You personally went to the owner of The Wall Street Journal to try to get him to quash the story, isn't that correct?" assistant US attorney Robert Leach asked the former Theranos CEO in the San Jose federal courtroom where she has been on the witness stand testifying in her own defense for the past five days of the trial. "I did," Holmes testified. Holmes acknowledged her outreach to Murdoch came after the law firm of Theranos investor, board member and legal counsel David Boies had attempted to intervene. Holmes testified that Boies had been "actively meeting with people at the Journal" and writing to them. "I don't know if he was threatening litigation," she said.The prosecution displayed an email she sent to Murdoch one month before the story published: "I thought that were I in your shoes I would want to know/be in the loop on this one," Holmes wrote to Murdoch."It was part of my effort to get Mr. Murdoch to make sure that our trade secrets were not published," Holmes testified. Leach replied: "You keep injecting trade secrets, and I promise we will get to trade secrets."Murdoch reportedly sunk $125 million into Theranos, making him one of the company's largest individual investors. He was listed as a possible government witness but was not called to testify during its 11-week case against Holmes.Holmes, a Stanford University dropout who founded Theranos in 2003 at age 19, is facing nine counts of wire fraud and two counts of conspiracy to commit wire fraud over allegations she knowingly misled doctors, patients, and investors about her company's blood testing capabilities in order to take their money. Now 37, she faces up to 20 years in prison, as well as a fine of $250,000, plus restitution, for each count of wire fraud and each conspiracy count. She has pleaded not guilty.Holmes was first called to testify last month shortly after the defense's case began. She quickly admitted to one of the government's allegations: that the company only performed a dozen small blood sample tests on its proprietary blood analyzer device, despite its claims that it could run hundreds of tests. But Holmes has attempted to reframe Theranos' concealed use of modified third-party machines for other tests as a trade secret. A key revelation from the Journal's October 2015 article was that the company was only using its proprietary technology on roughly a dozen tests and was instead relying on the use of third-party machines to test patient blood. Carreyrou, who has since left the Journal, went on to chronicle Holmes' effort to leverage Murdoch and others against his reporting in his definitive book on the Theranos saga, "Bad Blood." He was in attendance at the trial as Holmes testified on the topic, including her acknowledgment that she and the former COO of Theranos attempted to figure out who his sources were for his article.During cross-examination, which began Tuesday and will continue next week, Leach sought to show lengths Holmes and Theranos went to in trying to stymie the story that would upend the company and eventually land her in the federal courtroom where her criminal trial has been underway for the past three months.  Holmes was repeatedly asked by the prosecutor about how she handled her response to the Journal's reporting, after having previously testified that her response was was "too aggressive." Leach sought to pull out what that meant in practice, including how she treated whistleblowers. Holmes expressed contrition."I couldn't say more strongly, the way we handled the Wall Street Journal process was a disaster," she testified Tuesday. "We totally messed it up."But Leach sought to point out her efforts to conceal didn't stop there. After the Journal article was published, Holmes went on CNBC's "Mad Money," where Leach noted she was asked "point blank" by host Jim Cramer whether it was true that the company was performing "only 12 or 15 tests on your device, isn't that right?"Holmes said she didn't remember the question specifically but knew she was addressing the contents of the Journal's report. Leach then played a clip -- which jurors have seen before -- but this time, with Holmes sitting on the witness stand. "You heard Mr. Cramer ask you the question how many tests could be performed on the Edison?" Leach asked, referring to Theranos' proprietary blood testing machine."I did," Holmes replied."And I didn't hear the number 12 in that clip. Did you hear it?" Leach asked."I did not," Holmes testified.
Christian television network founder and preacher Marcus Lamb, who discouraged vaccinations, dies after being hospitalized for Covid-19.  (CNN Business)Prominent Christian televangelist and anti-vaccine advocate Marcus Lamb died after being hospitalized with Covid-19, his family announced Tuesday. Lamb founded Christian television network Daystar Television Network in 1997. His wife Joni Lamb, announced the televangelist's death on Daystar's program streamed to Facebook Tuesday. She said her husband had diabetes but was healthy and was hospitalized after being diagnosed with Covid-19."He never talked about that, but he had diabetes, but he kept it in check. He was very healthy, he ate healthy, he kept his weight down, and always kept his sugar at a good level. But with trying to treat Covid and the pneumonia, the different protocols that are used, including many of the protocols we talked about here on Daystar, and we used those, and I used them and breezed through Covid.It caused his blood sugar to spike and just a decrease in his oxygen and that's why he went to the hospital, so he could have oxygen," Joni Lamb said. "He 100% believed in everything that we've talked about here on Daystar and helping so many people around the world with early protocol treatments for Covid. We still stand by that, obviously." Joni Lamb said her husband's "heart just gave out." Marcus Lamb often spoke out against the Covid-19 vaccines on his show. In an episode earlier this year featuring anti-vaccine activists Robert F. Kennedy Jr. and Del Bigtree, Lamb said the Covid-19 vaccine was "not really a vaccine," but an "an experimental shot" that was "dangerous. Marcus Lamb alleged that people were dying or having neurological disorders from the vaccine.The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention say Covid-19 vaccines "are safe and effective" and that any adverse events after vaccination "are rare but may occur." People who are not vaccinated against Covid-19 were 11 times more likely to die of the disease and 10 times more likely to be hospitalized with the disease, according to a study published by the CDC. Marcus Lamb's son, Jonathan Lamb, described his father's Covid-19 diagnosis as a "spiritual attack from the enemy" as he hosted the show on November 23. "There's no doubt in my mind that this is a spiritual attack from the enemy. As much as my parents have gone on here to kind of inform everyone about everything going on in the pandemic and some of the ways to treat Covid, there's no doubt that the enemy is not happy about that, and he's doing everything he can to take down my dad," Jonathan Lamb said. Joni Lamb described the illness as "riding a roller coaster" on that same episode. She asked people in November to "pray specifically for [Lamb's] lungs to clear, the Covid pneumonia, and pray for his oxygen levels to continue to be strong and to go up and so that we can wean him off of oxygen and then bring him home." A statement from Daystar Television Network said in part, "The family asks at this time that their privacy be respected as they grieve this difficult loss, and they wish to express their deep love and gratitude for all those who prayed during Marcus's health battle. Continue to lift them up in prayer in the days ahead." 
Bob Dole Saw Every Stage of the GOP. When Bob Dole returned to the Senate in 1988 after the second of his three presidential defeats, he told the assembled crowd of staffers and supporters, I am bloodied, but unbowed, as the poet said. The famous quote from Invictus defined few American politicians of the 20th century as much as Dole, who died this morning at the age of 98.The son of Russell, Kansas, Dole was bloodied first on the European battlefield in World War II, when an artillery shell cost him a kidney, one of his shoulders, and, permanently, the use of his right arm. During a political career spanning nearly 50 years, he would serve for a decade as the Republican leader in the Senate, helping to usher in legislation reforming Social Security under President Ronald Reagan and the landmark Americans With Disabilities Act under President George H. W. Bush.But Dole fell short in all four of his bids for national office and held the unfortunate distinction of being the only man ever to lose campaigns both as the Republican nominee for vice president, in 1976, and for president, in 1996. None of those defeats, however, pushed Dole out of the arena. He amassed seniority and power representing Kansas for four terms in the Senate, finally joining House Speaker Newt Gingrich as a foil to Bill Clinton before the young Democratic president ended Doles political career with a decisive reelection victory.Dole had resigned from the Senate to focus on the presidential campaign, but even after the loss he did not retire from public life. He became a television pitchman and a lobbyist for foreign governments. He was instrumental in the creation of the National World War II Memorial, which opened on the Mall in Washington in 2004. Three years later, President George W. Bush asked him to serve as a co-chair of a bipartisan commission that sprung out of a scandal over the treatment of military veterans at Walter Reed Medical Center.Born in 1923, Dole was a star athlete in high school and played varsity basketball at the University of Kansas. He had been studying for a degree in medicine before enlisting in the Army during World War II. On April 14, 1945, Doles unit in the 10th Mountain Division was part of an offensive against German soldiers in Italy when he was hit by exploding shrapnel that shattered his right shoulder and left him unable to feel either of his arms. He spent more than three years recovering in hospitals, but the injuries left him permanently disabled. For the rest of his life, Dole could not tie his own shoes, cut his food with a knife, or lift up his young daughter. In public, he carried a pen in his right hand at all times, both to prevent his fingers from splaying and as a signal for people to shake his left hand instead.Dole went to college and law school on the GI Bill and entered politics in 1950, winning a seat in the Kansas House of Representatives. He served a single two-year term before becoming a county attorney. In 1960, he won his first race for the U.S. House and after four terms, he moved up to the Senate, where he would stay for the next 38 years.Doles rise in national politics began in 1971, when he became chair of the Republican National Committee. In 1976, President Gerald Ford had decided to replace Vice President Nelson Rockefeller as his running mate in a bid to keep conservatives from backing Ronald Reagan for the GOP nomination. Ford announced Dole as his choice on the first day of the convention. Im not sure what I can add to the ticket, Dole said at his introduction, but Ill do the best I can.Ford lost to Jimmy Carter, and Dole returned to the Senate. He made a brief foray into the 1980 campaign for the Republican nomination, but he finished far back in the New Hampshire primary and withdrew from a race that was dominated by Reagan and George H. W. Bush. Dole would go up again against Bush, then the sitting vice president, eight years later, and he made a much stronger showing. He won the Iowa caucuses and two other states before Bush overtook him in the South on Super Tuesday. The battle became heated, and during an interview with Tom Brokaw on NBC, Dole was asked if he had anything to say to his rival. Yeah, tell him to stop lying about my record, he snapped.By this time, Dole was already minority leader of the Senate, a perch from which he helped pass the Americans With Disabilities Act in 1990. He rose to majority leader after the Republican wave of 1994, teamingand occasionally battlingwith Gingrich to take on Clinton over health care, welfare reform, and government spending. Dole and Gingrich were not close, and he later recalled that hed sometimes ask Clinton to deal with his Republican ally instead. Im not going to talk to him, you talk to him, Dole would say to Clinton about Gingrich, he told GQ in 2012. No, you talk to him.There was little doubt Dole would seek the presidency in 1996. Republicans had been making a habit of nominating the man who had finished second the last time around, and Dole would continue the pattern. But there were hints of the GOPs rightward shift to come, as the conservative commentator Pat Buchanan surprised Dole by winning the New Hampshire primary. Dole also found himself hamstrung by the budget fight that shut down the government in early 1996, a standoff that would bolster Clinton. Five months later, he quit the Senate altogether as a signal to voters that he was all in for the presidencythat he had, in his words, nowhere to go but the White House or home.What Dole lacked in oratorical skills he made up for with a wry and often self-deprecating sense of humor. Tomorrows the first day in my life Im not going to have anything to do, was how Dole started his concession speech after losing to Clinton in 1996. He also frequently referred to himself in the third person, a habit memorably satirized by Dan Aykroyd on Saturday Night Live. When Clinton awarded him the Presidential Medal of Freedom just a day before his second inauguration the following January, Dole stepped to the lectern and said, I, Robert J. Dole, do solemnly swear  the room erupted in laughter. Sorry, wrong speech, Dole deadpanned. Two years later, Dole took another spin in the national spotlight by becoming a spokesperson for anti-impotency drug Viagra.By the 21st century, Dole was, like the man who defeated him in 1996, largely a political spouse. Doles first marriage ended in divorce, and in 1975, he married Elizabeth Hanford, who would go on to become a Cabinet secretary under two Republican presidents and head of the American Red Cross. She made a brief run for the GOP presidential nomination in 2000 and then followed Dole to the Senate in 2002, serving a single term representing North Carolina.In Doles later years, leaders in both parties would hold him up, along with Bush, his longtime GOP rival, as an emblem of a bygone era when politics wasnt so personal, or partisan. But that legacy seemed to paper over Doles earlier image, first as a party chair during the Nixon era and then during the 1976 campaign, as a political hatchet man. And he was very much a party man to the end. Dole dutifully backed GOP nominees in each of the five campaigns after his final run in 1996, including even Donald Trump, whose slashing personal attacks on his opponents clashed so sharply with the tenor Dole espoused. By the summer of 2016, Dole was nearly 93 and used a wheelchair, but he nonetheless was the only former Republican presidential nominee to attend Trumps nominating convention in Cleveland.His influence within the party, however, had long since faded. In 2012, Dole urged Republicans in the Senate to ratify a United Nations treaty banning discrimination against the disabled. He had been wheeled onto the Senate floor by his wife, Elizabeth, herself also a former GOP senator. Dont let Bob Dole down, Democratic Senator John Kerry implored his colleagues. But in the years since Dole had led the party, the GOP had drifted away from the internationalism embodied by his World War II generation, and concerns about U.S. sovereignty, antipathy toward the UN, and opposition to agreements backed by the Obama administration prevailed. The treaty failed to gain the needed two-thirds majority, and Bob Dole was defeated one last time.
Red Rocket Is a Terrifyingly Honest Look at a Shameless Man. Mikey Saber, the preening, confident chump whos the ostensible hero of Sean Bakers new film, Red Rocket, enters on-screen to a loud and familiar tune: Bye Bye Bye, by *NSync. The song is a piece of mainstream pop from yesteryear (its a shiver-inducing 21 years old), and its usage in this arty indie film seems laced with irony. Baker knows, though, that for all its non-subtlety, Bye Bye Bye is still as catchy as it was the day of its release, and he uses it to suggest the same of Mikey (played by Simon Rex): Hes his own kind of relic, rolling back into his hometown after a failed career in Los Angeles, but hes still got a glint of charm to him.Baker has always told small-scale stories set on the margins of America2015s Tangerine was a bittersweet Christmas tale about trans sex workers, and 2017s The Florida Project was about hidden homeless families living in a motel. Both of those films were empathetic works about people enduring incredibly challenging circumstancesBaker, who often casts first-time actors in his work, is a master of displaying unvarnished truth on-screen. Red Rocket is far more sour than sweet, but thats part of the point; Mikey is a reprehensible fellow, but hes clawed his way through life by sheer force of will, and as such, the camera simply cant look away.Mikey is a former porn star given to bragging about his many accolades in the industry, but he has fallen on hard-enough times to have to return to his birthplace of Texas City, Texas, and knock on the door of his estranged wife, Lexi (Bree Elrod). Despite obvious enmity from Lexi and her mother (Brenda Deiss), Mikey somehow talks them into letting him crash, and from there he gets busy with a few foolish schemesdealing drugs, hooking up with old high-school friends, and trying to worm his way into the affections of a pretty 17-year-old he meets at a local doughnut shop.Red Rocket is set in the months leading up to the 2016 electionoccasional snippets overheard on TV news discuss Donald Trumps presidential campaignand Baker clearly wants the viewer to draw a connection between the outsize personalities of the former president and his witless but street-smart protagonist. Any audience member likely knows that Mikey is bad news, as do all the people in his life, but hes still mesmerizing as he fires up his motormouth and lets another self-aggrandizing monologue loose.Rex, a former MTV VJ, rapper (he went by the moniker Dirt Nasty), comedian, and actor, is an inspired casting choice. Hes a product of the early 2000s, maybe best remembered for his role in the Scary Movie franchise or for his modeling gigs. That long gap since he was last relevant means Rex has exactly the right desperate, sweaty edge to portray Mikey, a man with no money in his pockets and few appreciable skills (except for those one might employ on a porn set). Watching him scramble back to his feet is undeniably thrilling, even though Mikeys chronic nervous energy suggests he knows that a ton of bricks could fall on him at any second.His connection with Strawberry (Suzanna Son), the cashier at the doughnut shop, seems powered half by horniness and half by a creepy business senseMikey begins to operate as a suitcase pimp, proposing to mold her as a new porn talent that might help him launch himself back to stardom in L.A. Strawberry is on the verge of turning 18, and shes both wildly naive and remarkably self-possessed. (Son is one of many amateur actors in the film, but you wouldnt know it.) Her genuine attraction to Mikey keeps the audience on their toesMikeys selfishness is almost indistinguishable from his pure id, which is part of his charm and also why hes doomed to crash and burn once again.Their romance might sound ridiculous on paper, but it works on-screen. Baker is depicting an America filled with characters who plainly present as buffoons, but seem to skate through life nonetheless. Mikey is one of Bakers most thought-through creations, and Rex brings him to life with terrifying honesty. Through him, Red Rocket is issuing a challenge to the audience. Are they rubbernecking, watching this car wreck of a person stumble through life, horrified by his sheer shamelessness? Or are they along for the ride, enjoying themselves in spite of his profound flaws? Baker wants the viewer to ponder these questions, and their own complicity in his ill-advised adventures.
Plankton May Have Escaped Survival of the Fittest. This article was originally published by Hakai Magazine.Theres a long-standing conundrum in ecology called the paradox of the plankton. Famously articulated by ecologist George Evelyn Hutchinson in 1961, the paradox explores how odd it is that there are thousands of species of phytoplankton in the upper reaches of the ocean. The top few meters of water are basically a well-mixed soup, meaning all of these species of phytoplankton are relying on the same nutrients. The theory of competitive exclusion says that one of these species ought to be a little stronger, and should out-compete the rest. But none has. Why?Hutchinson published the paradox at the height of the Cold War, when the air was thick with debates over the values of competition and the sharing of resources. Ecological thinking was itself dominated by the idea that competition drives some species to thrive and others to go extinct. But Hutchinson saw this way of thinking as an oversimplification, and he held up phytoplankton as an example of how there must be additional forces shaping biodiversity.Over the past few decades, ecologists have suggested many explanations for why multiple phytoplankton species persist, including the effects of rapid environmental shifts, the existence of species codependencies, the uneven distributions of phytoplankton species, and the fact that some phytoplankton release toxins that may give them an edge over the competition. But a new study by Oregon State University ecologist Michael Behrenfeld and his colleagues seeks to solve the dilemma by taking a different perspective: the planktons.Phytoplankton are so small, and the distances between them so vastfrom their perspectivethat its likely phytoplankton arent competing at all, says Behrenfeld. If you imagine that a phytoplankton is roughly the size of a trees root ball, he says, the next nearest phytoplankton would be kilometers away.A phytoplanktons small size also means that it experiences water as a thick substance, perhaps akin to how honey feels to us. When an individual phytoplankton moves, a layer of water called the boundary layer moves with it. This means that phytoplankton spend most of their time firmly separated from one another.When you think of it that way, its like, well, how can phytoplankton that are that physically distant actually directly compete with each other? Behrenfeld says.Inspired by this insight, Behrenfeld decided to model phytoplankton biodiversity using an approach called neutral theory. Rather than modeling the ecosystem dynamics as competition-fueled, this framework says that a community loses species when, by chance, too many members die at the same time, and gains species when they immigrate or when genetic mutations create them anew.For about a thimbleful of water, neutral theory worked greatthe number of species Behrenfelds model predicted to be present was about what scientists have observed in at-sea surveys. But when he scaled the model up to represent a larger body of water, a crack began to form.We have to remember that the water is being mixed continuously, Behrenfeld says. In a world dictated by neutral theory, phytoplankton would have to die at an unreasonable rate to make room for all of the new plankton coming in from other parts of the ocean. Instead of explaining why there is more than one phytoplankton species, Behrenfelds neutral-theory-based model predicted that there should actually be an astronomical number of phytoplankton species.So Behrenfeld and his colleagues considered other forces that could limit the number of plankton species even in a competition-free utopia, such as how attractive phytoplankton are to predators, how fast they reproduce, and how asexual reproduction affects genetic variation within a species. Their work paid offadding these elements to their model gave them close to the same number of species that scientists have observed in the ocean.Nick Record, a computational ecologist at Bigelow Laboratory for Ocean Sciences in Maine, says Behrenfelds results highlight how the oceans constant churning forces scientists to come up with new ways of thinking about relationships between species. Marine systems are really different from those on land, he says. And they behave in these really different ways.Yet Record has a different take on the paradox of the plankton. Its not really a paradox to be solved, Record says. Its part of a narrative.Rather than assuming that some solutions are right while others are wrong, Record thinks that all proposed solutions to the paradox point to a bigger truth about marine ecosystemsthat they are complex enough that ecologists may never find a one-size-fits-all model to describe how they function.Perhaps the next 60 years will see just as many proposed solutions to the paradox as the last. And maybe thats exactly how it should be when it comes to a good paradox.
How to Care Less About Work. At the bleakest moment in the pandemic, when you felt your most stressed, most scared, least centered, you probably heard some variation of the phrase This is really hard. Maybe you read it; maybe your manager said it to you; maybe you said it to yourself. But thats the truth: Our nearly two years of living through a pandemic have been hard. And like everything else in the United States, that difficulty has not been evenly distributed. It has been hardest for those on the front lines, those afraid of how customers will react to their requests to put on a mask, those out of work or in constant fear of the way COVID variants are whipping through their community. It has been hard, in different ways, for those attempting to work and supervise school from home, for those in complete isolation, for those terrified of being around other people. It is fucking hard, in so many intersecting and unfair ways.All that hard, seemingly never-ending work has been worth doing so that othersespecially the most vulnerable in our livesmight be safer. Even in your most lonely, overwhelmed, or terrified moments, you can still grasp at that purpose. But many knowledge workers long ago arrived at a breaking pointif were being honest, this happened well before the pandemic for a lot of people. We worked far beyond the 40 hours of the prescribed workweek, but the goal of all that work became opaque. It was seldom to create work that was meaningful or innovative, even if we could mumble something to that effect when asked what we like about our job. It wasnt so that we could someday work less overall. We worked hard to prove that we were alert and available for more work.Societally, we are taught to revere and strive for hard work, even as we internalize that were never quite doing it. You might be working excessive hours, or you might feel as if you are suffocating under the weight of demands on your time and body, but that labor will always fall short of the venerated hard work of someone else. Many of our preconceptions of hard work are still rooted in an agrarian or industrial mindset, and they strengthen as the percentage of the American workforce laboring in those fields has declined. To labor outdoors, or in a factory, or in any way that taxes the body, is considered good, noble, even patriotic work. If you work indoors, at a computereven if it affects the body in ways that dont leave callusesit is distinctly less venerable.So what work is actually valuable? Its incredibly unclear. Many knowledge workers, ourselves included, find themselves insecure in some capacity about the work theyre doing: how much they do, whom they do it for, its value, their value, how their work is rewarded and by whom. We respond to this confusion in pretty confusing ways. Some become deeply disillusioned or radicalized against the extractive, capitalist system that makes all of this so muddled. And others throw themselves into work, centering it as the defining element of their self-worth. In response to the existential crisis of personal value, they jump on the productivity treadmill, praying that in the process of constant work they might eventually stumble across purpose, dignity, and security.The treadmill rarely provides the kind of value and meaning that we hope it will. People are growing more certain in the notion that the status quo of American working life is untenable. But the pandemic has created an opportunity to reconsider and reimagine the structure of our lives and, perhaps, remove the vestigial, extractive elements. We believe that flexible worknot flexible work during a pandemic, not flexible work under duresscan change your life. It can remove you from the wheel of constant productivity. It can make you happier and healthier, but it can also make your community happier and healthier. It can make the labor in your home more equitable and it can help you be a better friend, parent, and partner. It can, somewhat ironically, increase worker solidarity. It can allow you to actually live the sort of life you pretend to live in your Instagram posts, liberating you to explore the nonwork corners of your life, including hobbies and civic involvement. We are trying to get off the damn treadmill so that we can remember the purpose and dignity that can come from the whole of our life.So ask yourself this: Who would you be if work was no longer the axis of your life? How would your relationship with your close friends and family change, and what role would you serve within your community at large? Whom would you support, how would you interact with the world, and what would you fight for?We are so overextended, so anxious, and so conditioned to approach our life as something to squeeze in around work that just asking these questions can feel indulgent. If you really try to answer them, what youre left with will likely feel silly or far-fetched: like a Hallmark movie of your life, if you got to cast people to play you and the rest of your family who were well rested, filled with energy and intentionality and follow-through. Your mind will try to tell you its a fantasy. But its supposed to sound amazing, because you need to want it, really yearn for it, to a degree that will motivate you to shift your life in ways that will make the fantasy a reality.Think back on a time in your life before you regularly worked for pay. Recall, if you can, an expanse of unscheduled time that was, in whatever manner, yours. What did you actually like to do? Not what your parents said you should do, not what you felt as if you should do to fit in, not what you knew would look good on your application for college or a job.The answer might be spectacularly simple: You liked riding your bike with no destination in mind, making wild experiments in the kitchen, playing around with eyeshadow, writing fan fiction, playing cards with your grandfather, lying on your bed and listening to music, trying on all your clothes and making ridiculous outfits, thrifting, playing Sims for hours, obsessively sorting baseball cards, playing pickup basketball, taking photos of your feet with black-and-white film, going on long drives, learning to sew, catching bugs, skiing, playing in a band, making forts, harmonizing with other people, putting on mini-playswhatever it was, you did it because you wanted to. Not because it would look interesting if you posted it on social media, or because it somehow optimized your body, or because it would give you better things to talk about at drinks, but because you took pleasure in it.Once you figure out what that thing is, see if you can recall its contours. Were you in charge? Were there achievable goals or no goals at all? Did you do it alone or with others? Was it something that really felt as if it was yours, not your siblings? Did it mean regular time spent with someone you liked? Did it involve organizing, creating, practicing, following patterns, or collaborating? See if you can describe, out loud or in writing, what you did and why you loved it. Now see if theres anything at all that resembles that experience in your life today.If your answer is your job, that makes sense. A lot of us find something that were good at and like, and then try to make a career out of it in some way. Those who have followed the pernicious advice to do what you love know this endgame: Its a burnout trap, and a fantastic way to evacuate all pleasure and passion from an activity. Do what you love, and youll work every day for the rest of your life.A lot of us have only the faintest traces of those childhood and early-adulthood activities in our lifewhat we might dare call hobbies. They largely exist as conversational markers and rhetorical placeholders for who we once were. We have so many reasons for neglecting them: We dont have the means, financial or otherwise, to pursue them; we dont have the time; weve neglected them so long that our previous skills have atrophied; we simply dont have the wherewithal to even begin thinking about how to start doing them again.All of those are excuses, most of them valid, that we cling to out of overwork. It just seems so much easier to not do something, to not have plans, to not try something new or find time to do something you used to love. But thats your exhaustion speaking. When work devours your waking hours, it also devours your will to do things that truly nourish you. The reality is that we dont prioritize these activities becauseother than seeking ways to optimize ourselves as workers or desirable bodieswe dont actually prioritize ourselves.A real hobby isnt a way to adorn your personality, or perform to masquerade your class status. Its just something you like to do, full stop.Be patient with yourself as you figure that out. When you first start trying to put the guardrails on a flexible, post-pandemic schedule, you still might want to spend your newly protected time napping or ambiently watching sports. Thats totally normal and expected: You will essentially be in recovery, not just from years of overwork, but from the accumulated, consolidated stress of the pandemic. But just because youve lost sight of who you are, and what you likeoutside child care and Netflixdoesnt mean those things have disappeared altogether. Again, be patient and gentle with yourself. This isnt self-care. Its recuperation.When the haze of burnout begins to clear, fight the urge to feel productive and channel that into beginning to explore your own pleasures. When we did this in our household, pre-pandemic, it led us down two routes. We started skiing, something that Anne had absolutely loved as a kid but had been reluctant to restart because, well, everything: Her skis were too old. She didnt have anyone to go with. Who would take care of the dogs? She didnt have goggles. It would eat up an entire weekend she could spend working. What if she wasnt as good as she used to be?The story she told herself about why she shouldnt go had so many twists and turns, with a ready, well-rehearsed rebuttal for every argument against why she should just go. But then we just did it. Charlie got lessons; we rented some gear. It felt spectacular. For Anne, it was like visiting a memory of her younger self and getting to restart it in real time.Charlie had wanted to relearn how to play the guitar but was reluctant to make the investment in a new one: What if it became yet another hobby he invested in and then neglected? He bought a middle-of-the-line modeljust good enough to make the experience feel specialand proceeded to suck. It felt uncomfortable at first. We all have so much pressure on us to excel in everything that mediocrity feels wrong. But soon, all the lessons from his youth came streaming back. He began noodling around on new and old chord progressions, learning theory, playing until his fingers regrew calluses. It turns out that embracing mediocrity means opening yourself up to the wonder of constant little improvements. And, crucially, those improvements are in service only to the joy of learning something new for yourself. The guitar became a lifeline: a means to concentrate fully on something that had absolutely nothing to do with work, or anything else, really.Whatever your thing might beand maybe there are many thingsthe most important component should be aiming to make it as unlike work as possible. This means resisting the very contemporary capitalist urge to commodify it in some way, even when people say to you, Oh, youre so good at [this thing]; you should sell it! But it also means resisting the urge to master it, or display it in a way that transforms it into some mode of performance. You can want to improve, or make something for others, but thats different from trying to be the best, and beating yourself up (or quitting entirely) because of your inadequacies.One day last winter, a subscriber to Annes newsletter told her that shed recently taken up drawing. Shed never drawn before in her life, had no natural skill, and didnt really aspire to cultivate it. She just liked making what she called shit-tier renderings of scenes in her lifesuch as her dog, sayand then sending them to her friends as amusement. Her pleasure isnt in the product itself, or trying to perfect it. It is in the transportative process, the radical delight of doing something that has no purpose or value other than you like it, because it grabs something indescribable in you and refuses to let go.In How to Do Nothing, Jenny Odell conceives of these sorts of activities as a means of wresting back control of your own attention. Youre harnessing a desire and acting on it, instead of ceding your time and effort to others ideas of whats important. Which is why its crucial to try to remove yourself from ideas of hobbies that are cool or popular in some capacity, and deflect the voice that says you should try to find an activity that you can share with your partner or your kid. They can come along later, if they want, but focus at first on excavating what you like. In the beginning, thatll mean avoiding pursuits that require significant investment, time or financial, which will just place outsize pressure on the activity itself.Find the path of least resistance to whatever will create this feeling for you, clear time for it, and then make a promise to yourself for when youll find that time again. It might feel weird, as if you are forming a habit out of selfishness, or scheduling yourself as you would a child. But shut that voice up. If you live alone, its probably just your work addiction talking; hanging out with your own hobbies is not selfish. If you have partner or parenting obligations, carving out this time is possible, even if it means being intentional and collaborative about clearing that space for each other. Sublimating your desire for activities that dont involve your children does not make you a more impressive parent; it just makes you a more exhausted and resentful one.This maxim holds true for other areas of your life as well. When you get a good nights sleep, youre better at basically everything. When you take rest days, youre a better athlete. The restoration we find in hobbies can make us better partners, better friends, better listeners and collaboratorsjust overall better people to be around. Hobbies help cultivate essential parts of us that have been suffocated by productivity obsessions and proliferating obligations. The hobby itself ultimately matters far less than what its existence provides: a means of tilting your identity away from person who is good at doing a lot of work.We love to talk about kids personalities, how unique and weird and joyful they are. We dont grow out of those characteristics so much as subsume them with duties. But they remain the building blocks of our humanness, the enduring difference between us and robots. We must preserve those inclinations toward delight and whimsy, toward the ineffable and the unimpressive, the feelings you cant re-create with a machine or optimize for peak productivity. They are worth rediscovering not because they will allow us to rest and, as such, make us better workersbut because they anchor us to who, at heart, weve always been.This article has been excerpted from Charlie Warzel and Anne Helen Petersens forthcoming book, Out of Office: The Big Problem and Bigger Promise of Working From Home.
A Billion Sea Creatures Cooked to Death. This article was originally published by High Country NewsDuring this summers stifling heat wave, Robin Fales patrolled the same sweep of shore on Washingtons San Juan Island every day at low tide. The stench of rotting sea life grew as temperatures edged toward triple digitsroughly 30 degrees above averageand Fales watched the beds of kelp she studies wilt and fade. They were bleaching more than I had ever seen, recalls Fales, a Ph.D. candidate and marine ecologist at the University of Washington. She didnt know if they would make it.Never in recorded history had the Pacific Northwest experienced anything like the heat dome that clamped down on the region in late June 2021. Temperatures reached a withering 116 degrees Fahrenheit in Portland, Oregon, and 121 degrees in Lytton, British Columbiathe highest ever recorded north of the 45th parallel.Scientists say the event would have been virtually impossible without climate change. It killed hundreds of people, damaged roads and power lines, and devastated crops. It also caused widespread ecological fallout, the full extent of which scientists have yet to grasp.Initial reports were sobering: A billion shellfish and other marine animals baked to death on the coast of British Columbia. The Portland Audubon Society declared a hawkpocalypse as it tended to scores of sick and injured birds. And in eastern Oregon, state officials estimated that tens of thousands of sculpin, a bottom-dwelling fish, perished in streams already throttled by drought.By fall, headlines and memories had faded, but the heat waves impacts linger on. In fact, researchers have learned that short bursts of high temperatures can pose a greater threat to plants and animals than long-term warming, and may even increase the risk of extinction.In one recent study, researchers looked at 538 species from around the world, nearly half of which had already disappeared from at least one location. They found that the doomed populations endured greater (and faster) increases in maximum yearly temperature than others. Surprisingly, though, many experienced smaller changes in average temperature, says John Wiens, an evolutionary ecologist at the University of Arizona and a co-author of the study. The most important variable is these hottest summer temperatures.Extreme heat can kill organisms outright, especially if they are also exposed to intense sunlight. Dehydration sets in and organs fail as enzymes stop working and proteins sustain damage. The trauma can make survivors more susceptible to disease and predation, and reduce or delay reproduction. Hot weather can also cost animals by discouraging them from foraging or hunting. And these events are happening more often: By 2040, heat waves are projected to become 12 times as frequent as in a non-warming world.After the latest episode in the Pacific Northwest, researchers began tracking the damage to a variety of species and ecosystems, such as coastal forests, which fared especially poorly. Scorched leaves turned hillsides sickly shades of orange, and trees already stressed by drought dropped their needles prematurely. But the deadliest impacts may be invisible, says Christine Buhl, an entomologist at the Oregon Department of Forestry: Thirsty trees, for example, may have suffered damage to their roots and vascular systems if they couldnt pull enough moisture from the ground. We will know in coming years how bad it was, Buhl says.Australia provides a grim preview. After a string of heat waves hit the western part of the country in 2010 and 2011, scientists documented widespread tree death, among other impacts, which later contributed to beetle outbreaks and wildfires, says Joe Fontaine, a fire ecologist at Murdoch University in Perth. Even now, he says, you can still go around and find the legacy of that event.Yet heat waves may also help species adapt to long-term warming by driving rapid evolutionary changes, says Lauren Buckley, a climate-change ecologist at the University of Washington. They can weed out unfit individuals, giving those that tolerate hotter temperatures an advantage. Scientists have seen evidence for such shifts in populations of Douglas fir and fruit flies. But theres sort of a sweet spot, Buckley says, between a stress test and a massacre.Its too early to know whether the recent temperature spike hit the sweet spot for someif anyNorthwest species. On San Juan Island, however, Fales found a measure of hope. After the heat wave, Fales surveyed the damage to the kelp she studies and determined that while it had lost about half its biomass, most of the plants were still alive. Many mussels survived, too.That may be because warm spring temperatures spurred them to mount defenses prior to the heat wave, Fales says, by producing heat-shock proteins that repair other damaged proteins, for example. But theres another possible factor: By celestial happenstance, summer low tides on the island always occur during mid-day, exposing intertidal organisms to peak temperatures and making it a hot-spot location, Fales says. Perhaps the kelp and its neighbors had already begun to adapt.
Tucker Carlson Is Completing the Work That Trump Began. Earlier this week, Fox News Channels Tucker Carlson, the host of the top-rated news show on cable, rose in defense of the right-wing conspiracy theorist Alex Jones.Jones is often mocked for his flamboyance, Carlson said, but the truth is he has been a far better guide to reality in recent yearsin other words, a far better journalistthan, say, NBC News national-security correspondent Ken Dilanian or Margaret Brennan of CBS.Flamboyance is a rather interesting word to apply to Jones; there are others.Last month Jones, the host of Infowars, was found liable for damages in a defamation lawsuit brought by parents of children killed in the 2012 Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, whose victims included 20 young children. Jones claimed that the shooting was a false flag operation carried out by crisis actors. He mocked grieving parents, saying, Ive looked at it, and undoubtedly theres a cover-up, theres actors, theyre manipulating, theyve been caught lying, and they were preplanning before it and rolled out with it.This shows a level of depravity and cruelty unusual even among right-wing conspiracists. Yet there was Carlson on Wednesday night, offering praise for Jones, whom Carlson referred to as one of the most popular journalists on the right. (Aaron Blake of The Washington Post has provided a useful summary of Joness crazed claims.)Joness validation by Carlson is hardly surprisingbut it is significant. Tucker Carlson, after all, is not some fringe figure; he is the most influential media personality on the right, the individual Republican lawmakers seek to impress and whom they genuflect before. (Carlson seems most impressed not by American politicians such as Ted Cruz and Josh Hawley, but by the authoritarian leader of Hungary, Viktor Orbn.)There was a timeand it wasnt all that long agowhen Alex Jones would have been far too toxic and deranged a figure for any influential member of the right to embrace. No more. Jones fits right in, just as Marjorie Taylor Greene, Paul Gosar, Lauren Boebert, Madison Cawthorn, Ron Johnson, and many others do. The right wing and the Republican Party are more, not less, radical than they were when Donald Trump was president.In praising Jones, one of the most prominent conspiracists in American politics, Carlson called him a far better guide to reality than mainstream journalists. This is the kind of tactic that propagandists such as Trump and Vladimir Putin have employed so well: making claims that are so brazen, so outrageous, so untrue that they are disorienting, aimed at destroying critical thinking. Such claims are not just an attack on objective truth; they are an inversion of it, turning people such as Tucker Carlson and Alex Jones into the gatekeepers of reality.What Carlson is doing is poisonous to a free society, not just because our society cant operate without shared public facts but also because he is inciting paranoia, which may well lead to political violence.Thats the reason Republican leaders effort to portray the 2020 election as stolen and the insurrection on January 6 as justified is so significant. They aim to convince ordinary Republicans that they have been victims of what Trump has called the crime of the century, the greatest election fraud in history. In Trumps words, the real insurrection happened on November 3rd, the Presidential Election, not on January 6thwhich was a day of protesting the Fake Election results.Carlson recently released a three-part documentary suggesting that the January 6 insurrection was a false flag operation, while Jones was subpoenaed by the House committee investigating the Capitol attack. He reportedly helped organize the rally at the Ellipse near the White House the day of the riot; was among the group of Trump allies who met in and around a hotel near the White House the day before the riot; and spread the false narrative of a stolen election the day before the insurrection.Time after time after time over the past half-dozen years, people who care about American democracy have underestimated a movement that is inflicting enormous harm upon it. They became his enthusiastic backers. Many other Republicans who were privately horrified by Trump looked the other way, went silent, or signed up for the ride. At every key moment, when called upon, they publicly defended Trump. They might not have liked it, but they found a way to rationalize it. It would be an affectation to deny that there are policy achievements they can point to, but they should be honest about the enormous costs that accompanied their accommodation with such a corrupt and deranged president.A lot of Republicans I know assumed that after the Trump presidency, things would snap back. The opposite has happened. Trump is no longer president, but the damage to democracy doesnt require his presence in office. People like Tucker Carlson and Alex Jones and a bevy of others are ready to complete the work Trump began.They can be stopped, but who in the Republican Party is willing to stop them?
The Atlantic Daily: Five Shows to Spice Up Your Weekend. Now that its December, you may be tempted to settle in and get cozy. That doesnt mean your entertainment has to be bland.To help spice up this first weekend of the last month of the year, I asked our culture writer Shirley Li to pick a few spunky or nerve-wracking shows to stave off the winter slump. Happy watching.1. YellowjacketsThis new coming-of-age survival thriller is sort of like Lost meets Lord of the Flies meets Jennifers Body, Shirley tells me. The pilot is one of the best Ive seen this year, and the show is incredibly twisty.Where to watch: Showtime2. The GreatThe black comedys satirical tone captures how theatrical and nearsighted politics can become amid a crisis, she wrote in 2020.Where to watch: Hulu3. HawkeyeSmall-scale in focus, but not in ambition, as Shirley notes in her review, the new series frees the least exciting AvengerHawkeye, played by Jeremy Rennerfrom Marvels universe-building.Where to watch: Disney+4. SuccessionThe HBO show is a favorite at The Atlanticnotwithstanding some concerns about season threes trajectory. If youre already a fan, you can read Shirleys review of the latest episode on our site.Where to watch: HBO5. Cowboy BebopNo, not the new live-action remake: Shirley recommends streaming the original anime, a cult success that first aired in the U.S. in the early 2000s and is anchored by a collection of vividly drawn personalities.Where to watch: Netflix and HuluExplore the week that was. Our senior editor Alan Taylor compiles scenes from around the world.Read. In this weeks Books Briefing, my colleague Kate Cray explores the connections between storytelling and clothing, using writers such as Haruki Murakami and Joan Didion as examples.Watch. Viewing Peter Jacksons Get Backa three-part documentary on the Beatles, now streaming on Disney+is like witnessing four marriages fall apart, James Parker writes.Licorice Pizza, playing in theaters, is a bittersweet reminiscence about how difficult embracing adulthood can be, David Sims writes.The scariest movie of the year isnt a horror film, Shirley Li warns: Its The Humans, a movie set around the Thanksgiving table (available on Showtime).Listen. Mommys been having a lot of big feelings recently. On this weeks episode of The Review, our critics unpack the new Adele album.On The Experiment, our hosts discuss whether, when it comes to murder, intent matters.
Enes Kanter Freedom Is Letting Himself Be Used. The NBA player Enes Freedom is showing the danger of attracting the wrong kind of supporters.Formerly Enes Kanter, the 29-year-old Boston Celtics center took a new surname when he became an American citizen on Monday. For months, he has been a vocal critic of the Chinese government for its many human-rights violationsspecifically its repression of Tibetans, democracy advocates in Hong Kong, and Uyghurs, a Muslim minority group that, according to Amnesty International and extensive news reporting, has been subjected to concentration camps, torture, and systematic efforts to erase its culture.Freedom, who himself is Muslim, has also been calling out the NBA for prioritizing its business relationship with China over the rights of Uyghurs and others. It was an admirable and understandable position for Freedom to take, because he has firsthand experience with an authoritarian regime. Freedom has been exiled from his home country of Turkey for speaking out against Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoan. In 2018, Freedoms father was sentenced to 15 years in prison for allegedly supporting a group that Erdoan blames for a coup attempt, but those charges were eventually dropped.In recent weeks, though, Freedom has zeroed in on the Los Angeles Lakers LeBron Jameswhose nickname, King James, hints at his stature as pro basketballs preeminent figurefor not being more outspoken about China. Money over Morals for the King, Freedom wrote recently on Twitter, as if single-handedly leading a charge against China should be Jamess responsibility.But strident criticism of James vaulted Freedom, a journeyman who has played for five different NBA franchises, into a new level of fameat least among conservatives who resent Jamess advocacy for Black Americans and bristle at his criticism of former President Donald Trump. A few years ago, the Fox News commentator Laura Ingraham insisted that, instead of getting involved in U.S. politics, basketball players should just shut up and dribblea demand that James rejected.When Freedom talks with his new supporters, he shows little regard for the right to political dissent in the United States. On Monday, Freedom appeared on Fox Newss Tucker Carlson Tonight, whose namesake anchor breathlessly asked Freedom if he was more grateful for his citizenship than some of his teammates who had been born in America. The subtext of Carlsons question was obvious: Most NBA players are Black, and Carlson frequently portrays people of color who seek political and social change as ungrateful and unpatriotic.Freedom took the bait. People should feel really blessed and lucky to be in America, he responded. They love to criticize it, but when you live in a country like Turkey or China or somewhere else, you will appreciate the freedoms you have here. And then Freedom went further. In a dramatic turn for someone who has suffered the consequences of political repression, he suggested that other players should just keep their mouth shut and stop criticizing the greatest nation in the world, and they should focus on their freedoms and their human rights and democracy.Carlson grinned and said, Thats how I feel.Freedom made his feelings about James known before his teams November 19 game against the Lakers. The Celtics center wore custom shoes bearing an image of James being crowned by Xi Jinping, Chinas Communist leader, as James stood next to bags of money. When Freedom tweeted a photo of the shoes the previous day, the caption read in part: Sad & disgusting how these athletes pretend they care about social justice ... They really do shut up & dribble when Big Boss [China] says so. The conservative media personality Dana Loesch replied with several fire emojis. Donald Trump Jr., who recently called James a bitch on Instagram after the four-time NBA champion had two fans removed from a game for inappropriately heckling him, retweeted Freedoms post. Freedom also drew praise from former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.Yet Freedom wasnt nearly as bold when saw James at the game. The two never even spoke. Instead, Freedom saved his indignation for Fox News. Appearing on Americas Newsroom with the hosts Bill Hemmer and Dana Perino on Tuesday, Freedom explained his problem with James: When youre an athlete and youre signing with hypocritical companies like Nike, and when China becomes your big boss, obviously you have to remain silent. Its just a shame. Someone had to speak up, Freedom has argued.But if Freedom really wants to promote human rights and stop the oppression of Muslims, Tucker Carlson makes a bizarre ally. The Fox host has stirred up xenophobia and embraced the white-supremacist great replacement theory, which claims that people of European descent are being pushed aside by nonwhite immigrants from Latin America, Africa, and the Middle East. Even as Freedom judges James for the NBAs appeasement of China, he himself has made unsavory allies while trying to raise his own profile.Indeed, criticizing prominent Black athletes has made Freedom a media mainstay and a new friend of the right. On CNN Newsroom With Pamela Brown last week, he insisted that the Chicago Bulls legend Michael Jordan hasnt done anything, nothing, for the Black community in America besides just, you know, giving them money.In fact, Jordan did face criticism during his playing days for not speaking forcefully about issues affecting the Black community, but minimizing his financial contributions is a mistake. Jordan is a founding donor of the Smithsonians National Museum of African American History and Culture, and pledged last year to donate $100 million to social-justice causes over the next decade. And thats just a snippet of his long list of charitable works.Although anyone with strong views will inevitably alienate people, taking shots at prominent Black athletes who have done significant social-justice work will not help Freedom advance freedom. All hes doing is empowering right-wingers who delight in silencing social-justice advocates.Even so, Freedom kept attacking James after practice in Boston on Tuesday. Sure, Id love to sit down and talk to [James], Freedom said. Im sure its going to be a very uncomfortable conversation for him. I dont know if hes gonna want that. Freedom patronizingly added, I dont know if hes educated enough, but Im here to educate him, and Im here to help him, because its not about money. Its about morals, principles, and values. Its about what you stand for. There are way bigger things than money. If LeBron stopped making money now, his grandkids and grandkids and grandkids can have the best life ever.Odds are that conversation will never take place. James said after last weeks Lakers-Celtics game that the journeyman center is definitely not someone I would give my energy to.But if for some reason a conversation between the two does take place, it might be more uncomfortable for Freedom, who perhaps needs to be educated about how Carlson and others on the right are giving him a platform only because hes criticizing some of the countrys highest-profile Black voices.Maybe the onslaught of attention has damaged his memory, but Freedom used to understand the need to protect everyones right to speak up. Last summer, as protests were taking place around the world after the killings of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery, Freedom addressed the crowd at a Black Lives Matter rally in Boston. First of all, I want to thank you all for what youre doing, he said. I really, really appreciate it. The second thing I want to say, man: We need change, and change cannot wait, you know?If Freedom wants to maintain any credibility on social-justice and human-rights issues, he cant allow himself to be played so easily by the very people who seek to undermine everything that he claims to stand for.
Adeles 30 and the Year of the Breakup Album. For most everyone, 2021 has been a long and lonely year. Pop stars, it seems, are no exception. Although music about heartbreak has been around for as long as theres been music, this past years charts have looked particularly lovelorn.Pop music has been a months-long opera of celebrity splits. We went from Olivia Rodrigos world-conquering Drivers License in January to Adeles new album, 30, which shes said is about divorce, babe, divorce. In between, Kacey Musgraves also dropped a divorce album and Taylor Swift rerecorded 2012s Red, including a 10-minute version of the breakup anthem All Too Well.On the podcast The Review, Shirley Li, Spencer Kornhaber, and Sophie Gilbert discuss how these albums approach loss and why 2021 was the year of the breakup album. Listen to their conversation here:The following transcript has been edited for length and clarity. It contains spoilers.Shirley Li: Today we're talking about Adeles new album, 30. But since it continues the theme of breakup records this year, we thought wed go into that trend a little bit as well. Theres Kacey Musgravess divorce album, Star-Crossed; Taylor Swifts rerecorded breakup album, Red (Taylor's version); and of course, Olivia Rodrigos Sour, which kicked off this big year of big emotions. But before we get into all that, lets talk about Adele. You know, Adele is, in her own words, talking about divorce, babe, divorce, on the album 30. Spencer, a while back you wrote about how its a good idea to think of Adele as akin to a blockbuster-film franchise. What makes Adele such a powerhouse?Spencer Kornhaber: We live in this era where we dont have that many huge stars that everyone can agree on. But theres nobody who unites grocery stores across the country quite in the way that Adele has for more than a decade now. And shes done it by being a really classic, traditional-minded musician who also brings a certain amount of personality and pop chops to a very familiar brew. And shes been out of it for a while now, and she takes enough time between her albums that whenever theyre released, it feels like a major event and the world stops and everyone has to at least listen to it once to have something to say about it. And so, here we are at 30. Each of her albums are named for the year of her life in which she created them.Li: Yeah, she has described the way she names her albums as a way to let the listener know that these are snapshots of her life. Sophie, what do you think is the key to Adele being such a powerhouse?Sophie Gilbert: Her voice is insane. Her heartbreak is potent. And what makes this album really interesting to me is that, typically, her albums have been about the pain that she feels because of someone else. Whereas with 30, its really about the pain that she feels that she has inflicted on herself and her family. Its about her wrangling with feelings of unhappiness in her marriage and her desire to break that marriage up, and then her feelings of guilt over her son. Its kind of a solipsistic album in that sense. Its much more about: How am I feeling? How should I feel? Is this my fault? Like, what is a person supposed to do in this situation? And I did find this sort of wrangling with that in song to be really compelling.Li: The opener is called Strangers by Nature, and it starts with that incredible cinematic line: Ill be taking flowers to the cemetery of my heart. And it sounds like something out of a classic movie musical score.Kornhaber: There is something very cinematic about the way the album unfolds and tells a story over time. It does that by moving through a bunch of different styles, and some of them are quite modern and almost shocking to hear from Adele. Theres that one song, Can I Get It, produced by Max Martin and Shellback, the Swedish producers who wrote all your favorite Britney Spears songs. It has whistling and breakbeats. Its a total corny dance song and I kind of love it.Li: It is so corny, but also so chaotic because you go into this album expecting it to be divorce ballads all the way through.Kornhaber: Yeah, there was one song, Send My Love, on her last album, 25, that I feel sets the tone for this new album. Its rhythmic and dancy, and more interested in being a modern pop song. And there are a couple of those kinds of tracks in the middle of this new album that are like: Hey, record label, look; Im still trying to make a hit. And then that gives her the license to record five songs that are longer than six minutes that just exist only so that you can cry to them in the shower.Li: Im really curious about what you thought of the voice notes sprinkled through the songs on this album. Adele incorporates these voice notes that she recorded, I believe, partly as a therapeutic exercise to explain why shes feeling what shes feeling. She recorded conversations with her son, Angelo, and they are such intimate voice notes that are sprinkled through this song thats addressed to her son. And I wonder what you think about it, because Adele is this artist who can capture every single emotion in a single breath, right?Kornhaber: Its a little tell, not show, right? And artists often do little skits or monologues in their albums. But Adele tells her story with the emotion in her voice, and this felt like an attempt to say, This is a concept album. Im really telling my story.Li: Sophie, what do you make of them as the one parent on this podcast?Gilbert: Well, I do want to thank Adele for giving us the instant classic of a sentence, which is: Mommys been having a lot of big feelings recently.Kornhaber: (Laughs)Gilbert: If I could get that in GIF form somehow, I could use it in every situation in my life. I found the voice memos really devastating. I felt like a voyeur because she does keep her son out of the spotlight and keeps her family life very private. And so, to have access to this moment where shes trying to explain the drastic upheaval of her childs family, it felt a little uncomfortable to me, but also really, really sad. And Im sure thats what she was going for.Li: I think my favorite track from 30 is To Be Loved, but thats also a track that she has said that she will not perform live, that even when she listens to it, she wants to cry.Kornhaber: It is such a doozy. Yeah, thats a song about how she walked out on this relationship and its like, Did I do the right thing? Its a weird emotion to hear someone work out in a song.Gilbert: Yeah. That line Ill be the one to catch myself this time feels like a good motif for the albumthat shes maybe been relying on other people for emotional strength that she needs to find within herself, as we all do.Li: We all could use what Adele is singing about it. And we should also zoom out because, as we mentioned at the top of the episode, this album comes after a string of divorce or breakup albums this year. In a single year, we went from Olivia Rodrigo singing about her very first heartbreak to Adele singing about divorce. We went through a lifetime of relationship drama in 2021.Gilbert: Is it COVID? Is COVID breaking everyone else up because theyve been forced together? I mean, thats basically what happened with Kacey Musgraves, right? She blamed the pandemic for giving her no distractions from her marriage and forcing her to assess what was not working within it.Li: Im glad you brought up Kacey, because I do think that one of the tracks on her divorce album, Star-Crossed, called Good Wife, was written at the very beginning of that marriage. And when you listen to that song, youre like: Oh, this is someone with a lot of doubts about marriage.Gilbert: Yeah. And it has kind of a strange idea of what marriage is, like that template of the 50s housewife who stands by her man, which obviously I know is a country staple. I love this album and I know Kacey has said Sade is one of her inspirations, but she also has this similarity to Sade, where she doesnt have a lot of emotion in her voice. So its this fascinating album that expresses all these emotions, but in an almost flat, slightly numb way.Kornhaber: Thats such a good way to put it. Ive always enjoyed Kacey. Shes always been a chill, easy listen that I dont have a very passionate response to. And thats maybe kind of why shes been popular in this era. You can put her music on your Spotify playlist and it usually fits in. Shes clever and modern, but without ruffling too many feathers. And so its really interesting to hear her now talk about this disruption in her life and try to articulate a really specific story. I thought it was very cool how this album is her stepping outside of her own life and analyzing it.Li: Yeah, shes become a very vibes artist. On this album, though, I think she sold it a little too heavily as a big divorce, Romeo and Julietinspired album. Its titled Star-Crossed. It comes with a whole visual album. And so I went in with these high expectations for big emotions, but because it was a vibes-y album, it felt like going into a Christopher Nolan movie and then getting a rom-com.Kornhaber: (Laughs)Li: I dont have anything against rom-coms! The more Ive listened to Star-Crossed and set aside the way it was sold, I can enjoy it.Gilbert: One of the issues that goes along with what you were saying, Shirley, is that the album is divided into three acts. The first act is supposed to be about the issues, then the middle act is the breakup, and the final act is catharsis and coming to terms with things. But its hard to see it that way when the general tone is so Im getting divorced, but everythings okay. It makes it a little harder to feel the drama of that structure.Li: Yeah, it is inherently sad that heres an artist whos trying to convince herself that shes absolutely fine. But you cant quite get that from the music when everythings almost jingle-y. Like, a song like Easier Said, where the message is just: Boy, love is easier said than done!Gilbert: (Laughs) Yeah, thats a fridge magnet, not a song.Li: Yes, but in the scope of there being so many breakup albums this year, the ones that dont go into big emotions are also valuable on their own.Gilbert: Right, we have Adele for crying in the shower, and we have Kacey for playing in the backyard barbecue where we bitch about our exes. And so with that in mind, how are we listening to Red (Taylors Version)? While scrapbooking?Li: When youre knitting a scarf?Kornhaber: Yes! So this is Taylor Swifts rerecording all of her albums to get back at a business rival. She did her 2012 album, Red, and added a 10-minute version of the most devastating song on it, and everyone got in their breakup feelings for a few days in October.Li: Her entire rerecording project really depends on that nostalgia for where you were at those times.Kornhaber: The project has taken on its own life, where every six months now, Swifts fans worldwide get to do another lap around the memory circuit and revisit their favorite albums, and Taylor gets to make another play for making those albums a hit again. And with Red, shes really done an extraordinary thing of placing a 10-minute-long song at No. 1 on the Hot 100 and performing on SNL and making everyone cry to this 10-minute song. Its like something thats literally never been done before on the level shes done it. What do you guys think of that song?Li: Oh, Ive listened to it a lot. We were talking about Spotify Wrapped [the music streaming platforms year-end summaries for users] before hopping on here, and I dont know how it skyrocketed into my top five. But whats so fascinating about Taylor is that these songs dont sound significantly different. She has more mature vocals. Some songs shes fiddled with the production, but mostly whats interesting about what shes doing is the packaging around these songs, the way that you market music in 2021 versus in 2012.Like when a track from 1989 started trending and going viral on TikTok, she released Taylors version of that song. Thats a big shift in the way that she has to sell these rerecords versus the way she sold these albums when they were first released. Its fascinating to me. And this is where Ill bring in Olivia Rodrigo. She kind of came out of nowhere in January with Drivers License, a ballad about a breakup that you dont really see being No. 1 on Billboard for eight weeks straight. Everyone was in a Big Emotions phase in the pandemic, but it also really sparked something in Gen Z on TikTok. Its just got this dizzying array of emotions that captured peoples imaginations.Kornhaber: Yeah, Im particularly confused about the era that we live in and whether its an earnest era or an ironic era or an era that is completely beyond those paradigms. Olivia Rodrigo is this Disney Channel star who most adults had not heard of until January of this year, when her song started smashing chart records and amazing everyone because its really slow and sad and she sounds on the verge of tears, and its about ... getting your drivers license? And its like: Well, I guess we were ready to feel some things!But Olivia Rodrigo is a huge student of Taylor Swift, and at least part of what the success of her career came from is her incredible ability to blend music and art with the sheer power of gossip. This was a breakup single, allegedly about another Disney Channel star, and there was another young star involved in a love triangle. And that gave it a little bit of the activation energy that you need to have a hit. And of course, Taylor Swift, with this reissue of Red, were all talking about a relationship that ended at least a decade ago with a movie star I will not name.Gilbert: What I find so interesting is that Taylor Swift had such a remarkable 2020. She dropped those two albums, Evermore and Folklore. Shes 32 now, and shes expressed frustration in the past that shes often been reduced to this figure of drama with her personal life. And yet here she is, after making these two albums of pretty incredible artistry that stepped out of the personal narratives, but now here we are in 2021 and suddenly all were talking about is the breakup of this relationship that lasted for three months when she was 20. And I know that theres a choice in that and Im sure there is something savvy in courting TikTok with: My life has ended because my boyfriend of three months broke up with me.Li: I do think that shes kind of caught between a rock and a hard place, though, right? Like because part of this is a business decision that shes molded into a moral argument, this project of rerecording her old albums. But then part of it, too, are these vault tracks, like a 10-minute version of a fan-favorite song. All of this is for the fans, and I believe shes been trying to express in interviews that, to her, All Too Well is no longer a song about that breakup. Its a song celebrating how far weve come together.Gilbert: But thats just not true! There are new lines added about how his new girlfriend is the same age that she was then when she was too young.Kornhaber: Taylor Swift is the ultimate breakup artist. And if youre going to revisit your catalog, youre going to have to reckon with the breakups in it. But part of what I really love about the rerecording of Red and the 10-minute All Too Well is that they really emphasize how, all along, this music was about reassessing something in your past. And what is a breakup piece of art about if not trying to impose a narrative on something that was kind of messy?These songs are about nostalgia. Theyre about feeling like you were in that car with your hot boyfriend, remembering particular fights and trying to figure out who is right. And theres something universal in that we all kind of go through that process. But, you know, shes also such a savvy celebrity that shes going to put the little bacon bits of gossip in there.Li: The great thing about breakup albums is that they validate the big emotions you have. I keep saying big feelings over and over. But its also specifically this year, these past two years, really, when it feels like the rest of the world is spinning kind of out of control. There are so many other impactful and tragic and horrible things that a breakup can feel like something you shouldnt really bring up. And so, Im glad that theres this music that kind of validates how sad you are about personal things versus the bigger picture.Kornhaber: Its also music about being alone, right? And thats something that weve all had to think about a lot. These are all works that are like: Yeah, maybe it was nice to be with someone else, but you know what? Theres something really righteous about making it on your own. Gilbert: Like Adele says, shes not used to being lonely.
Joe Bidens Year Was Ruined. Whose Fault Is That?. Sign up for Dereks newsletter here.Imagine its November 2020, and I offer you the following vision of Joe Bidens first year in office:Stocks will soar. Consumer-spending growth will set land-speed records, and the president will oversee the best labor market of this young century. Coming off a flash-freeze recession, the U.S. unemployment rate will dip under 5 percent, lower than it was in every month of 2016. Blessedly, pay is rising fastest for low-wage workers. The number of job openings will set an all-time record, making this year possibly the best for finding a new gig since the end of the Second World War.Sounds pretty good, huh? Then I offer another vision:Americans hate foreign-policy mess on TV, but the U.S. will withdraw from Afghanistan with (no matter where you stand on the ethics) an indisputably messy finale. Americans are sick of plague, but over the summer, a new coronavirus variant will take over the country, killing tens of thousands of people and keeping masks pinned to faces. Americans dont like overall inflation, and they really, really dont like higher gas prices, but both will increase faster than at any point since the early 1990s.Bidens first year has been an unpredictable, best-of-times, worst-of-times mishmash. For now, the public seems to be holding the president responsible mostly for the worst bits: Bidens approval rating at the end of his first year in office is lower than that of any American president since 1945, besides Donald Trump. More than 60 percent of voters say Biden is responsible for rising inflation, and now theyre souring on his handling of the Delta surge as well. On Fox News, commentators are regularly blaming the president for prices spiraling out of control  like the 70s.Both the public and the media sometimes see the president as the commander of our ship of statea kind of all-powerful steward of all affairs economic, geopolitical, and biological. But they should take the nautical metaphor more literally. Navy captains seem in control, but they inherit ships built by other people and steer vessels through wind and waves that dont obey any sort of direction. Thatnot omnipotenceis the reality of the American presidency.Presidents get way more credit than they deserve when things go well and way more blame than they deserve when things go badly, Jason Furman, the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Barack Obama, told me.Presidents arent powerless, and its unhelpful to pretend so. Bidens decision to stick with Fed Chair Jerome Powell was wise and meaningful. Biden had extraordinary control over the Afghanistan pullout and could still do much more to accelerate the distribution of cheap rapid COVID-19 tests. Furman himself warned the White House in February that the Biden stimulus bill might contribute to inflationary pressures (and I believe that, at least in part, Furman was right).But when it comes to the issues that are most likely driving the majority of public dissatisfaction right nowsuch as gasoline inflation, supply-chain snafus, and the rise of Delta and other coronavirus variantsthe presidents circumscribed powers are best analogized to a small rudder turned by a captain amid an angry sea.Its likely that things will be in better shape a year from now, but most of the economys problems can only be solved with time, Furman said. Thats a really hard thing to say as president.Biden inherited an economy he didnt build, sundered by a pandemic he didnt start. He oversaw the distribution of a vaccine he didnt develop, and his inoculation campaign ran headfirst into vaccine resistance he couldnt control. He was slammed with a viral mutation he didnt ask for, then got punished by an international supply-chain mess, which slammed into domestic logistics problems overseen by private-sector transportation companies he cant command, compounded by trucker shortages and port inefficiencies he couldnt go back in time to fix.And then theres gas. Strong evidence shows that voters reserve special hatred for rising gasoline prices. But this is another phenomenon that is largely out of Bidens control. The economy has snapped back to normal and so have gasoline prices, whichfor all the panic inducement youll see on TVare still lower than they were for much of the 2010s and only $0.50 per gallon more than they were in 2019. Biden is being blamed largely for rising prices in a quickly expanding economya predictable outcome of catch-up growth (over which, again, he has at best limited control).So what should Biden do, recognizing the limits of his own power? Cheer and vow.The president should speak up about whats been accomplishedThis is the best labor market of the century!and cheer on private-sector companies, such as those in domestic transportation logistics, whose increased efficiency is necessary to resolving Americas painful shortages. He should also tell people that he feels their pain on COVID-19 and inflation and announce a small number of easily achievable goals, like the production of several hundred million rapid COVID-19 tests made free forand even personally mailed toevery American.If that doesnt work, there is always the serenity prayer. The White House cant control the variants, or supply chains, or global energy markets. If COVID-19 and the global supply chain of November 2022 resemble those of November 2021, Democrats are going to get clobbered, no matter what. Some of Bidens problems, however, may resolve themselves: Oil and natural-gas prices have come down in the past week, analysts at Morgan Stanley have predicted that supply-chain bottlenecks will be normalized within the next year, freight rates for goods shipped from Asia to the U.S. are dropping, and, blessedly, chicken inflation is slowing too.If rising food and gas prices and global supply chains dont get better, Biden will be in trouble, and if they do get better, it may have almost nothing to do with what hes done, and hell get credit anyway, Furman said. After a pause, he added: Well, that, or people will find another reason to complain about him.
Office Holiday Parties Really Might Never Be the Same. For companies with the cash to go all out on a holiday party, the ideal spot might look something like Freehold. The industrial-chic venue in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, is equipped with everything an urban Millennial could want: It has a coffee shop, a lounge, a courtyard with twinkly lights, and a Ping-Pong table. The last holiday party I went to in the Before Times was there. It wasnt exactly a raucous bashin an effort to cut down on the risk of drunken misconduct, the company limited everyone to two drinksbut the turnout was easily in the hundreds. I remember a line down the block to get in, the press of bodies on the way to the bathroom, and making small talk in a distracted manner, as you do in any large crowd.Brad Gallagher, a co-founder of Freehold, remembers this party too: He wound up working the door because so many people showed up. For obvious reasons, its been a while since the venue hosted a holiday party of that magnitude, he told me. Among all of the other things the pandemic did last year, it forced companies to forgo the December tradition of the office holiday party, whether that meant an unfussy, in-office gathering or an extravagant function costing tens of thousands of dollars or more. Last year I really look at as a mulligan, Gallagher said. It really didnt happen. With no other option, companies trying to round out a terrible year with something nice for their workers went the route of Zoom parties (somewhat of an oxymoron) or, if they had the budget, gifts.But things are different this year. Only 11.3 percent of employed Americans are still working from home because of the pandemic, and thanks to vaccines, getting together in person is no longer the COVID threat it once was. The nature of holiday parties has gradually been changing for years, and exactly howand whethercompanies decide to ring in the holidays this year is the first step in figuring out yet another pandemic unknown: Will the office holiday party ever be the same?The HR experts and event professionals I reached out to agreed on this: The company holiday party has officially returned, though in fits and starts. Elissa Jessup, an HR adviser at the Society for Human Resource Management, told me that even pre-Omicron shed heard of fewer in-person parties overall, and that those still happening are generally smaller than they were before the pandemic. She said that in-person parties seem to be concentrated among companies that have fewer than 50 employees and those based in places with a warm climate that allows for gathering outdoors. At Freehold, Gallagher is also seeing holiday parties coming back in a smaller, more intimate form. These micro-parties are a far cry from the ones with hundreds of attendees that the venue hosted pre-pandemic: Id say 10-to-30-person parties are really what were seeing, and then the 40-to-70 [range], Gallagher said. Hes getting more inquiries from start-ups with small staffs, and the relatively few large companies that have reached out tend to be interested in breaking up their parties by team to keep the gatherings as small as possible.But while many companies want to do something for employees to boost morale and end the year on a positive note, in-person parties are far from the obvious choice. I dont think its a priority in 2021, Bronson van Wyck, an event planner based in New York, told me. So far, his brand-events firm, Workshop, has been asked to do about half as many corporate holiday parties as it did in 2019. Now that Omicron is here and COVID-19 cases are rising, even more companies may opt out of the in-person party. While van Wyck and Gallagher said they hadnt seen any cancellations or revised plans in recent days, the Society for Human Resource Managements Ruhal Dooley told me that not an insignificant number of companies are changing their plans as a direct result of the variant.Every possible alternative to the traditional party is in play: Jessup has heard from companies doing hybrid parties, fully virtual parties, or gifts for employees. (Hybrid options tend to involve a separate Zoom party or remote employees tuning in to watch portions of an in-person gathering, not, as I was hoping, workers having their faces projected onto a wall above the partygoers like the Wizard of Oz.) Companies are requesting van Wycks help in figuring out exactly what to send their workers. They did the same last year, and popular presents included garlands, wreaths, and even powder that can be thrown into a fire to turn it amethyst purple or sapphire blue. Jessup, too, has heard about employers giving staffers everything from gift cards and baskets to virtual cooking classes and wine tastings.As companies experiment with how they celebrate the holidays during a pandemic, its not clear that theyll snap back to their pre-pandemic routines next year, or the year after that. In the same way that employers are rethinking the value of offices and in-person work, they may reevaluate what theyre really achieving with their wintertime festivities. Holiday parties have been trending in a more restrained direction for years, and the pandemics shake-up of the tradition provides a natural and perhaps needed opportunity to consider whether a traditional party is indeed the best way to invest in company culture.The office holiday party has a reputation for being either a painfully awkward form of social purgatory or a messy bacchanalor both. In decades past, it was more common to encounter holiday parties that were blowout affairs with lots of free drinks, expensive food, dancing, inappropriate behavior, and next-day embarrassment, Peter Cappelli, an HR expert and a business professor at the University of Pennsylvania, told me. They were much more like college parties than adult parties, he said, noting that out-of-control work events date back to the days when corporations were exclusively male at the management level.That didnt change when women entered the ranks of corporate America. But over the past few decades, businesses have gradually scaled back their holiday celebrations, first because of pushback against Christmas decorations during the 1990s and later due to liability concerns when it comes to drunken behavior. The #MeToo movement pushed things in an even more toned-down direction, with employers cutting back on alcohol and dancing. Cappelli believes that the social atmosphere of a holiday party can have a useful humanizing effect among managers and colleagues. But achieving that doesnt require getting drunk and making a fool of oneself.Though its not necessarily in his best interest to say so, van Wyck feels that volunteer days and team activities can have a better return on investment than a holiday party. In recent years, his own team has done service work instead of having a party. Another party can, for us, be exhausting, he explained. By being forced to come up with new ways to celebrate, companies will possibly move out of the pandemic with a better, safer, more enjoyableand perhaps less expensiveapproach to holiday gatherings. Gallagher, for one, is hopeful that this years smaller parties will prove to be more special than massive events, with employees getting meaningful face time with the higher-ups. And if we continue to see COVID surges in the winter for years to come, companies may have little choice but to eschew large indoor holiday parties like the one I went to at Freehold.Whether companies hold in-person affairs, bring back the dreaded Zoom party, or send out treats to their employees, finding some way to celebrate is probably better than letting the year slip away without any kind of acknowledgment. Sure, the free drinks can be nice, but the opportunity to bond with your colleagues in a casual way is what really matters. It could very well be that nobody wants parties anymore and its not a good use of money, Cappelli said. You could say that not everybody benefited and not everybody liked them. But nobody likes nothing.
Comics Made Them Friends. Their Friendship Made Great Comics.. Each installment of The Friendship Files features a conversation between The Atlantics Julie Beck and two or more friends, exploring the history and significance of their relationship.This week she talks with three artists and one writer, who all work on titles for DC Comics, about their collaboration on the page and their friendship off of it. They discuss how working in comics can be isolating, how rare it is to meet your collaborators, and how their friendship helps them take risks in their work.This interview has been edited for length and clarity.Julie Beck: Tell me how you met and became friends. Did you know one anothers work before you met?Mitch Gerads: Ive known Doc the longest, since 2009, from Twitter. Then we met in person at the Wizard World Chicago [convention], and thats where our friendship began.Tom King: I was a fanboy for Doc and Mitch before I knew them. I followed them online and loved their art from back in the day. I dont think I ever waited in line to see themhopefully I didnt embarrass myself like thatbut I knew them first as a fan. Clays art I really didnt care for, so I never had that problem.No, I met Clay at a convention after I became a professional. I met all these guys professionally first.Beck: In comics, it seems like its pretty rare that one person would be both writing and illustrating. Is that fair to say?Tom: Yeah. Probably 10 percent of the industry does that and 90 percent does it the other way.Beck: So most of the time youre really relying on this relationship between writer and artist. What is that relationship like in your experience?Mitch: Its rare that legitimate friendships come out of the working relationship. Usually its a job. You get paired, you do a thing, and then you get paired with another person and do another thing. Tom and I just worked so well together that we started declaring ourselves a unit.Tom: Historically in comics you hear more about writers and artists who eventually ended up hating each other. Stan Lee and Jack Kirby had a huge disagreement. A lot just dont know each otherprobably 70 percent of writers and artists never meet or even talk to one another.Mitch: Without conventions, I doubt a lot of people would meet each other in this industry.Beck: Normally, would your workflow be: Send the script, do the art, with not a lot of back-and-forth or collaboration?Tom: It depends. A comic-book script isnt like a Hollywood script. The best way to describe it is as a letter you write to your artist. That person reads your letter and interprets it into a comic book. You can write a letter in different ways. With people you dont know, maybe youre more strict. With friends, you do get a language between the two of you.I did a whole project with a guy named Barnaby Bagenda whom Ive never talked to or emailed. Ive never seen him in person. I wouldnt know him if he walked down the street. Then there are these three guys who I talk to every single day about everything that goes on in my life.Beck: How did your working relationship develop into a friendship?Evan Doc Shaner: Mitch and Tom have been working together for so long. Ive known them for a long time, but Ive only worked with them for the last year or two. It was like walking into a working friendship that was already there.Clay Mann: Mitch definitely came with Tom.Mitch: Tom and I got paired together by an editor to do a book called The Sheriff of Babylon. We gelled really well while we were making that, and realized we gelled together as friends too. He writes things that I want to draw. When youre working on a creative project, a lot of yourself comes out, so when two creative minds meet, it creates something more than just work.Tom: We all got more successful together. We live in a weird liminal space between normal people and celebrities. Were nowhere near celebrities, but we sometimes have to do things like this interview, and its weird. Going through that together bonds you.Beck: How is the collaboration different when it is with a friend than when its with someone you have never met? Do you think that that affects the work in some way?Clay: In the beginning, I cared more about what I was doing for Tom than for normal writers.Tom: Where is he going, in the beginning?Clay: Its weirdly turned 180 degrees. Now Ill go my own way more. I have 180-ed from caring way too much to thinking I have leeway because hes someone I know.Mitch: It makes total sense. In a different type of working relationship, you have to consider that email youre about to send: Is it going to make me look stupid? Is it going to tick them off? Whereas with this group, I can throw out a random idea that might or might not be good, without worry of any sort of repercussion.Doc: Before working on Strange Adventures with Tom and Mitch, I was hopping from one book to another and working with a number of different writers. Coming on to Strange Adventures was a revelation in terms of feeling comfortable and stretching to do different things. Before, especially if it was a writer I didnt know very well, I played everything very safe and for the most part stuck to the script that was given to me.Beck: Do you have in mind an example of a risk that you wanted to take or something creative you wanted to try that you might not have done in another relationship?Clay: I have an example where Tom didnt listen to his friend.Tom: What did I do?Clay: I said to Tom, I dont think this is going to fly, but he was like, People will love it. It was Harley Quinn defeating the Trinity [of Superman, Batman, and Wonder Woman].Tom: That didnt work. I should have listened to you.[Another example of how our relationship affects the work] is I know at least a little bit whats hard to draw and whats not. Maybe I have something in my head that took me two seconds to come up with and its going to take them a week to draw. It can be an asshole move, especially if you know the guys and youre like, Oh man, his wife wants to go on vacation next week.On the other side, when Mitch signed up for Mister Miracle, I was like, I want to do this all as nine-panel grids. Thats something I would never do with other artists, because its really hard, but I thought, Maybe Mitch will forgive me for doing this to him.Beck: Mitch, have you forgiven him?Mitch: Oh yeah. It was actually a lot of fun. Now Ive developed this weird affinity for them, but they still take forever.Tom: The three artists youre looking at are literally the best at what they do. This is an art form that tons of people attempt, and this is the very top of the pyramid. So its not hard to write for them. I asked halfway through the last project we did, Why dont you guys ever tell me that what I wrote doesnt work and you want to draw something else? They said, Oh, we just draw; we dont even ask. I was not disappointed or mad at that answer. I was like, Thank God, they have my back.Beck: What do you think are one anothers greatest storytelling strengths?Mitch: I think Clay is the best Batman and Catwoman and Joker artist in the game right now.Clay: I think Mitch is amazing at false compliments.Mitch: In our friendship, Clay is a good counterbalance to positivity.Clay: I'm rude, negative, and sarcastic.Mitch: Hes the Raphael of the group. Hes rude, but cool.Clay: This is going to sound like its not a compliment, but Toms scripts, in a 20-page book, feel like they go on forever. Theres a lot going on. Someone make that sound smarter for me?Mitch: I know what you mean. Tom considers every panel on every page. You get a really good, meaty book out of Toms work.Doc: When I didnt know Tom very well, I got a script of his, and I texted Mitch right after I read it, Hey Toms actually good. Ive drawn a few books where Character A goes from here to here, fights somebody along the way, and thats the whole issue. That can be fun, but it can also be very dry. Toms books are actually trying to say something. So many comics arent.Beck: Outside of work, what is your friendship like?Clay: Some artists dont have a life outside of comics and Im one of them, so I only see these guys at cons.Mitch: Tom is actually the godfather of my son.Tom: Oh crap. Ive got to get a Christmas present.Throughout the pandemic weve had a running group text that goes 24/7; that has kept me sane. Its been my crutch.Mitch: Recently its been more work-related, but for a long time there we didnt really talk about work at all. It was mostly nonsense.The nature of the job is were all stuck in our offices talking to no one but our pets. So its nice to connect with actual humans.Beck: What have you learned from this friendship?Tom: I learned I should trust Clay about Harley Quinn.I have learned that jobs will come and go, but the friendships are more important. When Im talking to an editor, whatever makes these guys lives the best is what I want to happen. That sounds corny, but its also professionally beneficial. The editor always wants things to be done faster. But if you give these guys room, youre going to get the best work.Mitch: Good comics can be made, but you need some sort of special mind meld in order to create great comics.Doc: This job can be really, really lonely. I dont know about the other guys, but Ive gone through stretches where I dont talk to anybody while Im working. Having any kind of shared experience with people in this job is so helpful for mental health alone.Beck: Do you think this isolation of artists and writers is to the detriment of the quality of the comics industry?Clay: I think its a detriment to people.Doc: It can be really harmful for folks to spend this much time alone. And then when you have an entire industry of people who work by themselves, you get a lot of weirdos who make terrible stuff.Mitch: On the flip side, I cant imagine anything more terrifying than if everyone who worked at DC Comics was all in a big warehouse cubicle system.Clay: If these people didnt talk to me, I would disappear. Im just not the type of person who reaches out. So its nice to have a couple friends to share this stuff with.If you or someone you know should be featured in The Friendship Files, get in touch at friendshipfiles@theatlantic.com, and tell us a bit about what makes the friendship uniqueWhen you buy a book using a link on this page, we receive a commission. Thank you for supporting The Atlantic.
How Outfits Define Those Who Wear Them. Once, while on a trip to Maui, Haruki Murakami caught a glimpse of a garment that fascinated hima simple yellow T-shirt that read TONY TAKITANI in blue letters. What kind of person could Tony Takitani be? the novelist wondered. So he bought the shirt (which cost just $1), wrote a short story inspired by the name, and eventually met the real-life Mr. Takitani (a political candidate turned lawyer).The book Murakami T honors this T-shirt and the many others the author has accumulated. Its both a fascinating taxonomy of his accidental collection and an intimate look at the meaning nestled within our closets. Indeed, across artistic mediums, outfits can come to define those who wear them. Sir Arthur Conan Doyle may have been sparing in his descriptions of Sherlock Holmess attire, but the few nuggets about the detectives wardrobe scattered throughout the books have taken an outsize role in the publics imagining of him. In Black Panther, the high-tech, pan-African-inspired fashion reflects not just individual personalities but also the broader cultural and political environment of the movies imagined setting, Wakanda. The clothes are more than mere decoration; they shape the story itself. This type of power is present in the work of the designer Larry Legaspi as well, who worked with musical groups such as Parliament-Funkadelic. Legaspi didnt merely create costumes for the band. He used glam space suits and futuristic footwear to tell sartorial stories that deepened the musics intergalactic, sci-fi mythologya process that his longtime admirer Rick Owens wrote of in the coffee-table book Legaspi.For the writer Joan Didion, clothes can bear a particularly deep emotional weight. Her memoirs Blue Nights and The Year of Magical Thinking, which grapple with the deaths of her daughter and of her husband, respectively, are filled with unworn shoes and sundresses and sweaters. These items highlight the absence of the family members shes lost; they linger in her home, physical manifestations of her all-consuming grief.Yasutomo EbisuThe personality test in your closetThe choices we make about what we find and keep point to our interior worlds. Whether impulsively or concertedly, we might choose items because they align with our values, or because we desire to see a facet of our character reflected back at us. Perhaps our personal collections actually say more about our identities than what might be revealed in overtly private details.Courtesy of the Museum of LondonSherlock Holmes, unlikely style icon[Holmess] lasting fashion legacy is all the more extraordinary considering how stingy Conan Doyle was with descriptions of dress.MarvelWhy fashion is key to understanding the world of Black Panther[Black Panthers costume designer, Ruth Carter,] said she kept four words on her vision board as she designed: Beautiful. Positive. Forward. Colorful  The result is a dramatic look that makes clear that Wakandans use clothing as an important form of self- and community expression, to honor their ancestors, and to maintain a progressive social order.Michael Ochs Archives / Getty ImagesThe 1970s fashion designer who was outlandishly ahead of his timeLegaspis prescient vision seems to guide many of todays leading-edge artists.AP / The AtlanticSlouching towards BendelsWhat someone is wearing betrays not just the aesthetic of a certain moment but the emotional weight that [Joan] Didion assigns to it.
The Rare Experimental Musician to Embrace the Spotlight. Something about listening to Arca, arguably the most important experimental musician working today, reminds me of sitting in a hot car to avoid getting hit by fake bullets. That memory is from adolescence, when my group of male friends would spend whole days playing at a paintball course on the military base near where we lived. I participated, but I did not love the rude thwack of colorful projectiles exploding on my helmet. I did not love the pathetic feeling of missing all my shots. I tended to get eliminated early from matches, head to the car, and encase myself in the headphones of my portable CD player.Some of those solitary moments were spent listening to Aphex Twin, the influential British electronic musician I, as a budding snob, had read about on the internet. Aphex Twins Richard D. James arranged electronic beats in complex designs that stimulated both hypnosis and hyperawareness. His music was disorienting and intriguing and generally inexplicable. Staring at Jamess creepy grin on the album art, I didnt know if I loved all of what I was listening to. But I did love the feeling of escaping a suburban machismo competition for what felt like a rave in another reality.The music of Arca, the 32-year-old Venezuelan named Alejandra Ghersi, includes a similar blend of twisted rhythms, luminous synths, and lurid vibes. Yet the deeper link to Aphex Twin is in how her music makes me, and clearly many other people, feel. Many experimental artists labor in obscurity, but some gain prominence by creating music whose enjoyment feels like deciphering the code to ones own identity.If in the past decade youve encountered music in which earthquakes of electro noise overtake all else, it may have been Arcas doing. She produced songs on Kanye Wests 2013 album, Yeezus, and went on to make pivotal contributions to the work of FKA Twigs and Bjrk. Both in collaborations and in her own material, Arcas style is not subtle. She sculpts sound so that it seems to enter the listener from their gut rather than their ears. Her melodies have the quality of summoning spells. I found her first three solo albums2014s Xen, 2015s Mutant, and 2017s Arcato be, in a word, terrifying.Yet over the years, a funny thing has happened. Trawl around social mediaespecially circles where pop, queerness, or fashion is emphasizedand youll run into Arcas name and image pretty often. Youll encounter stans whose worshipfulness is more typical of Taylor Swift listeners than the followers of radical sound designers. In a recent TikTok with more than half a million views, someone is asked what theyre listening to on their headphones. The answer is Whip, by Arca, and as the songs violent sound effects slam in, the subject of the TikTok starts sashaying, as if to Missy Elliott. The joke captures a feeling vital to the evolution of art: pride in dissonance, pride in difference.Four new albums of often breathtaking music arrived this week from Arca, totaling about two and a half hours of listening time. That sheer volume feels like a provocation, on top of all the others: robot voices stammering about gore and sex, beats that thunder like garbage trucks over potholes, chords that evoke bruised fruit in their ugliness and allure. Yet these albums include some of Arcas most accessible and delectable work. Despite stretches likely to bore or bug, the best parts demand an obsessive level of replay.The albums are sequels to Arcas 2020 release, KiCk i, which announced a new, poppier phase for the artist. She herself was on that albums cover (sporting claws and stilts), the guests were splashy (Bjrk and Rosala howling), and the songs were catchy (but still scary). The standout track, Mequetrefe, subjected playful keyboards to fluttering sound effects, making the listener feel as though they were watching a fancy toucan survive a windstorm. As the music video squashed and stretched Arca without ever moving her from the center of the frame, it drove home how the key to her art is, counterintuitively, constancy. Even as every piece of an arrangement seems to mutate over the course of a few minutes, you absolutely feel that a singular personality is driving the action.This weeks four albums push that principle to a new limit as they hop between sounds and subgenres. The thump of reggaeton, the fervor of Brazilian funk, and the beauty of Venezuelan folk have long influenced Arca, but KICK ii is her fullest tribute to Latin music; for a few songs, she even lets her grooves unfurl smoothly, resulting in bangers that would only mildly perturb most listeners. KicK iii, the masterpiece of the series, uses hyperactive breakbeats and rapping to create micro-moments that lodge in the brain. Then comes the slow climax of kick iiiia churn of shimmery, sometimes warm atmospheresfollowed by a fragile comedown on kiCK iiiii.Part of what keeps this sprawling scrapbook coherent is Arcas voice, or rather her approach to voice: as a tool to be filtered into a multiplicity of characters, jabbering and hissing from all directions. Such vocal effects highlight her knack for contrast and pleasurable surprise, and she has internalized hip-hops lesson that words can be as crucial a timekeeper as a drumbeat. When Arca swan-dives from singsong ghostliness into deeper registers on the single Prada, it feels like the sky is conversing with the earth. On another highlight, the explosive Ripples, every element of the music seems to express the squeakily sung refrainripples make ripples!on a subatomic level.The centrality of voice on the Kick albums makes a statement: Some of Arcas obvious predecessors (see Aphex Twin) kept their own identity enigmatic, and Arca herself mostly forwent singing until her third album. Yet Arcas art includes spectacles of self-revelation, including chatty Twitch streams and body-baring photo shoots. In arresting images that are part Westworld and part Hieronymus Bosch, the five Kick album covers each depict her as a cyborg deityone plainly on a mission to inspire. I got tears, but tears of fire, goes one kick iiii chorus, sung by the artist Planningtorock. Tears of power, tears of power ... Queer power.Queer power both underlies Arcas radicalism and connects her to broader musical trends. Glitchessounds that intentionally evoke malfunctioning machinesare everywhere these days: in the chaotic loops of TikTok, in the choppy samples of Hot 100 rap, in the aggressive bustle of hyperpop. For Arca, as she explained in a 2020 Glamcult interview, such glitches represent the insufficiency of language to express internal trutha dissonance that we can all understand on some level, but that she has felt acutely as a transgender woman. I think sometimes conversations about gender are specifically complicated, she said, because maybe they are, in a good way, a dead end.Indeed, there is a way of listening to Arcas music as a tangle of metaphors about identity. Speaking to the performance artist Marina Abramovi, Arca once described transitioning as revealing static that was inside me that others didnt realize was there  so now it can cause friction between my environment and my identity, but it feels less noisy that way than to keep it in. As she sings about the body in terms that others might find gruesome, the shape-shifting brutality of the music illustrates the nature of uncompromising expression.Queerness also informs her musics more inviting characteristics. With the Kick series, Arca has put herself more in conversation with the archetype of the pop divathat feminine dominator of the masses who historically draws the most fervent worship from LGBTQ fans. (Deconstructing such womens power was also the project of the late artist Sophie, a trans producer who felt like the kandi-raver yang to Arcas leather-dungeon yin over the past decade.) On Kick ii, Arca collaborates with Sia on a track that only lightly complicates the hitmakers grand crooning. Another diva of sorts, Shirley Manson, of the band Garbage, shows up on kick iiii to monologue about the alien inside.The notion of an alien inside is certainly a queer onebut it also speaks to the broader sense of social dislocation and mysterious individuality that experimental music can stoke. My recent days of consuming the Kick series in headphones while jostling on subway cars and walking past sidewalk brunches gave me that teenage thrill of using music as a separator between yourself and your environment. But as Ive grown closer to understanding the creator of the madness in my ears, Arca has also offered a reminder of the ways in which soundsno matter how strangecan bind people.
What Roe Could Take Down With It. The consensus of Supreme Court watchers after Wednesdays oral argument in Dobbs v. Jackson Womens Health Organization is that the demise of Roe v. Wade, or at least its dilution to a point that virtually any government-imposed burden on abortion would be constitutionally acceptable, is coming. After all, this Court allowed a Texas law effectively banning most abortions after six weeks to stand pending litigation, rejecting multiple pleas for a temporary stayas clear a signal as any that at least five justices on the current Court have no problem with womens constitutional rights (as currently recognized) being violated in the interim.Many of the dangers of overruling Roe have been long discussed. If women lose the right to an abortion, pregnancy-related deaths are estimated to rise substantially and suddenly. (Currently, 26 states have so-called trigger laws on the books that would outlaw most abortions the moment the Court reverses Roe.) The impact of Roes fall would hit low-income women especially hard, as theyre five times as likely as affluent women to experience unplanned childbearing and twice as likely to face sexual violence.Those are the dangers of restricting access to abortion. The thing is, the dangers of dispensing with Roe go far beyond abortion, because the legal logic that threatens this particular right could quite easily extend to others, inviting states to try out new laws that regulate choices about whom to marry, whom to be intimate with, what contraception to use, and how to rear ones own children.The contention that Roe is uniquely built on a foundation of sand ignores the inconvenient fact that lots of other rights are not expressly articulated in the Constitution. The question that a reversal of Roe accordingly poses is whether the textualists and originalists on this conservative-heavy Court would allow those implied rights to go by the wayside as well.Most people tether Roes legal foundations to the right to privacy identified in Griswold v. Connecticut, a 1965 decision striking down state laws rendering illegal the use of contraceptives by married couples. The Court ultimately identified a constitutional right to privacy within protective penumbras that emanate from the Bill of Rightsin particular the First, Fourth, Fifth, Ninth, and Fourteenth Amendmentsand reasoned that these penumbras operate to shield an intimate relation of husband and wife and their physicians role in one aspect of that relation from government intrusion. Picking up on Griswold in 1973, the Court in Roe acknowledged that the Constitution does not explicitly mention any right to privacy, but seized on the earlier cases recognition of a guarantee of certain areas or zones of privacy to strike down a Texas law criminalizing abortion.Bemoaning the analytical shortcomings of Roe, the late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, a champion of gender equality under the Constitution, noted that critics were charging the Court with reading its own values into the due process clause. (In her view, the Court presented an incomplete justification for its decision and should have added a distinct sex discrimination theme to its balancing of fetal versus maternal interests.) Those charges have endured, culminating in the Dobbs case, which tees up a reversal of Roe, despite the fact that a majority of Americans across the political spectrum favor some measure of safe and legal abortion access.But Griswold was not the Courts first word on the scope of liberty under the Fourteenth Amendments due-process clause, which protects individuals from arbitrary governmental deprivations of life, liberty or property without articulating with any precision what the word liberty actually means. In a series of cases beginning in the early 1920s, the Court carved out a protected space for family, marriage, and children that the government is constrained from regulating. A rollback of Roe could split this sphere open if the conservative theory that implied rights are constitutionally invalid takes hold, and states begin passing draconian laws that creep into other areas of intimate personal life.Consider the 1923 case Meyer v. Nebraska, in which the Court struck down a law criminalizing the teaching of German in private schools. The obvious purpose of this statute, the Court wrote, was that the English language should be and become the mother tongue of all children reared in this state. Although its enactment comes reasonably within the police power of the state, the Court found that the law unreasonably infringes the liberty guaranteed to the plaintiff in error by the Fourteenth Amendmentthe precise grounding of the now-precarious individual right to decide whether to carry a fetus to term. Two years later, in Pierce v. Society of Sisters of the Holy Names of Jesus & Mary, the Court struck down an Oregon criminal law forcing parents to send their children to public school. The manifest purpose of the law, the Court noted, is to compel general attendance at public schools by normal children, between eight and sixteen, who have not completed the eighth grade. Citing Meyer, the Court ruled, We think it entirely plain that the Act of 1922 unreasonably interferes with the liberty of parents and guardians to direct the upbringing and education of children.The Court has construed liberty to safeguard numerous other personal safe spaces: the right to marry regardless of race (1967s Loving v. Virginia) and sex (2015s Obergefell v. Hodges). The right to use contraception (Griswold). The right to be free from compulsory sterilization by the state (1942s Skinner v. Oklahoma). The right to be free of government-mandated surgery involving a virtually total divestment of respondents ordinary control over surgical probing beneath his skin (1985s Winston v. Lee). And the right to engage in intimate sexual conduct with a partner of ones choice without fear of criminal prosecution (2003s Lawrence v. Texas).In Dobbs, the state of Mississippis answer to this line of cases is to suggest that the life of an unborn fetus is especially sacred under the Constitution: Nowhere else in the law does a right of privacy or right to make personal decisions provide a right to destroy a human life, it claims. But saying so does not mean that critics of other privacy-based rights could not find their own reasons why those rights, too, must be balanced against some other competing interest.Thus, to say that Roe is a one-off constitutional blunder, built on a flimsy foundation, while other rights are grounded in concrete, is a mythand a dangerous one. Nothing in the Constitution says anything to specifically protect couples ability to choose to have sex, use contraception, get married, decide how to educate their children, refuse bodily inspection or medical treatments, and, yes, terminate a pregnancy. From a legal perspective, if Roe falls, its hard to see what else will still stand.
The Tech Moguls Are Looking for a New Playground. Jack Dorsey, who stepped down as Twitters CEO this week, holds the dubious distinction of being one of Silicon Valleys most important woolgathering sages. Speaking with him can be incredibly disorienting, the journalist Ashley Feinberg once remarked, not because hes particularly clever or thought-provoking, but because he sounds like he should be. That echoes my own experience: Dorsey is quiet and reserved in interviewsa departure from the usual chief-executive bravadoand he seems genuinely interested in giving thoughtful answers, also rare. Yet however earnest his engagement, he almost never gives a straight or satisfying response. Press him to account for specific problems on his platform, and hell launch into a game of tech-founder Mad Libs that takes the conversation nowhere.I dont think Dorsey means to stonewall by meandering; rather, hes expressing, in his elliptical way, the disconnect between his lofty ideals for social media and the toxic discourse it creates. Its as if he has a perfect version of Twitter in his head but lacks the language to describe it. Now, with his departure from the company, that tension can at last be swept aside. Like other Big Tech leaders, hes pivoting away from his teenage, problem-ridden platform in the hopes of getting to a better, different kind of place. Imagine a version of the distracted-boyfriend meme in which the guy in the middle is a CEO, and hes ogling a decentralized metaverse.Dorsey has always had a reputation as an ideas guy. After Twitters storybook launch, in 2006, he set to work on another company, one to help democratize mobile payments, which became Square. His tech visionary status meant that Dorsey could be eccentric, which he capitalized on by fasting, drinking a concoction of suspect nutritional value called salt juice, walking five miles to work, and sporting a trademark beard and nose ring. Visionary status also allowed him to juggle two part-time CEO jobs, and it provided cover when, a few years ago, he began tweeting intensely about cryptocurrency. In August, Dorsey claimed that bitcoin would eventually unite the world. This could well be the context for his next big idea in tech, and his next multibillion-dollar company. But also, it was @jack being @jack.Being at the helm of Twitter in 2021 is hard. In early 2020, Elliott Management, the activist investor, took a sizable stake in the company and pressured Dorsey to hit growth targets. And although Twitter is working on some new products, the platform is, to a large degree, mature. Leading a mature companyespecially one that has an outsize influence on politics and cultureinvolves a lot of maintenance work. Its also kind of a nightmare. In the past 18 months, Dorsey has had to navigate a flood of COVID misinformation across his platform, multiple testimonies before Congress, and a deeply contentious election season, which culminated in his executive decision to ban the sitting president of the United States. Im not suggesting that we shed a tear for this billionaire, but Ive been tagged in enough of Dorseys mentions to know that part of his management experience is absorbing justified criticism from, well, basically everyone. Not exactly what a visionary wants to do all day.Legacy tech platforms make plenty of money from their hundreds of millions, if not billions, of users, but theyre also riddled with problems. Those problems must feel quotidian to the people who dreamed the platforms up. Rolling out new products, updates, and rules is a logistical challenge, and users are cranky and resistant to change. The successes of Web 2.0the social internetare no longer playgrounds of possibility; theyre not the future. Thats why many venture capitalists, programmers, and Silicon Valley CEOs such as Dorsey are eyeing Web3.To put it in simple terms, Web3 refers to a third generation of the internet where online services and platforms have been transitioned to a model based on blockchains and cryptographic tokens. In theory, that means they are decentralized, and anyone who owns tokens has some amount of ownership or voting control over them. This model of the web represents a financialized vision of the internet, backed heavily by investors and speculative currencies. It is also the kind of chaotic space to which developers and creatives instinctively flock. Blockchain-based projects are sometimes confusing, they can have barriers to entry (like requiring a crypto wallet), and they seem to generate their own, varied countercultures. There is an immense amount of money to be made. Its excitinga new playground.Dorsey is among the crypto worlds best-known evangelists. At a conference in Miami this summer, he remarked on bitcoins supposedly unlimited potential for good. For me, bitcoin changes absolutely everything, he said, extolling its ability to be a universal asset and a utility for unbanked people in the developing world. He described having spent November 2019 in Nigeria, Ethiopia, and Ghana with entrepreneurs, and said hed learned that the technology is transformative, even beautiful. In an act of foreshadowing, Dorsey added that he would be working fully on bitcoin if he werent the CEO of Twitter and Square.Dorseys bitcoin musings hit familiar notes for him: They are full of hope and possibility, but they are also extremely vague. What Im drawn to the most about it, Dorsey said of cryptocurrency, is the ethos, is what it represents, the conditions that created it, which are so rare and so special and so precious. I dont think theres anything more important in my lifetime to work on, and I dont think theres anything more enabling for people around the world.Dorseys vision for bitcoin, much like his vision for Twitter, is confidently idealistic. In 2019, when he was confronted about Twitters harassment features, he offered mumbly, circuitous responses. And now, when he is confronted with bitcoins problems such as the environmental impacts from mining cryptocurrencieshis answers are just as opaque and unsatisfying. I believe fully that bitcoin, over time and today, does incentivize more renewable energy, he told the crowd in Miami. And I think it does incentivize more awareness around how were getting that power and gives people more freedom to convert unused, wasted power into something that provides value for billions of people around the world.I believe that Dorsey believes what he says. Of all the major tech CEOs, Dorsey has always been the most responsive to criticism and has pushed Twitter to tackle important harassment problems. But his visions for bitcoin, like his past hopes for Twitter, take for granted that somebody will eventually solve the biggest problems facing a piece of technology. Its a nice idea, the kind you might expect from an ideas guy. But the parallels are clear between his vision for Web3 and, say, the free-speech idealism he espoused before a sitting president used his platform to deny the results of an election. Web3 is, in theory, more egalitarian and inclusive than our current, messy internet. The way we get there, according to the Web3 prophets, is to trust the process and follow their lead. The logistics will work themselves out.In that respect, Jack Dorseys departure from Twitter and embrace of crypto resembles Mark Zuckerbergs rebrand of Facebook in favor of the metaverse. Big Techs founders have jettisoned the escape pod from their bloated, boring second incarnations of the internet and set off for a new frontier. Their ambitions would be admirable if not for the harms that their platforms have already wrought. Dorsey and company may, in fact, be visionariescity planners who can deftly sketch the thoroughfares and public spaces we will eventually traverse. But city plans dont make a city, nor does a collection of parks and avenues. Cities are the result of a meticulously managed infrastructure. They need a sanitation department to make sure that garbage doesnt pile up in the streets, and transit authorities to keep the trains on time. They need bureaucrats, not visionaries.It makes sense that Dorsey, a man with a vision so grand that he could barely articulate it, would find bureaucratic work to be stifling. If anything signals the end of the second iteration of the internet, its the dreamers moving on.
The Biblical Clash at the Core of The Power of the Dog. The banjo may seem like an innocent instrument, but in The Power of the Dog, its downright menacing. The swaggering rancher Phil Burbank (played by Benedict Cumberbatch) at the center of Jane Campions new film is introduced as a thin-skinned bully whos quick to insult those around him. But I didnt realize what a frightening character he was going to be until Phil retired to his bed, pulled out a banjo, and started angrily plucking at it; that humble string instrument hasnt been played so malevolently on-screen since the notorious dueling banjos of Deliverance.Campions first feature film in 12 years, based on the novel of the same name by Thomas Savage, is set on a 1925 Montana ranch thats surrounded by spiky mountains and acres of barren landscape filled with both promise and hostility. There, Phil has proudly carved out a lonely existence for himself as a cattle herder, while his full-hearted brother, George (Jesse Plemons), is dissatisfied with their spartan life and seeking companionship. Into this dynamic wanders local widow Rose (Kirsten Dunst) and her son, Peter (Kodi Smit-McPhee). George marries Rose, seeing the newcomers as the beginning of a real family, but Phil derides them as too weak for life on the range.Westerns almost always wrestle with masculinity in some way, whether through a simple yarn about heroes and villains in the open country, or through a darker reckoning with Americans desire to conquer land that is not their own. In The Power of the Dog, Campion embraces the genres many possibilities. Each member of her wounded foursome reflects a different aspect of the tainted promise of the West. But Phil, played magnificently by Cumberbatch in a role thats completely against type, is the furious engine of the films heartbreak.Phil sees himself as the ultimate cowboy. He constantly invokes a now-dead mentor named Bronco Henry who taught him how to survive on the frontier and lashes out at anyone else who dares to try to forge a connection with him. He castrates bulls by hand, binds twine together to make his own ropes, and rarely bathes; whenever hes inside the drafty mansion his brother has constructed, he feels out of place, like some grimy poltergeist disrupting Georges facade of civility. George may not be spoiling for a fight in the same way that Phil is, but the symbolic fracture between the brothers is undeniable: George desires domesticity, moving grand pianos into the house and hosting dinner parties with politicians, while Phil craves eternal wildernessthe kind of world he can prove his own toughness in. The clash feels almost biblical in nature, a face-off between a harsh, unjust world and a gentle, modern one.An entire movie about Phils cruelty to everyone around him might be unwatchable. But Campion is an empathetic director, and shes long been drawn to characters whose emotions are buried deep, such as the electively mute Ada of The Piano, the squirrelly older sister Kay of Sweetie, or the introverted academic Frannie of In the Cut. Phil is one of the most layered, enthralling protagonists in her filmography. He has erected impenetrable force fields around his anxieties about manliness, but Peter, whom he initially dismisses as an effeminate mamas boy, forces him to begin to confront hidden neuroses about his own sexuality. Every twitch on Cumberbatchs face feels like an earthquake for the viewers, as he draws out the drama in the barest hint of feeling.The Power of the Dog is structured in chapters, and each new one veers in a surprising direction. George and Roses romance is tender at first, but eventually crumbles under external pressures. Dunsts performance is achingly nervy, some of the best work shes done in years; Plemons registers his adoration and his apprehensions quietly, keeping a stiff upper lip in the face of Phils abuse and Roses inner demons. Smit-McPhee initially plays Peter as a sensitive teen making paper-flower arrangements to keep his mother happy, but he gradually reveals the characters brutal side. Campion builds his antagonistic yet fraternal dynamic with Phil into a fascinating puzzle for audiences to try to solve.But the film offers no definitive judgments on its anguished ensemble. The cinematographer Ari Wegners camera will occasionally zoom out for massive aerial shots that underline the insignificance of the people milling among the mountains, trying to make something of themselves. Campion never takes a side in the ongoing conflict between George and Phil, instead brilliantly capturing the purpose, and the futility, in each brothers approach, making The Power of the Dog an inimitable viewing experience.
The Atlantic Daily: Omicron Could Be Bad, or Really BadOr Maybe Good. Every discovery of a fast-spreading new variant sets off another wave of uncertainty, and this time, Omicron is to blame.Although its true that we know frustratingly little about this new variant (other than that its hereand here, and here), today we understand a lot more about the coronavirus generallyhow it travels, how vaccines work against itthan we did a year ago. We can rely on what weve learned as we prepare for Omicron.The news in three sentences:(1) President Joe Biden announced new pandemic measures in response to Omicron. (2) Germany imposed more stringent restrictions on unvaccinated people. (3) Congress will attempt to avert a government shutdown before tomorrows deadline, as some Senate Republicans still frustrated by Biden's vaccine mandate threaten to delay a compromise.Todays Atlantic-approved activity:Meet the people turning leisure time into a productivity challenge.A break from the news:Human error is often cited as the most common cause of car accidents. Thats a myth.
2 missionaries who were kidnapped in Haiti have been released. A religious organization announced Sunday that two of its missionaries who were taken hostage with 15 others last month in Haiti have been released. Christian Aid Ministries, an Ohio-based nonprofit organization, didn't identify the two missionaries or the circumstances behind their release. The organization said its heart was still with the more than a dozen other missionaries still being held. "We cannot provide or confirm the names of those released, the reasons for their release, where they are from, or their current location," the organization said in a statement. "We ask that those who have more specific information about the release and the individuals involved would safeguard that information." The two people are "safe, in good spirits, and being cared for," the statement said. Seventeen U.S. and Canadian citizens working with Christian Aid Ministries were kidnapped last month by the 400 Mawozo gang, which controls the Ganthier commune in the suburb of Port-au-Prince where the missionaries were taken. Christian Aid Ministries headquarters in Titanyen, Haiti, on Oct. 22. Ricardo Arduengo / AFP via Getty Images fileThe group comprised 12 adults and five children 8 months to 15 years old. It's unclear whether either of the released hostages is one of the children.Haitian officials said the group's leader was demanding $1 million per hostage, totaling $17 million. RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store A video circulating on social media, which a U.S. official said appeared to be legitimate, threatened to kill hostages if the ransom demand wasn't met.  Haiti has faced a series of disasters over the years, and the last several months have been met with renewed hardships. President Jovenel Mose was assassinated in July, and a 7.2-magnitude earthquake hit in August. More than 2,000 people were killed in the quake, and thousands more were displaced after their homes and businesses were devastated.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Warrants issued for man after gun goes off at Atlanta airport. Warrants have been issued for a man who fled after a gun went off during a search of his luggage at HartsfieldJackson Atlanta International Airport, causing panicked travelers to flee and briefly halting departures Saturday afternoon, officials said.  About 1:30 p.m., a transportation security officer was checking a passenger's bag after the X-ray machine identified a prohibited item, the Transportation Security Administration said.The officer told the passenger not to touch the bag, but "as he opened the compartment containing the prohibited item, the passenger lunged into the bag and grabbed a firearm, at which point it discharged," the TSA said in a written statement. The passenger ran out of the security line and an airport exit with the gun, said Robert Spinden, the TSA's federal security director for Georgia. The airport tweeted that there was not an active shooter and that a firearm had gone off accidentally. Airport officials gave the all-clear at 2:57 p.m. and said passenger screenings and flights were underway again.At a news conference Saturday evening, authorities identified Kenny Wells, 42, as the man whose gun discharged.Warrants have been issued for Wells on charges of possession of a firearm by a convicted felon, discharging a firearm, carrying a concealed weapon at a commercial airport and reckless conduct, said the airport police commander, Maj. Reginald Norman.Cellphone video captured frightened travelers lying on the ground. Other video showed passengers getting off planes and waiting on the tarmac and around the terminals, NBC affiliate WXIA of Atlanta reported.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsArmored truck spills money on California freeway, sparking cash-grab frenzyWorld CupWorld CupQatar's migrant workers face heat, exploitation and death in race to build World Cup venuesThe airport said that there was no danger to passengers or employees and that the incident is being investigated. At least three people were reported to have been injured, two of them with shortness of breath and a third who fell in an area separate from the security checkpoint. None of the injuries were thought to be life-threatening, and it was unclear whether they were directly tied to the scare, officials said. No one was injured in the discharge.The Federal Aviation Administration halted departures. The airport said normal operations are beginning to resume. The TSA said the incident should remind passengers of "the importance of checking personal belongings for dangerous items before leaving for the airport." TSA officers have come across more than 450 firearms at checkpoints in the Atlanta airport this year, the agency said. "Firearms, particularly loaded firearms, introduce an unnecessary risk at checkpoints, have no place in the passenger cabin of an airplane, and represent a very costly mistake for the passengers who attempt to board a flight with them," the TSA said. The agency said it assesses civil penalties when travelers take firearms to airport checkpoints. The penalties vary based on any previous offenses and whether the firearms are loaded. 
A rural hospital closed its obstetrics unit, hitting most vulnerable the hardest. Shantell Jones gave birth in an ambulance parked on the side of a Connecticut highway. Even though she lived six blocks away from a hospital, the emergency vehicle had to drive to another one about 30 minutes away.The closer medical center, Windham Hospital, discontinued labor and delivery services last year and is working to permanently cease childbirth services after years of declining births and recruitment challenges, its operator, Hartford HealthCare, has said.But medical and public health experts say the step could potentially put pregnant women at risk if they don't have immediate access to medical attention. Losing obstetrics services, they said, could be associated with increased preterm births, emergency room births and out-of-hospital births without resources nearby, like Jones' childbirth experience.The dilemma Jones faced is one that thousands of other pregnant women living in rural communities without obstetrics units nearby are encountering as hospitals cut back or close services to reduce costs. Nationwide, 53 rural counties lost obstetrics care from 2014 through 2018, according to a 2020 study in the Journal of the American Medical Association, which also found that out of 1,976 rural counties in the country, 1,045 never had hospitals with obstetrics services to begin with.The problem is particularly acute in communities of color, like Windham in northeastern Connecticut, where the population is 41 percent Latino, while the statewide Latino population is only 16.9 percent, according to the U.S Census Bureau. The community is 6.2 percent Black. Local activists say they fear low-income residents will bear the brunt of the hospitals decision because Windham has a 24.6 percent poverty rate compared to 10 percent statewide, according to the census.The night Jones delivered her son, her mother, Michelle Jones, had called 911 because Jones was going into labor a few weeks early, and after her water broke they knew the baby was coming soon. Both expected the ambulance to drive the short distance to Windham Hospital, where Jones received her prenatal care.But the ambulance attendant was told Windham wasn't taking labor and delivery patients and was referring people to Backus Hospital in Norwich, Jones said.In the ambulance, she was without her mother, who was asked to follow in her car.I was anxious and scared and traumatized, Jones said.Ten minutes into the drive, the baby wasnt going to wait and the ambulance pulled onto the shoulder of Route 32.An emergency medical technician delivered the boy just after midnight Nov. 17, 2020, while cars sped by. As Jones pushed, she was terrified a complication might arise and there would be no hospital resources to lean on.Fortunately, the delivery was smooth, and she was able to hold her newborn as the ambulance drove the rest of the way to the hospital."It was surreal," Jones said. "The hospital was down the street from my house. I could have had my baby in a hospital bed."Windham Hospital, which discontinued labor and delivery services in June 2020, has filed a state-required certificate of need to officially close its childbirth services. The Connecticut Office of Health Strategy, which held a regulatory hearing Nov. 10 on the potential permanent closure, has not said when it plans to make a final decision."The proposal at its core is about patient safety," Jennifer Fusco, an attorney for Hartford HealthCare, said during the public hearing. "It's about a need to close a labor and delivery service that can no longer be operated in a safe or consistent manner."A group called Windham United to Save Our Healthcare, the local chapter of the NAACP and the American Teachers Federation, which represents Windham Hospital health care workers, have circulated petitions, organized weekly virtual meetings and participated in rallies to oppose the move.RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store Its about the fabric of this community, and I really love this community, Brenda Buchbinder, who spearheaded Windham United, said. Its where my husband and I settled. It's where our children were born. Its where we passed the local hospital and got to tell them, Thats where you were born.The Windham Town Council also passed a resolution last year asking the hospital to restore all core services, especially maternity services of Labor and Delivery.Labor and delivery departments "have a lot of human value" but often make little money, said Katy Kozhimannil, a public health researcher and University of Minnesota professor, who authored the study published in JAMA.Windham's contentious decision shows the risk to low-income women who may not have the means or resources to travel 30 minutes at a moment's notice, she said.Leah Ralls, NAACP chapter president for Windham and nearby Willimantic, said the community is already medically underserved and the closure of delivery services will only make it worse."The concern that I have is that women of color be given an opportunity for quality health care," she said. "There are white women in this community negatively affected by the closing. However, in terms of health equity, race lends itself to being a major concern for us."She said she fears financially struggling families without access to transportation won't be able to travel to Hartford or Norwich when it's time to give birth."It hurts my heart because I'm a patient of Windham Hospital," Ralls said. I'm very, very attached to that hospital."Alejandra Perez-Handler went to Windham Hospital a few months ago and was transported by ambulance to Backus Hospital, where she gave birth. Her insurance covered the $1,300 ride, but she knows a lot of people wouldnt have been able to afford it."That $1,300 that Anthem covered for my ambulance ride to Backus Hospital would not have needed to happen if Windham had accepted me," she said, sighing.Windham Hospital has said it will continue prenatal and postnatal services."They're acknowledging by saying, 'We have these wonderful prenatal and postnatal services at our hospital,' that there is a need," said Lynne Ide, executive director of Universal Health Care Foundation of Connecticut, an advocacy group.Jones, who recently celebrated her sons first birthday, is thankful for a healthy baby, but she still struggles with the memory of giving birth on the side of the road, anxious and afraid.When her son, Michel Le Barron Jones, is old enough, she plans to tell him about his birth on Route 32 and how they both overcame an obstacle, their first hurdle as a family."I'll tell him I felt brave," Jones said. "I'll tell him he's a warrior.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Queen Elizabeth attends christening of great-grandsons. LONDON  Queen Elizabeth attended a private ceremony to celebrate the christenings of two of her great-grandchildren on Sunday, the British news agency PA reported, four days after the 95-year-old monarch made her first public appearance since a hospital stay.RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store Buckingham Palace had no comment on the report.The queen spent a night in hospital for the first time in years last month for what the palace called preliminary investigations into an unspecified ailment, and doctors have advised her to cancel most engagements since then.Queen holds first in-person engagement since hospital stay, back sprainNov. 17, 202100:43She pulled out of a Remembrance Day Ceremony on Nov. 14 with a sprained back which a palace source said was unrelated to the condition which has required rest and was an unfortunate coincidence.On Nov. 17, she was pictured standing and smiling at her Windsor Castle home as she chatted to the chief of defence staff.Britain's Queen Elizabeth receives Gen. Sir Nick Carter at Windsor Castle on Wednesday. Steve Parsons / Pool via ReutersSundays private ceremony, which took place at the Royal Lodge in Windsor Great Park, was to celebrate two family christenings, according to the PA report.One was of the baby son of Princess Eugenie, daughter of the queens third child Prince Andrew. The other was of the third child, a son, of Zara Tindall, daughter of the queens second child Princess Anne.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
'SNL' views Kyle Rittenhouse verdict through red-state lenses. "Saturday Night Live" tried to see the not guilty verdicts in the homicide trial of Kyle Rittenhouse through the eyes of red-state America.The show turned to Fox News' "Justice With Judge Jeanine" to help. Host Jeanine Pirro, played by Cecily Strong, focused on Kenosha, Wisconsin, as the "top story." Rittenhouse, 18, was found not guilty Friday on all charges related to fatally shooting two men and wounding a third during protests in the city last year. His lawyers have argued Rittenhouse was defending himself from attackers after he went to Wisconsin in an effort to protect businesses and provide medical assistance amid August 2020 demonstrations and unrest over the shooting of Jacob Blake, a Black man, by a white officer. "Thatlovable scamp was put through a nightmare of a trial just for doing the bravest thing any American can do protecting an empty used car lot in someone elses town," Pirro said.Mikey Day as Judge Bruce Schroeder, who presided over Kyle Rittenhouse's trial, appears in the opening of 'Saturday Night Live' on Nov. 20, 2021.NBCShe introduced Kenosha County Circuit Court Judge Bruce Schroeder, who made headlines during proceedings by forbidding the use of the word "victim" to describe decedents Joseph Rosenbaum, 36, and Anthony Huber, 26, and survivor Gaige Grosskreutz. He also continued his roughly 20-year custom of allowing the defendant to choose 12 jurors through a blind and random drawing. Schroeder, played by Mikey Day, defended his management of a trial that was watched by some as a barometer of race and privilege.It was all standard procedure, Schroeder said. Thats why I ordered the prosecution not to use the word victims. They were rioters.The judge insisted his rules and rulings "did not give my client an unfair advantage in any way."Pirro brought in Sandra Cummings (Chloe Fineman), described as an NPR legal analyst, and Howard University professor of law Samuel Fields (Chris Redd) for some fairness and balance, but the guests seemed to have different opinions."This is not who we are," said Cummings, who is white. The verdict, she argued, sends a message that "any American can just prowl the streets with an AK-47."Fields, who is Black, responded, "Any American? I think you're missing a key word there."Cummings continued, undeterred. "I was shocked," she said."You were?" the professor said, "Because I wasnt.""Ive never seen anything like it before," the legal analyst said.RecommendedPop Culture NewsPop Culture NewsFrom Rock to Bond? Dwayne Johnson says he wants to play James BondPop Culture NewsPop Culture News'Tiger King' Joe Exotic moved to North Carolina facility after cancer diagnosis"I have, many many times," Fields said.The show's James Austin Johnson reprised his well-received impression of former President Donald Trump, who was introduced by Pirro as "this people's sexiest man alive."Trump meandered, emphasizing 2024 election goals while also commenting on popular culture."Were coming back in 2024," he said. "Were doing the reboot, OK?" A few beats later he asked, "Why did they reboot 'Gossip Girl?'""Weekend Update" had no good news for President Joe Biden, despite a week that included his signing of a hard-fought $555 billion infrastructure bill."Yesterday was a weird one for President Biden," co-host Colin Jost said. The day included the Rittenhouse verdict and the first time in United States history a woman served as acting president. Biden, who turned 79 on Saturday, went under anesthesia for a colonoscopy, and temporarily transferred power to Vice President Kamala Harris."You can't drop all that [news] on him the second he comes out of the gas," Jost said.Simu Liu hosted and Saweetie was the night's musical guest. 
Qatars migrant workers have faced exploitation and servitude. Now they're fighting for change.. In a years time, the heroes of the so-called beautiful game will head to the tiny Gulf kingdom of Qatar in the hope of being crowned champions at the World Cup.But a growing number of critics accuse its leaders and private construction firms of contributing to the systemic exploitation of migrant workers, some of whom have died in unexplained circumstances while building vast soccer venues in the blazing heat.Download the NBC News app for breaking news and politicsAnd while Qatar says it has made significant labor reforms to protect a migrant workforce of about 2 million people  an estimated 95 percent of the countrys total working population  the World Cup is shining a light on migrant deaths and human rights challenges in the region.Before dawn every day, workers typically from India, Bangladesh, Nepal, the Philippines and Kenya are taken by bus from their designated accommodations to work on colossal stadiums. The trip can take hours, and temperatures regularly reach 102 degrees Fahrenheit.A report released Friday by the International Labor Organization, a U.N. agency that has an office in the countrys capital, Doha, said 50 migrant workers across all sectors died in work-related accidents last year, most of them in falls or road traffic accidents, It didn't provide data for other years. In addition, there were 38,000 work-related injuries last year, 500 of them classed as severe. The report didnt specify how many were related to the World Cup.Workers on the construction site at Al-Wakrah stadium outside the Qatari capital, Doha.Karim Jaafar / AFP via Getty Images fileThe report said some work-related deaths may not have been properly recorded  a lack of information and potential errors by front-line medical staff members mean some work-related deaths may not have been recorded as such, it said. The International Labor Organization called for a review of how the deaths of healthy young men from natural causes are investigated.The human rights group Amnesty International has alleged that Qatari authorities had failed to investigate thousands of migrant deaths over the past decade, some even before World Cup projects began, while suggesting that some of the deaths were linked to unsafe working conditions.These men are seemingly healthy, they have passed their tests to work in Qatar, and yet they die at a young age and their death certificate just states either natural causes, cardiac arrest or respiratory failure, said May Romanos, a researcher on workers rights in the Gulf region for Amnesty International.The issue is also concerning the climate in Qatar and knowing the heat and the weather conditions, with migrant workers on building sites and working as security guards, Romanos said.Qatar disputes the findings and argues that the mortality and safety statistics for migrant workers are in line with international standards.The soccer world is taking notice of the campaign for better conditions. Denmarks national team said in a statement Wednesday that it wouldn't take part in promotional activities at the World Cup to mark the continuing struggle for the improvement of human rights in Qatar. Instead of the normal logos of commercial sponsors, the Danish players shirts will display what the statement said are critical messages.In March, Norway and Germany both took to the field before matches wearing shirts emblazoned with human rights slogans.Workers' accommodations during a tour of the construction site of Al Bayt stadium in Doha, Qatar, on Jan. 9, 2017.Lars Baron / Bongarts/Getty Images fileThe number of migrant workers who have died while working in Qatar is disputed  human rights campaigners acknowledge that there is no single reliable figure. Official Qatari statistics show that 15,021 non-Qataris died from 2010 to 2019 across the country, counting all causes of death.The Qatari Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy of the 2022 World Cup, which the government created in 2011, says there have been just 38 deaths since 2015 among migrants working on official tournament projects, 35 of which were classed as non-work-related.Soccers international governing body, FIFA, said in a statement that the World Cup has contributed significantly to labor conditions across Qatar through the Supreme Committees Workers Welfare Program.The robustness of this program has been recognised repeatedly by experts and trade unions over the years, and as stated in a recent U.N. report, constitutes impressive changes and sweeping reforms within the country, said Alois Hug, a FIFA spokesperson.International Labor Organization statistics show a much higher rate of occupational deaths for other countries: Armenia recorded 13.6 deaths per 100,000 workers in 2016; Egypt had 10.6 per 100,000 in 2018. Qatars figure from 2016 is 1.7.Our commitment to workers welfare has resulted in significant improvements in accommodation standards, health and safety regulations, grievance mechanisms, health care provision, and reimbursements of illegal recruitment fees to workers, the Supreme Committee said in an emailed statement.RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store The Government Communications Office of Qatar said in response to questions that no other country has come so far on labor reform in such a short amount of time.The government is committed to engaging collaboratively and constructively with international partners and critics to further improve standards for all migrant workers in Qatar, it said in a statement.The recent reforms include banning working outside during the hottest part of the day; a new monthly minimum wage of 1,000 riyals (around $275), plus payments for food and accommodation if they aren't included in contracts; and annual health checks.It also scrapped the system of kafala, in which workers gave up their passports and couldn't leave the country or change jobs without permission from their employers, a practice still common across parts of the Middle East, which trade union groups have described as a form of modern slavery.Qatar's 2022 FIFA World Cup Lusail stadium is seen under construction. Getty Images fileFor families who have lost loved ones, the reforms came too late, campaigners say.This 2022 World Cup, I often call it the blood diamond of World Cups, said Barun Ghimire, a human rights lawyer in Nepal, the home country of thousands of migrant workers in Qatar. Its a bloodstained cup. Everyone knows migrant workers are dying. And they [the workers] did not know about this risk.Ghimire described representing the families of men who have died while working in Qatar as emotionally devastating.In some cases, Ghimire said, families have had to wait days before they are informed of a death and then arent told the cause.This is someone whos taken a loan, goes abroad with the hope of making their future and making some money, and as a result of work conditions or other factors they die, and at least I think the family deserves to know how they died, he said.Ghimire is lobbying the Nepali government to stop what he says is a cycle of abuse that can often start in workers home countries, where agencies lend money to poor, vulnerable people, often at extreme interest rates, to cover airfare and migration fees.The Nepali government temporarily shut down three recruitment agencies in December for breaking the rules about interviews for jobs offered in Qatar.Someone who is going abroad, they dont understand financial systems, they dont go to banks. They take a loan from the informal sector, Ghimire said. Those who do not die can often end up in a debt trap and have to pay a huge sum of interest to those who provided the loan.When this happens well all enjoy it and support our team, but on the backside of it, these stadiums and facilities are constructed on the dead bodies of migrant workers from one of the poorest regions in the world, Ghimire said.Speaking by phone early one evening last month, a construction worker, 44, said he didn't want to stay up too late because his shift started the next day at 6 a.m. The worker asked not to be named for fear of retribution from his employers for speaking to the media.Workers in their accommodations at Al Bayt stadium in Doha, Qatar, on Jan. 9, 2017.Lars Baron / Bongarts/Getty Images fileFor some workers, the trip to their worksite is two hours, he said, and that's without the added complication of sandstorms, which, even in the middle of Doha, Qatars capital, can halt work entirely.He was positive about the changes Qatar has made in workers rights, which means there is no working outside from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. during the summer, but he said it wasnt always so. Have migrant workers died because of heat exhaustion?Yeah, before, but now its very strict on working outside. The climate is very difficult, he said.Qatar 2022, which will be played in the winter because of the regions extreme heat, will be the first in an Arab country. The record high temperature for Doha is 122.7 degrees F, set in 2010. Even in November, temperatures can reach 86 degrees F.The worker has been in Qatar since 2014 and earns the minimum wage, sending 60 percent of the money home to his family in the Philippines, like the vast majority of migrant workers here who send money to their home countries.He is working on Al Thumama stadium in Doha, which, according to the Qatar 2022 Organizing Committee, is 12km (7.5 miles) south of Dohas glittering skyline and seafront promenade. Its design is based on the ghafiya, a traditional cap worn by men and boys across the Middle East seen as a symbol of dignity and independence.The 40,000 fans who will pack the stadium when the World Cup kicks off next November may not realize that many of the workers who built it couldnt legally change jobs or return to their home countries until recent labor reforms took effect.The construction worker was adamant, however, that he will stay for two or three more years: I think more and more migrants in Qatar are staying here because [work] cant support me in the Philippines. Im trying my best to change my life.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Jamal Khashoggi's fiance pens letter asking Justin Bieber not to perform in Saudi Arabia. The fiance of the slain Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi has published an open letter in The Washington Post asking the singer Justin Bieber to cancel his performance at a Formula One race in Saudi Arabia.In the letter, Hatice Cengiz urged Bieber to cancel his scheduled Dec. 5 performance in the Red Sea city of Jiddah to "send a powerful message to the world that your name and talent will not be used to restore the reputation of a regime that kills its critics."Khashoggi's "brutal murder made headlines all over the world," Cengiz wrote. "Ever since, many human rights organizations and individuals, including myself, have been calling for justice and accountability."Cengiz said she believed Bieber was traveling to Saudi Arabia to perform for his fans, but she encouraged him to think of those who have suffered at the hands of the government."I know that you are dedicated to your fans and are traveling to Saudi Arabia on their behalf. However, there are hundreds of Saudis, of all ages, backgrounds and religious beliefs, languishing in prison, punished for merely expressing their opposition to the merciless Saudi dictatorship of" Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, she wrote.Bieber is one of several performers scheduled to appear at the Jiddah race, including the rapper A$AP Rocky, the DJs David Guetta and Tiesto and the singer Jason Derulo. Bieber is arguably the most famous of the group.Some stars, like Nicki Minaj, have canceled shows after they came under public pressure, but others, like Mariah Carey, have gone ahead with performances since the death of Khashoggi, a writer and former government spokesman."Please know that your invitation to participate in a concert in Jiddah comes directly from MBS, as the crown prince is known," Cengiz wrote in her open letter to Bieber. "Nothing of significance happens in Saudi Arabia without his consent, and certainly not an event as important and flashy as this."Khashoggi's stunning killing in 2018 was carried out by a team of 15 Saudi government agents who had been sent to Istanbul, where he had an appointment at the Saudi Consulate for documents he needed to marry Cengiz. She waited for him outside the consulate, but he never walked out. His body was never found.RelatedInvestigationsInvestigationsU.S. concludes Saudi crown prince approved Khashoggi killing, new intel report to sayThe killing by agents who worked for the crown prince drew international outrage and cast a shadow over Prince Mohammed, whose reputation has never fully recovered. Prince Mohammed has maintained that he had no prior knowledge of the operation that killed Khashoggi. A U.S. intelligence assessment made public under President Joe Biden, however, determined that the crown prince approved the operation.Bieber will open a world tour in February that was rescheduled from last year because of the coronavirus pandemic.Since then, Saudi Arabia's state-owned sovereign wealth fund  steered by Prince Mohammed  scooped up shares in Live Nation, the company that owns Ticketmaster and promotes concerts for Bieber and other major stars. As Live Nation's shares plummeted last year during Covid-19 lockdowns and the cancellations of thousands of shows, the Public Investment Fund bought $500 million worth of shares in the battered company.Public filings show that the Saudi wealth fund is now the second largest institutional holder in Live Nation, with a stake worth about $1.4 billion.Human Rights Watch has also called on Bieber and the other performers to pull out of the Formula One concerts in Saudi Arabia, saying the events are aimed at "sportwashing" by diverting attention from and deflecting scrutiny of Saudi Arabia's human rights record.Saudi youths are the main attendees of these concerts, enjoying the country's social changes, which allow for music and gender mixing. The kingdom's General Sports Authority argues that sports are a tool for social change in the kingdom.Next month's F1 race will be the first premier sporting event hosted by Saudi Arabia; the kingdom has hosted the lesser-known Formula-E race in the past to raise its profile as a tourist destination.At the time of Khashoggi's killing, the crown prince was being lauded for ushering in social reforms transforming life for many in the country. Khashoggi had been writing columns for The Washington Post criticizing the crown prince's brash foreign policy moves and simultaneous crackdown on activists and perceived critics, including women's rights activists, writers, clerics and economists.Saudi Arabia held a trial for some of those involved in his killing, sentencing five of them to death before sparing them execution.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
From Rock to Bond? Dwayne Johnson says he wants to play James Bond. Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson has his eyes on a new role: 007.In an interview with Esquire, Johnson said he wants to play the famous secret agent with a license to kill now that actor Daniel Craig's tenure as the character has come to a close."I would like to follow in his footsteps and be the next Bond," Johnson told Esquire.He added that he has no desire to play one of the iconic bad guys who have graced the film series since its inception in 1962."I don't want to be a villain," he said. "You gotta be Bond."RelatedPop CulturePop Culture'He's a legend': Daniel Craig's new Bond movie is his last. What's next for the franchise?Several men have portrayed the British icon, including Sean Connery, Pierce Brosnan, and Craig.Craig has had the role since 2006, and wrapped up his final appearance with the film "No Time To Die," which was released last month.RecommendedTVTV'SNL' views Kyle Rittenhouse verdict through red-state lensesPop Culture NewsPop Culture News'Tiger King' Joe Exotic moved to North Carolina facility after cancer diagnosisIn the Esquire interview, Johnson touched on several topics beyond Bond, including that he urinates in bottles during his workouts.He said the gyms he works out in often don't have restrooms, so instead he uses old water bottles to relieve himself.Its not a water bottle that Ive actually purchased solely for water that you wash and clean when youre done using it. These are just bottles that Im no longer using," he said.
'Ghostbusters: Afterlife' scares up $44M at the North American box office. Ghostbusters: Afterlife, Sonys latest attempt to resurrect the beloved 1980s movie franchise, grossed $44 million at the North American box office over the weekend.The supernatural comedy also earned $16 million in 31 foreign markets, according to studio estimates Sunday. It is playing exclusively in theaters.Afterlife, the fourth entry in the Ghostbusters saga and a sequel to 1989s Ghostbusters II, attempts to introduce the franchise to a younger generation of viewers who were not reared on Blockbuster Video and other Generation X hallmarks.The film stars Finn Wolfhard (Stranger Things), Mckenna Grace (Troop Zero), Carrie Coon (Gone Girl) and Paul Rudd (Peoples Sexiest Man Alive), and features not-so-secret cameos from some of the first movies cast members.Afterlife" moves the action from New York City to a middle-of-nowhere town in Oklahoma, where two siblings discover a realm of ghosts, ghouls and demonically possessed Stay-Puft Marshmallow Men.The movie was directed by Jason Reitman (Juno), whose father, Ivan Reitman, helmed the first two installments. Paul Feig (Bridesmaids) oversaw the third installment, a female-led reboot that drew intense sexist and racist backlash before it even hit theaters in 2016.Afterlife garnered mixed reviews from professional critics, and some have knocked the project for being too slavishly devoted to the nostalgia of the Reagan-era originals.RecommendedTVTV'SNL' views Kyle Rittenhouse verdict through red-state lensesPop Culture NewsPop Culture NewsFrom Rock to Bond? Dwayne Johnson says he wants to play James BondIn trying to please everyone, Ghostbusters: Afterlife should ultimately please no one except the most hardcore of fans whose idea of a fun time at the movies is pointing at things theyve seen before, Tribune News Service critic Katie Walsh wrote.The weekends other major release, the uplifting tennis drama King Richard, served up a modest $5.7 million from 3,302 locations  the latest sign that non-blockbuster dramas are struggling at the pandemic box office."Non-blockbuster dramas have had a tougher time gaining traction in this marketplace, particularly those aimed at more mature audiences who, when given the option, may opt to view these films at home," said Paul Dergarabedian, a media analyst at Comscore, which tracks box office data.The movie, like other 2021 projects from Warner Bros., debuted simultaneously on HBO Max, which does not disclose viewership data."King Richard" also debuted in the United Kingdom, Russia and 28 other small overseas territories, where it grossed a total of $2.5 million from 2,111 screens, according to studio estimates.King Richard stars Will Smith as Richard Williams, who relentlessly pushed his daughters Venus (Saniyya Sidney) and Serena (Demi Singleton) to the heights of athletic greatness.The biopic drew mostly positive reviews, and Smith is widely seen as a lock for a best actor nomination at next years Academy Awards. (He has been nominated twice before, for his roles in 2001s Ali and 2006s The Pursuit of Happyness.)Entertainment Weekly critic Leah Greenblatt wrote that the movie manages to be both a surprisingly nuanced portrait of a flawed and deeply complicated man and the kind of classic-uplift sports movie that used to fill multiplexes once upon a time.
Armored truck spills money on California freeway, sparking cash-grab frenzy. An armored truck dropped loads of cash onto a freeway in Carlsbad, California, causing a major traffic jam as motorists hopped out of their vehicles to scoop up the bills  but authorities say drivers need to return the money or face possible criminal charges. Shortly before 9:15 a.m. Friday, the California Highway Patrol, or CHP, began getting 911 calls about cash scattered across part of Interstate 5 near Cannon Road. CHP and the FBI, which are investigating, said several people got out of their vehicles to chase after the money. "Many of the motorists returned the money immediately to the officers; however, there were motorists observed driving from the scene with stolen money," they said in a joint statement. "The CHP would like to thank those motorists who have already returned money to their local CHP office and remind the public to do the right thing and return any money they found on the freeway."Authorities said videos and photos that were posted on social media recorded people's faces and vehicles' license plate numbers. The agencies released several photos showing people scooping up the bills. In one photo, a woman wearing a grey hoodie is seen laughing as she holds a wad of cash in her arm. Other photos released by authorities were screen grabs taken from an Instagram video posted by the fitness influencer Demi Bagby. "This is the most insane thing Ive ever seen," Bagby says in the video, which she shared with her more than 2 million followers. "Someone dropped money all over the freeway." RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store As Bagby pans the camera, people are seen grabbing cash from the street. Bagby did not immediately respond to a request for comment Saturday. The CHP and the FBI said Friday that anyone who took money needs to return it within 48 hours "in order to avoid a potential criminal charge."Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Dozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store  . Dozens of looters descended on a Nordstrom store and stole merchandise Saturday night in a raid that was over within a minute, police in Walnut Creek, California, said. About 80 people rushed into the store in the citys Broadway Plaza, a police spokesperson said. The spokesperson said that an employee was pepper-sprayed and that two others were punched and kicked. All three sustained minor injuries and were treated and released at the scene, the spokesperson said.     The suspects were in and out of the store, which was open at the time, within a minute, the spokesperson said, adding that an undetermined amount of merchandise was taken. Jodi Hernandez, a reporter for NBC Bay Area, was near the store when the raid took place. She tweeted that about 25 cars blocked the street. People in the cars rushed into the store and jumped back into their cars before they sped away with goods, she said.Hernandez said it appeared that most looters got away. A video she took showed police officers arresting and handcuffing some people. An officer can also be seen pointing a weapon at one of the drivers.Nordstrom did not immediately respond to a request for comment. RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsArmored truck spills money on California freeway, sparking cash-grab frenzyBrett Barrett, who works at a nearby restaurant in Walnut Creek, northeast of Oakland, told NBC Bay Area that he saw 50 to 80 people in ski masks carrying crowbars.I had to start locking the front door, the back door, he said. You never know, they could have come right in here.Download the NBC News app for breaking news and politicsThree people have been arrested so far, police said. Two were arrested immediately on suspicion of robbery, conspiracy, burglary and possession of stolen property. One of the two had a firearm and faces a weapons charge, police said. A third person was found not long after the incident and also faced charges.Walnut Creek police also confirmed that the incident was not linked to a series of protests that have taken place across the country over the non-guilty verdict in the trial of Kyle Rittenhouse.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4. JERUSALEM  A Palestinian gunman killed one person and injured four other people when he opened fire near the entrance to a flashpoint holy site in Jerusalem, Israeli police said Sunday. It was the second deadly incident in Jerusalems historic Old City in recent days.The "shooting attack" killed an Israeli civilian and injured two others, a police spokesperson said, adding that two officers were also slightly injured. The gunman, 42, was shot dead by officers, said the spokesperson, who added that a knife was also found at the scene, along with the weapon the man used to carry out the attack.  Download the NBC News app for breaking news and politicsDescribing the attack as a heroic operation, the militant group Hamas said in a statement that the gunman was one of its members.   The incident took place near an entrance to a contested shrine known to Jews as the Temple Mount and to Muslims as the Noble Sanctuary. It is considered holy by both faiths. Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett expressed his support for the victims at the start of the weekly Cabinet meeting and said he had directed the country's security forces to be on alert to prevent similar attacks.Sundays incident was the second of its kind in Jerusalems historic Old City in recent days. A Palestinian teen was fatally shot Wednesday after having stabbed two Israeli border police officers.The officers were hospitalized, and the teen, identified as a 16-year-old from East Jerusalem, was pronounced dead at the scene.Examining the complicated history of the Israeli-Palestinian conflictMay 19, 202105:01Shootings around Jerusalems Old City and its holy sites are relatively rare, and Israel maintains a sizable security presence in the area.Palestinians have nonetheless carried out dozens of stabbing, shooting and car-ramming attacks targeting Israeli civilians and security personnel in recent years. Israel captured East Jerusalem, including the Old City and its Christian, Muslim and Jewish holy sites, along with the West Bank and the Gaza Strip in the 1967 Middle East war. It later annexed East Jerusalem in a move unrecognized by most of the international community.The Palestinians seek the occupied West Bank and Gaza for a future independent state, with East Jerusalem as its capital.Lawahez Jabari reported from Jerusalem, Paul Goldman from Tel Aviv and Yuliya Talmazan from London.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Could Kyle Rittenhouse face civil penalties despite acquittals in Kenosha deaths? . As an 18-year-old online college student, Kyle Rittenhouse wouldn't appear to have deep pockets to pay for any award should he face and lose  a civil trial in the shooting deaths of the two men he was acquitted of killing on Friday. But Rittenhouse has proven to be a prodigious fundraiser when it comes to gathering resources to pay for his bail and defense in the wake of the deadly violence last year in the aftermath of the police shooting of Jacob Blake in Kenosha, Wisc."He's a public figure now, and money might come in," said Ion Meyn, who teaches law at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. "I'm not convinced there's nothing there."  Supporters have already given more than $2 million for his legal defense.If Rittenhouse were taken to civil trial for wrongful death, the teen could claim self-defense, as he did during the criminal case. He has said that he went to Kenosha to protect property from rioters but that he came under attack and feared for his life when he shot three people, two of them fatally. But the burden of proof civil plaintiffs need to make, by a preponderance of evidence rather than beyond a reasonable doubt, is much lower than what Kenosha prosecutors faced during the criminal trial, legal experts say."In a civil case you just have to prove negligence," said Rory Little, a professor at the University of California Hastings College of Law. "Did his conduct fall below the standard of care that the average person would have?"Rittenhouse "could say, 'I didn't have the intent to kill anyone  I just panicked,'" Little added. "The jury could still say, 'We didn't think the average person would do what you did.' If your conduct is judged to be less than that, you lose."A civil action would also allow a jury to examine a broader range of evidence.In the criminal case against Rittenhouse, Judge Bruce Schroeder barred jurors from considering Rittenhouse's links to the sometimes-violent, far-right Proud Boys and from seeing a video that prosecutors said showed him injuring a teenage girl. Instead, jurors were told to focus on the few moments before the shootings  or what Little called "a narrow piece of the day's action.""In a civil case, you can broaden the field," he said. "You can look into things like, what was he doing there?"Kariann Swart, Joseph Rosenbaum's fiance, Susan Hughes, Anthony Huber's great-aunt, and Hannah Gittings, Anthony Huber's girlfriend, listen to the verdict during Kyle Rittenhouse's trial at the County Courthouse in Kenosha, Wis., on Nov. 19, 2021.Sean Krajacic / Pool via ReutersEven if there's no financial payout for taking Rittenhouse to civil court, the symbolic value of such action could be of emotional value to the victims' families.The families of Ron Goldman and Denise Brown famously took O.J. Simpson to civil court after a criminal jury cleared the former football star of double murder. A civil panel found Simpson liable for Goldman and Brown's deaths, though Simpson has paid only a fraction of the $33.5 million judgment."It would make a statement, and theres definitely people who want to return something else, provide another view," Meyn said."That could be worth something, giving (the victims' families) a certain amount of accountability that the criminal justice system couldn't afford them." Jeff Scott Olson, a civil rights lawyer in Madison, Wisc., said that even though Rittenhouse probably isn't worth a "hill of beans," a civil judgment against him would function as a lien against his assets for years."Maybe he'd come into money," Olson said.The federal government will also likely investigate to determine if a criminal civil rights violation occurred, Little said.  Authorities are unlikely to bring such charges, because the burden of proof  beyond a reasonable doubt  is the same as state criminal court, he said. But every once in a while it happens. Little pointed to the aftermath of the brutal beating of Rodney King in 1991, when four Los Angeles police officers were acquitted of excessive use of force. The year after the acquittal, in a separate case, federal authorities secured convictions against two of the officers for violating King's civil rights. The officers served 30 months in prison.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Build Back Better vote eases Democratic tensions, raises McCarthy's profile. WASHINGTON  Progressives celebrated a giant step toward expanding the social safety net. Centrist Democrats secured some top legislative demands. And House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy won plaudits from conservatives for a lengthy floor speech that delayed passage of the Build Back Better Act.From a political perspective, all sides had something to crow about after Fridays largely party-line vote on the $1.7 trillion spending package.For Democrats, tensions between progressives and moderates subsided after months of infighting over policy and procedural differences relating to the safety net and infrastructure bills.Progressive fears that a faction of centrists, led by Rep. Josh Gottheimer, D-N.J., was scheming to sink the Build Back Better legislation proved unfounded. Liberals for months prevented passage of the $550 billion infrastructure bill to use as leverage before eventually relenting two weeks ago, when the House passed the bipartisan measure. Centrists in turn voted for the larger bill shortly after they received the cost estimate they wanted from the Congressional Budget Office.President Biden looks to push Build Back Better plan through the SenateNov. 20, 202101:10And with their votes, Gottheimer and others in the group secured a major policy priority in the bill by raising the $10,000 cap on state and local tax deductions, established by Republicans in 2017, to $80,000. The cap hits residents of high-tax states like New York and New Jersey the hardest.For some New Jerseyans, it was personal. The state sends more money to the U.S. Treasury than it receives in federal funding, and the deduction cap widened that disparity by limiting residents' tax deductions.Gottheimer, co-chair of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus, celebrated the provision after the House vote.Progressives, meanwhile, were elated that the House passed a dramatic expansion of the social safety net  including universal pre-K and money for child care, housing and health care  and approved record spending to combat climate change."This historic Build Back Better Act delivers on our promise to provide transformative investments in working people across America that will allow them to wake up feeling differently about their daily lives and the opportunities their families have," said Rep. Pramila Jayapal, D-Wash., progressive caucus chair.McCarthy, for his part, used the occasion to shine a spotlight on the House bill, delivering a speech spanning 8 hours and 32 minutes that delayed a planned Thursday evening vote and broke a record previously held by Speaker Nancy Pelosi for longest floor speech.Rep. Kevin McCarthy makes 9-hour speech to stall vote on Build Back Better billNov. 19, 202102:40The lengthy remarks by the California Republican attacked numerous aspects of Bidens presidency and "one-party rule" by Democrats in Washington. He called the opposition party reckless and spendthrift in a speech that provided a smorgasbord of red meat to the Republican base and covered an array of unrelated topics from Elon Musk to Afghanistan policy.McCarthy appeared to have reached his audience.RecommendedPolitics NewsPolitics NewsFueled by Trump-inspired grievance, attempts to terrorize public officials escalateWhite HouseWhite HouseFor the unvaccinated, Biden bets billions on Covid treatments as another surge threatensOn Friday afternoon, former President Donald Trump released a statement praising the minority leader: "Great job by Kevin McCarthy last night, setting a record by going over 8 hours of speaking on the House Floor in order to properly oppose Communism," he said.McCarthy's top priority is to win back control of the House from Democrats next year and become speaker, a goal that will likely require help from Trump and his supporters. He won praise from some staunch Trump allies, including Rep. Matt Gaetz, R-Fla., after his speech.At the end of the night, some Democrats cheekily thanked McCarthy for drawing attention to a bill that remains popular with the U.S. public in polls, even as Biden's job approval rating has taken a hit.The drama surrounding the vote gave some rank-and-file members a new opportunity to garner attention on the national stage.Seconds before the vote on passage was announced, Rep. Kat Cammack, R-Fla., took to the House floor to announce several Republican proxy votes, and declared that she's voting "hell no" on the bill, dubbing it "Build Back Broke.""And good luck in the Senate," she said.Moments later, Pelosi was asked to respond to McCarthy breaking her record for longest speech."No, I barely noticed," she quipped before pivoting back to celebrating the contents of the legislation.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service 
Transgender people in 'survival mode' as violence rises, anti-trans bills become law. On Saturday, Que Bell will help lead a vigil for Transgender Day of Remembrance, an annual observance to honor the memory of transgender homicide victims that began in 1999.Bell has led these vigils before. He is the executive director of the Knights and Orchids Society, a nonprofit group based in Selma, Alabama, that supports Black transgender, queer and gender-nonconforming people, and he has been an advocate for more than a decade. But this year will be different.This is literally the first time that Ill have to write down my best friends name for a TDOR celebration, Bell said, using the initialism for Transgender Day of Remembrance. Its really going to hit differently.Bells best friend, Mel Groves, died Oct. 11 after having been shot multiple times. Groves, 25, a Black transgender man, was studying plant and soil science at Alcorn State University in Lorman, Mississippi. Just before he died, he was about to become the full-time community garden manager for the Knights and Orchids Society.Mel Groves, a farmer from Jackson, Miss.Courtesy Mel GrovesBut on Saturday, Bell will light a candle in Groves' memory.Groves is one of at least 47 transgender or gender-nonconforming people  and one of 28 Black trans people  to have died by violence in 2021, which has surpassed 2020 to become the deadliest year on record for trans people, according to the Human Rights Campaign, which has been tracking fatal anti-trans violence since 2013. A disproportionate number of the deaths have been in the Southeast.State legislatures across the country this year have also considered a record number of anti-transgender bills  more than 100  many of which target trans youths, specifically trans girls. Advocates say the rhetoric coming out of legislatures is connected to the violence, because it describes transgender girls as boys and vice versa and, in many cases, characterizes trans people as predators on sports teams or in bathrooms.Transgender Day of Remembrance is also known as Transgender Day of Remembrance and Resilience  the latter part an effort to remind people that while trans people face disproportionate discrimination and violence, they are also leading grassroots efforts to make things better for their communities.Deadnaming, misgendering and clearance ratesBell said that he and Groves friends and family ultimately want the person who killed Groves brought to justice but that he doesnt have confidence in the police investigation.When the Jackson Police Department first reported on Groves death, it used his legal name and misgendered him, causing local news outlets to repeat the mistakes. Groves loved ones had to reach out while grieving his loss to ask news outlets to update their stories to reflect who Groves actually was. Some updated their stories; others said they couldnt change them without confirmation from law enforcement authorities or Groves immediate family.A week after Groves died, Jackson police provided the same statement to NBC News that they first issued, which used his birth name (also known as deadnaming) and misgendered him. The police department hasnt responded to a request for comment about whether it plans to update the statement.Bell said police officials need to be more educated about what the trans community faces; otherwise, he said, they will be unable to solve the case. He recalled one officer's public statement that he would investigate Groves' death just like any other. That is totally avoiding the issue, Bell said. I want you to be knowledgeable enough to know that, when something happens to trans people, how your department should be reacting to it and how you can help, versus being so defensive about acknowledging that this happened because it was a trans issue.Bell said police need to understand that anti-trans violence is connected to discrimination and higher rates of homelessness, among other issues that trans people face, or were never going to be able to solve the problem.Jaida Peterson, a transgender woman, was found dead in a hotel room in Charlotte, N.C., on April 4, 2021.AP / NBC NewsAnti-trans fatal violence cases nationwide appear to have a lower average clearance rate  the percentage of cases in which someone has been arrested, charged and turned over to a court for prosecution  than fatal violence cases in general, said Brendan Lantz, an assistant professor of criminology and criminal justice at Florida State University.Lantz and his research team at the universitys Hate Crime Research and Policy Institute are creating the first database to track fatal violence against the transgender community. Although the Human Rights Campaign and other nonprofit groups track such deaths, the database Lantzs team is creating, which will date to 2012, also tracks characteristics of the offenses, victims background information, perpetrators information, handling by police departments (including whether victims were misgendered or deadnamed) and whether cases have been solved, among other information.TransAmericaJune 17, 202152:10Preliminary data, which Lantz said are subject to change, show that the nationwide clearance rate for fatal anti-trans violence is about 44 percent, which is well below the national average of 60 percent to 70 percent.Early patterns also show that theres very likely a correlation between the prevalence of deadnaming or misgendering by police and the likelihood of clearing a case, he said.Evidence is important when police are trying to solve a homicide, he said, and if were not even using the correct name, obtaining that evidence isnt particularly easy to do, right?RecommendedOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop Culture'Sort Of' depicts transitions as an inevitable part of lifeOUT NewsOUT NewsFormula One racing star wears LGBTQ Pride helmet at Qatar Grand PrixWitnesses are less likely to come forward, and a lot of issues enter the equation, he said.Transgender rights groups say anti-trans sentiment, reflected in bills considered in dozens of states, affects how trans people are treated, including by police. Police initially misgendered victims and used their birth names in reporting on 30 of the 46 known deaths, an NBC News analysis found.Since 2013, about 80 percent of trans people in deaths involving trans people with available data were initially misgendered by the media or law enforcement, according to a report released Wednesday by the Human Rights Campaign. An NBC News analysis of this years cases found that victims in 73 percent of investigations were misgendered or deadnamed by police, compared to 59 percent of cases in which someone was arrested and charged.A sense of survival modeTrans advocates say some policymakers and national advocacy organizations are quick to suggest police reform as a solution. But while many of them agree that improving police competence and investigations is important, they say the strategy addresses the issue only after the fact  when people have already died.That leaves many in the transgender community feeling unsafe, which has led some of them to take their safety and well-being into their own hands.When you get tired of depending on a system to protect you that you know was not designed to protect you or to support you, you realize that youre literally wasting time and resources putting money into a system that is not going to change, Bell said. So instead ... we decided to start investing in the things that we could tangibly change.Advocates like Bell say community organizations should be given more resources and support, because they know how to best keep their people safe and help them thrive  by providing them with gender-affirming health care, as the Knights and Orchids Society does, or housing, as a number of trans-led groups across the country do.Mariah Moore, a national trans rights activist and a co-director of the House of Tulip, a nonprofit collective creating housing solutions for trans people in Louisiana, said: Its so important that we support community-led initiatives, because those folks leading those initiatives are actually folks who have that lived experience and are able to speak to the needs and actually distribute those resources directly to impacted community members. Trans United Leading Intersectional Progress, or TULIP, is a nonprofit collective creating housing solutions for trans people in Louisiana.House of TulipBell echoed that sentiment with respect to funding for nonprofit groups. He said that many people support and know of national advocacy organizations but that the groups arent providing emergency housing or money for trans people.Im committed to this work to always keep trans folks safe, he said, adding that he has been evicted twice in the past because he has provided a place for people experiencing homelessness to stay, some of them as young as 13.That comes out of a sense of survival mode, he said. I dont have a lot, but what I do have I want to share with the folks who are like me who also dont have.In neighboring Georgia, Toni-Michelle Williams, the executive director of the Atlanta-based Solutions Not Punishment Collaborative, a Black trans- and queer-led organization that builds community safety through organizing and leadership training, said the group has supported more than 160 people through its Taking Care of Our Own Fund, which provides funding for emergency bail, housing, health care and other needs.The group provided the support with less than 3 percent of $15 million, Williams said, which represents this year's budget increase for the Atlanta Police Department. Just imagine what we could do for our communities  Black trans and queer folks, sex workers, formerly incarcerated people  with at least 3 percent of that funding, she said. I definitely just want to encourage people to continue to push and to join our side around what it means to reallocate funding from these large institutions that have so many resources. Our communities are in need of them.Looking ahead, Bell said hes determined not to lose another Mel.I want to do everything I can to make sure that we dont have any more Mel Groves  that we dont have another person who slips through the cracks, that for whatever reason we have the resources to make sure that folks have a fighting chance, he said.A memorial was held for Mel Groves in Jackson, Miss., in October.Courtesy TC Caldwell/The Knights and Orchids Society.He added that he feels as though he has done a disservice to trans people who have been killed in the past. Because what I dont want people to remember about Mel is that he was the 39th person murdered, Bell said. And thats often what happens when we lose somebody, is that the tragedy of their death is highlighted over their legacy, their purpose and all the good things that they have contributed to the world during their time.He wants people to remember that Groves was a promising scientist and that his professors bragged about him and his research after his death. He loved Nat King Cole, he had a smile that made people want to talk to him, and he always offered to share food with his friends.FollowNBC OutonTwitter,Facebook&InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Pennsylvania teen had his hands up when fatally shot by State Police, new videos show. This article was produced in partnership with Spotlight PA, a collaborative newsroom that produces investigative journalism for Pennsylvania.STROUDSBURG, Pa.  A Chinese American teenager who was fatally shot by Pennsylvania State Police last year had his hands in the air when troopers opened fire, new videos reveal, prompting calls for an independent investigation.The videos, recorded by the State Police, show the final moments of Christian Halls life on the afternoon of Dec. 30, 2020.Hall, 19, who had been diagnosed with depression, was standing on the ledge of a highway overpass near Stroudsburg, in northeastern Pennsylvania, when troopers arrived. They tried to persuade him to get down, but when they saw he had a gun  later determined to be a realistic pellet gun  they backed away.Video previously released by the Monroe County district attorney shows Hall raising his hands in the air, with the gun in one hand, after a trooper fired bullets that struck the bridge.But the final seconds before he was killed were blurred by authorities.New videos show Pennsylvania State Police fatally shooting Christian HallNov. 17, 202103:01The full version of the videos  obtained by Spotlight PA and NBC News from Halls parents, whose lawyer received them through a subpoena  shows that Hall kept his hands above his head for 14 seconds in all. The videos show that Halls hands were still in the air, the gun in one hand, as two troopers fired another series of shots and he crumpled to the ground.State Police troopers from outside the local barracks investigated the killing and turned the findings over to the Monroe County district attorney, who ruled it justified, saying the lives of the troopers on scene were in danger.Michael Mancuso, an assistant district attorney, called Halls death a classic suicide by cop scenario at a news conference in March.But the fatal shooting drew protests from activists who questioned why State Police had opened fire on a teenager who appeared to be suicidal and needed help. Protesters also raised concerns about whether Monroe County District Attorney E. David Christine Jr. could make an unbiased call given that his office regularly works with troopers to build cases.Halls parents have begun the process of suing the two troopers who shot their son(the troopers names have not been released). They said they released the full videos because they believe Halls death merits more scrutiny, and they hope to spark fresh calls for an independent review.I would like to see an unbiased investigation take place, said Gareth Hall, Christians father. I personally would like to see those police officers brought up on charges.Ben Crump and Devon M. Jacob, the lawyers for George Floyds family, who are now representing Halls parents, said the troopers should not have shot Hall.Everybody knows when you put your hands in the air thats the universal sign of surrender, Crump said. Why use the most excessive force?Protesters hold the street for seven minutes in honor of Christian Hall in Philadelphia on Feb. 12, 2021.Cory Clark / NurPhoto via APIn October, Crump and Jacob sent letters to the U.S. Justice Department, FBI, and Pennsylvanias attorney general asking for a new investigation into Halls shooting and the response to it by the State Police and Christines office. The FBI and the Justice Department declined to comment. A spokesperson for the attorney generals office said it does not have jurisdiction because the local district attorney has not referred the case to it.The letters accuse Christines office of falsely implying that Hall threatened troopers with the gun in the final moments before he was shot, while the full videos show that the gun remained above Halls head. The district attorneys narrative and the blurred video lead the viewer to believe that in the redacted portion of the video, Christian pointed the weapon at troopers and advanced on troopers; thereby justifying the use of deadly force, the letters state.In response to questions and an interview request, Christines office released a statement saying it stood by its finding that the shooting was justified.Col. Robert Evanchick, the State Police commissioner, declined a request to be interviewed. The department could not comment because of pending litigation, a spokesperson said.Three use-of-force experts who reviewed the videos for Spotlight PA and NBC News were divided on whether the troopers were right to shoot, but all said independent reviews are superior because they increase public faith in the process.Christian Hall's parents call for investigation into shootingNov. 18, 202104:05Karlin Chan, a community activist who focuses on anti-Asian hate in New York City and helped organize a rally there two months after Halls death, believes the case deserves more attention.Hes been in touch with Halls family and watched the district attorneys March news conference on Halls death. He believes Hall was inaccurately painted as a criminal not deserving of sympathy.We cant let this go, he said. Were basically after accountability. Were after the truth.Activists left flowers for youth victims of alleged police brutality, including Christian Hall, center, at Washington Square Park in New York on April 28, 2021.Anadolu Agency / Anadolu Agency via Getty ImagesHalls childhoodGareth Hall, who is Black and Latino, and Fe Hall, who is Filipino, adopted Hall from China in 2002 when he was a baby. They moved from New York City to the Poconos hoping to give him an idyllic childhood in an environment they thought would be safer.As a child, Hall was diagnosed with reactive attachment disorder, a serious condition sometimes found in adopted children that makes it difficult for them to connect with their parents and interact with others. The disorder can be a result of not having basic needs met as early as infancy. Treatments include counseling for children and education for their parents, but experts say more research needs to be done.Hall often ran away from home, though Gareth Hall said the family could always find him by the end of the day.At age 10, his parents said, he accidentally started a fire while playing with matches, damaging an empty room in a nursing home. No one was injured, but he spent the next four years in juvenile detention.Christian Hall's parents adopted him from China in 2002 when he was a baby.Fred Adams for Spotlight PA and NBC NewsAfter he was released, at 14, he ran away, violating his probation. Hall was sent back to the states custody. His parents said he was never charged with another crime, but that he cycled in and out of juvenile incarceration after continually running away from home.Hall was released from juvenile detention in 2020 and was living with his parents when he went with them on Dec. 29 to visit his aunt on her birthday. On the way home, Hall started talking about his former girlfriend, Gareth Hall said. Another man had apparently threatened to kill himself over her.Halls father was immediately concerned.Do I believe Christian was suicidal? No. But I believe he planned on putting on a good show, Gareth Hall said. He was going to show her that he was going to go beyond what that guy was going to do.Gareth Hall was upset by authorities' treatment of his family after the shooting. Fred Adams for Spotlight PA and NBC NewsWhat happened Dec. 30Christian Hall was supposed to be working at a grocery store when he called 911 about a possible suicider at about 1:30 p.m. Dec. 30. Before that, he had posted on Snapchat a picture of the overpass with the text who would miss me, according to a report released by the DAs office.When State Police troopers arrived, they found Hall on a concrete ledge looking down on Interstate 80, the wind whipping around him.Troopers blocked off the overpass and asked Hall to talk to them.One of the troopers on scene had been a crisis negotiator for 15 years; another had been a crisis intervention specialist and had a masters degree in counseling and clinical health psychology. The highest-ranking trooper was a corporal with more than 20 years of experience.Video from the State Police shows the troopers trying to coax Hall from the ledge until they see he has a gun in his hand. The troopers backed away, but tried to persuade him to leave the gun on the bridge and walk to them.Christian Hall stands on a ledge on a highway overpass on Dec. 30, 2020. Pennsylvania State PoliceAt one point, Hall put the gun down and smoked marijuana. The troopers talked to him for about 90 minutes.Come on, man. I dont think you want to stand out here all night, right? a trooper said on the video. Put it down for me and walk up here. Thats all youve got to do.In the final 22 seconds before Hall was shot, he shuffled toward the troopers with the pellet gun in one hand, arms at his sides. Huddled behind their vehicles about 70 feet away, troopers again told him to drop the gun.The video shows Hall raising his hands after a corporal fired the initial shots, which missed him. Hall first raised his hands to his sides, then above his head, holding the gun in one hand, the video shows.If he doesnt drop it just take him, a voice can be heard saying on the video.Halls hands stayed above his head as the corporal and another trooper fired several more shots. Hall was struck, clutched his stomach, and fell to the ground.While the video does not appear to show Hall pointing the gun directly at troopers before he was shot, the accounts by State Police and the DAs office are inconsistent on this point.The State Polices initial press release and one of several accounts in the district attorneys written report state that Hall pointed the gun at troopers before shots were fired. A trooper said he watched Hall bless himself, point to his head and then pull the gun from his waistband and point it in the direction of the Troopers. The corporal then fired the first three shots, which appeared to miss Hall, according to that account.Another section of the report and a video released by the DA examining the shooting make no mention of Hall pointing directly at troopers or raising the gun before the first shots were fired. After the initial shots, Hall raises the gun outward toward his side and then upwards by bending his elbow at a ninety degree angle, that section of the report states.At the March news conference, Mancuso, the assistant district attorney, said Hall was an imminent threat from the moment he put his hand on the gun.Frankly, its a testament to the troopers that they didnt shoot sooner, Mancuso said.Later he mimicked Hall pulling the gun out of his waistband and raising it in the air, and said Hall played with it in this way and at some point kind of moved the muzzle over in the direction of the troopers then raised it upward.Spotlight PA reporter breaks down revelations of new video showing teen shot by policeNov. 18, 202103:21Maria Haberfeld, who trains police as a professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York, viewed the unredacted video and believes Hall could have lowered his arm and fired quicker than the troopers reaction time.The moment he is facing and approaching the police officers, moving towards the police officers with a gun in his hand, I dont see how its not a justified shooting, she said.RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store When someone is trying to get the police to kill them, they may be willing to hurt or kill to achieve their goal, she said.David Rudovsky, a longtime use-of-force expert and senior fellow at the University of Pennsylvania Law School, also watched the video but saw it differently.I think theres some serious questions as to justification, Rudovsky said. He would have had a difficult time shooting at them from where he was.Still, its unlikely a court would find the troopers violated state law, said David Harris, a professor at the University of Pittsburgh School of Law and a police accountability expert who reviewed the video.The question is, what do you do as a state, as a society, when you have a shooting that may be lawful, but looks awful? he said.Even though Hall was armed, he was not acting aggressively, pointing the weapon at troopers, or advancing in a way that indicates an attack, Harris said.And theres more to what happened, Harris said, than whether police were legally justified in pulling the trigger. More than 1 in 5 people fatally shot by police in the U.S. have mental illnesses, according to a Washington Post database, which raises questions about whether officers could be better trained to handle these situations.Is there anything else that could have been done to save this persons life? Harris asked. How can we handle problems like this so police arent put in this position and so people in mental health crises dont die?A lack of trustHalls parents learned that he had been shot and killed in the late afternoon of Dec. 30, when troopers called them down to the local barracks.They were distraught and soon they were facing a barrage of questions from the State Police and the coroners office about their sons final days. But they were in shock and couldnt talk yet, they said.Fe Hall talks about her son, Christian.Fred Adams for Spotlight PA and NBC NewsAt one point a couple of days later, Halls parents said, they called the coroners office and were upset to learn that Halls body wouldnt be released to them yet, because of the ongoing investigation.We have to think about two lives here, an official at the coroners office said, according to Fe and Gareth Hall. Christians and the officer who shot him.A spokesperson for the coroners office declined to comment.Halls parents last talked to the State Police on New Years Day, when Gareth Hall asked for his sons phone. A trooper told him the department had a right to keep it, he said.Halls parents said theyve never received any of his belongings and havent heard from anyone with the State Police since.A wooden birthday card Christian Hall made for his mother decorates a table in the family's home.Fred Adams for Spotlight PA and NBC NewsGareth Hall said they would have cooperated with the investigation and answered questions after those overwhelming initial days.I was waiting, Gareth Hall said. Not a call.At the news conference in March, Mancuso, the assistant district attorney, blamed the lack of communication on Halls parents.We had no request for information from them, Mancuso said. No direct request was made regarding the course of the investigation from them.Mancuso briefly talked about Halls juvenile record, declining to get into specifics. He said that Hall had frequently carried the airsoft pellet gun, and that investigators were told he robbed people with it.Jacob, one of the Hall family lawyers, saw the news conference as an attempt to prejudice anyone who might be scrutinizing the killing and denied that Hall had robbed anyone.None of that was relevant at all, he said. None of that was ever investigated. And none of that was proven.Fe Hall said she believes her sons race played into the troopers decision to shoot. She and her husband said the pain of losing their son has been compounded by their treatment by State Police and the district attorneys office.I feel that Asians are generalized as the quiet ones, theyre not going to fight back, Fe Hall said. Is it possible that when they shot Christian they were looking at him as Chinese? He doesnt matter. His family is not going to say anything. This is just going to go away quietly.Halls parents believe the district attorney wanted to protect the troopers involved. There was an incentive, they said, to paint their family as uncooperative and Hall as a criminal.The DA doesnt have accountability to anybody, Fe Hall said.Fe and Gareth Hall want to see changes in how police shootings are investigated. Fred Adams for Spotlight PA and NBC NewsThe benefit of the doubtIn Pennsylvania, the state Attorney Generals Office cannot investigate a criminal case unless the local district attorney asks for help which can occur when local prosecutors lack sufficient resources or there is an actual or apparent conflict of interest.In this case, the Monroe County DA didnt think there was a conflict of interest. Mancuso said the offices resources were more than adequate and that the staff had more experience in such cases than Attorney General Josh Shapiros office.Shapiros office said Mancusos statement was blatantly untrue and that it had investigated 10 other criminal cases referred by the Monroe County DA since 2017.Theres an inherent conflict of interest when local prosecutors review the actions of local police, said Rudovsky, the University of Pennsylvania Law School senior fellow.Everybody recognizes with local police and a local DA, they are working together every day, he said.State Sen. Art Haywood, whose district includes part of Philadelphia, wants to change the law to require that an outside law enforcement agency investigate use-of-force cases in Pennsylvania, so families of victims and the public will have more faith in the findings.His legislation would give the state Attorney Generals Office the power to review those investigations without a referral from the local district attorney if no charges are filed. Under the bill, the governor, key lawmakers and the attorney general would receive a detailed report about the investigation within seven days of a decision being made not to file charges.Haywood said he started pushing for the changes after police killed Eric Garner in New York City and Michael Brown Jr. in Ferguson, Missouri, in 2014, and Antwon Rose II outside of Pittsburgh in 2018.So far the legislation hasnt gotten much traction, but Haywood said hes optimistic it can get passed in the future.Halls case, and other police shootings of people with mental illness in Pennsylvania, show why these investigations need to be independent, he said.Halls parents support the change. Fe Hall said she believes her son was badly treated by the juvenile justice system, and she had hoped he would grow up and expose the abuses she believes he suffered.She said she was uncomfortable with releasing the video of the shooting, but in doing so, she hopes Halls death can be the force for change that she wanted his life to be.Hes just a memory now, she said. But I just want something good to come out of it.If you or someone you know is in crisis, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 800-273-8255, text HOME to 741741 or visit SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources for additional resources.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Kyle Rittenhouse found not guilty on all counts. KENOSHA, Wisc.  A Wisconsin jury on Friday found Kyle Rittenhouse not guilty in the fatal shooting of two men during protests in Kenosha last year, capping a trial that touched on issues of gun rights and race.  Rittenhouse, 18, from nearby Antioch, Illinois, was cleared on all five charges related to his actions on Aug. 25 last year, during protests over the shooting of a Black man, Jacob Blake, by a white Kenosha police officer. Rittenhouse was charged with reckless homicide in the slaying of Joseph Rosenbaum, 36, and intentional homicide in the death of Anthony Huber, 26. He also faced a charge of attempted intentional homicide for severely wounding Gaige Grosskreutz, a 27-year-old paramedic from suburban Milwaukee who was there that night volunteering his medical services, and two counts of recklessly endangering safety. Rittenhouse, in a dark suit and burgundy shirt, was overcome with emotion when the fifth not guilty verdict was read in court.He doubled over and then hugged defense attorney Corey Chirafisi, who had to tell his client to relax and breathe.Lawyer for Kyle Rittenhouse says 'it was not a close call' to have him testifyNov. 19, 202102:06Fellow defense attorney Mark Richards joyously hit his hand on the table as the final not guilty verdict was read, while prosecutors looked down as the jurors' findings were announced.Families of those shot and killed held hands in court and cried as the verdicts were read.After three and a half days of deliberations, some in the panel appeared fatigued in the jury box. As the verdicts were read, some had their hands on their chins, rubbed their eyes and appeared ill-at-ease, shifting in their chairs or folding their arms across their chests.The jury of  seven women and five men deliberated for about 25 hours since Tuesday morning, and Richards said he was fearful the long talks meant a compromise set of verdicts that would send his client to prison for at least some time.As time went on, we were afraid there was some horse trading in the jury room and thats what really concerned us, Richards said.Kenosha County Circuit Judge Bruce Schroeder thanked jurors for their work.I couldnt have asked for a better jury to work with, said Schroeder. Its truly been my pleasure  just in terms of your attentiveness and the cooperation that you gave to us.The judge told jurors the system worked.It justifies the confidence that the founders of our country placed in you,Schroeder said.How did lawyers for Kyle Rittenhouse effectively argue for self-defense?Nov. 19, 202106:25The Kenosha County District Attorneys Office asked community members to "continue to express their opinions and feelings about this verdict in a civil and peaceful manner.""While we are disappointed with the verdict, it must be respected," the office said in a statement. "We are grateful to the members of the jury for their diligent and thoughtful deliberations. The Kenosha community has endured much over the past 15 months, and yet we remain resilient and strong."Wisconsin Gov. Tony Evers pleaded for calm before the verdict but deployed 500 National Guard in anticipation of post-verdict protests.  "No verdict will be able to bring back the lives of Anthony Huber and Joseph Rosenbaum or heal Gaige Grosskreutz's injuries just as no verdict can heal the wounds or trauma experienced by Jacob Blake and his family," Evers said in a statement after the verdicts."I have seen the pain and the frustration of so many and we must remain steadfast in our commitment to ending violence in our communities." President Joe Biden urged Americans to accept the verdicts and remain peaceful in protest."While the verdict in Kenosha will leave many Americans feeling angry and concerned, myself included, we must acknowledge that the jury has spoken," the president said in statement."I ran on a promise to bring Americans together, because I believe that what unites us is far greater than what divides us."Emotions outside Kenosha's courthouse were high, but the scene was generally peaceful in the wake of the verdicts.This is a total mockery of what justice should be. Theres no way he should be going home. Our personal opinion is that he should be going to jail, said Justin Blake, the uncle of Jacob Blake. This is a sad day for justice in America.While it appeared that a majority of those protesting outside court favored conviction, there was also a fair share of Rittenhouse supporters.RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store This is the verdict that the majority of America wanted, said California resident Brandon Lesco, who held up a Free Kyle sign after the verdicts were rendered.Community activist Tanya McLean said she was unhappy, but not shocked, by the not guilty verdicts."Were gonna have to really rethink what it means for us in this community, said McLean, executive director of Leaders of Kenosha, told NBC News. I wish I could say Im surprised by this decision but Im not.McLean said she fears for the safety of her and her two children.It shows that we can be gunned down in the street and there are no consequences and thats why they feel so emboldened to do what they do, McLean said.'No accountability'Huber's parents issued a lengthy statement, saying they were disappointed.   "Todays verdict means there is no accountability for the person who murdered our son," they said.  "It sends the unacceptable message that armed civilians can show up in any town, incite violence, and then use the danger they have created to justify shooting people in the street."Attorneys who represent Rosenbaum's family and Grosskreutz called for peaceful protest."Today we grieve for the families of those slain by Kyle Rittenhouse. Anthony Huber and Joseph Rosenbaum did not deserve to die that night," the lawyers said. "For now, we ask for peace from everyone hurting and that the public respect the privacy of the victims and their families." Blake was paralyzed from the waist down in the shooting that led to days of at times violent protests in Kenosha and across the country.Rittenhouse and other armed men said they went to Kenosha to protect private property during the protest.Family of Anthony Huber 'heartbroken and angry' with Rittenhouse verdictNov. 19, 202101:46Huber and Rosenbaum were not armed when Rittenhouse shot them, but Grosskreutz came toward him with a pistol in hand when Rittenhouse opened fire.Rittenhouse also attempted to shoot an unknown person, known in court as jump kick man, who tried kicking the defendant in the face, and prosecutors said Rittenhouse could have wounded another man when he opened fire on Rosenbaum.Rittenhouse testified in his own defense last week and said all the shootings were acts of self-defense.The move was questioned in some legal circles, but Richards  said they had no choice because their mock trials showed test jurors responded well to Rittenhouse explaining himself."I had to put him on, it wasn't a close call," Richards said. "In Wisconsin if you don't put a client on the stand, you're going to lose, period." NBC legal analystDanny Cevallos said the law was always in the defenses favor, because of the burden prosecutors faced in fighting the self-defense argument.Its not so much that it was a poor prosecution, but really poor facts for the prosecution, Cevallos said. In Wisconsin, the prosecution had to disprove self-defense in all the elements or any one of them beyond a reasonable doubt in addition to proving their case.Former federal prosecutor Joyce Vance said evidence that Grosskreutz had a gun in is hand when he was shot by Rittenhouse played a key role in the acquittals.He essentially, on cross-examination, conceded self-defense talking about the fact that there was a gun in his hand, Vance said. The prosecution tried to argue their way out of that situation. But I think the die was cast in a significant way at that point.The defense lawyer, Richards, refused to second-guess his clients action that night, when Rittenhouse armed himself with an AR-15-style weapon to protect private property in Kenosha while also providing first aid.Rittenhouse, then 17, kept the weapon at a friend's home in Wisconsin. I personally dont like people carrying AR-15s around, Richards said. There was so much anger and so much fear in Kenosha on Aug. 25 that people did arm themselves.Rittenhouse aspires to be a nurse and Richards urged his client to keep a low profile.He has to get on with his life the best he can, Richards said. I think eventually some anonymity will come back to it. I dont think hell continue to live in this area, its too dangerous.David K. Li reported from  New York, Deon J. Hampton reported from KenoshaBreaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Parents protesting 'critical race theory' identify another target: Mental health programs. At a September school board meeting in Southlake, Texas, a parent named Tara Eddins strode to the lectern during the public comment period and demanded to know why the Carroll Independent School District was paying counselors at $90K a pop to give students lessons on suicide prevention.At Carroll ISD, you are actually advertising suicide, Eddins said, arguing that many parents in the affluent suburban school system have hired tutors because the districts counselors are too focused on mental health instead of helping students prepare for college.Tara Eddins speaks at the school board meeting in Southlake, Texas, on Sept. 27. Carroll ISDSome of these kids, theyre just trying to get through the day, get through compacted math, get through algebra, go to cotillion on Sunday, Eddins said. They are not thinking about these issues.Two days after Eddins made the remarks, Southlake Families PAC  a group that has fought to stop a diversity plan at Carroll  sent an email to supporters calling on the school district to Leave mental health and parenting to parents.Christina Edmiston, a Southlake resident and mother of two, was outraged when she saw the email. Earlier that month, Edmiston had pulled her 12-year-old son out of the Carroll district after he reported thoughts of suicide after having been bullied by classmates for his sexuality.Some parent groups fighting school boards over suicide prevention programs, mental health rolesNov. 16, 202102:48You cant expect just to teach kids arithmetic and reading and look at their test scores and expect them to be decent human beings, Edmiston said. I personally cannot understand why a parent would not want their children to have knowledge of what depression looks like, what anxiety looks like.But thats whats now being debated in communities across the country. As school districts struggle to address accusations that administrators are indoctrinating students in progressive ideas about race, gender and sexuality, the same parents and activists making the claims have begun targeting school initiatives centered on students mental health and emotional well-being.In Carmel, Indiana, activists swarmed school board meetings this fall to demand that a district fire its mental health coordinator from what they said was a dangerous, worthless job. And in Fairfax County, Virginia, a national activist group condemned school officials for sending a survey to students that included questions like During the past week, how often did you feel sad?Many of the school programs under attack fall under the umbrella of social emotional learning, or SEL, a teaching philosophy popularized in recent years that aims to help children manage their feelings and show empathy for others. Conservative groups argue that social emotional learning has become a Trojan horse for critical race theory, a separate academic concept that examines how systemic racism is embedded in society. They point to SEL lessons that encourage children to celebrate diversity, sometimes introducing students to conversations about race, gender and sexuality.Activists have accused school districts of using the programs to ask children invasive questions  about their feelings, sexuality and the way race shapes their lives  as part of a ploy to brainwash them with liberal values and to trample parents rights. Groups across the country recently started circulating forms to get parents to opt their children out of surveys designed to measure whether students are struggling with their emotions or being bullied, describing the efforts as data mining and an invasion of privacy.Asra Nomani, a mother and activist in Fairfax County, said she supports school curricula focused on character development and emotional well-being, but she said SEL programs have been hijacked by progressives.Asra Nomani, a former reporter for the Wall Street Journal, is a leader of Parents Defending Education. Mike Segar / Reuters file It took a turn in the summer of 2020, after the tragedy of George Floyds killing, said Nomani, a leader of Parents Defending Education, an activist group that criticizes school diversity and equity efforts. After that, she said, social emotional learning became a vehicle for this quote-unquote social justice activism and the indoctrination of controversial ideas related to race, sexuality and even gender and identity.The attention to social emotional learning in particular has been further fueled by loyalists to former President Donald Trump. The Center for Renewing America, which was started by a former Trump administration official, published a glossary that claimed that teachers and counselors were embedding critical race theory into social emotional learning programs. And state GOP lawmakers who tried to stop certification of Joe Bidens win in the presidential election in Wisconsin proposed legislation that would outlaw social emotional learning and other educational concepts that they labeled as state-sanctioned racism.Parents who have packed school board meetings to protest diversity initiatives, including in Loudoun County, Virginia, have begun targeting social emotional learning programs.  Evelyn Hockstein / ReutersSchool leaders across the country deny that the initiatives teach children to judge themselves or classmates based on their race. Many districts, including several in Georgia, Missouri and Tennessee, say they launched new social emotional learning programs in response to rising youth suicide rates in recent years and to help children cope with bullying and other emotional issues that can inhibit students abilities to focus at school.Its absolutely terrifying to think that our kids could be out there without the access to the things that they need, said Amal Anthony, a parent in Carmel who runs a Facebook group supporting school diversity and inclusion efforts. Because while we all like to think that our kids are going to come to us first, sometimes thats not the reality.Although youth suicides remain relatively rare, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported that 2,756 minors died by suicide in 2019, the most recent year for which data are available, making it the second-leading cause of death among children. Early CDC data from 2020 show that the number of children who visited emergency rooms for suicide attempts increased by 31 percent compared to a year earlier, feeding concerns among parents and pediatricians that more children have struggled with depression and suicidal ideation during the pandemic.A recent report from the student safety company Gaggle, which monitors school-issued computers and tablets, said that among students at the 1,500 schools it does business with, nearly 9,000 threats of suicide or self-harm had been flagged as so serious that they required immediate intervention by school emergency contacts in the last academic year.But the argument that social emotional learning and other school-based mental health initiatives are part of a new-age nanny state has been gaining traction in conservative media for months, including on Fox News. Columns in the National Review and The Federalist have suggested that social emotional learning has become another vehicle for anti-white racism and may soon eclipse critical race theory as the most debated phrase in education.Some parent groups have advanced more extreme ideas. A national activist group, No Left Turn in Education, connected social emotional learning to the potential sexual grooming of children, calling it a dangerous philosophy that teaches students to put their trust in educators over the instructions of their parents. The group warned that even if social emotional learning doesnt lead to sexual assault by an adult, it could cause children to question their gender identity and will likely lead to some serious mental health struggles.As backlash over discussions about racism causes some schools to withdraw diversity and equity efforts, educators, child welfare experts and some parents said they worry that these protests could prompt a similar pullback from mental health programming.I am concerned, because the people that stand to lose are the kids, said Karen Niemi, the president of the Collaborative for Academic, Social and Emotional Learning, or CASEL, an organization that helps schools implement the framework. And it does worry me that we could risk prioritizing whats good for kids because of a misunderstanding or, potentially, social emotional learning being used for any political agenda.Mental health director under attackIn Carmel, a suburb of Indianapolis, voters overwhelmingly approved a tax increase two years ago to hire more school resource officers and social workers. Stephanie Whiteside, the Carmel Clay School Districts first mental health coordinator, was put in charge of using the money to hire therapists based in schools, who are accessible to students with parental permission. More than 400 students have participated in therapy sessions in the last 14 months, according to the district.Nicki McNally, a Carmel parent who helped campaign for the referendum, said she can see the new programs paying off in the way her teenage daughter speaks freely with her friends about panic attacks, coping methods and seeing counselors, because theyve been trained that thats OK, thats normal, and that there are resources there for that.Carmel parent Nicki McNally helped campaign for more school resource officers and social workers.Robert Scheer / The Indianapolis Star via USA Today NetworkBut this year, as parents organized to push back against the districts equity measures, activists made Whiteside one of their prime targets, accusing her of making victimhood the highest social currency.Alvin Lui, who co-founded a group called Unify Carmel to fight the districts diversity efforts, called the mental health coordinators job a dangerous, worthless position and circulated dossiers about Whiteside that included an analysis of posts she had liked or shared on social media that Lui said showed she held animus toward police.Lui also criticized the districts use of social emotional learning as an extremely deceptive indoctrination system. If schools want to address students mental health, he said, the best approach is to involve parents if theres an issue.But focus the kids on academics, Lui said. Focus them on something productive and useful so that they feel competent and confident that theyre doing well in school. They shouldnt be questioning their gender identity and worrying about marching and worrying about social justice.A crowd carrying signs protesting SEL gathers ahead of a Carmel Clay School Board meeting on May 17, 2021. MJ Slaby  / IndyStar via USA Today NetworkThe district declined to make Whiteside available for an interview. In response to the criticism, administrators sent a letter to parents on Sept. 30 noting that she is married to a police officer and that her work in Carmel has genuinely saved students lives.Carmel Clay Schools also defended the districts reliance on social emotional learning programs in a statement issued by a spokeswoman, Emily Bauer. The lessons can be as straightforward as having elementary school students draw self-portraits to portray their strengths, Bauer said, or initiating group projects or discussions to help students learn how to better communicate.The district said it completed 101 suicide screenings from the beginning of the school year through Oct. 18, more than twice as many as in the same period last year.This rhetoric that the mental health coordinator and mental health services are dangerous really sets us back, McNally said. Were supposed to be moving forward to remove the stigma of mental health services.A lever for equitySome critics said they believe social emotional learning, first introduced in some schools beginning in the 1990s, has become entwined with progressive values.Many point to CASEL, a nonprofit organization that is considered the leading authority on social emotional learning. After the protests for racial justice last year, CASEL updated language on its website to describe social emotional learning as a lever for equity that affirms diverse cultures and backgrounds and plays a role in eliminating deep-seated inequities in the education system  all phrases that conservatives have branded this year as critical race theory.Niemi, CASELs president, said the backlash to the language around equity reflects a misunderstanding of social emotional learning, which is meant to adapt to whatever issues specific students might be struggling with, whether its stress, bullying or racism.When youre in a classroom where racial issues are heightened, it is necessary for kids to have the skills to understand who they are, how to relate to other people, how to get along, how to solve problems, Niemi said. Its not about telling them what to think or telling them how to feel.A survey of 2,000 parents released this year by the Thomas B. Fordham Foundation, a conservative-leaning think tank, found that people broadly supported the ideas behind social emotional learning. However, the support dropped when surveyors used the terms social emotional learning, soft skills and whole child development.SEL often involves a lot of jargon and ideas that may sound kind of ivory tower or foreign to a lot of parents, said Adam Tyner, who analyzed the survey for the foundation. It doesnt surprise me that some of those parents expect the worst.Some parent groups have made more radical claims about social emotional learning, echoing baseless conspiracy theories popular among followers of QAnon.At an event at a church in Whiteland, Indiana, last month hosted by the activist group Purple for Parents Indiana, Rhonda Miller, the groups president, said grade school lessons centered on emotions are meant to prepare children for sex trafficking by teaching them to be accepting of LGBTQ identities and introducing them to books about sex, gender and sexuality.The schools are too dangerous, Miller told the audience, according to a video of the meeting posted online. They are doing exactly what they were designed to do. Theyre not broken. When you go back and you look at the history of public education, its doing exactly what it was designed to do, which was to take our system down from within.Purple for Parents has been working with a state legislator to introduce a measure that would outlaw social emotional learning in Indiana schools. The group didnt respond to a request for comment.Parents raise privacy concernsIn Fairfax County, Virginia, where parents have spent months protesting the districts diversity and equity initiatives, activists affiliated with Parents Defending Education have shifted the focus of their outrage in recent months to surveys that the school system has been sending to students as part of its social emotional learning initiatives.The activist group has raised alarm that the Northern Virginia district of 178,000 students allocated $1.8 million in federal Covid-19 emergency funds to a five-year contract with Panorama Education, a Boston-based company, to survey students districtwide about their emotional well-being. The district said the survey will help it address mental health challenges worsened by the pandemic.The surveys, which parents can opt their children out of, ask questions like Overall, how much do you feel like you belong at your school? Surveys intended for middle and high school students ask about their sexuality and gender identities, information that the company says is meant to help schools identify whether certain groups of students are struggling more than others.Southlake: A viral video, a diversity plan, and an election that changed an affluent Texas townSept. 3, 202137:17Panorama said the surveys  used in more than 21,000 schools across the country  are designed to help educators track students well-being, identify those who may be struggling and suggest interventions to help them. Although some of the surveys ask about students experiences with racism, Panorama said the questionnaires are not a tool for teaching critical race theory, adding that it does not market, sell, or rent any students personal information to any outside companies.Fairfax County Public Schools said survey answers are accessible only to educators who are directly involved with the students who responded and arent shared with the state or any company other than Panorama.But Nomani, the vice president of Parents Defending Education, said schools shouldnt be relying on outside companies and algorithms to address students mental and emotional well-being. And she said she doesnt believe its appropriate for schools to survey children about their sexuality.What we need to do is to separate the authenticity of social and emotional learning from the activist, divisive agendas of profiteer consulting groups that are basically using our children to increase their bottom line, she said, suggesting that the money spent to hire companies like Panorama could instead be used to hire more school counselors and therapists.Shame on themSome conservative groups have explicitly targeted school-based anti-suicide initiatives this year, particularly those aimed at helping children younger than 12, arguing that the efforts distract from academics and introduce mental health issues to children who arent struggling.Utah Parents Unite, an activist group that says its fighting indoctrination and mask mandates in schools, urged its members to lobby against a bill to expand suicide prevention programs to elementary schools, where, the group said, suicides are not happening. (National data obtained by NBC News show that the number of children ages 6-12 who visited childrens hospitals for suicidal thoughts or self-harm has more than doubled since 2016.)Its not age appropriate, Utah Parents Unite wrote of suicide prevention in elementary school, and its not a topic we need to introduce into the minds of young children.Despite the objections, the Utah Legislature passed a bill that was signed into law in March.Parent activists elsewhere have continued to make the argument, including in Southlake, a suburb 30 miles northwest of Dallas that was the subject of an NBC News podcast about the communitys fight over a school diversity plan.Neither Southlake Families PAC, which sent an email to supporters in September claiming that social emotional learning is critical race theory, nor Eddins, the mom who accused counselors of promoting suicide, were willing to be interviewed.In response to questions about the Carroll school systems support for social emotional learning and whether it was appropriate for school counselors to focus on anti-suicide efforts, Karen Fitzgerald, a spokeswoman, said the district is focused on what is in the best interest of all students.Edmiston, the Carroll parent whose child struggled with depression after classmates teased him over his sexuality, said the district needs more counselors and programs centered on the mental well-being of students, not fewer. NBC News isnt naming her son, because he is a victim of harassment.I personally cannot understand why a parent would not want their child to understand  even if their child doesnt have any mental health issues  ... what depression looks like, what anxiety looks like, Edmiston said. That doesnt make sense to me, as a mom, as someone whos a part of society.Edmiston said that classmates started teasing her son about his sexuality last school year after he came out as bisexual, and that by September, the harassment had escalated. Her son, a sixth-grader, said he had told a friend at school that he wanted to die. Afterward, according to her son, some of his classmates responded by grabbing a rope from gym class and stringing it over a goalpost like a noose at recess.In an interview, Edmistons son said he started struggling with depression when he was 10 and has relied on therapists to cope. He said comments by parents claiming that most young children dont need emotional support at school were highly insolent.Ive had to have help with my mental health, he said. And if theres other people who are having to struggle like me, or even worse, and a parent cant recognize that because they think a child is younger and cant have those feelings, then shame on them.As for Edmiston  starting this month, she said, shes sending her son to a private school.If you or someone you know is at risk of suicide, please call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 800-273-8255, text TALK to 741741 or visit SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources for additional resources.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Covid is surging in Europe. Experts say its a warning for the U.S.. As Europe finds itself at the center of the Covid-19 pandemic once again, experts say it should serve as a warning to the U.S. and other countries about the coronaviruss unremitting nature.Case numbers have soared across the continent  more than 50 percent last month  and the worrying trend has continued this month as winter begins to bite.Dr. Hans Kluge, the director of the World Health Organizations Europe region, warned Nov. 4 that the region was "back at the epicenter of the pandemic," and his words proved prescient.The WHO said Friday that nearly 2 million cases were reported across Europe in the previous week  the most the region has had in a single week since the pandemic began.In recent weeks, Germany reported record daily numbers of new infections, with more than 50,000, according to data from Johns Hopkins University.  The Netherlands also reported more than 16,000 cases  the countrys most since the pandemic began  prompting the government to begin a partial lockdown Saturday that is set to last at least three weeks. As case numbers surged toward the end of last month, Belgium reimposed some Covid restrictions, including a requirement to wear masks in public places. People also have to show the countrys Covid-19 pass to enter bars, restaurants and fitness clubs. The passport shows that they have been fully vaccinated, have had recent negative tests or have recently recovered from the disease.The country nonetheless recorded more than 15,000 daily cases last Monday.Despite the surge, daily death rates in all three countries have remained relatively stable compared with past spikes, and experts have credited high vaccine uptake for weakening the link between the numbers of cases and hospitalizations and deaths.Download theNBC News appfor breaking news and politics"Luckily, the high vaccination coverage limits the death toll and hospitalizations there to a large extent," Tom Wenseleers, an evolutionary biologist and biostatistician at KU Leuven, a university in Belgium, said Wednesday in an email.Belgium, which reported hundreds of deaths at the start of the pandemic and then again last autumn, when a second wave of cases forced a national lockdown, has had its "hospital capacity tested" in recent weeks, Wenseleers said. But overall deaths appear largely to have been decoupled from high case rates, he said.'Truly disastrous'However, the same cannot be said for Eastern Europe, where, he said, the situation is "truly disastrous."Over the last three weeks, Romania, with 591; Bulgaria, with 334; and Latvia, with 64, have reported record daily death numbers, according to Johns Hopkins data. Case numbers have also surged.People on a street near Alexanderplatz in Berlin. Covid-19 infection rates have climbed dramatically in Germany in recent weeks.Sean Gallup / Getty ImagesSaying the surge was "worrying," Wenseleers said he believed low vaccine uptake and high vaccine hesitancy were largely to blame."Its not due to lack of vaccines," he said, noting that the joint procurement of vaccines at the European Union level meant all 27 member states "were able to buy equivalent quantities of vaccines.""Despite having access to vaccines, those countries did not manage to convince their population to get vaccinated," he said.RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store At least 1 in 3 people in countries in eastern Europe do not trust the health care system, compared to an average of 18 percent across the EU, a European Commission poll known as the Eurobarometer found, Reuters reported.Romania and Bulgaria are among the countries with the lowest rates of vaccine uptake across the continent, according to the EUs vaccination tracker.The latest data showed that less than 23 percent of the adult population in Bulgaria had been fully vaccinated, while just over 25 percent had had at least one shot. In Romania, just under 34 percent of the population above age 18 had been fully vaccinated, while almost 38 percent had had at least one dose.A woman holds a poster at an anti-Covid vaccination protest in Sofia, Bulgaria, last month.Hristo Rusev / Getty ImagesThe Eurobarometer poll showed that respondents in both countries were among the least likely to express enthusiasm for getting vaccinated.The vaccination tracker also showed that other Eastern European countries have low vaccination rates compared to their Western neighbors.That "means that high case rates there translate [into] a very high death toll," Wenseleers said.Danny Altmann, a professor of immunology at Imperial College London, said that as the first winter with the delta variant approaches, he was "not sure if people in Eastern Europe appreciate how punishing the pandemic continues to be in the time of delta."Protesters hold a poster reading "Stop compulsory vaccination" at a demonstration against "compulsory" vaccination in Riga, Latvia, in August.Gints Ivuskans / AFP via Getty Images"Its unremitting," he said. With some Eastern European countries "at the extreme end of vaccine hesitancy," he added, "theres no possibility of dealing with this pandemic under these conditions."In Austria, which has long been a bridge between east and west, the government ordered a nationwide lockdown for unvaccinated people Sunday to slow the fast spread of the coronavirus.The move means unvaccinated people older than 12 will be banned from leaving their homes from midnight Sunday, except for basic activities like working, food shopping, going for walks  or getting their shots.Its our job as the government of Austriato protect the people," Chancellor Alexander Schallenberg told reporters Sunday in Vienna. Therefore we decided that starting Monday ... there will be a lockdown for the unvaccinated.Epidemiologist Eric Feigl-Ding, a senior fellow at the Federation of American Scientists, said the high death rates should be a warning for other countries with low vaccination rates.While he said he believed the most effective approach is multipronged, including coronavirus measures like mask-wearing and social distancing, he said vaccines and booster shots are critical to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Wenseleers agreed, saying people in the U.S. should take heed of the situation unfolding across Europe.People wait in line to get their shots at a "marathon of vaccination" at the National Library in Bucharest, Romania, last month. Daniel Mihailescu / AFP via Getty ImagesU.S. states both with high and low vaccination rates could take Europes case numbers as "a sign that the U.S. might still see resurgences, as well," he said.On both sides of the Atlantic, "convincing as many people to get vaccinated should be the top priority," along with "setting up booster campaigns" for those most at risk, he said.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Nonbinary millennial is front and center in HBO Max dramedy 'Sort Of'. Bilal Baig understands the weight and responsibility that comes with being the first queer South Asian Muslim actor to lead a Canadian primetime TV series. But the queer and transfeminine performer, who uses gender-neutral pronouns, said trans and nonbinary creators are still faced with the pressure of depicting an entire community with a single character or ensemble.Im somebody who has consumed a lot of trans and nonbinary content in an effort to see myself in media and art somewhere, and I think we can only start to take real risks in our art making when we know there are multiple representations out there of these communities, Baig told NBC News in a phone interview. I just think it helps expand our consciousness of who is a part of these communities and how diverse we actually are.Sort Of, a groundbreaking new dramedy series set in Toronto, does just that. Co-created by Baig and Fab Filippo (Queer as Folk), the series  which premiered this fall on CBC in Canada and has now arrived on HBO Max  follows Sabi Mehboob (Baig), a gender-fluid millennial who straddles various identities as a bartender at an queer bar/bookstore, the youngest child in a Pakistani family and the nanny of a wealthy downtown family.When Sabis best friend, 7ven (Amanda Cordner), presents them with an opportunity to live in Berlin, a historically queer mecca, Sabi instead decides to stay and care for the kids they nanny, whose mother, Bessy (Grace Lynn Kung), has just gotten into a serious accident. In the process, Sabi feels like every aspect of their life is in transition, leading to a fascinating exploration of race, culture, sexuality and gender identity.Sabis evolution is very subtle, Baig said. I think they budge an inch in their life over the course of this first season, but that inch budging actually opens them up to a sea of possibilities. They start in such a guarded place, and the walls just come down by a fraction, and I think opening yourself up in this way means that theres so many different things that can come from being able to embrace who you are and feel a little bit more comfortable in your skin.Baig and Filippo first met in 2018, when they both appeared as actors in a play called Theory at Torontos Tarragon Theatre. The two bonded over a shared desire to create their own work and, after the play ended, conceptualized the idea of a half-hour comedy series that centered on a character loosely inspired by Baig.Amanda Cordner and Bilal Baig in "Sort Of" on HBO Max.HBO MaxBut before agreeing to sign on to their first TV project, Baig asked Filippo an incisive question: Why should I, a brown nonbinary millennial who feels like they might be transitioning, make a story about me with you? After taking some time to consider the uncertainty that he was feeling at the end of his 15-year marriage, Filippo returned and said that he, too, was going through a transition. Simply put, he wanted to create a show where every character, not just Sabi, is transitioning and evolving  a notion that resonated deeply with Baig, who loved hearing a cis person use the word transition.Over the course of the eight-episode first season, Paul (Gray Powell), the father of the kids Sabi watches, is forced to confront his own shortcomings as a husband, father and employer; his own ideas of masculinity; and the microaggressions that have hurt Sabi and Pauls own family.I think its about how to actually work with people and collaborate and let go of some control. I think were really asking some questions around how we share this global world together, like Sabi and Paul together, and what it means for them to coexist, said Baig, who later added that creating a character like Paul was a way to get cisgender men like him to connect with the show and, in turn, develop more empathy for trans and nonbinary people in general.Meanwhile, Raffo (Ellora Patnaik), Sabis 50something Pakistani Muslim mother, also discovers that she has been largely unaware of her own childs transition and spends her newfound free time attempting to reconnect. As a result, she must reconcile her love for Sabi with the more traditional values held by the men in her family, including her husband, Sabis father.Cassandra James and Bilal Baig in "Sort Of" on HBO Max.HBO MaxIts a unique dynamic that was discussed extensively in the writers room, which included multiple queer South Asian writers, Baig said. We just wanted to see a relationship that really felt like there were no villains between Sabi and Raffo, that neither of them are actually antagonistic towards each other.It really is this one-step-forward, two-steps-back kind of dance between the two of them until they get to this place of really committing to each other, no matter what, Baig added. I think that is exciting in terms of what that means for her, what that means for a South Asian woman of her age to really examine what it means to be a mother and then what it means to commit to children  particularly Sabi  who dont fit in the norm and where that will take her.From the moment that Baig and Filippo pitched this series (first to Sienna Films, a production company based out of Toronto, and then to the CBC), producers and executives made it clear that they wanted Baig to create a world that not only felt truthful to their own experiences, but also felt universal to a lot of others. For Baig, this meant creating a lead character that wasnt textbook sassy with finger snaps and perfectly articulated reads on people, they said. Ive just seen enough of that in queer and trans content that it does start to perpetuate this notion that all of us must be like this. [So] what if we went the total opposite direction and presented a character whos a little more inward and not so sassy?RecommendedOUT NewsOUT NewsFormula One racing star wears LGBTQ Pride helmet at Qatar Grand PrixOUT NewsOUT NewsTransgender people in 'survival mode' as violence rises, anti-trans bills become lawAnd while they serve as the lead actor, co-creator and executive producer, the show was never just a singular story, Baig said. Our writers room was full of people of different ages, genders, sexualities and skin colors, so we wanted to make a space where people felt like they could also bring their perspectives and their lived experiences into the fold.After fleshing out Sabis world, Baig worked with the creative team to cast trans and nonbinary actors in such roles and to prioritize the casting of LGBTQ actors in roles that were not specifically scripted as such. In the complicated conversation of which actors should be allowed to play which parts, Baig said that trans actors should unequivocally play trans characters, because, to me, it sends a really harmful message when we cast cis people in those roles. In my level of experience as a trans person consuming content, I see nuance and authenticity being missed when cis people playing those parts.But it gets a little more complicated when were talking about queerness, because there is a fluidity to queerness that doesnt feel the same as in the trans world for me, they added. Theres so many people in my life who dont identify 100 percent as straight and definitely dont identify 100 percent as queer. Im in a space where Im open to people defining queerness for themselves and bringing that to their work. But the bottom line for me is a show like this wouldnt work if it didnt feel real and authentic, so we were just searching for that all the time in our casting.Bilal Baig, Kaya Kanashiro and Aden Bedard in "Sort Of" on HBO Max.HBO MaxShortly after the show premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival, Baig revealed that, in a case of life imitating art, they decided to come out to their own immigrant parents, who knew very little about their career and gender identity.Were slowly moving through it. I think were in this place [where] Im just trying to gently let them into more of my truth, they explained. I think theyre curious, and I think its also a lot of information. It was difficult for sure, and I think it will take some time before they can really settle in with this show and with seeing their child in this new way. But if I put myself in their shoes, I can see how this was a big shift.At the end of the day, aside from making people laugh and feel cozy and warm when theyre receiving this story, Baig hopes that Sort Of will become part of the slight but steady advances that Hollywood has recently seen in onscreen trans and nonbinary representation.When trans and nonbinary people arent a part of conversations, arent acknowledged as actual people, that literally is the definition of dehumanizing or erasing human existence, Baig said. To bring this show to so many people all over the world proves that we do exist and that we are complicated people who have relationships with cis folks and non-cis folks and children and adults  we really are a part of the fabric of this world.I really feel like Im a part of something bigger, they added. What Im hearing back from communities in Canada who have now accessed all eight of the episodes [is] theres a real, fierce appreciation for the nuance, because I think it changes lives. People can use shows like Sort Of to help parents or friends or lovers understand them better, and that is so powerful.Sort Of is now streaming on HBO Max.FollowNBC OutonTwitter,Facebook&InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Formula One racing star wears LGBTQ Pride helmet at Qatar Grand Prix. World champion race car driver Lewis Hamilton will wear an LGBTQ flag on his helmet for the upcoming Grand Prix in Qatar on Nov. 21.His new headpiece showcases the Progress Pride Flag, which includes black and brown stripes to honor queer communities of color, as well as light blue and pink colors to honor the transgender community. The back of the helmet reads We Stand Together.Equal rights is a serious issue, Hamilton said at a Formula One press conference Thursday. The 36-year-old British racer, who is Black, has been very vocal about human rights issues and has dedicated much of his platform to speaking out against human rights violations.Sunday's race will be the first Formula One tournament in Qatar after the country signed a 10-year deal with the racing league, according to BBC Sport. However, the upcoming race has raised concerns over human rights and equality in the Arab nation.I do think as these sports go to these places, theyre duty-bound to raise awareness for these issues and these places need scrutiny and needs the media to speak to speak about these things, Hamilton said Thursday.Qatar has been the center of numerous human rights violations. Homosexuality is illegal in the country and can lead to jail time. Courts governed by religious law can technically punish Muslim people in same-sex relationships by death, but there is no evidence that the punishment has been used, The Independent reported earlier this year.The Middle Eastern country has also been under fire for its treatment of migrant workers. Migrant hotel workers gearing up for the 2022 World Cup have worked long shifts at less than $2 an hour, with little to no time off, The Guardian reported Thursday.I just feel that if we are coming to these places, we need to be raising the profile of the situation," Hamilton said at the conference. In July, the champion racer called out anti-LGBTQ laws in Hungary ahead of the Hungarian Grand Prix. Hamilton called the laws cowardly and unacceptable and urged Hungarian citizens to vote in an upcoming referendum, Insider reported.Human rights groups, including Amnesty International, have raised concerns over so-called sportswashing, when a country tries to use sports or major sporting events to distract the international community from human rights violations and mistreatment.Amnesty International called on the Qatari government to address its record of human rights violations before the 2022 FIFA World Cup, the world's premier soccer tournament.RecommendedOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop Culture'Sort Of' depicts transitions as an inevitable part of lifeOUT NewsOUT NewsTransgender people in 'survival mode' as violence rises, anti-trans bills become law"FIFA must act now to ensure that the 2022 World Cup is a tournament to be proud of, and not one tainted by labor abuses," Stephen Cockburn, the organization's deputy director of global issues, said in a statement earlier this year.Formula One, in a statement on its website, said it is committed to respecting internationally recognized human rights in its operations globally. The racing league also outlined steps that it will take to ensure it is respecting human rights in its activities, including respecting the rights of its employees and monitoring the impact of its events.Theres a long way to go, Hamilton said. FollowNBC OutonTwitter,Facebook&Instagram Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
These 8 U.S. cities failed an LGBTQ equality evaluation. Eight cities in the United States scored a zero out of 100 on the 10th annual Municipal Equality Index, which evaluates cities and towns based on the level of LGBTQ inclusion found in their local laws, policies and services.LGBTQ advocacy groups Human Rights Campaign and Equality Federation evaluated 506 municipalities  including the countrys 50 state capitals and 200 largest cities  on 49 criteria for the index. The criteria included nondiscrimination protections, policies for municipal employees and city leadership.This years zero-point earners span from South Carolina to Wyoming, and they all came in at zero on last years index, too. But on the flip side, 22 percent of cities earned a perfect score, up from 8 percent in 2012, the reports inaugural year.RecommendedOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop Culture'Sort Of' depicts transitions as an inevitable part of lifeOUT NewsOUT NewsFormula One racing star wears LGBTQ Pride helmet at Qatar Grand PrixIf youre scoring a zero, its because youre making that choice. There are definitely some low-hanging fruit ways to get off of that zero place, said Cathryn Oakley, the founding author of the index and the state legislative director for the Human Rights Campaign. That is a statement on their end about how theyre willing to engage in these issues.Here are the eight cities that scored a failing grade on this years Municipal Equality Index: Florence, AlabamaDowntown Florence, Ala. Robin Zeigler / Getty ImagesLocated in the northwest corner of Alabama, Florence sits on the Tennessee River, has a population of about 40,000 and is home to the University of North Alabama. The city made headlines in 2017, when several members of white nationalist groups, some dressed in Ku Klux Klan robes, staged a protest during northwest Alabamas first Pride parade.Jonesboro, ArkansasDowntown Jonesboro, Ark.larrybraunphotography.com / Getty ImagesJonesboro, with a population of nearly 80,000, is Arkansas fifth largest city. It sits in the northeastern part of the state and is home to Arkansas State University. Earlier this year, a Pride Month book display  which included the childrens book The GayBCs  ignited a backlash at a public library in the city, The Jonesboro Sun reported. Southaven, MississippiThe Southaven Municipal Complex in Southaven, Miss.Google MapsSouthaven sits on the border of Mississippi and its northern neighbor, Tennessee, and is just 13 miles from Memphis. The city, which has about 55,000 residents, made news in 2019 after a same-sex couple said they were kicked out of a local Baptist church because the women wouldnt end their forbidden marriage and repent.Broken Arrow, OklahomaThe historic Rose District of Broken Arrow, Okla. Denis Tangney Jr. / Getty ImagesLocated just outside Tulsa in the northeastern part of the state, Broken Arrow is the fourth largest city in Oklahoma, with a population of about 113,000. Oklahoma is the only state to have two cities earn zero points on this years Municipal Equality Index. Moore, OklahomaVeterans Memorial Park in Moore, Okla.Google MapsMoore, a city of about 63,000 residents, is part of the Oklahoma City metropolitan area, which sits in the middle of the state. Moore made national news back in 2017 after Ralph Shortey, a family values Republican who had served in the Oklahoma Senate, was found with a 17-year-old male in a local motel (Shortey was eventually sentenced to 15 years in prison on child sex-trafficking charges). Clemson, South CarolinaTillman Hall on the campus of Clemson University in Clemson, S.C.Maddie Meyer / Getty ImagesHome to Clemson University, this small South Carolina city, with a population of 17,700, sits in the northwest part of the state near the borders of both Georgia and North Carolina. While the city of Clemson scored a zero out of 100 on this years Municipal Equality Index, the university scored a 3 out of 5 on the LGBTQ nonprofit Campus Prides annual index. The university also opened Lavender Place, an LGBTQ living-learning community, in August. Pierre, South DakotaThe State Capitol in Pierre, S.D.Getty Images/iStockphotoWith a population of roughly 14,100, Pierre is the second-least populous state capital in the country, following Montpelier, Vermont. Home to the states legislature, the city hosts many of the states protests concerning LGBTQ issues. In January, Pierre made national headlines when a group of LGBTQ advocates protested against a proposed law that would ban people from changing the sex designation on their birth certificates. A South Dakota House committee later rejected the bill in February.Rocks Springs, WyomingRock Springs, Wyo. Jacob Boomsma / Getty Images/iStockphotoRock Springs is a city in Sweetwater County, Wyoming, with a population of about 23,500. Despite scoring a zero out of 100 on this and last years Municipal Equality Index, a Rock Springs church made history after hosting what it called the states first LGBTQ pride worship service in 2019, the Casper Star-Tribune reported.FollowNBC OutonTwitter,Facebook&InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Why the APA's apology for promoting white supremacy falls short. At the end of October, the American Psychological Association released an official apology for being complicit in contributing to systemic inequities, and [having] hurt many through racism, racial discrimination, and denigration of people of color. The apology sought to comprehensively denounce the eminent institutions history of promoting white supremacy within the United States and position the association to effectively remedy these harms through commitments to anti-racist psychological practices. The APA also noted Black psychologists were ignored when they tried to raise these issues over half a century ago.The apology sought to comprehensively denounce the eminent institutions history of promoting white supremacy within the United States.These more than 200 Black psychologists would go on to found the countrys first and oldest independent ethnic psychological association, the Association of Black Psychologists, in 1968. As members of that association, we feel the need to speak up once again. The APAs apology is a far cry from what is needed. We cannot expect the association to truly right its wrongs and end damaging practices in psychology when it leaves much of the ongoing harm unexamined and cherry-picks its way through history. This risks actually perpetuating the past damages the association is now trying to rectify.While the apology details many of the past racist practices in psychology, it largely omits a key portion of this history: how the fields of psychology and psychiatry colluded with the state to suppress rights, liberties and, in many cases, political freedom. Largely, this looked like the creation and maintenance of state hospitals that often disproportionately and indefinitely confined Black people in particular. Indeed, this history led the former president-elect of ABPsi, Bobby Wright, to conclude that the discipline had historically been leveraged to wage war against Black communities.How these women are helping to break the stigma of therapy for Black womenSept. 8, 202009:59Based on a belief that a Black persons desire for freedom was evidence of mental illness, hospitals were built across the country to enforce social control over Black people. For instance, the Central Lunatic Asylum for Colored Insane, the first state psychiatric hospital for Black people, forcibly institutionalized thousands of Black people in Virginia beginning in 1870. Hospital archives revealed that Black people were taken from their communities and enslaved on the belief that freedom produced mania and forced labor was an adequate treatment.A century later, these practices were still common. For example, the Ionia State Hospital for the Criminally Insane in Michigan justified the lifelong confinement of Black men through diagnoses of protest psychosis until it was closed in 1977. Beyond disrupting the freedom and humanity of generations of Black people, the legacy of these institutions still contributes to medical mistrust among our communities.RecommendedOpinionOpinionIn one epic speech, Kevin McCarthy perfectly summed up the GOPOpinionOpinionBlurred footage of Christian Hall shooting shows how police try to evade accountabilityAn inability to challenge the harm caused by such psychiatric institutions has allowed many of these practices to continue. To this day, the APA provides training accreditation to state and forensic hospitals where patients, especially Black patients, endure misdiagnoses and marginalization. Forensic psychiatric hospitals in particular still disproportionately confine Black people. Not only does this deprive Black patients of their freedom, but it also places these communities at increased risk of death or serious illness during the height of the Covid-19 pandemic.RelatedOpinionOpinionHow a shake-up at medicine's old guard is forcing racism into the lightFurther, the APAs decision to limit its apology to the U.S. ignores how the field has been used to harm people across the world. For example, the apology refuses to acknowledge the 2015 Hoffman report, which indicted the APA for helping the Bush administration optimize torture techniques for detainees at Guantanamo Bay. These techniques traumatized hundreds of individuals while the APA largely ignored the escalation in Islamophobia and bigotry experienced by Arab, Middle Eastern and Northern African peoples in the U.S. By failing to understand that many of the people they were apologizing to identify as part of a diaspora, the APA limited its capacity to address harm done.In recent years, we have seen Black youth suicide rates steadily increase. At the same time, the desire for culturally grounded mental health support is on the rise. Within this context, the APAs inability to fully grapple with its history and how it continues, in its silence, to maintain racial inequity in access, misdiagnosis and maltreatment in mental health care is more than troubling.Despite this history, the APA continues to be the primary organization for establishing codes of ethics, lobbying state licensing boards, certifying and educating and training clinicians in the field of psychology. As opposed to continuing to modify this one organizations response to its own damage, its time for the APA and government bodies to recognize the authority that other psychological associations have, particularly when it comes to working with underserved populations.RelatedOpinionOpinionWe want to hear what you THINK. Please submit a letter to the editor.We are in a moment where cultural anxieties around understanding racisms historical and contemporary role in U.S. society is a determining factor in elections and other forms of social and civic engagement. As psychologists charged with tending to the mental health of our communities, we must hold ourselves and our peers to higher standards. As we shift away from these histories of denigrating and dehumanizing practices, we should take this opportunity to co-create the kinds of healing practices, geopolitical understandings and psycho-cultural social systems that can guide us toward a more humanizing field. This is a time of reckoning  and everyone is needed in the nonhierarchical planning of our restoration.Subscribe to the THINK newsletterReTHINK the news cycle with timely op-eds, in-depth analyses and personal essays delivered weekly to your inbox.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
'More Bubbas, no Black pastors': Attorney for man accused of killing Arbery decried as racist. Before the murder trial began for the three white men accused in the killing of Ahmaud Arbery, who was Black, race was expected to be a major theme in the case.Jurors were asked if they supported Black Lives Matter, if they had participated in any racial justice demonstrations and if they considered the Confederate flag to be racist. All but one Black person was struck from the jury. Eleven of the 12 jurors selected are white.The topic of race, however, was hardly broached during testimony before the prosecution and defense rested their cases last week.But allegations of racism have persisted, directed not at the men accused in Arbery's killing, but at the attorney representing one of them.Kevin Gough, an attorney for William "Roddie" Bryan, has been condemned for trying to have "high-profile African Americans" thrown out of the courtroom, derided for his complaints that the jury didn't contain enough "Bubbas or Joe six-packs" and admonished by the judge for equating Black faith leaders with Klansmen.Defense attorney Kevin Gough on Thursday. Sean Rayford / Getty ImagesLee Merritt, who is representing Arbery's mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones, said Gough's statements, outside the ears of the jury, have become "more targeted, more persistent and more racist."On Nov. 11, Gough tried and failed to prevent "high-profile African Americans" like the Revs. Al Sharpton and Jesse Jackson from being in the courtroom, alleging they would influence the jury."We don't want any more Black pastors coming in here," Gough said in court, a day after Sharpton sat in the public gallery with Arbery's mother.That same day, he questioned what would happen "if a bunch of folks came in here dressed like Colonel Sanders with white masks sitting in the back"  apparently equating African American civil rights and faith leaders to the KKK. The judge admonished the remark Monday as "reprehensible.""I don't think he sees Black people as particularly civilized, so he doesn't understand that we can show up without causing a mistrial," Merritt said. "That we can be controlled and supportive without being rambunctious."Merritt on Thursday joined hundreds of mostly Black pastors outside the Glynn County Courthouse in Georgia, where they gathered in response to Gough's request to keep them out of the courtroom.Merritt said he believes Gough is "agitating the Black community" on purpose to cause a mistrial.David Henderson, a former federal prosecutor who is now a civil rights lawyer and CNBC contributor, said he believed Gough's comments to be both racist and incompetent."It's hard for me to differentiate between how racist I think it is compared to how incompetent I think it is," Henderson said. "I know that's a strong word to use; I don't think I can avoid it in his situation."Gough's client is a neighbor of father and son Gregory and Travis McMichael. The men are accused of chasing Arbery in separate pickup trucks Feb. 23, 2020, through the Satilla Shores neighborhood where they lived. Travis McMichael got out of his truck and briefly fought with Arbery before he fatally shot him at close range. Bryan filmed the fatal encounter on his cellphone. The defense has said the men suspected Arbery was a burglar.RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store Before his comments targeting Black pastors and civil rights leaders, Gough came under scrutiny for trying to ban peaceful demonstrators from gathering outside the courthouse to call for justice for Arbery.He also threatened to file a so-called Bubba motion, Merritt said. "Bubba" is a term Gough used to describe white men older than 40 who do not have a college degree. He said the jury needed more Bubbas."He's making these absurd motions, and the goal, I think, in part, is to intimidate the family," Merritt said. "Most of his motions have been directed at the family of the victim in the case. And so, I think the other part is that he knows that he'll get a reaction from the Black community."The Rev. James Woodall, the former state president of Georgia's NAACP chapter who has closely watched the trial, said Gough's challenge of the presence of prominent civil rights leaders in the courtroom "is a desperate attempt to make it appear that the defendants are not being given a fair trial."He said he agreed with the court that "such references have no place in judicial proceedings and are reprehensible."Woodall, a public policy associate at the Southern Center for Human Rights who has met Arbery's family, said he was not surprised by Gough's behavior."This is a highly publicized trial in a small, rural community," Woodall said. "Emotions are high, and the stakes are higher."Gough, who did not return multiple phone and email requests for an interview, earned his law degree from the University of Georgia. He grew up on Long Island in New York and was elected multiple times as the chair of the Republican Party in Glynn County.In 2012, he became the Brunswick Judicial Circuit public defender. He was fired from that role in April 2016 for a host of reasons including having been "derelict" in his duties as a circuit public defender, refusing to abide by the agency's directions and not representing his clients appropriately, according to his letter of removal from Bryan Tyson, who was then the executive director of the Georgia Public Defender Council."Your own agenda has overshadowed any other issues that may exist," the letter said.Tyson described the Brunswick office as one with a culture of "fear and intimidation," according to statements during Gough's appeals hearing.Henderson said he didn't have high hopes for Gough after the attorney suggested his client wasn't smart enough to speak on his own behalf during an interview with CNN's Chris Cuomo last year. Bryan had not yet been arrested."My client is a mechanic with a high school education, and if you've ever been to the high schools around here, that's not necessarily saying much, OK?" Gough said at the time. "And I don't mind if the board of education doesn't like it."Henderson said he walked away thinking "that's the worst that I've ever seen a lawyer do representing their client in terms of how he presented him to the point of insulting his client's intelligence and his education."Gough has only gotten more offensive as the trial has gone on, Henderson said.He said he believes Gough is picking up on "the fact that attention is being turned on to the case in a way that could be detrimental to his client because people are demanding justice.""He simply doesn't know how to talk about race, which is a problem that America has and has had, period," Henderson said.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
White Kansas City officer convicted in Black mans 2019 death. KANSAS CITY, Mo.  A judge on Friday convicted a white Kansas City police officer of involuntary manslaughter and armed criminal action in the fatal shooting of a Black man, in a case in which prosecutors said police planted evidence.Jackson County Judge Dale Youngs issued the bench ruling against Officer Eric DeValkenaere in the death of Cameron Lamb, 26. Lamb was shot while backing into his garage on Dec. 3, 2019, after chasing his girlfriends convertible in a stolen pickup truck.DeValkenaere testified during the trial that he fired after Lamb pointed a gun at another detective, Troy Schwalm, and that he believed his actions saved the life of his partner. On the stand, DeValkenaere said: Im thinking, I cant let this happen, I cant let him shoot Troy.RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store Prosecutors, however, argued that police lacked a warrant to be on the property and staged the shooting scene to support their claims that Lamb was armed. Before he was shot, prosecutors said, Lamb had his left hand on the trucks steering wheel and his cellphone in his right hand.Another officer who was the first to arrive at the scene after the shooting testified during the trial that he didnt see a gun on the ground below Lambs left arm, which was hanging out of the window of the truck. Later, though, a gun was there in police photographs.Two bullets were found in Lambs pockets at the morgue, but crime scene technicians didnt find them at the scene. And prosecutors also raised questions about whether Lamb, who was right-handed, could have used his left hand to pull a gun due to an earlier injury. The defense argued that he could have.The verdict came after a bench trial, which was held before the judge without a jury at DeValkenaeres request.The killing of Lamb, a father of three, was often invoked during racial injustice protests in Kansas City last year. And it was among several cases cited by a group of civil rights organizations in a petition urging U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland to investigate the Kansas City Police Department. The indictment in the case came days after Lambs death garnered renewed attention stemming from his familys meeting with then-President Donald Trump in 2020.In the past year, prosecutors have brought criminal charges against five white Kansas City police officers for allegedly using excessive force against Black people. DeValkenaere was the only officer charged in an on-duty killing.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Black and Latino 'King Richard' director Reinaldo Marcus Green talks dads, sports. They're considered two of the most powerful players in tennis history.The Black and Latino movie director Reinaldo Marcus Green wants to take viewers back to the moment before Venus and Serena Williams became champions  and all they had was the ambitious plan of a determined father who wore short shorts and a cowboy hat on a tennis court in the city of Compton, in Southern California.Green is the director of King Richard, which premieres nationwide Friday and tells the story of Richard Williams, the father of Venus and Serena (played by Will Smith). Together with his wife, Oracene Brandy Williams (played by Aunjanue Ellis), he sets out on a family journey from humble beginnings to the threshold of tennis fame and fortune.To the outside world he was quite controversial and outspoken and colorful, Green said about Williams in an interview with NBC News. After meeting the family and hearing their story, the director became interested in showing another dimension of Williams character.Director Reinaldo Marcus Green at the Sundance Film Festival in 2018.Taylor Jewell / Invision / APHe was a dad who just tried to do right by his kids, the best way he could with the tools that he had. And nobody is perfect, Green said. Hes learned lessons along the way. He had to, at the end of our film, understand that his daughters were growing up and what do you do when that moment happens. Do you squeeze tighter or do you let go?Green, whose father is Black and mom Puerto Rican, was born in the New York City borough of the Bronx and grew up in Staten Island and other parts of the city. Where he lived was not too different from Compton, Green said.  After Green's parents divorced, his mother and father chose to have  him and his brother live with their dad. "They really wanted us to have a father figure in the house," Green said. "It was important for my mom as well." The director said he cant avoid comparing his father  who was raising two sons to become major league baseball players  with Williams.We grew up with a similar father ... I literally grew up on a baseball diamond. I played travel ball and all-star baseball," said Green, who also played in college. "My dad wore those short shorts too. So I knew what its like growing up with that parent that other folks think is a little out there, but you in your heart know is a special guy.Green wanted to bring that level of complexity and authenticity to viewers when telling the story of two Black sisters who became champions in a sport that has been inaccessible to many diverse children.The movie is a unique window intothe early lives of the Williams sisters, the director said. Viewers will see them take their first steps toward becoming professionals at a young age when their parents were creating a blueprint for all of their future successes in tennis and beyond.They are ambassadors for their community, Green said. Tennis is only one aspect of what theyve done.Expanding diversity in the courts Carlos Mendez, the founder of the Multicultural Tennis Association, remembers seeing tennis courts when he was growing up in his  predominantly Latino neighborhood in East Los Angeles. But the courts were all locked up.The Mexican American father sees common ground with Williams, who created a tennis plan for his daughters just 12 miles away in Compton.I found a lot of parallels and similarities when I watched the movie King Richard, Mendez said in a video interview. For me, with my daughter, it was pivotal that I encouraged her as a Latina to do something outside of our tradition, our comfort zone.Carlos Mendez, founded the Multicultural Tennis Association and says he can relate to the movie King Richard.Courtesy Carlos Mendez said that he wanted his daughter to grow up with the opportunity to play tennis. But when his daughter started at a country club as the only Latina out of 30 kids, he says that the initial goal of sharing his love for tennis with his family grew into sharing the sport with other members of his community.We dont have a lot of kids that look like me or like my kids playing out there, he said. Less than 6 percent of college tennis players are Hispanic, compared to over 25 percent who play soccer.Mendez founded the Multicultural Tennis Association in Las Vegas, and he's now in Chicago, where they've expanded the association with the sponsorship of the Mike Tyson Cares Foundation and are offering free programs in inner-city parks in partnership with the Chicago Parks District.RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store But beyond the mission of making tennis more affordable and accessible, Mendez says there also has to be a cultural shift.In our culture, we really dont encourage our young ladies to go out there and really compete, he said. We need to break down that barrier and allow kids to fill up those tennis courts.Like Williams in the film, Mendez believes that the key to success is balancing both education and sports.As a parent, its important for me to have a well-rounded youth," he said. "And not just think that theyre going to be the next champion, because what happens if they dont become professional tennis players?Demi Singleton, Will Smith and Saniyya Sidney in a scene from "King Richard."Chiabella James / Warner Bros. Entertainment"Stories being generated for us"When asked about the importance of visibility on screen, Green says that more and more diverse stories are being told. But viewers dont want to simply see movies that only check off diversity boxes.What you may see now is lets put a Black person in the lead, or lets get a Latino, he said. But its not written for us. Its written for someone else and its being slotted. As opposed to stories being generated for us. And I think hopefully thats the next wave of films.Green says that starts with Black people and Latinos writing and telling stories about themselves, and having the opportunity to be both in front and behind the camera.Were on the long journey because we want meaningful, sustainable change, he said about creating authentic Black and Latino movies. Rather than it just being of the moment. Hopefully our films will feel timeless. And not just lets do it now and lets do it paint by numbers.FollowNBC LatinoonFacebook,TwitterandInstagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Author Karen Tei Yamashita wins lifetime literary achievement award. Karen Tei Yamashita was awarded the 2021 Medal for Distinguished Contribution to American Letters by the National Book Foundation on Wednesday. Yamashita is the 34th recipient of the award since it was created in 1988. Past recipients include Joan Didion, Toni Morrison, Maxine Hong Kingston and Stephen King. "A bold and groundbreaking writer, Yamashita's deeply creative body of work has made an enduring impact on our literary landscape," the foundation's chair, David Steinberger, said in a statement. In her acceptance speech, Yamashita said the award was especially significant to her community, given how the past year has been plagued by anti-Asian violence and hatred. "Asian American literature is, at heart, a literature of politics and resistance," Yamashita said. Yamashita has written eight books, all published by the Minneapolis publishing house Coffee House Press. Her works include a book of short stories about being Japanese American, "Sansei and Sensibility," and "Through the Arc of the Rain Forest," a novel about a Japanese ex-pat living in Brazil amid an environmental crisis. "Im here because Coffee House has envisioned the long distance of a writers journey, [they] know that books take time to be read and to be shared," Yamashita said, adding that the publisher always kept her books in print, which gave her readership time to grow. In 2010, Yamashita's "I Hotel," a novel set in San Francisco's Chinatown in the 1960s and '70s, was a finalist for the National Book Award. The title won the 2011 California Book Award and was a finalist for the Asian American Literary Award for fiction in 2011. RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store "Karen Tei Yamashita is such a legend," author Jean Chen Ho tweeted in response to Yamashita's acceptance speech on Wednesday. "When I read 'I Hotel' in undergrad I remember just having my entire brain reorganized about what a novel is and can do."Yamashita currently serves as a professor emeritus at the University of California, Santa Cruz, where she researched Japanese immigration to Brazil and Asian American literature.She attended Carleton College in Minnesota and also studied at Waseda University in Tokyo. She was born in Oakland and raised in Los Angeles, according to the National Book Foundation. Both of her parents were incarcerated at Topaz internment camp during World War II.In addition to a bronze medal, the lifetime achievement award comes with $10,000. Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Univ. of Maryland slammed for separating Asian students from 'students of color' in graphic. The University of Maryland is facing backlash after an administrative graphic separated students into two categories  students of color, minus Asians and white or Asian students.The graphic was part of a presentation by university President Darryll Pines, who was sharing the incoming class diversity data with the student body senate. The school says it intended to highlight students who have been underrepresented on campus. Data on the slide spanned a five-year period, including information like UMDs total number of applicants, with average SAT scores and grade point averages.But a point of contention for some students and a larger audience on Twitter is the race breakdown of yearly incoming first-years.Numbers listed under the students of color, minus Asians category were meant to represent the students with the lowest historical presence at the school, and it did include some Pacific Islanders, the university said in a statement provided to NBC Asian America.The data in this specific section was intended to show student populations that have historically represented 11 percent or less of our campus community -- Black/African Americans, American Indians or Native Alaskans, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander and Hispanics, the statement said.Students said the graphic perpetuates ideas like the model minority myth, which claims that Asians are inherently successful and close to whiteness. It also erases distinctions between groups within the Asian American and Pacific Islander umbrella, many of which are generally lower-income and underserved, they told The Diamondback.[The university uses] us when they want to be diverse, and then not when they dont want to, Anish Kakarla, a UMD student and president of the South Asian Student Association, told the student newspaper The Diamondback.RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store As the debate continues online, the university clarified that it does include Asians when describing students of color in data or otherwise.When we refer to students of color, we include Asian students and Asian Americans, the university said.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Shohei Ohtani of Los Angeles Angels wins American League MVP award. Double-threat Shohei Ohtani of the Los Angeles Angels was named the American League's Most Valuable Player on Thursday, making him only the second Japanese player to win the award.Ohtani, often compared to MLB great Babe Ruth because of his ability to pitch and hit at an elite level, was the unanimous pick over the Toronto Blue Jays' Vladimir Guerrero Jr. and Marcus Semien in voting by the Baseball Writers Association of America.MVP is something I was shooting for, obviously, I think any player is as long as theyre playing baseball professionally, said Ohtani via a translator. But I was more appreciative of the fact that American fans  just the USA baseball  was more accepting and welcoming (of) the whole two-way idea compared to when I first started in Japan.I have always dealt with a lot of doubters, especially from my days in Japan but I try to not let that pressure get to me.This is my first time winning MVP so that is special alone but getting it unanimously makes it that much more special and helps me get more motivated to keep on putting up good numbers next season.In his first full MLB season as both a hitter and pitcher, Ohtani had a .257 batting average, 46 home runs and 100 RBI to go along with a 9-2 record and 3.18 earned-run average in 23 starts on the mound.The 27-year-old is the first Japanese player to win the award since Ichiro Suzuki earned the honors in 2001 as a member of the Seattle Mariners.The Tokyo Tower will be illuminated in Los Angeles Angels colors on Friday to celebrate Ohtanis accomplishment, MLB said in a statement.Growing up I watched Ichiro and he also won MVP and was someone I looked up to and got me actually wanting to play in the Big Leagues one day, said Ohtani. Hopefully I can be that type of figure to the kids watching me right now and hopefully one day I could play with one of those kids watching me. That would be really special.A mix of power and speed rarely seen on Major League diamonds, Ohtanis 46 homers were just two off the MLB lead shared by Guerrero and Kansas Citys Salvador Perez.On the mound he overwhelmed batters with a 100 mph fastball and was speedster on the base path stealing 26 bases.The MVP was just the latest in a season packed with honors for Ohtani, who was also named the 16th recipient of the special Commissioners Historic Achievement Award.The honor goes to a group or person who has made a major impact on baseball and is presented at the commissioners discretion.Shotime, as Ohtani is known in the United States, was also named among the 100 most influential people of 2021 by the Time magazine.Ohtanis selection is the sixth time an Angels player has earned MVP honors. He joins Mike Trout (2014, 2016, 2019), Don Baylor (1979) and Vladimir Guerrero (2004), father of runner-up Vladimir Guerrero Jr.Its been something special to witness what youve accomplished as a teammate. You have put together a season of your own WELL DESERVED, #SHOTIME!!! #MVP,tweeted Troutimmediately after the announcement.Philadelphia Phillies Bryce Harper was named the National League MVP for the second time. He won the award in 2015 with the Washington Nationals.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
New Asian American Muppet prompts CPAC president to call for defunding PBS. Matt Schlapp, the president of the Conservative Political Action Committee, has drawn criticism from Asian Americans and others across social media this week after he called for Sesame Street to be defunded for introducing its first Asian American Muppet.Schlapp, a conservative lobbyist, tweeted a news story about the coming debut of a Korean American character, Ji-Young. The Muppet has been praised for letting Asian American children see a character like themselves on screen, but Schlapp slammed the host network, PBS, which receives both government and private-sector funding.What race is Ernie is Bert? Schlapp tweeted Monday. You are insane PBS and we should stop funding you.Schlapp doubled down Thursday on Fox and Friends First, claiming PBS and Sesame Street are trying to bring race into Ernie and Bert.I grew up watching, and it wasnt ever about race. It was about learning lessons and learning to read and learning tolerance,Schlapp said. And they want to inject race.He also went on to jab at the Muppets take on gender.And by the way, this whole question about gender into everything, one of the Muppet characters had a son, and the son wanted to be a daughter, and they just wont stop with their push for woke politics, Schlapp said.Elmo introduces newest Sesame Street character, Ji-YoungNov. 15, 202103:52The Muppets have alluded to nonbinary characters in the past, but it was unclear which episode Schlapp was referring to. In an episode of Muppet Babies, the popular Muppet Gonzo, known for a love of stunt performance, dons a gown for Miss Piggys ball, making their debut as Gonzo-rella.In an email to NBC News, Schlapp did not deviate from his position. He also took shots at National Public Radio (NPR), a publicly funded nonprofit media outlet, accusing the organization, as well as PBS, of wanting to "be in arms in the socialist movement." Sesame Street needs to go back to the time when a show was devoted to a letter in the alphabet, and not the latest woke fad," he wrote. "We all loved Bert and Ernie without the foggiest idea of the racial demographic they may have represented. Afterall, Ernie is orange. The taxpayers deserve a big rebate. If PBS and NPR want to be in arms in the socialist movement, they need to pay their own way.A spokesperson for Sesame Street did not immediately respond to request for comment. Ernie with Ji-Young, the first Asian American Muppet, on "Sesame Street."Noreen Nasir / APJi-Young, an avid electric guitar player and skateboarder, will make her first appearance as part of a special titled See Us Coming Together on Thanksgiving Day. Alan Muraoka, who plays the owner of Hoopers Store on the show, said that like many Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, she will straddle two cultures.RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store Shes a musician, she plays electric guitar, shes a girl of the very modern American fabric, he said. She recognizes the culture through her relatives  her grandmother, through her mother  and through the food she eats and loves.The show will also delve into other real and yet difficult issues relating to Ji-Youngs identity, including anti-Asian racism. During the special, another child tells her to go home in an offscreen incident. Friends and adults come together and help her understand that shes exactly where she belongs, according to a statement about the episode.Its necessary for the next generation of kids to understand these issues, because theyre real issues and theyre issues that I dont see going away in the foreseeable future, Muraoka said.Schlapps comments came on the heels of criticism from Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, who accused Sesame Street of spreading government propaganda this month after the character Big Bird spoke about getting vaccinated against Covid-19.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
A hit song wins a Latin Grammy. One of its songwriters is in a Cuban prison. . A group of Cuban musicians, including one imprisoned in Cuba, won song of the year at the Latin Grammy awards on Thursday for their song "Patria y Vida"   garnering even more international attention for a song that's become an anthem for Cuba's opposition.Banned in Cuba, "Patria y Vida" is a song that transcends politics and culture. Amid the guitar and rhythmic beat, it's an emotional song whose lyrics denounce the harsh realities Cuban face on an everyday basis   including censorship, lack of food and the sadness of mothers whose children have migrated from the island. "For me, this song has been the emotional awakening for Cuban society," Yadam Gonzlez, one of the song's authors and producer who was on stage Thursday, said in a phone interview with NBC News on Friday.Gonzlez said the song has " served as a bridge for Cubans to have a way to reflect their pain and their desire for change." At the Grammys, the award winners dedicated the song to Cuba's political prisoners. The group Gente de Zona, Yotuel of the group Orishas, and singer-songwriter Descemer Bueno collaborated on the song with two rappers in Cuba, El Funky and Maykel Osorbo, whose real name is Michael Castillo. Both rappers are part of an artists collective in Cuba known as the San Isidro Movement, who have protested against the Cuban governments censorship.Castillo is being held in a maximum-security prison in Cuba after his arrest in May. He went on a six-day hunger and thirst strike in late October to protest his imprisonment and Cubas crackdown on free expression. Activists have said that Castillo is sick. Homeland and Life is a play on the famous revolutionary slogan Patria o Muerte (Homeland or Death), a term that has been used by Cubas government for decades. The title is symbolic and full of meaning for those who oppose the Communist government. Acts of dissent, banned in Cuba, have grown during the past year. During the July 11 historic antigovernment protests that swept through the island people could be heard shouting Patria y Vida and some wrote the words on signs.RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store Gonzlez, who left Cuba for Denmark in 1996 and now resides in Miami, said that when he heard the words "Patria y Vida" being shouted during July's protests, he felt "very proud to be part of the emotions Cubans were feeling. "In this case, I refer to Cubans in a very personal way, because my parents still live in Cuba," he said.The group performed at the Latin Grammys dressed in white, in solidarity with activists in Cuba who had called for a nationwide protest on Monday. The protest never happened after authorities surrounded activists homes, preventing them from leaving while keeping a significant police presence on the streets. Instead, activists dressed in white and hung white sheets outside their homes in a sign of peace.FollowNBC LatinoonFacebook,TwitterandInstagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
U.S. group helps Mexican teens get coronavirus shots in California. SAN DIEGO  A group in San Diego along with San Diego County stepped in to help their neighbors in Mexico.A group of Mexican teens traveled by bus to California on Thursday to get vaccinated against the coronavirus as efforts get underway across Mexico to get shots in the arms of teens.About 150 kids from Tijuana were bused to the Mexican consulate in San Diego on Thursday where county nurses administered the Pfizer vaccine.The pilot program in San Diego aims to get shots in the arms of 450 youths ages 12 to 17 before it ends in late December. The adolescents from Tijuana were selected by Mexican social service organizations, including those who work with the children of parents deported from the United States.Mexico has resisted vaccinating minors ages 12 to 17, in part because the government focused on older adults believed to be more vulnerable. Mexico also has not had enough vaccine supply for most of its minors, who account for one-third of its population. The country this month is preparing to start vaccinating only teens ages 15-17.Among the teens who got vaccines in California was 14-year-old Leslie Flores, who said she was nervous but also happy about getting the shot.Because this way I can protect myself and my family, Leslie said.RecommendedWorldWorld'Shooting attack' by Hamas gunman in Jerusalem's Old City kills 1, injures 4U.S. newsU.S. newsDozens of looters rush California Nordstrom store The county donated the doses. The teens will return in about three weeks for a second shot.All of the adolescents have a U.S. visa or passport, but they were unable to come to the United States before now to get the vaccine because they did not have an adult able to cross the border with them, said Carlos Gonzlez Gutirrez, the Mexican consul in San Diego.Adrian Medina Amarillas, Baja Californias secretary of health, praised the effort.Baja California is experiencing a third wave of infections, he said. There is no doubt that this will help.The program will be evaluated in early 2022 and officials will decide then whether it needs to be continued.Hundreds of parents in Mexico have taken legal action against the Mexican government to demand the right to be able to give the vaccine to their children. Overall, about 84 percent of Mexicos adult population has had at least one dose of the vaccine.The effort comes less than two weeks after the United States fully reopened its borders, and Mexican officials see it as another step toward ensuring the border stays that way. Border businesses were decimated by the 18-month closure to tourists and shoppers.About 80 percent of the adult populations in both San Diego County and in Baja California have received at least one dose of the vaccine.The first mass vaccination of Mexican minors happened last month along the Texas border when more than 1,000 children from the Mexican border state of Coahuila were bused to Eagle Pass, where they got their first shot of the Pfizer vaccine administered by members of the Texas National Guard. The youths ages 12 to 17 are the children of workers at border assembly plants known as maquiladoras.In May and early June, more than 26,000 maquiladora workers in Baja California were vaccinated at the San Ysidro border crossing in San Diego.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
'Silence is not acceptable': Latino poet Martn Espada wins National Book Award . The image reverberated across the country and the world  the intertwined bodies of a father and his little girl, facedown in the waters of the Ro Grande, who drowned trying to cross the border into the United States. For poet Martn Espada, it was what happened after the photo came out that spurred him to write a poem that became the title of his book "Floaters: Poems,"  which garnered the prestigious National Book Award for poetry Wednesday."Can you imagine looking at that photograph and seeing a conspiracy?" he said in a phone interview from his home in Massachusetts on Thursday. After reports surfaced of a member of a Border Patrol Facebook group questioning whether the photo was "doctored" because he had "never seen floaters like this," Espada wrote a poem about scar Alberto Martnez Ramrez and his daughter Valeria. "It was a way to humanize the dehumanized, taking their name back," Espada said, "... to demand that we see these people as people. That theme runs throughout the book." In announcing Espada's award, poet A. Van Jordan said the poems in "Floaters" "remind us of the power of observation, of seeing everything thats in front of us, whats behind us ... This is a collection that is vital for our times and will be vital for those in our future, trying to make sense of today."Espada, who said he was still "stunned" about the announcement, described the award as not just a recognition of his work, but also "a recognition of all the people in my work"  those whom he gives a voice to in his poems."Letter to my Father," which he describes as his favorite poem in the book, came after Hurricane Maria struck Puerto Rico "and I was here in western Massachusetts, looking on helplessly," he said. His father, Frank Espada, a renowned photographer and activist whose photographs are in the Smithsonian Institution and the Library of Congress, was born in the Puerto Rican mountain town of Utuado. The town was devastated during the hurricane and was constantly in the news. "I saw this destruction and I began to talk to my father  my father had already been gone, dead since 2014," he said. "I was talking to his ashes in a box, wrapped in a Puerto Rican flag, and began to tell him what was happening, as if he could still hear me.""I was telling him what was happening to Puerto Rico, to Utuado, Trump throwing paper towels," Espada said, referring to then-President Donald Trump, "and how I wished he could come back and make things right. That became the poem 'Letter to my father'  I promised that one day I would go and spread his ashes in Utuado." A professor at the University of Massachusetts Amherst and a Pulitzer Prize finalist for his 2006 book, "Republic of Poetry,"  several of Espada's poems in "Floaters" pay homage to a generation of groundbreaking Latino activists in New York City. One is a tribute to the poet, activist and former Museo del Barrio director Jack Ageros and another to Luis Garden Acosta, an activist and former Young Lord who founded a seminal, youth-centered community health center, El Puente de Williamsburg, in Brooklyn, where Espada was born.  They saw through the fog and clouds and saw there was something on the other side," Espada said about Agueros' and Garden Acosta's work. "Don't we need that now?"Their lives are also a reminder of the need to connect to the lives and issues around us. "Without community, what does it mean to be a writer?" he said. The book includes a series of love poems, "dedicated to my wife, who is a teacher and poet in her own right," Espada said. "My fathers presence, my wife's presence, are represented in every single page."When asked how the last few years of wrenching political changes, climate events and a pandemic impacted his writing, Espada was reflective."I am sometimes struck speechless. You sometimes wonder if words are going to be enough," he said. "But then you write the next poem. What choice do we have? Silence is not acceptable." FollowNBC LatinoonFacebook,TwitterandInstagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
'Long time coming': Ahmaud Arbery family rejoices as 3 men convicted for his murder  . Ahmaud Arbery's family rejoiced Wednesday following the conviction of three white men for gunning down their loved one, a Black man, as he was running through a Georgia neighborhood last year.As soon as the first guilty verdict was read out loud against Travis McMichael, a cheer erupted and the victim's father, Marcus Arbery,  leapt up to celebrate.Arberys mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones, appeared to be in silent prayer as the verdicts were read. As the first guilty verdict was read, the mother sobbed aloud, Oh! Cooper-Jones' head sunk into her chest as she wept, with civil rights activist, the Rev. Al Sharpton, holding her hand.Men found guilty in Ahmaud Arbery trial expected to get long prison sentencesNov. 24, 202105:15Glynn CountySuperior Court Judge Timothy Walmsley briefly halted proceedings to restore order and admonish the audience not to react outwardly again.As Marcus Arbery was led out of court due to his outburst, the father said: "It's been a long time coming." Ahmaud Arberys parents walked out of the courthouse, arms joyfully raised as supporters cheered them and the verdicts."Love everybody. All human beings need to be treated equally," Marcus Arbery said outside the courthouse. "Today is a good day." The victims aunt, Ruby Arbery, celebrated the convictions of Travis McMichael, 35; his father, Greg McMichael, 65; and neighborWilliam Roddie Bryan, 52. My heart is pounding with gladness, excitement, she said. Im glad that they got them off the streets so they wont harm nobody else of color. The three men face up to life in prison. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials sayCooper-Jones admitted she wasn't always certain this day would come.Its been a long fight, its been a hard fight. But God is good, she told reporters. To tell you the truth, I never saw this day back in 2020. I never thought this day would come. But God is good. I just wanted to tell everybody thank you, thank you for all those who marched and those who prayed.The mother spoke lovingly of her slain son, calling him by his nickname.You know him as Ahmaud, I know him as Quez, she said. He will now rest in peace. Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Ahmaud Arbery's Black neighbors and supporters react to the verdict. BRUNSWICK, Ga.  In the seconds after a "guilty" verdict came down  ending the emotional trial of three white men accused of killing Ahmaud Arbery  the anxious throng assembled outside the Glynn County Courthouse erupted. Strangers embraced, tears flowed and people prayed.Mostly, however, was a sense of shared relief.The sheath of impending unrest that hovered over this small coastal town lifted like cloud cover. The specter of an uprising was gone; the hope that justice for Black people can be received was restored  if only momentarily.Hallelujah, said Cee Cee Warner, a Brunswick native who said she skipped work in anticipation of a verdict. We can breathe again. We tried to downplay it, but there was a lot of tension, especially in the Black community. We were scared what could happen with the verdict  the wrong verdict. And that scared me because I think there would have been rioting and everything else. It would have become ugly. Our city could have burned down.A woman raises a fist Wednesday outside the Glynn County Courthouse in Brunswick, Ga., after Travis McMichael, Gregory McMichael and William "Roddie" Bryan were convicted of murdering Ahmaud Arbery.Marco Bello / ReutersInstead, Black America in general and Brunswick in particular waited for the verdict. The nearly all-white jury convicted Travis McMichael of malice murder, felony murder, aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony. His father, Gregory McMichael, and their neighbor William Roddie Bryan were acquitted of the top charge. All now face up to life in prison. The three white men tracked Arbery, who was Black, in a pickup truck and gunned him down in the street on February 23, 2020. The McMichaels toted weapons  the father a handgun; the shooter, Travis McMichael, a shotgun used to blast three shots at close range into Arbery. Bryan followed without a gun, but blocked Arberys path, leading to the fatal confrontation in a quiet subdivision.Media from around the world descended upon this nondescript town that has been the center of attention since jury selection began in October.Maybe everyone will go away now, Warner said. Everyone has known the name of our city for the wrong, horrible reasons. This verdict can at least be a positive for the city.Im more relieved than happy, Michael Irvin, a teacher from the Orlando, Florida, area told NBC News outside the courthouse. He said he drove more than three hours to Brunswick in anticipation of a verdict Wednesday. I dont want to be a spoilsport, but what if that video had not come out several months later? A young Black man would have been taken from his family and community with no one held responsible.That part, I cant ignore. So, Im happy justice was served. But even in a case that seemed pretty obvious to me and most people, we had to pray and hope and wish and pray some more for justice. It shouldnt be that way. We shouldnt have to go through all these emotions just to feel like a Black life matters.People react Wednesday outside the Glynn County Courthouse in Brunswick, Ga., after the McMichaels and Bryan were convicted in the death of Ahmaud Arbery.Marco Bello / ReutersAt Brunswick High, where Arbery graduated in 2012, students said the discussion around the building on the case was limited. But the tension was pervasive. If the verdict was not guilty, the city would have been hot, student Keon Leggett, 17, said. What they did to him was wrong. And we all felt it. He was one of us.The jury deliberated for one day to convict the trio of men who had claimed they were making a citizens arrest. Because Thanksgiving was approaching and the jury discussed the case for an extended period after it received the case Tuesday, the anticipation of a verdict Wednesday mounted. The crowd doubled in anticipation of the verdict between Tuesday and Wednesday.The atmosphere outside the courthouse was festive after the verdict, with chants of Justice for Ahmaud and Say his name ... Ahmaud Arbery, a sustained calling. When Arberys mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones, and father, Marcus Arbery, exited the courtroom and walked toward the steps of the courthouse, the crowd erupted.You all know him as Arbery; I know him as Quez. He can now rest in peace, Cooper-Jones said. I never thought this day would come back in 2020. But God is good.In one sense, the jury had no choice  it was evident they hunted down and killed this young man, Mary Lewis Richards said. She said Brunswick is her hometown, but she lives in Atlanta. In another sense, we have seen what happens when white people kill Black people  nothing. So I couldnt be comfortable at all that they would get what they deserve. But I tell you what, I feel so good right now.People raise their fists Wednesday outside the Glynn County Courthouse in Brunswick, Ga., after the convictions of three men in the killing of Ahmaud Arbery.Octavio Jones / ReutersAt a mural of Arbery a few blocks from the courthouse at G and Albany streets, a small crowd gathered and rejoiced. Ahmaud didnt deserve to die, especially like that, hunted in the streets, Gloria Johnson said, glancing at the large image of him as a high school student. Look at that beautiful young man. He had so much to live for. It would have been worse if justice had not been done. Thank God it was. He deserved at least that. And with the Minnesota case, lets hope this means change.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials sayShe referred to the conviction of former Minneapolis Police Officer Derek Chauvin, who murdered George Floyd last year.We have had a lot of losses in cases like this, where Black people are killed by white people, Will Bethune said. He drove from Savannah with five friends to wait for the verdict at the courthouse.We were cramped up in that car, but it was important to be here, he added. For the family. For history. For Ahmaud Arbery. In times like these, we have to come together because no one is coming to save us. Weve seen obvious cases like George Zimmerman get off for killing Trayvon Martin. So we couldnt take it for granted this would happen.But now that it has, a lot of stress has been let go. Maybe we can get back to living without everything hanging over us. Maybe.FollowNBCBLKonFacebook,TwitterandInstagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Biden says verdict in Ahmaud Arbery killing reflects 'justice system doing its job'. President Joe Biden said Wednesday that while the convictions of three men in the murder of Ahmaud Arbery were a reflection of a justice system that works, there is still much progress to be made on racial justice."While the guilty verdicts reflect our justice system doing its job, that alone is not enough," Biden said in a written statement shortly after the verdicts were announced in Brunswick, Georgia. "Instead, we must recommit ourselves to building a future of unity and shared strength, where no one fears violence because of the color of their skin."Three white men were found guilty Wednesday of felony murder in the shooting death of Arbery, 25, who was running in their neighborhood when they pursued and confronted him last year.Travis McMichael, 35; his father, Gregory McMichael, 65; and their neighbor William "Roddie" Bryan, 52, face up to life in prison for the state crimes.The men are also expected to stand trial in February on federal hate crime charges. Arbery's family and civil rights leaders have likened his death to a modern-day lynching.Vice President Kamala Harris said the verdicts "send an important message, but the fact remains that we still have work to do.""Ahmaud Arbery was a son. He was a brother. He was a friend. His life had meaning," she said. "We will not forget him. We honor him best by continuing the fight for justice."The McMichaels and Bryan chased Arbery in pickup trucks after they spotted him in their neighborhood outside Brunswick on Feb. 23, 2020. Travis McMichael shot Arbery with a shotgun at close range. Bryan recorded the fatal encounter on his cellphone; the video was eventually made public.RecommendedHealth newsHealth newsFirm that administers medical benefits for some 9/11 survivors loses federal contractNational SecurityNational SecurityCIA chief warns Russians of consequences if they caused 'Havana Syndrome'Sen. Raphael Warnock, D-Ga., said the verdict "upholds a sense of accountability but not true justice.""True justice looks like a Black man not having to worry about being harmed  or killed  while on a jog, while sleeping in his bed, while living what should be a very long life," he said. "Ahmaud should be with us today."Republican Gov. Brian Kemp said in a statement that Arbery was "the victim of vigilantism that has no place in Georgia.""As legal efforts continue to hold accountable all who may be responsible, we hope the Arbery family, the Brunswick community, our state and those around the nation who have been following his case can now move forward down a path of healing and reconciliation," Kemp said.The deaths of Arbery and George Floyd fueled racial justice protests around the country last year.Biden said Arbery's killing was a "devastating reminder of how far we have to go in the fight for racial justice in this country.""Nothing can bring Mr. Arbery back to his family and to his community, but the verdict ensures that those who committed this horrible crime will be punished," he said.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Keith Magee Guilty verdicts in Ahmaud Arbery murder trial are bandages on festering racial wounds  . Over the past three weeks of the murder trial of the three white men  Gregory McMichael, Travis McMichael and William Roddie Bryan  charged in the killing of Ahmaud Arbery, Black America has been retraumatized.Like the trial of George Floyds murderer, then-Minneapolis Police Officer Derek Chauvin, in Minnesota in April 2021, the trial of the McMichaels and Bryan has revealed the shocking levels of racial hatred that still poison our society.RelatedOpinionOpinionAhmaud Arbery's alleged killers plan a legal defense tied to slave catchersThe men, facing charges of malice murder, felony murder, aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony, were all found guilty of felony murder Wednesday. Travis McMichael was also convicted of the other charges, but George McMichael and Bryan were acquitted of malice murder. They all face life in prison.Once again, the outcome of the proceedings leaves a bad taste in the mouth, for no prison sentence can ever put right the taking of an innocent life. These trials are the symptoms of our national sickness; guilty verdicts are like bandages applied in the hope of stemming bleeding during open-heart surgery. We will not be cured until we rid our country of racial injustice for good.RelatedOpinionOpinionWe want to hear what you THINK. Please submit a letter to the editor.Arbery died because his white assailants made assumptions about him based on the color of his skin. He was out running in the majority white neighborhood of Satilla Shores near Brunswick in south Georgia last February when both of the McMichaels and Bryan decided he must be up to no good, chased him and Travis McMichael shot him dead. They later claimed, with no proof whatsoever, that they suspected Arbery of being involved in burglaries in the area. According to an investigator, Bryan alleged that he heard Travis McMichael say " f------ N-word" after Arbery was shot. In fact, the violence unleashed on Arbery was so clearly racially motivated that the U.S. Department of Justice charged all three men with federal hate crimes in April. The men pleaded not guilty to these charges.More than four centuries after the first slaves were transported to America and then criminalized to keep them subjugated, we clearly still live in a nation in which being Black or brown is enough to make you appear suspicious, even threatening, to some white people.Steeped in hundreds of years of racist attitudes, some take one look at your outer layer and choose to assume that you have probably just committed a felony or are about to do so. And such assumptions can be fatal in a country in which white supremacy continues to fester.1 year after shooting death of Ahmaud Arbery, his mother speaks outFeb. 23, 202102:02Unlike white Americans, Black and brown citizens do not have the luxury of making assumptions. We cant assume that law enforcement officers, active or retired, will protect rather than harm us. We cant assume our white neighbors wont see us as a threat. We cant assume we are safe when we go jogging, pop into a grocery store, sleep in our own home or pull into a driveway to check our phone for directions.The Arbery case has reminded us that if we suffer a racist assault, we cant assume the police will promptly open a thorough investigation or make an arrest. It took over two months for an arrest to be made. We cant assume that the legal system will protect us from further discrimination. One of the prosecutors who recused himself earlier on in the case, wrote in a letter that he did so because the men who chased and killed Arbery had "solid first-hand probable cause" to pursue him, a "burglary suspect. Again, there was no proof that Arbery had stolen anything. We cant assume that the jury in our attackers trial will be remotely racially representative. Whether or not Arbery received justice was left up to 11 white jurors and one Black one. If we lose a loved one to racial violence, we cant even assume that we will be allowed to refer to them as a victim during a trial for fear of being seen as prejudicial, as the McMichaels lawyers wrote in a motion.RelatedOpinionOpinionCharging the paramedics and prosecutor in recent killings of Black men flips the scriptFor nonwhite citizens like me, the toxic effects of others assumptions about us can literally shorten our lives, and not just through racist violence. When you are viewed with suspicion everywhere you go through no fault of your own, when you know that your countrys criminal justice system was actually designed to incarcerate as many people who look like you as possible, and when you are struggling against discrimination every day, you exist in a permanent state of hypervigilance. The stress that generates has a measurable impact on the physical health of Black Americans, who, as a result, are much more likely than their white counterparts to suffer from hypertension and therefore to succumb to an early death.If we are ever to end racial injustice and the countless injurious effects it spawns  including hate crimes like the one that stole Arberys life  we must examine where harmful assumptions about Black and brown people come from and then overturn them. Generations after the invention of the false social construct of race was used to justify the inhumane treatment of Black, Indigenous, and other people of color, misplaced fear of the other is now so deep-seated in some Americans hearts that it will not be quickly erased.RecommendedOpinionOpinion'House of Gucci' won't get Lady Gaga the Oscar she covets. But it might get viewers.OpinionOpinionLady Gaga isn't perfect in 'House of Gucci'  but she knows how to make you feelPositive change is possible, but we wont achieve it just by exposing the darkness in our past and present. As a nation, in addition to stripping our justice and electoral systems of structural racism and creating equal access to opportunity for every person in America, we also need to begin the process of dismantling race altogether so we can move forward.It will not be an easy task, but all of us who care about making America more equitable must be willing to put in the work. And it will take more than refusing to elect lawmakers determined to infringe on the voting rights of Black and brown people, challenging a loved ones racist comments at the holiday dinner table or carefully curating our friendship groups to make them more diverse.RelatedOpinionOpinionBlack death has long been a political tool. Ahmaud Arbery's shooting shows why.Important as such actions are, we have to go even further  we have to re-frame identity as being about something deeper than skin color by choosing instead to value and celebrate ethnicity, culture, heritage and citizenship. Education is the key to achieving this. If we can teach all our children to see every person as a human being with a soul just like them, we will be on the path to building a future free from finding the antidote not just to racism, but also to every kind of discrimination.I pray that I will never see another trial like the one that has just ended. I long to never hear about another life lost to hate, another family destroyed, and another campaign demanding something every person in America should simply take for granted  basic justice. The expectation of justice should be as natural as breathing or sleeping or going for a run on a sunny day  we should be able to assume that it is available to us all.Subscribe to the THINK newsletterReTHINK the news cycle with timely op-eds, in-depth analyses and personal essays delivered weekly to your inbox.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Trump argues Jan. 6 panel's pursuit of his records could permanently damage the presidency. Attorneys for former President Donald Trump on Wednesday argued that the pursuit of his White House records by a congressional committee investigating the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol could have long-lasting, harmful effects on the presidency."The [committees] clear disdain for President Trump is leading them to a course of action that will result in permanent damage to the institution of the presidency," the former president's attorneys wrote in a court brief filed in federal court."In reality, their success would gut the protections afforded presidential communications of any just and uniform standard. An incumbent president would always be able to condemn the actions of a former president from a rival party and permit confidentiality to be broken to further political ends, they wrote.The filing comes two days after lawyers for the bipartisan Jan. 6 committee urged the appeals court to quickly release Trump's White House records surrounding the attack on the Capitol.The appeals court is slated to hear arguments in the case on Tuesday.Court order over Jan. 6 documents could be bad sign for TrumpNov. 24, 202101:23Trump is appealing a ruling earlier this month by U.S. District Court Judge Tanya Chutkan, who said the House committee's pursuit of his records was valid. Trump has claimed executive privilege over his White House records, but President Joe Biden refused to grant privilege over the tranche of documents, including memos, emails, records of White House conversations and visitor logs.Trumps attorneys have suggested in briefs that partisanship motivated Biden in his refusal to assert executive privilege over his predecessor's records.RecommendedHealth newsHealth newsFirm that administers medical benefits for some 9/11 survivors loses federal contractNational SecurityNational SecurityCIA chief warns Russians of consequences if they caused 'Havana Syndrome'The appeals court recently granted Trump a short-term reprieve by temporarily blocking the National Archives from turning over his White House files to the Jan. 6 committee.In addition to seeking those records, the House committee has issued batches of subpoenas in recent weeks to dozens of Trump administration officials and allies of the former president. The committee issued a new round of subpoenas on Monday, targeting high-profile Trump allies like Roger Stone and Alex Jones.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
CIA chief warns Russians of consequences if they caused 'Havana Syndrome'. CIA Director William Burns delivered a secret warning to Russian intelligence services that they will face consequences if they are responsible for the mysterious health incidents known as Havana Syndrome that have afflicted U.S. spies, diplomats, FBI agents and others spies around the world, three sources familiar with the matter said.The warning was first reported by The Washington Post.Burns raised the issue during a visit to Moscow this month, the sources said, while he was speaking to top officials of Russias Federal Security Service, the FSB, and its Foreign Intelligence Service, the SVR.RecommendedHealth newsHealth newsFirm that administers medical benefits for some 9/11 survivors loses federal contractDonald TrumpDonald TrumpTrump argues Jan. 6 panel could permanently damage the presidency with its pursuit of White House recordsThe sources said he told the Russian spies that harming U.S. personnel and their families would break the unwritten rules of acceptable behavior for professional intelligence services.If it was determined that the Russians were responsible, he said, there would be repercussions.Victims suffering from Havana Syndrome have reported hearing a loud sound and feeling pressure in their heads and then experiencing dizziness, unsteady gait and visual disturbances. Many say they have suffered long-standing debilitating effects.NBC News reportedin 2018 that U.S. intelligence officials considered Russia a leading suspect in what some of them assessed to have been deliberate attacks on diplomats and CIA officers overseas. But in the three years since then, the spy agencies have not uncovered enough evidence to pinpoint the cause or the culprit of the health incidents.U.S. officials cannot say for sure that they were the result of human activity.President Biden attends G-20 summitOct. 30, 202101:51Many U.S. officials remain convinced that Russia is behind the incidents, which Burns has privately called attacks, current and former officials say. Russia has consistently denied responsibility.The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine said in a report last year that some of the observed brain injuries were consistent with the effects of directed microwave energy, which the report said Russia has long studied.A team of medical and scientific experts who studied the symptoms of as many as 40 State Department and other government employees concluded that nothing like them had previously been documented in medical literature, the report said.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
CDC issues health advisory about rising flu cases among kids, young adults. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued a health advisory Wednesday that cases of influenza have been rising among young adults in recent weeks.While flu cases are still low nationally, more than 90 percent are among children and young adults ages 5 to 24, according to the CDC. Most cases are of the H3N2 lineage  a strain that health experts say is particularly troublesome, as it tends to mutate faster than other variants of influenza. The last timeH3N2 was the dominant strainwas during the 2017-18 flu season, when the U.S. had 710,000 flu-related hospitalizations and 52,000 flu-related deaths, the most since the2009 H1N1 flu pandemic.A CDC map shows influenza rates.CDCThe CDC has been investigating a flu outbreak at the University of Michigan, where hundreds of students have tested positive. Flu outbreaks have been reported at other college campuses in the past month. Experts are concerned that college students and other young people who may have been exposed to flu could spread it around the country as they travel home for the holidays. This is the time of the year when many people are going to be gathering together for the holidays for either Thanksgiving, Christmas or New Year's, and theres just the potential to amplify it, said Dr. Isaac Bogoch, an infectious disease specialist at the University of Toronto.He said people, especially those most at risk for severe disease, should get vaccinated, because the virus doesnt stay within a particular age group for long. Its coming. Its not quite clear how large a flu season were going to have, but we are going to have a flu season, he said. RecommendedHealth newsHealth newsFirm that administers medical benefits for some 9/11 survivors loses federal contractNational SecurityNational SecurityCIA chief warns Russians of consequences if they caused 'Havana Syndrome'Full coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe flu season typically runs from October to as late as May, with activity tending to peak from December to February, according to the CDC. Influenza experts had previously said they were concerned that the country could be at risk for a severe flu season this year after seasonal flu cases reached an all-time low last year, when large parts of the country were shut down because of the coronavirus pandemic. Flu outbreak sickens hundreds at University of MichiganNov. 17, 202101:50Experts urge people to get both Covid and flu vaccinations, saying an increase in flu infections this winter could put more burden on the countrys health care system, which is already dealing with a surge in coronavirus cases. Download the NBC News app for full coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAs part of the health advisory, the CDC recommended that people with flulike symptoms be tested for both influenza and Covid. Follow NBC HEALTH on Twitter & Facebook.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Tearful Dick Vitale back at the college hoops mic after cancer diagnosis . Beloved college basketball analyst Dick Vitale broke down in tears Tuesday night, thanking hoops fans and returning to the mic just five weeks after being diagnosed with cancer. His voice choked with emotion as soon as the lights and camera lit up court-side at T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas, ahead of top-ranked Gonzaga Universitys 83-63 victory over No. 2 University of California, Los Angeles."It's great being here, Dave. I didn't want to cry," Vitale told the audience and play-by-play man Dave O'Brien. "I can't believe I'm sitting here. This is really a big thrill for me. I want to thank all you people, sent me so many great messages. ESPN (company chairman) Jimmy Pitaro, all my buddies at ESPN. I want to thank, certainly, my family and all the fans, my, you've been unbelievable."Vitale, who had already overcome a battle with melanoma, was told on Oct. 12 that he had bile duct cancer and to prepare for an incredibly difficult path forward. A subsequent diagnosis found it wasn't bile duct cancer but rather lymphoma, which has a much higher rate of survival."I'll be honest with you, when they walked in and told me I had cancer, they thought it was bile duct cancer, and it was really going to be a serious surgery and all, I never dreamt at 82 that I'd ever be  court-side again, but to be here today, I'm sorry, I hope I don't cause a problem out there, but I feel so emotional, the tearful Vitale said.O'Brien, his right arm wrapped around the popular ESPN personality known as "Dickie V," told Vitale that no one would begrudge him a moment of emotion.Vitale wiped his eyes and said: "The game is the big thing so let's get this game going, talk some basketball." Arguably ESPN's most well-known and loved voices, the Hall of Fame broadcaster Vitale has been calling college basketball games since 1979, virtually for as long as the network has been in existence.He's best known for catch phrases such as "Awesome, baby!" for a great play and "Get a TO, baby!" urging a coach to call timeout to stem a potential decisive run.The relentlessly upbeat Vitale tweeted a picture of himself leaving his hotel room before Tuesday's game and told fans: "Don't ever believe in can't." Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Gray wolf whose 'epic' travels captured headlines is killed in California . A gray wolf whose epic travels captured headlines and imaginations earlier this year was killed in California after being struck by a vehicle this month, wildlife officials said Wednesday.The wolf, known as OR93, was found dead on Interstate 5 roughly 90 miles north of Los Angeles, near the town of Lebec, the California Department of Fish and Wildlife said in a news release.Foul play wasnt suspected, the department said.OR93 was born in northern Oregon in 2019. After being outfitted with a radio collar a year later, he was captured traveling to California's Central Coast  the first wolf to be reported there in hundreds of years, said Amaroq Weiss, an advocate with the Center for Biological Diversity. "Im devastated to learn of the death of this remarkable wolf, Weiss said in a statement. His epic travels across California inspired the world. In this annual time of reflection, I thank him for the hope he gave us and for a brief glimpse into what it would be like for wolves to roam wild and free again."By April, OR93 had arrived in California's San Luis Obispo County, nearly 1,000 miles south of his birthplace. Then, his radio collar stopped working, prompting the San Francisco Chronicle to contemplate the whereabouts of this "young roaming gray wolf" who was "probably looking for love" and eluding wildlife officials while doing so.In his search for a mate, Weiss said, OR93 was captured on a trail camera even further south, in Kern County, where his body would later be found. In September, he was seen in northern Ventura County.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials sayThe last time a wolf was documented that far south was 1922, wildlife officials said, when one was seen in San Bernardino County."I always knew the odds of his finding another wolf on the Central Coast were slim to none, but his relentless wanderings seeking a kindred spirit connected him to the hearts of so many," Weiss said. "He wont be forgotten, and well honor his memory by continuing to fight for the safety of wolves everywhere.Gray wolves are native to California but were killed off a century ago. Roughly 20 are now believed to live in the state in two northern counties, Weiss said.Weiss pointed to OR93s death as a reminder of the impact of development and sprawl on the habitat of native animals and called for the construction of effective wildlife crossings, including underpasses and overpasses.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
A nursing home where 83 residents died of Covid is still in business under a new name. In December 2019, Sharon Farrell flew from Florida to visit her brother Stephen at a New Jersey nursing home, where, she said, she found disgusting conditions. "I told the nurse, 'I am calling the state,'" she said. "Im paying $9,000 a month, and I wouldnt let my dog live like this."Farrell said that four months later, as Covid-19 was spreading rapidly, she repeatedly called the facility to ask how her brother was doing. When she finally reached someone, she said, she was told he was fine. Within a few days, however, he was dead.It has been 19 months since the discovery of 17 bodies in a tiny morgue at the Andover Subacute II nursing home in Sussex County, New Jersey, in April 2020. The federal government fined the owners $221,115 for not being in "substantial compliance," and the attorney generals office began an investigation.But the owners are still in business. They changed the names of Andover and its sister facility and installed new signs out front. As of Friday, there were 25 residents of Andover with Covid, according to state data. And the owners are still being paid by Medicare and Medicaid, the taxpayer-funded programs that pay most costs for U.S. nursing home operators  even though one of the owners, Louis Schwartz, helped run a chain called Skyline Healthcare, which collapsed in 2019 amid accusations of neglect and financial mismanagement, which the chain denied.Andover Subacute Facility I and II was renamed Woodland Behavioral and Nursing Center at Andover.NBC News"The individuals that ran Skyline should not ever be in charge of a nursing home again, and yet here we are," said David Grabowski, a professor of health care policy at Harvard Medical School. He said the pandemic exposed an industry already in crisis, with a lack of resources and regulation."Different names, same practices," Grabowski said. "We need to ensure that there arent these kind of back doors, that nursing homes arent able to simply put a new name on the building and continue to operate as is."Some family members of those who died at Andover say they are frustrated, and some are suing over the facility's alleged lack of preparation to deal with Covid and for mingling the infected and the healthy.Farrell joined a lawsuit with other families but said: "I couldnt care less about the class action. I want these guys out of business."Before CovidAt its peak, Skyline Healthcare had more than 100 facilities andoversaw the care of more than 7,000 elderly residents. But from 2017 to 2019, the chain began a slow-motion collapse, and more than a dozen Skyline-operated nursing homes shut their doors, throwing residents, vendors, employees and state regulators into chaos.Many homes ran out of money. Others were shut down over neglect documented in government records.In one Arkansas nursing home regulators identified maggots in a residents catheter, according to an inspection.Fourteen homes were forced to close permanently, displacing more than 900 residents to new facilities, sometimes hours away.Skylines main owner, Joseph Schwartz, and his son Louis did not return multiple messages and emails requesting comment in 2019. They have denied the allegations of neglect.The Schwartz family has not left the nursing home business.While Skyline is defunct, Joseph Schwartz is still listed as the owner or a co-owner of four facilities, according to federal nursing home ownership data.Louis Schwartz and Chaim Scheinbaum have ownership stakes in at least seven nursing homes between them, including the facility once known as Andover Subacute II.In January 2020,New York health officialsrecommended against allowing Scheinbaum to take over a nursing home in upstate New York, citing an "ongoing investigation" and noting that they disapproved of his "character and competence," according to a Health Department document.Scheinbaum did not respond when asked to comment about the recommendation.A year before the Covid outbreak, a female Andover resident with dementia walked out of the facility through two broken doors and was found at 4:30 a.m. sitting in the snow with severe frostbite, according to afederal inspection.Terri Thompson, her daughter, sued the facility, alleging violations of the minimum standard of care. The lawsuit is pending, and the owners have denied the claims.Dante Maglioli said that in early 2020, his father, Joseph, complainedabout the quality of care at Andover. The family was talking about moving him to another facility.As Covid began to spread, Maglioli said, he heard his sister and his father talking on the phone. His father was saying he was not sure Andover could cope if he came down with the deadly new disease. And then, Maglioli said, "my sister never talked to my dad again." Magliolis father died April 9, 2020.Schwartz and Scheinbaum did not respond when asked to comment about the conditions at Andover before the pandemic.When the pandemic arrived, nursing homes in New York and New Jersey, including Andover, took the early brunt.Eighty-three of the homes 539 residents, or almost 1 out of every 6, died of Covid in the first four months of the pandemic. Farrells brother was among the casualties.Health care officials prepare to load a patient into an ambulance at Andover Subacute and Rehab Center in Andover, N.J., on April 16, 2020.Stefan Jeremiah / Reuters filePreston Nicolai, then a 20-year-old maintenance worker at the facility, said it was "horrific.""We were losing sometimes between 10 and 12 people a night," he said.Before the bodies began to pile up at Andover, Nicolai said,he was told to move residents from room to room, even though the facility did not know who had Covid and who did not. "I do believe it helped spread the cases of Covid throughout the building," he said.Nicolai said he was told to stack bodies on top of one another in a small room as the facility struggled to deal with the surge in deaths.RecommendedHealth newsHealth newsFirm that administers medical benefits for some 9/11 survivors loses federal contractNational SecurityNational SecurityCIA chief warns Russians of consequences if they caused 'Havana Syndrome'On Easter Sunday, April 12, Nicolai said, he went to work and found the body of a woman in an outdoor maintenance shed, next to shovels, rakes and a lawn mower. He said there was no more room for corpses inside the nursing home."I was so morally devastated," he said. "It felt so wrong to put someones loved one out in the shed."He moved the body back inside the facility, but he cannot shake the images. "I have had really bad dreams, and I dont have the money to pay a therapist," he said.They do not even know what they do not knowDocuments newly obtained through an open records request by NBC News show how the facility struggled to cope with the outbreak in April 2020.Emails from Andover staff members to Sussex County officials documentrepeated requests for personal protective equipment, or PPE, like masks and gloves, some of whichwas delivered to the facility.A summary of an inspection from the early morning hours of April 12 written by Kyle Wilson, a registered nurse, and addressed to the Andover Township chief of police describes in detail conditions inside the facility days before the first story broke about bodies stuffed into the tiny morgue.Wilson is employed part-time at the police department, according to a dispatch operator.He did not return a call seeking comment.Wilson wrote that protective equipment delivered to the facility by the Sussex County Sheriffs Office was unaccounted for.He said an Andover employee said the facility was "aware of a batch of PPE 'donated by the Sheriffs office' but could not account for its whereabouts or the inventory of the facilitys existing PPE, if such an inventory exists."Police find 17 bodies in New Jersey nursing home hit by coronavirusApril 16, 202002:26Wilson wrote, "Staff were observed to be touching their PPE (face shield, gown, mask) and their face with bare hands." He wrote that he "confronted [the nurse on duty] about this observed behavior.She assured me that it was okay because she was 'not in a room.'"Wilson wrote that there was no Covid testing at the facility and that the staff had not segregated the patients suspected of having Covid. He wrote: "It is my opinion that the acquisition of PPE alone will not resolve the rate of spread at this facility.  [S]taff are undoubtedly contaminated throughout their shift.While the staff are tangibly scared, a culture of safety is not present in this facility.They have not been educated.They do not even know what they do not know."Two days later, a federal Department of Health and Human Services administrator working in Sussex County, Carol Novrit, emailed county officials to say Andover staff members had told her that residents were "not being fed," that residents had "open wounds" and that the deaths of both residents and staff members were not being reported to public health officials.She wrote that the staff told her "there is no infection control now."Schwartz and Scheinbaum did not respond when asked to comment about the documents obtained by NBC News.Federal inspection reports conducted in mid-April 2020 showed similar observations, noting that residents who had symptoms were intermingled with those who were asymptomatic.'Impossible to know'Representatives for the owners said that at that time it was "often impossible to know who had Covid and who did not because of a lack of testing capability."In a statement, the owners of Andover, now known as Woodland Behavioral, said that "the safety and health of our residents has always been the top priority for Woodland Behavioral," adding: "The COVID-19 pandemic brought unprecedented challenges, and our heroic staff faced those challenges as best as they could.We continue to thank them for everything they did (and continue to do) to protect our residents."Representatives for Scheinbaum and Schwartz said they asked for help from multiple government agencies, including two verbal requests to the National Guard on April 11and April 15,but were told by military officials that they could not provide any assistance.A spokesperson for the New Jersey National Guard disputed their assertion. "The National Guard does not have any information indicating that the Andover Subacute facility made a request for assistance, much less one that was turned down." The spokesperson said that at the outset of Covid, the Guard "supported every single mission request we received."The National Guard did respond to a request for emergency aid that Sussex County officials sent to the governor on May 6. Two days later, 22 members of the Guard went to Andover and performed nonmedical tasks, like cleaning the facility.NBC News investigation: Nursing home chain collapses amid allegations of unpaid bills, poor careJuly 19, 201903:30The owners say problems identified in the federal inspections from spring 2020 have been resolved with state and federal regulators.A spokesperson for an industry trade group, the American Health Care Association, said, "Even the best nursing homes with the most rigorous standards could not stop this highly contagious and invisible virus. Many lives were lost because long-term care was not made a priority by public health officials, especially in the initial months of the pandemic. Critical resources were directed toward hospitals, leaving long-term care facilities at a severe disadvantage."The investigation continuesPreston Nicolai said he was fired four months after the overstuffed morgue was discovered, accused of improperly disposing of medical waste.He said he believes the owners were looking for an excuse to get rid of him after what he saw.He said he has not been contacted by the attorney generals office. Sharon Farrell, however, was contacted this April.Asked when the attorney generals office would complete its investigation, a spokesperson said, "As is our standard practice, we will not provide updates on the investigation or release any additional information unless and until we bring an enforcement action or close the matter."The spokesperson said the Andover inquiry is part of a larger investigation of "facilities with high numbers of Covid-related deaths and below-average track records for health inspections, staffing, and quality of care."The class-action lawsuit filed by some relatives of the deceased, including Maglioli and Farrell, recently won a legal ruling allowing the lawsuit to stay in state instead of federal court, said the families attorney, Daniel Marchese.Marchese said that is good for the plaintiffs, who can plead their case before a local jury instead of being referred to a federal compensation program set up through the PREP Act, which shields businesses from some forms of liability after natural disasters like Covid.Maglioli said: "I think that these gentlemen, their corporation, whatever it is, needs to pay the price. And I dont mean in a financial way."Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Isaiah Austins NBA dreams shattered. Now hes returned to the league in a new role.. Isaiah Austin walked into practice June 21, 2014, and immediately knew something was wrong.Austin was coming off a banner season playing for Baylor University, leading his team to the NCAA Sweet Sixteen. As a 7-foot, 1-inch center, he had been known for his flashy blocks. And now he was projected to be a first-round pick in the NBA Draft, making all his dreams come true, just five days later.Everybodys aura was off that day, Austin said. Im the type of guy to speak up, so Im yelling at guys like: Yo, whats up with you guys? You dont have the same energy as we always do. Im trying to get after it today.Ray Forsett, Austins high school coach, was leading one of Austins pre-draft workouts. But Forsett already knew Austin would not play in the NBA. He interrupted Austins pep talk at center court at Mo Williams Academy in Dallas and simply reminded him to enjoy being on the court, Austin said.After the workout, we were driving home, and I just felt like his whole personality changed towards me, almost like he was just sad for me or something, Austin said. And I just remember driving down the road. I was in the passenger seat. And I remember seeing my parents car in the driveway, and at this time they lived in Kansas. So I was like, Man, they might have a surprise party for me or something, like, whats going on? And I remember walking through the front door and my whole coaching staff was there from Baylor, my agent was there, my pastor was there  brother and sister, whole family, my whole circle, my tight-knit circle that Ive been through everything with was there.Austins mother delivered the news that he was medically ineligible to play in the NBA. Austin, who is blind in his right eye, said he knew before then that there was a chance he could not play, but he brushed it off. He was also notified at the NBA combine, where top draft prospects are exhaustively examined and assessed, that his DNA would be tested for Marfan syndrome. Still, he said, he thought he was in the clear because he was allowed to go through the pre-draft process.But his loved ones confirmed that he did, in fact, have Marfan syndrome, a rare genetic condition that disrupts how cells, organs and tissue connect, resulting in a key complication in which heart arteries enlarge to the point of tearing. The confirmed diagnosis meant the end of his plans to play in the NBA.Isaiah Austin speaks with a group of children during an NBA Fit Event in New York, New York, on June 24, 2015.Michael Lebrecht / NBAE via Getty Images file Austins career trajectory had suddenly flipped. But years later, he is taking on a new role in the NBA, one that had not been in his plans when he left Baylor after two seasons as a student-athlete eyeing the NBA. Last month, Austin started a one-year fellowship created specifically for him in the leagues player development department.I work closely with the teams and try to help players find their interest points outside of basketball, Austin said. He said it is an opportunity to expand my horizons and show that I am more than just a basketball player and that Im capable of doing anything I set my mind to.Changing courseAustin recalled that before the diagnosis, he had been overjoyed with the thought that my dream of being able to take care of my family and give something back to my family for all that theyve sacrificed for me was about to come true.But once he learned he would not be playing in the NBA, I was filled with sorrow during that time, Austin said. I didnt know what I was going to do with my life.NBA Commissioner Adam Silver still drafted him as an honorary player. Isaiah committed himself through endless hard work and dedication to a potential career as a professional basketball player, and we wanted to make sure he fulfilled at least this part of his dream, Silver said in 2014.Austin said the moment brought him some closure.Being able to walk across that stage and being able to shake Adams hand kind of brought some light at the end of the tunnel for me, he said. That moment will always be engraved in my mind and my familys mind like a beacon.Austin turned to opportunities overseas in hope of still playing professionally. His cardiologist, Dr. David Liang, wrote a letter in 2017 confirming that he was able and healthy to play, Austin said, adding that Liang observed no clear symptoms of Marfan syndrome.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials saySo me, personally, it doesnt affect my life at all, Austin said. Ive been healthy as can be my whole life. Ive been an athlete my whole life.In 2017, Austin began playing in leagues around the world, including the Chinese National Basketball League and the Lebanese Basketball League. He averaged more than 30 points for Guangzhi Weizhuang in the Chinese NBL.These days, Austin is at peace with how things unfolded: Sometimes youre just dealt a bad hand.Austin returned to Baylor  where he studied health, kinesiology, and leisure studies, and graduated last year. His position in the NBA keeps him close to basketball. Over the next year, he will network and shadow teams and events, such as the All-Star Game and the draft, for additional exposure to learn the league and members of its front office.Jamila Wideman, the NBAs senior vice president of player development, said in a statement: The NBA Player Development group has long supported former players in their transition to post-playing careers through a number of programs, and the League Office Fellowship was specifically designed to further develop Isaiahs unique talents and experiences while giving him a foundational knowledge of the business of basketball. Isaiah has been a member of the NBA family for many years, and we continue to be inspired by his resilience and determination. We are committed to his growth as the first league office fellow and will continue to support him as he takes this next step in his professional journey.The journey includes learning the leagues organizational structure, brainstorming innovative ways to engage players in campaigns and working to land a job after the fellowship ends.Ive actually just really been enjoying the ride, trying to be a sponge and absorb as much information as I can and just learn the business side of basketball, he said.Austin said his role involves helping players identify their passions off the court and offering support to pursue them.Austin is figuring out some dreams of his own: My dream job? I dont know. I feel like thats the reason why Im going through the fellowship, is to try to help pave in which direction I want to go in my career. I know I love the game of basketball. I know that I want to be around it forever, because its given me so much.FollowNBCBLKonFacebook,TwitterandInstagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Desperate for cash, Afghan families are selling young daughters into marriage. SHAIDAI, Afghanistan  Bashful, with long locks of rust-colored hair dyed with henna, Benazir fidgets with a handful of gravel when the topic of her marriage comes up.She looks down at the ground and buries her head in her knees when she is asked whether she knows she has been promised to another family to marry one of their sons.Her father says he will receive the equivalent of $2,000 for Benazir, but he hasnt explained the details to her or whats expected of her. Shes too young to understand, he says.Benazir is 8 years old.It is traditional for families here to pay dowries to brides families for marriages, but it is extreme to arrange a marriage for a child so young. And the economic collapse after the Talibans takeover in August has forced already poor families to make desperate choices.Benazir, 8, second right, walks with a group in Herat, Afghanistan. NBC NewsThe days are filled with hardships for children here in Shaidai, a desert community on the mountainous edge of Herat in western Afghanistan.Children like Benazir and her siblings beg on the streets or collect garbage to heat their simple mud homes because they dont have enough money for wood.Her father, Murad Khan, a day laborer who hasnt found work in months and has eight children to feed,looks much older than his 55 years  his face is worn with worry. His decision to sell Benazir to marriage at such a young age comes down to a cold calculation.We are 10 people in the family. Im trying to keep 10 alive by sacrificing one, he said in Pashto.Khan said the arrangement is for Benazir to be married to a boy from a family in Iran when she reaches puberty. He hasnt received the money yet for her dowry, and he said that as soon as he does, Benazir will be taken away by the man who bought her.Ive been telling the shopkeepers Ive sold my daughter and I will be paying them back, so they have given me some food as a loan. A father of a 7-year-old GirlHe will just take her hand and take her away from me, he said. He will take her away and say, Shes ours now.A combination of a severe drought that decreased livestock and farmers yields and the freezing of foreign aid by governments that dont recognize the new Taliban government has pushed poor Afghans over the edge.Promising their daughters early for marriage in exchange for cash is seen as a lifeline for families that barely have a scrap of bread to eat.Benazir, right, lights a fire with discarded paper to cook bread with a group of children in Herat.NBC NewsThe U.N. Population Fund has warned that it is deeply concerned by reports that child marriage is on the rise in Afghanistan.Henrietta Fore, the executive director of UNICEF, said in a statement: We have received credible reports of families offering daughters as young as 20 days old up for future marriage in return for a dowry.A piece of your heartBenazirs best friend, Saliha, who is just7, has been sold for marriage for the same price, $2,000, to someone in the family of her father-in-law in Faryab province in the north.Benazir and Saliha already have responsibilities in the community. They go to a local mosque together to collect water, a scarcity in the desert, and haul the hefty jugs together back to their homes.Like her older neighbors, Saliha also spins yarn  pulling at a matted cloud of wool brought by traders and twisting it into neat spools of string. It takes four days to refine 8 pounds of the material, which earns her a dollar.But the family is in debt. Salihas father, Muhammed Khan, says he took out loans from store owners in town.Farzana is 8 months old but weighs just 6  pounds.NBC NewsIve been telling the shopkeepers Ive sold my daughter and I will be paying them back, so they have given me some food as a loan, he said.The money he makes from selling Saliha will help pay it all back and feed her four siblings.It was a soul-wrenching decision, he says.Your children are a piece of your heart. If I wasnt forced to do this, why would I do it? he says.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials sayAfghanistan was a poor country before the Taliban took over, propped up by foreign aid. According to the World Bank, about 75 percent of public finances were supplied by grants from the U.S. and other countries.When the U.S. military withdrew and the hard-line Islamist Taliban government took over, a lot of that aid money was frozen. Salaries dried up and the flow of cash came to an abrupt halt, creating a humanitarian crisis.And things look likely to get worse as the crisis spirals,with more than half the population facing hunger and 3.2 million children suffering from malnutrition, according to the U.N. World Food Program.The agency said it has never seen so many people facing emergency levels of food insecurity in Afghanistan, where all 34 provinces are affected.In the relatively wealthy province of Herat in western Afghanistan, an emergency feeding center is running out of beds.The Doctors Without Borders-run facility at Herat Regional Hospital treats the most severely malnourished babies, like tiny Farzana, who at 8 months old weighs just 6 pounds. She is one of 75 babies being cared for here.Her father is a butcher. His business has collapsed so badly that he couldnt keep feeding his family.Farzanalies without making a sound, a tiny, pale, bone-thin arm sticking out, andher wide eyes dont blink.What we are seeing is very small kids, which are not well breastfed by the mothers because the mothers are all so malnourished theycant produce enough breast milk to feed them, said Gaia Giletta, Doctors Without Borders head nurse for pediatrics at the feeding center.Because of disruptions to health care and aid agencies across the region, Giletta said, many kids get no primary care. For many who arrive, it is already too late  a child dies nearly every day here.Another baby at the center, Ali, is small and pale, barely mustering up energy to cry. His mother, Smita Umar, was herself malnourished, so Ali was born too weak to suckle. At4 months old, he has already spent three months at the center.My husband is a house painter, Umar said. But he sold his tools so we could feed the baby. Things have got worse since the Taliban came. What little we had went to zero.Richard Engel, Gabe Joselow and Ahmed Mengli reported from Herat. Yuliya Talmazan reported from London.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Appeals court order in Jan. 6 documents case may be bad news for Trump. WASHINGTON  A federal court order late Tuesday may be a worrisome sign for former President Donald Trump in his effort to assert executive privilege over documents sought by a House committee investigating the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol.The U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia notified lawyers for Trump, the House committee and the National Archives that they should be prepared to address whether the court even has the legal authority to hear the dispute. Oral arguments are scheduled for Nov. 30.Appeals court blocks Jan. 6 committee from obtaining Trumps recordsNov. 12, 202103:10The committee investigating the riot has asked the National Archives to turn over scores of Trump administration documents  including memos, emails, records of White House conversations and visitor logs  as it investigates the origins of the attack.The House panel is seeking Trump's records from the Archives because the agency maintains all documents from past administrations. Trump claimed executive privilege over some of the material, but President Joe Biden said the records should be released to Congress, citing the importance of the bipartisan committee's work.U.S. District Judge Tanya S. Chutkan this month ordered the Archives to hand over the material, but the appeals court granted a brief stay to take a longer look at the issue.Late Tuesday, the appeals court ordered the lawyers in the case to be prepared to address the jurisdiction issue. The fact that the court is wondering about its own authority to take up the case is telling: Courts are typically protective of their jurisdictions.The court raised the question on its own, meaning it was not suggested by the lawyers in the case. It asked: "Does the provision in the Presidential Records Act providing that the Archivists 'determination whether access to a Presidential record ... shall be restricted ... shall not be subject to judicial review, except as provided in subsection (e) of this section' ... implicate this courts or the district courts jurisdiction in this case?"The court cited a 2001 case involving a challenge to the plans for the World War II Memorial on the National Mall in Washington. Congress had passed a law saying no court could review the plans. The challengers argued that the legislative language was unconstitutional, but an appeals court disagreed and tossed the lawsuit.Judge denies Trumps attempt to withhold documents from Jan. 6 committeeNov. 10, 202102:37If the appeals court were to take similar action in Trumps case, he could appeal to the Supreme Court. But if his lawsuit is ultimately dismissed, it would pave the way for the Jan. 6 committee to get documents from the Archives.Tuesday's order also directed the lawyers to be ready to answer a second question: "If so, what effect, if any, do [those provisions] have on the subject matter jurisdiction of the district court to adjudicate any of the requests listed in the Complaints Claim for Relief?"Lawyers for Trump have argued that the congressional committee had no proper legislative purpose for seeking his White House records and that it instead launched the investigation to "intimidate and harass President Trump and his closest advisors under the guise of investigating the events of January 6, 2021."RecommendedHealth newsHealth newsFirm that administers medical benefits for some 9/11 survivors loses federal contractNational SecurityNational SecurityCIA chief warns Russians of consequences if they caused 'Havana Syndrome'The committee responded by saying in its court filings that it needs the records "to complete a thorough investigation into how the actions of the former President, his advisers, and other government officials may have contributed to the attack on Congress to impede the peaceful transfer of Presidential power."In addition to seeking Trump White House records, the committee has issued numerous subpoenas in recent weeks for Trump administration officials and key allies of the former president, including Roger Stone and Alex Jones.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Elizabeth Holmes admits doctoring lab reports with pharma company logos. SAN JOSE, Calif.  Theranos founder and former CEO Elizabeth Holmes returned to the witness stand Tuesday, confirming key aspects of the prosecutors allegations behind the 11 counts of fraud she faces, but asserting that there was nothing wrong in what she did.The prosecution has repeatedly shown jurors lab reports emblazoned with logos of the pharmaceutical companies Pfizer and Schering-Plough. Witnesses from those companies who worked with Theranos testified that the use of the logos was unauthorized and they were unaware of it at the time.Holmes admitted that she was the one who had added the logos to Theranos lab reports and sent them to Walgreens as she pursued a deal to put her blood-testing startup's diagnostic machines in the pharmacy's retail stores.Holmes acknowledged that in some cases, Theranos used third-party devices, rather than its own equipment. This work was done in partnership with those companies and I was trying to convey that, she said by way of explanation. "I wish I had done it differently, she added.Addressing another key point made by the prosecution, Holmes said that when Theranos switched from using on-site analyzers to process samples to a centralized lab approach, it used third-party devices rather than its own equipment as an invention because there were too many samples to handle. Witnesses have testified that Theranos' signature blood-testing machine repeatedly failed quality assurance tests and delivered erroneous results. Holmes said the company didnt tell its business partners about this arrangement because it was a trade secret.She rebutted the prosecution's arguments about some of the alleged misrepresentations she made to investors, the media and business partners, affirming that she had received specific positive reports from employees and outside experts and believed their statements to be true.Cevallos: 'Doesn't seem plausible' that Theranos founder was unaware product didn't workNov. 23, 202106:34When presented with company emails and PowerPoint presentations, defense attorney Kevin Downey asked Holmes about specific instances brought up by the prosecution.Jurors saw an email sent to Holmes by then-chief company scientist, biochemist Ian Gibbons, about the development of Theranos' fourth-generation device.Our immunoassays match the best that can be done in clinical labs and work with small blood samples. Generally our assays are faster by a factor of three to 10 than kits, Gibbons wrote.RecommendedConsumerConsumerSecond pandemic Thanksgiving boasts higher prices, skimpier supplies, lower qualityEconomyEconomyLatest weekly jobless claims fall to 199,000, the lowest since 1969Downey asked Holmes what she took that email to mean. I understood that the 4 series could do any blood test, she replied.U.S. District Judge Edward Davila has instructed jurors that the emails between Holmes and her lab staff, along with many other exhibits, should be understood as indications of Holmes state of mind and not as facts of what actually happened.Despite those promises being made to investors and the media, other witnesses testified that Theranos proprietary devices could only do a few tests and had major quality issues. For its rollout with Walgreens, the company relied on  third-party devices that had been modified to process the company's proprietary smaller "nanotainer" blood vials, but still returned erroneous results, according to testimony.In a new line of defense, Holmes testified the Theranos testing equipment in its labs had issues with excessive power demands and heat production. They were designed to be used at retail stores visited by patients over the course of a day, she said, but in the Theranos lab the devices were all clustered together and processed patient tests at once. The defense brought up an email between hardware project manager Tim Kemp that said the Theranos building in Palo Alto, California, couldnt handle the power demands of running the devices to process a high volume of patients from the retail rollout and running the air conditioning to cool them.If found guilty, Holmes faces up to 20 years in prison, a $250,000 fine and full or partial restitution to investors, totaling nearly $155 million.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
FBI acknowledges some agents may have Havana Syndrome symptoms . The FBI is promising to make sure employees who have symptoms consistent with Havana Syndrome get access to medical care after a former agent suffering almost daily headaches was rebuffed when he sought testing and treatment, according to documents obtained by NBC News.In an email last month, an FBI official told a former agent who had reported possible brain injury symptoms that "unfortunately, the FBI is not authorized to give any medical advice and there are not any medical programs in place for current and/or retired employees." The agent began suffering migraines and dizziness about a decade ago after a stint overseas in a country near Russia.Asked about the assertion, the FBI responded in a statement that confirmed the email, saying itwas "one part of a larger exchange taken out of context and does not reflect the FBIs commitment to supporting its personnel, both current and former."The statement amounted to the FBI's first formal acknowledgment that some of its current or former employees could have symptoms of Havana Syndrome, which got its name after a group of diplomats and CIA officers reported symptoms in 2016 at the U.S. Embassy in Cuba. Although the bureau did not confirm or deny the existence of FBI cases, NBC News has previously reported that several FBI personnel have reported possible symptoms, including some who had been posted to Vienna.Early victims of Havana Syndrome speak out about health strugglesOct. 13, 202104:26The statement said that while the FBI "does not have the authority to provide direct medical treatment, we nowhave a processtoguidecurrent and former employees to the interagency medical treatment and evaluation options that are available to them."The statement did not say when the FBI implemented the policy; the language of the October email suggests that it was not in place last month.The statement added that the issue of "Anomalous Health Incidents," as the U.S. government calls the mysterious set of symptoms afflicting as many as 200 current or former government employees, "is a top priority for the FBI, as the protection, health and well-being of ouremployees andcolleaguesacross the federal governmentis paramount."The FBI, the statement said, "has messaged its workforce on how to respondif they experience anAHI, how to report an incident, and wherethey canreceivemedical evaluations for symptoms or persistent effects."Over the past year, U.S. government agencies have encouraged employees to report any possible symptoms, and some who have come forward have health effects that began occurring before the 2016 Havana incidents.Several U.S. officials said not all of those who have come forward fit the profile of the Havana cohort.At the same time, brain injuries can be difficult to diagnose, so officials have encouraged anyone who suspects something wrong to come forward.U.S. officials say hundreds of Americans reported possible cases of Havana SyndromeJuly 20, 202101:20The former FBI agent was posted to an embassy that came under a suspected Russian electronic jamming operation that disrupted communications, he said, asking not to be identified because he was concerned that it could affect how the FBI handles his case. He began experiencing symptoms shortly afterward, and he has lived the past decade with almost daily headaches, dizziness and fatigue.The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine said in a report last year that some of the observed brain injuries were consistent with the effects of directed microwave energy, which the report said Russia has long studied.A team of medical and scientific experts who studied the symptoms of as many as 40 State Department and other government employees concluded that nothing like them had previously been documented in medical literature, the National Academies of Sciences report said. Many reported hearing a loud sound and feeling pressure in their heads and then experiencing dizziness, unsteady gait and visual disturbances. Many suffered long-standing debilitating effects.NBC News reportedin 2018 that U.S. intelligence officials considered Russia a leading suspect in what some of them assess to have been deliberate attacks on diplomats and CIA officers overseas. But in the nearly three years since then, the spy agencies have not uncovered enough evidence to pinpoint the cause or the culprit of the health incidents.U.S. officials cannot say for sure that they were intentional attacks or even that they were the result of human activity.VP Harris flight to Vietnam delayed because of possible Havana Syndrome casesAug. 24, 202100:50While some intelligence officials strongly suspect Russia, the longer intelligence agencies investigate without finding compelling evidence, the more questions are raised about that conclusion. Experts say it is hard to imagine that a secret Russian program to harm U.S. spies and diplomats could go completely undetected by the $80 billion U.S. intelligence apparatus, which is regularly hacking Russian communications, conducting surveillance of Russian officers and recruiting Russians to spy for the U.S.Russia has consistently denied any culpability.RecommendedHealth newsHealth newsFirm that administers medical benefits for some 9/11 survivors loses federal contractNational SecurityNational SecurityCIA chief warns Russians of consequences if they caused 'Havana Syndrome'At a public forum in September, Deputy CIA Director David Cohen suggested that the agency has made some progress, but not enough."In terms of have we gotten closer? I think the answer is yes  but not close enough to make the analytic judgment that people are waiting for," he said.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Mother, 2 children murdered after landlord didn't change locks, lawsuit says. A New Jersey woman "begged" her apartment complex to change the locks on her door after she was granted a restraining order against her husband. The complex failed to fulfill her request, and she and two children were fatally stabbed in their home, a lawsuit filed on the family's behalf claims. The woman, Ruth Esther Reyes de Severino, and her children, Eurianny, 5, and Eury, 2, were killed on Feb. 5, 2020. Police found the bodies in the family's Penns Grove Gardens apartment after they discovered the remains of Reyes de Severino's husband, EugenioSeverino, in a nearby park, according to the lawsuit, which was obtained by NBC News. The Penns Grove Gardens apartment complex in Penns Grove, N.J.Google mapsThe lawsuit claims that Eugenio Severino died by suicide after he murdered his family. Penns Grove police did not immediately reply to a request for comment Tuesday. The lawsuit, filed last month in Salem County Superior Court, alleges wrongful death, negligence, breach of contract and negligent hiring. It lists the defendants as Penns Grove Gardens, its operator, Housing Management Resources, and Roger J. Gendron, identified in the suit as "managing member" of Penns Grove Apartments and Penns Grove Gardens.The apartment complex and its operator did not immediately reply to a request for comment Tuesday. Gendron could not be reached at phone numbers listed for him.NJ.com first reported the suit. In January 2020, just weeks before the slayings, Reyes de Severino was granted a restraining order against her husband, ousting him from their apartment. The suit alleges that Eugenio Severino had threatened to kill his wife numerous times. Reyes de Severino informed the apartment complex about the restraining order and asked for her locks to be changed because her husband still had a set of keys. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials say"Ruth Reyes de Severino asked, nay, begged, Defendant Landlord Penns Grove Apartments LLC ... to change the locks on the door to her apartment such that her husband could not gain entry," the lawsuit says. "Despite Tenants fear for her own safety and security, as well as the safety and security of her two small children ... Defendant Landlord denied Tenants request to change the locks," it says. On the day of the murders, Eugenio Severino used his keys to enter the apartment and stabbed his wife and children, the lawsuit alleges. Reyes de Severino had made at least five in-person requests for the locks of her apartment to be changed, said Samuel D. Jackson, a lawyer who is representing her estate. She had also told the complex that her husband posed a danger to her and her children, he said."Women and their children should not have to fear for their lives or lose them  because their landlords and the parties they contract with fail to keep those women and children safe," Jackson said in a statement Tuesday. The suit also claims that the apartment complex failed to follow a Penns Grove ordinance that was created in response to the shooting death of Tayshon Hayward at the same property in 2019. The ordinance said all apartment complexes in the municipality had to install exterior security cameras and lighting to improve safety. "The defendants here didnt bother to follow a law that was passed to address their own bad behavior after someone else lost their life in similar circumstances at their property less than a year before," Jackson said. "The predictable result was an even worse tragedy," he said. "We hope this lawsuit sends shockwaves through the New Jersey landlord community and makes landlords realize the health and safety of their tenants should trump all other considerations  especially profits." Reyes de Severino's estate seeks compensatory and punitive damages, as well as other fees. Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Michigan teachers told to take down Pride flags after 'external challenge'. A middle school teacher in southern Michigan resigned after he and other educators in his district were told to remove LGBTQ Pride flags they had up in their classrooms.Teachers were told to take down the flags after Three Rivers Community Schools in Three Rivers, Michigan, received an external challenge about the symbols that had "reached the board level," according to an email obtained by NBC affiliate WOOD of Grand Rapids. The rumors kind of floating around was that there's one or two parents that complained about the flags being in the classroom, said Russell Ball, the teacher who resigned.Ball, who said he is part of the LGBTQ community, told WOOD that he is "disheartened and saddened." To me, the flag represents love and inclusion for everybody, not just whoever is of the LGBTQIA+ community, he said. The students losing that representation throughout the classrooms really hurt. Losing my own representation in the classroom really hurt. It was just something I was not prepared to do.The district's interim superintendent, Nikki Nash, said in a statement that it was an ongoing situation.We continue to work with the districts legal firm and board of education to ensure we are providing a safe learning environment for all students, the statement read. RecommendedOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureLil Nas X's song about gay sex earns 3 Grammy nominationsOUT NewsOUT NewsIowa Medicaid denial of transgender surgery unlawful, judge rulesFor the full story, visit NBC affiliate WOOD. FollowNBC OutonTwitter,Facebook&InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Lil Nas X's song about gay sex earns 3 Grammy nominations. Rapper Lil Nas X's hit song about gay sex was nominated Tuesday for three Grammy Awards, catapulting LGBTQ narratives to the highest echelon of achievement in the music industry.The provocative song  Montero (Call Me By Your Name)  is up for song of the year, record of the year and best music video at the 64th annual Grammy Awards, which are being held Jan. 31 in Los Angeles. Its title is a reference to the gay romance novel and 2017 film Call Me By Your Name. But its lyrics are less about love and more about lust, with lines including romantic talking? You dont even have to try and "Im not fazed, only here to sin." Grammy awards announce nominees for 64th annual ceremonyNov. 23, 202100:26In the music video for the song, Lil Nas X is seduced out of what appears to be the Garden of Eden, falls into hell and gives the devil a lap dance.Lil Nas X,whose real name is Montero Lamar Hill, celebrated his nominations and thanked his fans in a string of Twitter posts."dont have to win a single award, truly thankful for all the insight this year has brought me. and thankful for the journey. love u guys," the 22-year-old rapper wrote.In total, he was nominated for five of the major music awards, including for album of the year for his debut studio album, Montero, which opened at No. 2 on the Billboard 200 albums chart. Last year, he won two out of the six Grammy Awards he was nominated for, including for best music video for his hit song "Old Town Road (Remix)."LGBTQ advocates applauded the groundbreaking nature of the rapper's nominations.RecommendedOUT NewsOUT NewsMichigan teachers told to take down Pride flags after 'external challenge'OUT NewsOUT NewsIowa Medicaid denial of transgender surgery unlawful, judge rules"Lil Nas X continues to open doors for greater LGBTQ inclusion in rap and hip-hop, which will undoubtedly inspire and empower a new generation of artists to embrace their authenticity and individuality," GLAAD President & CEO Sarah Kate Ellis said in a statement Tuesday. Other LGBTQ artists who received Grammy nominations Tuesday include singer-songwriter Brandi Carlile, pop star Halsey and singer-songwriter Arlo Parks. FollowNBC OutonTwitter,Facebook&InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Iowa Medicaid denial of transgender surgery unlawful, judge rules. An Iowa law that prohibits Medicaid coverage for sex reassignment surgeries for transgender residents violates state law and the state constitution, a judge ruled in a decision made public Monday.Judge William Kelly ordered the Iowa Department of Human Services to provide coverage for sex reassignment surgeries when ordered to treat gender dysphoria, a psychological distress that results from an incongruence between ones sex assigned at birth and ones gender identity. It often begins in childhood, and some people may not experience it until after puberty or much later, according to the American Psychiatric Association.At least nine states across the U.S. explicitly exclude gender-affirming care in Medicaid coverage, while 24 states and Washington, D.C., explicitly include this type of care, according to the Movement Advancement Project, an LGBTQ think tank. The remaining states have no explicit policy. The ruling is a victory for Aiden Vasquez and Mika Covington, two Iowans represented by the American Civil Liberties Union of Iowa.Aiden Vasquez.ACLUKelly said state and federal courts in the past 16 years have found that gender identity discrimination is a form of sex discrimination which is prohibited under civil rights laws. He also found the law violated the equal protection clause of the state constitution.It is not challenged in the record that surgical treatment for gender dysphoria is a serious medical condition and the surgery is recommended for Vasquez and Covington by medical professionals as necessary and effective, the judge said. He said Medicaid coverage is fundamental to ensure the availability of that treatment for economically disadvantaged Iowans.Once the medical community determined that surgery is medically necessary to treat this health issue, the government lost its rational basis to refuse to pay for the surgery, Kelly said in a ruling signed on Friday but posted publicly with online court records on Monday. The law appears to draw an arbitrary distinction. So, there is no plausible policy reason advanced by, or rationally related to, excluding transgender people from Medicaid reimbursement for medically necessary procedures.RecommendedOUT NewsOUT NewsMichigan teachers told to take down Pride flags after 'external challenge'OUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureLil Nas X's song about gay sex earns 3 Grammy nominationsRita Bettis Austen, legal director of the ACLU of Iowa, called the decision a historic win for civil rights in Iowa.It recognizes what weve long known, that transgender Iowans must not be discriminated against, and that they are protected by the Iowa Constitutions guarantee of equal protection, as well as by the Iowa Civil Rights Act, Bettis Austen said.The ACLU of Iowafiled a lawsuitin April against the state of Iowa challenging a 2019 law that allows Medicaid to deny payment for sex reassignment surgeries for transgender residents.Vasquez and Covington initially sued in 2017 and a state court judge found the policy violated the Iowa Civil Rights Act and the Iowa Supreme Court in 2019 upheld that decision. The court concluded that Iowas Medicaid program may not categorically discriminate against transgender people seeking gender-affirming, medically necessary care.Shortly after the court ruling, Republicans in the Iowa Legislature passed an amendment as part of a last-minute addition to a human services budget bill in response to the courts ruling. That change stated that any government agency in Iowa may decline to use taxpayer money for sex reassignment surgery or any other cosmetic reconstructive or plastic surgery procedure related to transsexualism, hermaphroditism, gender identity disorder, or body dysmorphic disorder.Vasquez and Covington, however, had to take their cases through the Department of Human Services system and apply for surgery, have it denied based on the new law and then again pursue a challenge in court. The Iowa DHS has since denied coverage to them. Vasquez is a transgender man who was diagnosed with gender dysphoria in 2016 and Mika Covington is a transgender woman who was diagnosed with gender dysphoria and began receiving hormone therapy in 2015.Gov. Kim Reynolds signed the bill into law in May 2019, arguing it only narrowly clarifies that Iowas Civil Rights Act does not require taxpayer dollars to pay for sex reassignment and other similar surgeries.Reynolds spokesman Alex Murphy said she is disappointed by the ruling and disagrees with the district courts ruling on Medicaid coverage for transgender reassignment surgeries. We are reviewing the decision with our legal team and exploring all options moving forward.FollowNBC OutonTwitter,Facebook&InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
J.K. Rowling slams transgender activists for posting her home address on Twitter. Harry Potter author J.K. Rowling slammed transgender activists Monday for publicizing her home address on social media. On Friday night, the eve of Transgender Day of Remembrance, comedian Holly Stars, actor Georgia Frost and drag king Richard Energy staged a demonstration in front of Rowling's home near Edinburgh, Scotland, in protest against her controversial views on the trans community. In a thread on Twitter, Rowling bashed the trio for "doxxing" her when they posted a now-deleted photo on the social media site with her home address visible in the background. "Doxxing" is the publication of someone's private information online without their consent."I have to assume that @IAmGeorgiaFrost, @hollywstars and @Richard_Energy_ thought doxxing me would intimidate me out of speaking up for womens sex-based rights," Rowling wrote. "They should have reflected on the fact that Ive now received so many death threats I could paper the house with them, and I havent stopped speaking out.""Perhaps  and Im just throwing this out there  the best way to prove your movement isnt a threat to women, is to stop stalking, harassing and threatening us," she added.Stars defended posting the photo and said she deleted the tweet after she received online threats."While we stand by the photo, since posting it we have received an overwhelming amount of serious and threatening transphobic messages so have decided to take the photo down," Stars wrote. "Love to our trans siblings."The disagreement is the latest battle in a war between Rowling and trans activists. Over the last several years, Rowling has been criticized for her controversial views on the trans community, which some have called transphobic.The rift blew up in 2019 when Rowling expressed her support for Maya Forstater, a British tax specialist who was fired for tweets that were deemed to be anti-transgender. Rowling then drew criticism for a slew of  tweets that were widely seen as including transphobic ideas.Last year, she doubled down on her views in a nearly 4,000-word blog post, questioning whether a contagion fueled by social media has led to the rise in the number of young people coming out as transgender. In the blog post, she also revealed that she is a survivor of domestic abuse and sexual assault. RecommendedOUT NewsOUT NewsMichigan teachers told to take down Pride flags after 'external challenge'OUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureLil Nas X's song about gay sex earns 3 Grammy nominationsSo I want trans women to be safe. At the same time, I do not want to make natal girls and women less safe. When you throw open the doors of bathrooms and changing rooms to any man who believes or feels hes a woman  and, as Ive said, gender confirmation certificates may now be granted without any need for surgery or hormones  then you open the door to any and all men who wish to come inside. That is the simple truth, she wrote.Rowling's views have led many to label her as a "TERF," which stands for transgender-exclusionary radical feminist. On Monday, she again defended women who share her views on trans people."None of these women are protected in the way I am. They and their families have been put into a state of fear and distress for no other reason than that they refuse to uncritically accept that the socio-political concept of gender identity should replace that of sex," she wrote. "Harry Potter" star Daniel Radcliffe hit back at Rowling last year in an essay, declaring that "transgender women are women.Any statement to the contrary erases the identity and dignity of transgender people and goes against all advice given by professional health care associations, who have far more expertise on this subject matter than either Jo or I,he wrote, using a nickname for Rowling.Cast members from all eight films of the Harry Potter series, including Radcliffe, announced last week that they will reunite for the film franchises 20th anniversary.Rowling will not appear in the reunion special but will be featured in archival footage.FollowNBC OutonTwitter,Facebook&Instagram Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
'They almost got away with it': How a leaked video led to convictions in the Ahmaud Arbery case. Nearly two years before a jury convicted three white men in the shooting death of Ahmaud Arbery, authorities had said there was no need to arrest them.On Wednesday, an almost all-white jury found Travis McMichael, his father, Gregory McMichael, and neighbor William "Roddie" Bryan guilty in the murder of Arbery in Georgia. But the three might never have been indicted in the first place had it not been for a leaked video that prompted calls for attention to his death.I dont want to be a spoilsport, but what if that video had not come out several months later? Michael Irvin, a teacher from the Orlando, Florida, area told NBC News outside the courthouse Wednesday. A young Black man would have been taken from his family and community with no one held responsible. That part, I cant ignore. So, Im happy justice was served.The McMichaels and Bryan were not arrested until months after they chased Arbery in a pickup truck in Satilla Shores, their neighborhood near Brunswick, on Feb. 23, 2020. Travis McMichael shot Arbery, a 25-year-old Black man, with a shotgun at close range. Bryan filmed the fatal encounter on his cellphone. Only after video footage of the fatal shooting leaked online May 5, 2020, did authorities arrest the trio on felony murder charges.In the video, Arbery jogs down a road as a white pickup truck blocks his path. He is shown running around the vehicle, and a shot is fired. Then, Arbery and another man appear to scuffle and two more shots are fired.After the verdict, social media platforms lit up with comments from users who said the case wouldnt have gone to trial at all if the video hadnt thrust the case into the national spotlight and sparked an outcry.They almost got away with it, one social media user tweeted. Its devastating that these guiltily verdicts feel like a miracle.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials sayAnother person tweeted, Im happy Ahmaud Arberys killers are cooked. But never forget that this is not an example of the justice system working. Police didnt arrest these men. Prosecutors didnt want them charged. The video wasnt released initially. It took outrage and pressure to make this happen.The defense had argued that the men thought Arbery was a burglar and were attempting to make a citizens arrest and they acted in self-defense. However, Travis McMichael admitted during the trial that Arbery hadnt shown a weapon or threatened him or spoken to him at all before he shot him.Travis McMichael was convicted of malice murder, felony murder, aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony. Gregory McMichael and William Bryan were found not guilty of the malice murder charge. All three face up to life in prison.News of the killing largely remained under wraps in the weeks that followed. Arberys mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones, accused Glynn County, Georgia, police and two local prosecutors of conspiring to cover up Arberys murder and protect the men involved in his death. A $1 million lawsuit filed earlier this year alleges that the police department and officials with the Brunswick County District Attorneys Office worked together to paint Arbery as a violent criminal and absolve the McMichaels and Bryan of wrongdoing. The lawsuit has been stalled amid the trial.Just days after the shooting, Jackie Johnson, the Brunswick-area district attorney, recused herself from the case because she had worked with Gregory McMichael, a former Glynn County police officer, for decades. George Barnhill briefly took over the case. He soon recused himself but defended the actions of the McMichaels and Bryan, advising police that he did not see grounds for the arrest of any of the individuals involved in Mr. Arberys death.Now, in a statement following the verdict, Cooper-Jones admitted that she never believed shed see the men convicted.Its been a long fight. Its been a hard fight, but God is good, she told reporters Wednesday. To tell you the truth, I never saw this day back in 2020. I never thought this day would come.FollowNBCBLKonFacebook,TwitterandInstagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
3 men found guilty of felony murder and other crimes in fatal shooting of Ahmaud Arbery. Three white men were found guilty Wednesday of felony murder in the shooting death of Ahmaud Arbery, a Black man who was running in their neighborhood when they confronted him last year.The nearly all-white jury convicted Travis McMichael of malice murder, felony murder, aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony.His father, Gregory McMichael, and their neighbor William "Roddie" Bryan were acquitted of the top charge. All now face up to life in prison.Even though this is not a celebration, it is a reflection to acknowledge that the spirit of Ahmaud defeated the lynch mob, civil rights attorney Benjamin Crump, who is representing Arbery's father, Marcus Arbery, said outside the courthouse Wednesday afternoon.Wanda Cooper-Jones, Arberys mother, said that her son will now rest in peace.It's been a long fight. It's been a hard fight, she said. I never saw this day back in 2020. I never thought this day would come. But God is good, she said.The McMichaels and Bryan chased Arbery in pickup trucks after they spotted him in their neighborhood outside Brunswick, Georgia, on Feb. 23, 2020. Travis McMichael shot Arbery, 25, who was Black, with a shotgun at close range. Bryan filmed the fatal encounter on his cellphone.'It's been a long fight': Ahmaud Arbery's parents react to guilty verdictNov. 24, 202102:38The three men were arrested months later after the leaked video brought the worlds attention to the case.Arberys family and civil rights leaders have likened his death to a modern-day lynching. The men also face federal hate crime charges.The jury deliberated for about 11 hours before reaching its decision.Each man faced a total of nine counts: one count of malice murder, four counts of felony murder, two counts of aggravated assault, and one count each of false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony.Travis McMichael was convicted on all counts. His father, Gregory McMichael, was found guilty on all charges except the most serious, malice murder. Bryan was also acquitted of malice murder. He was convicted on three of the four counts of felony murder, one of the two counts of aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony.Superior Court Judge Timothy Walmsley had instructed jurors that they could consider simple assault, reckless conduct and reckless driving as lesser charges to aggravated assault for Bryan.About an hour into the second day of deliberations Wednesday, the jurors asked to review footage of the fatal encounter and a 911 call that Gregory McMichael made on the day of the shooting. The jury viewed two videos  one the original cellphone video and the other a high contrast version of the same video  three times each while seated in the courtroom.Arbery's father was removed from the courtroom as the verdict was being read after he audibly celebrated the announcement that Travis McMichael was guilty of malice murder."He could not contain it any further. Think about how long he and Wanda have been enduring all the innuendo, all the allegations, all the character assassinations," Crump said when speaking outside the courthouse after the verdict. "Just imagine all they went through."Analyzing closing arguments in Ahmaud Arbery murder trial as jury deliberations beginNov. 23, 202103:33The defense had argued that the men suspected Arbery was a burglar and that residents in the Satilla Shores subdivision were "on edge." Arbery was recorded on security camera video visiting a partially built home in the neighborhood several times. The videos did not show Arbery taking anything from the property. The last video was recorded the afternoon he was killed. Arbery could be seen visiting the home minutes before he was chased by Gregory McMichael and Travis McMichael and Bryan, who had separate defense teams.The defense had sought to convince the jury that their clients were trying to execute a citizen's arrest, which was legal at the time. Travis McMichael's attorneys have said he opened fire in self-defense.During the trial, Travis McMichael testified that he shot Arbery after he was "struck."RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials say"We were face to face. And being struck, thats when I shot," he testified. He said he believed he was in "a life-or-death situation."Under cross-examination by lead prosecutor Linda Dunikoski on his second day of testimony, Travis McMichael said that Arbery hadn't shown a weapon or spoken to him at all before he raised his shotgun. Gregory McMichael and Bryan did not testify.Attorneys for Travis McMichael said they intend to appeal the verdict, describing it as very disappointing and sad.""This is a very difficult day for Travis McMichael and Greg McMichael, Jason Sheffield, an attorney for Travis McMichael said. These are two men who honestly believed that what they were doing was the right thing to do. However, a Glynn County jury has spoken. They have found them guilty. They will be sentenced.Kevin Gough, an attorney for Bryan, told NBC affiliate WLTV that he would also appeal and said that while he respects the jurys verdict, he believes his client should have been found not guilty.In her closing argument, Dunikoski told the jury that the defendants made a series of "assumptions and driveway decisions" that led to Arbery's death and that the three men had no "immediate knowledge" that a crime had occurred. She said immediate knowledge of a crime is necessary to claim citizen's arrest. Without the claim of citizen's arrest, Dunikoski told the jurors during closing, the men cannot claim that they acted in self-defense.If you determine that this was not a citizen's arrest, this was not legitimate, he had no probable cause, he cant do this based on the law, then guess what? Dunikoski said. "Theyre not justified in killing him. They are not justified in any of the felonies they committed against him.Dunikoski was cheered outside the courthouse after the verdict.The verdict today was a verdict based on the facts. Based on the evidence," Dunikoski said. "That was our goal, to bring that to that jury so that they could do the right thing."Arbery verdict 'based on the facts' says prosecutor in trialNov. 24, 202101:05Dunikoski, a senior assistant district attorney in the Cobb County District Attorney's Office, was assigned the case last year by the state attorney general's office after local prosecutors and law enforcement faced scrutiny over their handling of the case.Prosecutor Jackie Johnson, the Brunswick-area district attorney, recused herself from the case shortly after the shooting, saying that Gregory McMichael had been an investigator in her office for more than 30 years as a former Glynn County police officer.She was later indicted by a grand jury on charges of violation of oath of public officer and obstruction of a police officer. Johnson was accused of showing favor and affection to Greg McMichael during the investigation, according to the indictment document released in September. She also was alleged to have hindered two police officers by directing that Travis McMichael should not be placed under arrest.The second prosecutor, George Barnhill, recused himself in April 2020 and defended the actions of the McMichaels and Bryan. In the letter recusing himself, Barnhill said the three had solid first hand probable cause to pursue Arbery, a burglary suspect, and stop him.The case was transferred that same month to Thomas Durden, the district attorney for Georgias Atlantic Judicial Circuit. Durden, who eventually asked to be removed from the case because of a lack of resources, asked the Georgia Bureau of Investigation to investigate after the leaked cellphone footage prompted widespread outrage.The McMichaels were arrested two days later on May 7, 2020, more than two months after the shooting. Bryan was arrested later that month, days after the Cobb County Judicial Circuit was tapped to handle the case.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Mindy Kalings new series and the significance of sex-positive South Asian women. This article contains spoilers for the first two episodes of "The Sex Lives of College Girls."Bela Malhotra says goodbye to her parents as they prepare to leave her at the gates of her prestigious Vermont university. Shes reinvented herself in preparation for this moment, shedding the sweaty, awkward Indian loser persona she carried through high school.College Bela (Amrit Kaur) knows what she wants, and she isnt afraid to go after her two basic desires: to be a comedy writer and to have a lot of sex.She asks her mom to take her childhood teddy bear away, and kisses it goodbye before entering her new life. Im super sex positive, Bela tells her new roommates, the other main characters of Mindy Kalings new HBO show, The Sex Lives of College Girls.Sex has long been either a defining or alienating feature for South Asian women in Western cinema. Colonial era films invented the exotic seductress and the foreign woman in distress, and modern movies and TV shows have ushered in the undesirable nerd, experts say.But missing even in more inclusive portrayals is a South Asian girl who is purely confident and clear about what she wants, viewers said. With The Sex Lives of College Girls, Kaling brought a version of that to life.What I really appreciated about Bela was the lack of soul-searching and hand-wringing, said Harleen Singh, associate professor of womens studies and South Asian literature at Brandeis University. Shes unapologetic.Confidence doesnt mean flawlessness, she said, and theres realness in a character that makes bold mistakes. In the first episode of the series, Bela uses sex to get a highly-coveted position on a comedy magazine. In the process, she unintentionally fools around with someones boyfriend and makes enemies of the only two women on the staff. Amrit Kaur in "The Sex Lives of College Girls" on HBO Max.HBOWere all messy, Singh said. A messy character is a true reflection of life.Belas nerve is something Trisha Sakhuja-Walia, CEO and co-founder of Brown Girl Magazine, finds refreshing. A 180 degree shift from other portrayals, Bela simply asks for what she wants. She runs up to strangers to introduce herself and unashamedly tells boys theyre attractive. Her self-assuredness even rubs off on her roommates, whom she drags out of the dorms to party on the weekends.I think that Bela is a lot more brave and outgoing than many of us were, Sakhuja-Walia said. But I think that almost every brown girl can see a little bit of herself in Bela. Even if they werent her, maybe they wanted to be like her.Bela is in constant pursuit of new experiences, and Singh says her hypersexuality is portrayed to a bit of an extreme. The show represents sex as novel, not normal, and normalization is a big part of true sex positivity, she said.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials sayIts simply the acceptance that sex and sexuality are a part of all our lives, she said. I want sex positivity to start with making sex not extraordinary, but ordinary. And in that ordinariness, I think there is something special.Sakhuja-Walia, however, sees Belas desire to go wild in college as a cultural touchstone. While the characters Indian background isnt the center of her college experience, she says South Asian women can pick up on the story behind her motivations.I feel like so many brown folks go to college and suddenly have this crazy freedom theyve never seen before, she said. Shes unleashing all this power within herself. I think that almost does tie back to her identity in a very subtle manner.South Asians have a complex experience exploring sexuality, Sakhuja-Walia said. And its one thats not often reflected in media. But with a generation of first-generation South Asian Americans becoming adults, characters like Bela might represent a turning point in how communities treat sexuality.Im pretty in awe that were making this shift in just one generation, she said.Movies and shows in which South Asian characters are normal and desirable are slowly beginning to emerge, but its an area in which Hollywood has historically had a problem.Singh points to movies like "Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom,"  in which the only nonwhite women are oppressed under the violence of evil, monkey-brain-eating Indians, and the only woman thats allowed to be beautiful is the white woman.In the Harry Potter movies, coy and irritating Parvati and Padma slink in the vicinity of the main characters, hoping to be noticed by them but ultimately being cast aside and ignored.Kalings last project, Never Have I Ever, marked a change  an open door for South Asian American main characters, Singh said. The similarities between Bela and Devi (Maitreyi Ramakrishnan) are rooted in their fearlessness. Devi is also a teen unashamed in wanting to have sexual experiences. She makes her mistakes but she makes them with agency, Singh said.While Bela sets herself apart by pushing sexuality to the extreme, theres complexity to her. Singh calls back to when she kissed her teddy bear at the beginning of the show.She can be all of those things, she said. You can be naive and tender and delicate and warm and be clearheaded about the fact that you need sex. The absurd allows us to realize that things can be many different ways.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
John Cho on Netflix's Cowboy Bebop remake, his most intense job yet. He's the star of Netflixs Cowboy Bebop remake, but John Cho would be the first to admit that he hadnt been aware of the original anime television series before his agent sent him the script for the reboot. But when he read it, he was hooked.This is the most intense job Ive ever had, for sure, in what it required of me, he tells NBC Asian America.Cowboy Bebop, based on the anime series of the same name from  Japan's Sunrise animation studio, is available to stream on Netflix. It takes place in the future where the Earth is uninhabitable and mankind has created colonies on other planets. The hero of the show is space cowboy Spike Spiegel (played by Cho), a bounty hunter who captures criminals with his partners, Jet Black (Mustafa Shakir) and Faye Valentine (Daniella Pineda), aboard the spaceship Bebop.The show is such a mixture of disparate genres, Cho says. And that was the attraction of it: I can do a Western, a screwball comedy, a buddy-cop movie, noir and an action film all in one.Mustafa Shakir as Black Jet and John Cho as Spike Spiegel in "Cowboy Bebop."Geoffrey Short / NetflixCho is no stranger to space narratives (he did play Sulu in the Star Trek reboot, after all). But Cowboy Bebop has allowed him to stretch himself as an actor in ways he hasnt before. In the 10 episodes of the first season of the show, he does everything from hand-to-hand combat and gun slinging, to cracking jokes and being a romantic lead  its equal parts drama, action, and comedy. Its definitely fun to do all of the above at once, he says.The original Cowboy Bebop, which premiered in Japan in 1998 and in the United States in 2001, is considered an anime classic, with legions of fans attracted to its stylish imagery, jazz-infused score, sense of listlessness and ennui. So there were high expectations for the live action remark. Cho was aware of all of this, which made the project all that more intimidating.As soon as I saw [the anime], I was a fan, he said. Cho says that a key challenge in making a live action Cowboy Bebop was that, it has to be recognizable as Cowboy Bebop, but ... you want to do what you can to make it feel creative. And you want to feel free and like youre having fun.The first thing that he did was figure out who his version of Spike Spiegel was. Though he wears the same iconic blue suit as the anime character, and even grew out his hair to mimic Spikes hair, he is older than the character, who is 27. Cho is 49.He admits he wasnt sure if he was able to tackle the role: Its a different medium. And he was painted. So how do I make him a person that I have to walk around in, he explains. I wasnt assured that I was going to be able to find it.In Cowboy Bebop, Spike is a character with a dark and tragic past he is trying to run away from. He is playful, with a cool swagger. He is also reserved and keeps his feelings, and his past, close to his chest.To Cho, Spike is trying to erase the past and become a new person, and the show asks, Is that possible? To him, this notion of reinvention was relatable. He is an immigrant and came to the U.S. when he was 6 years old. Spike wants to chart a new path for himself. Cho saw parallels between Spikes journey and the immigrant journey, he says. I could definitely relate to Spike wanting the freedom to declare who he is.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials sayAs a kid, after moving to the U.S. from Seoul, his family moved around frequently, living in Houston, Seattle, then hopping around California to Daly City, San Jose and Monterey Park, before settling in Glendale. Likewise, the characters of Cowboy Bebop dont have a home and they float adrift, in space, on the Bebop. They are tied together by a sense of loss: either of family, loved ones, or even their memories. To him, the new show expands on the anime by exploring more of the characters personal histories.[Its like the] Israelites before they were in Canaan, theyre wandering, he says. I definitely felt like that as a kid. [The characters are] adrift and, to some extent, purposeless; their purpose is survival. And I think part of our season one is them finding some purpose, be it passively or actively.Though there are certain shots and story beats that are inspired by the original anime, the live action show also charts its own narrative path. The characters have expanded backstories: Jet Black is a father with a daughter, Faye Valentine is now bisexual, Spikes love interest Julia is more fully developed and appears more frequently. And a pivotal fight between Spike and his nemesis, Vicious, begins in the same way that it does in the anime. But how it ends is markedly different.In describing the new show, Cho compares it to covers of Bob Dylans music. Why do people record his songs? Theres already a recording, he posits. Because its a really good song. And they want to try it on for size and see what their interpretation does to the song, and expand the meaning of the songgive it another flavor. He then adds, What were doing is adding, not replacing.Overall, its been an eventful two years for Cho. Cowboy Bebop began filming in New Zealand in 2019, where Cho relocated with his family temporarily. He then tore his ACL while filming, which set production back by eight months. The pandemic then created further delays. Last April, he wrote an op-ed for the Los Angeles Times about the surge in violent attacks against Asian Americans. In the piece, he wrote, The pandemic is reminding us that our belonging is conditional. One moment we are Americans, the next we are all foreigners, who brought the virus here. Like fame, the model minority myth can provide the illusion of raceless-ness.When talking about the op-ed, Cho becomes more chagrined, admitting that he has been very discouraged about the current discourse around race, and the fervor against critical race theory. Clearly, we have a race problem in America, but zero people declare themselves racist, he says. Maybe we have to replace that word with something else. It has to be a word that allows people to examine themselves. How do we discuss racism, if no one is willing to examine themselves, including people of color?He admits that growing up, he was encouraged by his parents to assimilate, so that his race would not be a liability. But in his estimation, the events of the past year have shown Asian Americans that living a raceless life is impossible. [Race is] sort of too built into the fabric of this country. And whats reasonable is coming to a place of respect, in coexistence, and love. And maybe we can get there. Maybe thats possible.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Simu Liu and Bowen Yang jokingly vie for the most First Asian titles on 'SNL' . Simu Liu and Bowen Yang are often hailed as trailblazers in the Asian American community  for being the first Marvel Asian superhero and for being the first Asian cast member on "Saturday Night Live." So when the pair teamed up for an "SNL" sketch over the weekend, they poked fun at the idea by competing over increasingly ridiculous firsts, from the First Gay Asian Cast Member to Mispronounce Boutique to the First Asian Man to Deadpan on Splash Mountain.In the taped segment, Chinese Canadian actors Yang and Liu meet in a dressing room before the episode. This has never happened before, right? Asian male host, Asian male cast member, Yang said.The two congratulate each other on their respective milestones before admitting how tiring these historical titles can be in a predominantly white space.I just think its weird that people keep track of this stuff, Yang says. Liu then pulled out a medal he had tucked in his shirt for being the 1st Asian Man to Move from Canada to America Named Simu. I have one that says Bowen, Yang says, pulling a similar medal out of his shirt.The conversation quickly delves into a competition about their First Asian accolades.Dont you think these titles are kind of ridiculous? Liu asks, to which Yang agrees.A montage then shows Yang and Liu accepting awards for Good Job (Asian), First Asian Man to Beat StarCraft II and the First Asian Man to You pick 2 at Panera.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials sayNBCUniversal is the parent company of NBC News and "SNL."Yangs work on "SNL" earned him an Emmy nomination this year, making him the shows first featured player to be nominated for an acting award. He has previously spoken about his Asian American identity, and amid the rise of anti-Asian violence during the pandemic, he urged people to do more to stop the violence.Liu, meanwhile, made headlines this year after criticizing the TV show Kims Convenience, which he starred in, for its lack of diversity in the writers room. He has also credited the diverse production crew of Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings for ensuring the authenticity of the film. Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Series on Vincent Chin taps Chlo Zhao as executive producer. Chlo Zhao, the Academy Award-winning director of Nomadland and Eternals, will be the executive producer for a limited scripted series about the murder of Vincent Chin and the civil rights movement that arose in the aftermath, according to Deadline.The upcoming series by the media company Participant will tell the story of Chin, a 27-year-old Chinese American engineer who was beaten to death in Detroit in 1982 by two white auto workers who blamed Japanese car manufacturers for taking their jobs. His murder is widely considered the most infamous hate crime in Asian American history. Vincent Chin was 27 when he was beaten with a baseball bat in Detroit. He would later die from his injuries.Courtesy American Citizens of JuThe men were initially charged with second-degree murder but later pleaded to manslaughter and received probation and a $3,000 fine. The punishment sparked widespread protests and united Asian Americans from different ethnic backgrounds, galvanizing what would become the contemporary Asian American movement.Through an exclusive agreement with the Chin estate and executor Helen Zia, a former auto worker, activist, journalist and spokesperson for the Justice for Vincent Chin Campaign, Zhaos will be the only authorized series about Chins murder.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials sayThe project will reveal the definitive account of a civil rights movement that matters today more than ever, when a community discovered its voice, according to Participant.I was deeply moved by Helens personal connection to Vincents story as well as her incredibly insightful and nuanced perspective on this difficult yet inspiring story, Zhao told Deadline.The project was initially announced in December.The news comes after a dramatized podcast about Chin, Hold Still, Vincent, was removed from audio platforms in June after it was revealed that the producers hadnt consult with Chins estate or Zia about the project. The star-studded podcast included Gemma Chan of Eternals and Crazy Rich Asians as a producer, and Kelly Marie Tran of Raya and the Last Dragon as a voice actor. The team behind the podcast later issued an apology on Instagram.Vincent Chin, his legacy, and the communities that came together to fight for justice have been a part of my life for nearly 39 years," Zia previously told NBC Asian America. "In todays climate of hate towards our Asian American and Pacific Islander communities, this story shows how many diverse people in America came together in solidarity, to stand together for the full humanity of all. Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Food banks in California brace for the holidays as food prices surge. ANAHEIM, California Two food banks in California have been gearing up for a busy holiday season: One is spending tens of thousands amid rising food prices, and the other has been serving triple the number of people since the coronavirus pandemic began.The Alameda County Community Food Bank in Oakland is dealing with the toll of rising food prices and supply chain issues as it serves families grappling with food insecurity.Theyre depending on us, said Elizabeth Gomez, director of client services at the food bank.Food banks face harsh economic reality ahead of the holiday seasonNov. 21, 202103:38Over the past year, food prices have increased 5.3 percent, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.Because of food price increases, the food bank is spending an additional $60,000 on food per month.We need to be ahead of the game as much as we can, said Gomez, 48, whos been working with the organization for 24 years.She said the food bank has seen price increases across the board for seven core items, with oatmeal and frozen chicken seeing the highest increases at 17.1 percent and 13 percent respectively. In total, it is spending more than $1 million on food per month  compared to $250,000 each month before the pandemic.Part of the increase is because were willing to spend more on food to ensure that we actually secure it, Gomez said. The backlog of shipments along the California coast has created supply chain issues and has contributed to less inventory and increased transportation costs for the food bank.The food bank has had to turn to alternatives such as single serve cereal bowls to replace oatmeal, and turned to Costco to get a variety of canned meats for canned tuna that has been running late.We are expecting more than 400,000 Alameda County residents, Gomez said. Were bracing for what is to be the busiest month and a half ahead for us.In 2020, rough estimates indicate 45 million people, or 1 in 7, experienced food insecurity as the pandemic forced tens of millions to suffer from unemployment or saw their hours decline, according to an analysis by Feeding America, a nationwide nonprofit network aiming to ensure equitable access to food in the United States.With a recovering economy and increasing vaccination records, the organization projects improved food insecurity conditions in the holiday season but still higher than pre-pandemic numbers.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials sayFeeding America predicts that 42 million people  about 1 in 8 may experience food insecurity, compared to about 1 in 9 in 2019, the lowest point reached then since food insecurity began being measured in the 1990s, according to the report.The Los Angeles Regional Food Bank has been serving triple the number of people it usually saw before the pandemic  from 300,000 to 900,000 each month, according to Olivia Cervantes, 33, its marketing content manager.Volunteers load food into vehicles at a "Let's Feed L.A. County" drive-thru food distribution event by the Los Angeles Regional Food Bank and the office of Supervisor Hilda Solis in Rosemead, Calif., on April 23.Ringo Chiu via AP fileIts a number that aligns with a recent University of Southern California study detailing that 1 in 10 Los Angeles County residents  experienced food insecurity in the first half of 2021  and 59 percent of them were Latino. It was time to give back to my community as an Angeleno, Cervantes said, explaining she felt compelled to help after witnessing the pandemics impact on the city's Hispanic community. Even if we were to return back to normal or even if this lingers on, the issue is still there, hunger is a year-round issue.California is home to the nations largest Latino population. In Los Angeles County, Hispanics or Latinos account for almost half (48.6 percent) of the population.The Los Angeles food bank has been minimally impacted by the surge in food prices and supply chain issues because the majority of its food is donated and sourced locally.However, it has had to grapple with other issues: The number of volunteers declined from 30,000 to 15,000 because of Covid-19 safety protocols. The organization has turned to AmeriCorps for help with distribution."The food bank really does stretch the dollar to help as many people as possible," Cervantes said.Organizers say those who want to volunteer or donate can contact  the Los Angeles Regional Food Bank's website or call 323-234-3030 or the Alameda County Community Food Bank's website or call 510-635-3663.FollowNBC LatinoonFacebook,TwitterandInstagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
'Encanto': The music, joy and superpower of a multigenerational Latino family. In an age of big-screen superhero families like those of Marvels Fantastic Four, Pixars The Incredibles and DCs Shazam! Disney wants to flip the script on viewers and put the spotlight on an ordinary 15-year-old Colombian girl, Mirabel, who struggles to keep her extended superhero family together as they lose their powers.Encanto, which means charm in Spanish, is Disneys 60th animated feature film. It tells the story of the Madrigals, a multigenerational family who live in the mountains of Colombia.Stars of Disney's 'Encanto' discuss films personal relation to Latino rootsNov. 23, 202103:36Two generations of Madrigal children get magical powers on their fifth birthdays, which define them both at home and in the village. They can make plants grow and flowers bloom, control the weather with their emotions, heal people with food, speak with animals and even see the future.The Madrigal family tree.DisneyOne child doesn't get superpowers and that is Mirabel. In the end, however, she will know what to do to save her extraordinary family.Beyond the characters' super abilities and magical gifts, the animated musical with songs and music by "Hamilton" composer Lin-Manuel Miranda aims to show viewers the power of knowing who they and their families are. For the Latina actor Stephanie Beatriz, who voices Mirabel, the film's emphasis on extended family, including the powerful abuela (grandmother) Alma, brought back memories When I think about my childhood, its a lot of people talking all at once, animatedly, over each other theres, like, 10 conversations happening in one room, and as a kid youre just trying to follow everything thats going on, said Beatriz, whose parents are Colombian and Bolivian. Its very loud and super rhythmic. I think that the flavor of that, the sensibility of that, is really captured within the music of this animated musical, which I think is very special.The family name Madrigal is also a musical term that can refer to a song with two or more voice parts  which amply describes the mix of sounds and voices in the film. One of the things I loved in the writing of the script is that there are these conversations that happen between cousins or an aunt and a niece, Beatriz said. Its those extended family relationships that I think are really, really important, particularly in Latino culture, where you might not be able to talk to your mom ... but you could talk to your ta, or aunt.Miranda, who wrote and co-produced eight original songs for Encanto, said he's so close to his cousins from Puerto Rico that they once got matching tattoos to the chagrin of his aunt on the island. The Madrigals, he said, remind him of his own relatives."Encanto."Disney "That was the most matriarchal family," he said about his dad's family in Puerto Rico. "Everyone still lived in the house, and everyone brought their checks to Abuela, and she reallocated the funds as she saw fit."Many U.S. families resemble the Madrigals: A report this year by the advocacy group Generations United found that more than 1 in 4 Americans ages 18 and older  about 67 million adults  live in multigenerational households with three or more generations.Creating the sounds of Colombia  and homeMiranda said music has the power to unlock exciting stories about different places, cultures and people.Every time we leaned into the specificities of Colombian music, that always unlocks story, it always unlocks character for us. The specificities are the thing that make it relatable, he said.Miranda traveled to Colombia with other people from the film for research in 2018, which he said was invaluable. The details the movie got right, he said, will excite Latino viewers, such as when they see a character wearing their fathers hat or hear an accordion.People working on the film also brought their own memories and stories of home to the music.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials sayTheres certainly musical phrases that I can point to that are ripped from family conversations that happened in my house, Miranda said. I think thats what people recognize on screen when they see the film. They see slivers of their own experience.When Miranda reflects on the music that evokes his own childhood memories, he thinks of his family's mix of cast albums and Latin music.It was sort of constant Gran Combo, Celia Cruz, Joe Arroyo from Colombia, Carlos Vives, Juan Luis Guerra  that would be the party music, he said. And then, when we would clean up after the party, it was Man of La Mancha, it was Camelot, it was the Little Mermaid soundtrack and the Dirty Dancing soundtrack. My parents loved show tunes and Latin music.The way that I grew up For Colombian American actor Diane Guerrero, voicing Mirabels cousin Isabela has been a great source of pride.Disney is such a huge entity. To not be included in Disney almost feels like you dont exist a little bit, she said. So to be a part of that is a long time coming and such a special moment for us.For Guerrero, Encanto evokes memories of the generations of strong women that are part of her own heritage.I see women being very powerful heads of the household, but what has been portrayed in mainstream media has been quite the opposite, Guerrero said. Theres still machismo  obviously men have a very strong hold on the world  but I feel that the way that I grew up I really saw this in the film. My grandmother and my mother are everything to me.Reflecting on the significance of "Encanto," Guerrero said there are many Latino stories. Latin America is so huge. This is just like a little sliver of what we are. Its a little sliver of Colombia. Theres so much to tell, she said.FollowNBC LatinoonFacebook,TwitterandInstagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
'The court owes it to women': Groups decry Colombia's abortion ruling delay. Women's groups that sued to decriminalize abortion in Colombia are pushing for a decision after a much-anticipated ruling from the country's top court was postponed last week. The court owes it to women," Catalina Martnez Coral, the Latin America and Caribbean director of the Center for Reproductive Rights, told Noticias Telemundo. The Constitutional Court has not yet decided whether to eliminate abortion as a crime from the country's penal code. The ruling had been expected last week, but the debate was interrupted at the request of one of its judges, Alejandro Linares, to recuse himself from voting because he had spoken about the case in a news interview. If another judge decides there is no need for Linares to recuse himself, the court could rule this year. A recusal would start a process to bring in a new judge, which would delay the ruling to next year. The womens rights groups that filed the lawsuit, grouped under the umbrella movement Just Cause, say the delay harms women and girls in Colombia, wherenearly 70 women die every year from complications from abortions,according to figures from Doctors Without Borders.Every day that passes there are more unprotected people because they cannot accessreproductivehealth services. They are persecuted, and they have open cases against them, Martnez Coral said. It's a punishment for women and girls in Colombia. Since 2006, the Colombian penal code has allowed legal abortion under three circumstances: in cases of rape, incest or nonconsensual insemination; in cases of serious fetal malformation that makes life unviable; or when the medical team certifies that a pregnant womans health or life is at risk.Any woman who otherwise undergoes the procedure  or the health personnel involved  can be liable for a penalty of 16 to 54 months in prison.According to official figures, 400 women are prosecuted every year.It is a very unfair situation, because, on the one hand, exceptions give you a right, but it is also a serious crime that generates social and institutional stigma," said Ximena Casas Isaza, a researcher for Human Rights Watch. "All this creates many barriers for women and girls in situations of greater vulnerabilitywho, in the end, do not have access to an essential health service such as the legal interruption of pregnancy.An estimated400,000 women and girlsundergo induced abortions in Colombiaevery year, about a third of whom suffer some complication.Unsafe abortions are the countrys fourth-leading cause of maternal mortality.Several studies have determined that girls and adolescents suffer the most sexual abuse resulting in unwanted pregnancies. In many cases, their lives are at risk.According toa reportby Just Cause, the victims in 73 percent of the 26,158 cases prosecuted for allegations of sexual violence were girls or adolescents up to age 17.They are also the ones who suffer the most from harassment by the penal system, the report said.What we want is more support Cindy, a Colombian woman whose last name is being withheld to protect her identify, said she was in no condition to raise a child but was afraid she would suffer recriminations from her family for terminating her pregnancy.She decided to talk to her partner and a good friend, who accompanied her throughout the abortion process.Those of us who made this decision, what we want is more support  let them understand that, for some reason, that was the decision we made, she said.Abortion rights activists protest Thursday outside the Constitutional Court in Bogota, Colombia, as judges review a lawsuit that seeks to decriminalize abortion. Fernando Vergara / APCindy and hundreds of other Colombian women have participated in awareness campaigns like We Are All One, speaking out with dozens of nongovernmental organizations and womens rights groups to demand the decriminalization of abortion.The movement has been driven by the recent wave of reforms and demonstrations for womens rights in various Latin American countries, such as Argentina and Mexico.Girls and adolescents are the most affectedThe Just Cause report found that for most of the girls and adolescents who get pregnant through rape and sexual abuse, the aggressors correspond to people from their social or family circle, adding,These heartbreaking figures only correspond to those cases that are reported.The health care system uses the current law as an excuse to deny services, said Paula vila-Guilln, the executive director of the U.S.-based Womens Equality Center, who directs the groups Latin America initiatives. "That is why we haveso many cases of pregnant girls as a result of rape who cannot access abortion, because there are many bureaucratic barriers." According to the group Mesa por la Vida y la Salud de Mujeres, minors account for 12.5 percent of abortion investigations almost a quarter, 24 percent, are convicted. While the crime may not lead to jail time in many cases, it still has a serious impact on young women's lives, who are left with criminal histories that prevent them from getting work and progressing, said Martnez Coral of the Center for Reproductive Rights.The persecution of health personnelThere is a lot of fear on the part of medical professionals, because first the burden of certifying the conditions for abortion falls on them and, when you are faced with the possibility of having legal problems, it is obviously much easier to turn your back on the problem," said Dr. Laura Gil, a gynecologist and a member of the Medical Group for the Right to Decide. An investigation by the Life and Health of Women Roundtable, a women's health advocacy group, found that, from 1998 to 2018, the prosecutors office processed 5,580 complaints of abortion andthat in 75 percent of the cases, it was doctors and other health care operators who filed complaints about women who went to hospitals feeling ill from having abortions.That, Gil said, has a chilling effect on other health care personnel.Many doctors begin to ask for a number of evaluations, examinations and requirements  the only thing they do is create barriers. It is an obstacle to the free exercise of our profession," Gil said. What would total decriminalization change?The first effect would be that no one could be prosecuted for the crime of abortion. In addition, women, adolescents and girls would be able to terminate pregnancies without barriers.Women who were not protected by the exceptions that existed in the country will be able to access abortion the day after the decision is made, Martnez Coral said.Lawyers for women who are prosecuted or detained could also directly introduce an appeal to initiate their release, she said.Catholics who support abortion rightsGroups that oppose abortion, including conservative political movements and the Roman Catholic Church, have spoken out against the proposal.The group Catholics for the Right to Decide stands out, because it supports the lawsuit. We consider that supporting abortion as a right is not incompatible with having beliefs or a spiritual life," said Aura Carolina Cuasapud, a lawyer for the organization. "Quite the contrary: We know that women are the majority of the people who form the foundations of religion and the church, so we must have a voice, and we have the right to make free decisions."Members of the movement are called false Catholics or hypocrites on social media, where opponents link some of them to satanic sects and threaten them with excommunication from the Catholic Church.Cuasapud laughed when she was asked about the attacks.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials sayAt worst, excommunication does not inhibit you from being a Catholic.If you were baptized, they can no longer remove that condition, they cannot remove your beliefs," she said, adding that she believes that "the truth is that neither the Bible nor the Church nor God condemn abortion as a sin, and many people do not know that."An earlier version of this story was first published in Noticias Telemundo. FollowNBC LatinoonFacebook,TwitterandInstagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
'Historic': White House pitches Build Back Better's help for Latino families . The White House on Monday promoted what the Biden administration sees as the benefits for Latino families of the $1.7 trillion safety net and climate change package Democrats passed last week.In a White House-organized call with reporters, Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra and Rep. Raul Ruiz, D-Calif., the chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, called the legislation "historic" and said it was a "tremendous investment" in American families as they struggle to recover from the coronavirus-wracked economy.Becerra said the funding in the Build Back Better Act would help families pay for child care and preschool education funding, provide child tax credits and help families pay for Obamacare health insurance plans.It would cut costs for three of the most expensive items in families budgets: health care, housing and child care, Ruiz said.Ruiz and Becerra said the child care provision  which would cap child care costs for six years at 7 percent for families earning up to 250 percent of their states median incomes  would help Latinas who had to bear the brunt of cuts in wages and unemployment because of the pandemic.Extending the child tax credit would be like money in your pocket, Ruiz said.Also in the bill is money to pay for universal pre-K for 3- and 4-year-old children for two years. The money is said to be enough to pay for free preschool for more than 6 million children.Becerra said the bill offers older Americans the kind of help that his late father, a laborer, and his mother, who did clerical work, never had.Im from a migrant family, and I understand the importance of being able to say anyone who has worked very hard, helping to lift this country, helping to build it, now this country is going to invest in you," Becerra said in Spanish.Potential changes Senate could make to pass Build Back Better BillNov. 22, 202102:07Ruiz said that while the country is rounding the corner on the pandemic, Covid-19 has disproportionately affected essential workers and Hispanic communities. "Working families and parents are continuing to feel the lingering effects of the pandemic," he said.The legislation, which was crafted by Democrats, was approved Friday by the House and is now before the Senate, where leaders are working with centrist Democrats to get the necessary votes. A blockbuster investmentThe House bill would provide the money for pre-K for all children, regardless of families incomes, with states eventually having to add money to cover some of the costs.Before the pandemic, about 27 percent of children in public school were Hispanic. In 2019-20, only about 4 in 10 (43 percent) of 3- to 5-year-olds were enrolled in school, according to the National Center for Education Statistics.The pre-K provisions would help not only groups that havent had access to quality pre-K, but also middle-class and upper-income families that often dont qualify for subsidized preschool programs, said former San Antonio Mayor Julin Castro, who was housing secretary in the Obama administration. Castro, the only major Latino presidential candidate last year, said the universal pre-K part of the bill would be a godsend for many families and a blockbuster investment to celebrate.Early education varies among states, six of which had no state-funded pre-K program in the 2019-20 school year, according to the National Institute for Early Education Research at Rutgers University.Early data this school year show a 3 percent drop in all public school enrollment. The drop was higher among children in preschool and kindergarten than in later grades.Build Back Betters success depends on states doing their part, Castro said. As mayor, Castro got San Antonio voters to support a half-cent sales tax in 2012 to create quality preschool for low-income children. The program is considered highly successful.Build Back Betters provision would allow school districts or nonprofit organizations to help with costs for their areas even if their states dont participate.Im hopeful that even conservative states like Texas and other places that dont have universal pre-K will meet the challenge, Castro said. But if they dont, then I encourage local communities to go ahead and universalizepre-K.Better times ahead?Delivering a message of economic better times to the Latino community is critical for Democrats.The 2022 midterm election season will ramp up after the holidays, and Democrats need to be able blunt GOP arguments about inflation and the effects of climate change provisions on fossil fuels.President Donald Trump and other Republicans expanded their support on those issues last year among Latino voters, particularly in Texas. They also succeeded in framing Democratic programs as socialism, largely in Florida, where Cuban and Latin American voters connect the word with regimes from which they fled or in which have roots.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsHigh school football hazing led to brain damage, according to suit against California powerhouse Mater DeiU.S. newsU.S. newsNFL player Everson Griffen reports intruder then refuses to leave home, officials sayin a statement after the House vote Friday, Macarena Martinez, the Republican National Committee spokeswoman for Texas, previewed more of what to expect. She said one African American and three Latino members of Congress, all Texas Democrats, "went all in for Biden's socialist agenda: 'Build Back Broke' at a time when Texas families already are being hit with skyrocketing inflation, record high gas prices, and an unmitigated border crisis."Latino unemployment began dropping in 2010 during the Obama administration and fell to about 4 percent early in the Trump administration. Latinos also had begun to experience a comeback from the Great Recession. The pandemic reversed that.The uncontrolled virus has put the Latino economic recovery at risk and cost some Latinos some of the wealth they had rebuilt.Latinos are 2.1 times more likely to die from Covid-19 compared to white Americans and 2.5 times more likely to be hospitalized, according to the latest data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Cases of Covid-19 are 1.6 times more likely among Latinos than whites, the CDC data show. As of April, only 1 in 6 Hispanic workers were able to work from home during the pandemic, according to the Economic Policy Institute.In addition, Democrats need to buffer themselves from backlash they could face over immigration provisions in the bill. Immigrants advocates and many Democrats had hoped to include a pathway to citizenship in the legislation. But it would now provide only five-year work permits that could be renewed for five more years for about 7 million undocumented immigrants already in the county. If that is jettisoned to get the bill through the Senate, Democrats may feel the backlash from their base of support.Democrats are using a process to get the bill through the Senate that allows them to sidestep Republicans, most of whom oppose the immigration measures. But they also have to get the OK to have the immigration language in the bill from the Senate parliamentarian, and at least two Senate Democrats are lukewarm about the immigration provision, as well. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus has urged the Senate to keep the provision.The White House and Democrats put the focus Monday on legislation that they believe would have a direct impact on Latino households. Ruiz said the legislation would be a rocket booster for the economy that will launch families across the country towards success by putting money in pockets. FollowNBC LatinoonFacebook,TwitterandInstagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Ghislaine Maxwell's trial starts Monday. Epstein victims say she was central to his scheme.. The long-awaited trial of convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epsteins confidant Ghislaine Maxwell, getting underway Monday, can be likened to an iceberg  many of the unanswered questions about their alleged enterprise will remain hidden, for now.Maxwell, a British socialite who insists she is innocent, is not likely to face questions about allegedly helping Epstein arrange dates with women over the age of 18 for a constellation of rich and powerful men. She is also not likely to be questioned about the allegations from an alleged victim who said in a civil lawsuit that Maxwell trafficked her to Britains Prince Andrew when she was 17. He has denied the allegations.Nor is it likely the prosecution will be allowed to delve too deeply into the social and business relationships of Epstein, a multimillionaire financier, with other bold-faced names like former Presidents Bill Clinton and Donald Trump, and Ohio billionaire Leslie Wexner.Instead, U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan of the Southern District of New York has limited the scope of federal prosecutors by focusing the case against the British socialite-turned-suspect specifically on allegations that she helped Epstein recruit and abuse four underage girls mostly in the 1990s.This is going to be a narrow slice of what happened, said civil attorney Dan Kaiser, who represents several alleged Epstein victims though none involved in this particular trial. This is a ring that ensnared dozens and dozens and dozens of girls. And Maxwell was an integral player. You could say she was Epsteins chief operating officer.Jury selection in Ghislaine Maxwell sex trafficking trial beginsNov. 16, 202102:51Opening statements in a trial that is expected to last six weeks begin Monday. And those four, now-grown, women will take the stand and testify against Maxwell, prosecutors have said.Epstein was found dead in August 2019 in a Manhattan jail while awaiting trial on sex trafficking charges. His death was ruled a suicide.Maxwell was the center of that sex trafficking ring, alleged Epstein victim Jennifer Araoz told NBC News after Maxwell was arrested in July 2020 at her luxurious hideout in Bedford, New Hampshire.NBC News generally does not identify rape victims, but Araoz went public in an interview in July 2019 during which she said she was 15 when Epstein raped her. She has sued Maxwell claiming that she and other staffers conspired with each other to make possible and otherwise facilitate the sexual abuse and rape of Plaintiff. Maxwell has repeatedly denied the accusations against her.Araoz is not one of the women expected to testify against Maxwell, all of whom will be identified at the trial only by their initials. She is represented by Kaiser.Maxwells older brother, Ian, has said his sister is a patsy and that federal investigators zeroed in on her only after Epstein hanged himself.They lost him and so there has to be somebody to pay the price. There has to be the patsy. Ghislaine is paying that price and shes paying it every day, he said in a CBS News interview in November.Not true, prosecutors have said.Maxwell played a critical role in helping Epstein identify, befriend and groom minor victims for abuse, then-acting U.S. Attorney Audrey Strauss told reporters after Maxwell was arrested. In some cases, Maxwell participated in the abuse herself.At this trial, Maxwell faces six of the eight criminal counts tied to alleged efforts to entice minors to travel and engage in illegal sex acts, conspiracy to transport minors with intent to engage in criminal sexual activity, and sex trafficking conspiracy.If convicted on all counts, Maxwell, 59,who is being held without bail in a Brooklyn jail, could face years in prison.In a 24-page second superseding indictment, prosecutors alleged that from 1994 to 2004, Maxwell assisted, facilitated, and contributed to Epsteins abuse of minor girls by recruiting them, grooming them, and ultimately sexually abusing the victims herself.The victims were as young as 14 years old when she and Epstein sexually abused them, prosecutors contend.Both Epstein and Maxwell knew that some of the victims were minors, the prosecutors say. And as part of her alleged scheme, prosecutors say, Maxwell worked with Epstein to entice the minor victims to travel to his luxury residences across the globe.The abuse allegedly happened at Epsteins luxurious residences in Palm Beach, Florida; Santa Fe, New Mexico; and on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, prosecutors have said.Ghislaine Maxwells brother claims shes mistreated in prisonOct. 29, 202104:37The youngest daughter of British press baron Robert Maxwell, who drowned in 1991, Maxwell also faces two counts of perjury tied to a deposition in a civil case in 2016. The indictment alleges that when Maxwell was questioned about her involvement in the alleged abuse and trafficking, she lied under oath.But Nathan has severed those perjury counts from this trial.Maxwell was arrested a year after Epstein was nabbed at a New Jersey airport after returning from Paris on a private jet.RecommendedObituariesObituariesCarrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, diesWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials sayAccording to a government motion opposing Maxwells request to be released on bail, her arrest had a bit of drama.After FBI agents breached the gate of her New Hampshire home and then directed her private security guards to open the front door, the agents allegedly spotted Maxwell trying to flee.The agents saw the defendant ignore the direction to open the door and, instead, try to flee to another room in the house, quickly shutting a door behind her, the court papers say.The agents forced open the door and ultimately found Maxwell inside the house, according to the court filing.Her lawyers argued in court papers that she was living in seclusion to protect herself and her family members from unrelenting and intrusive media coverage.In depositions in a civil case, Epsteins former masseuses, staffers and associates have painted a portrait of Maxwell as the chief enabler of a serial sexual predator.Alleged Epstein victim Virginia Roberts Giuffre, in a September 2019 Dateline interview, stated that Maxwell lured her into the financiers web.At the time, Giuffre said she was working as a locker room attendant at Trumps Mar-a-Lago resort and happened to be reading a book on massage therapy when she was approached by this beautiful, well-spoken, well-mannered woman with an English accent, prim and proper.And she says its so funny that youre reading a book on that, because I know this older gentleman whos looking for a traveling masseuse, Giuffre recalled. Hes super rich. He flies around everywhere.But by the end of her first visit to Epsteins Palm Beach mansion, Giuffre said, Maxwell had manipulated her into having sex with her boss.And soon, Giuffre said, she found herself being trafficked by Maxwell and Epstein to rich and powerful men like Andrew.Whatever the outcome of the trial, the fact that Epstein is no more and Maxwell has been put on trial is already a comfort to some of their accusers.Now that the ring has been taken down, I know that I cant be hurt anymore, Araoz said.CORRECTION (Nov. 26, 2021, 10:40 a.m. ET): A previous version of this article misstated the charges on which Jeffrey Epstein was convicted. He was a convicted sex offender, he was not a convicted sex trafficker. He was awaiting trial on sex trafficking charges.CORRECTION (Nov. 26, 2021, 3:40 p.m. ET): A previous version of this article misstated the number of criminal counts Maxwell currently faces at trial. She faces six counts, not eight.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
UNLV student dies after taking part in fraternity boxing match. A University of Nevada, Las Vegas, student died of brain injuries after he took part in a boxing match held by a fraternity to raise money for charity.The student, Nathan Valencia, 20, died from brain injuries he sustained after he took part in Kappa Sigma fraternitys Fight Night on Nov. 19. He died four days later.An Instagram post by the fraternity lists Valencia's match as the "main event." The Fight Night took place off-campus, the university's president, Keith E. Whitfield, said in a statement.Nathan Valencia.Courtesy Richard Harris Law Firm"Soon after his fight, Nathan collapsed and was taken to a hospital. We are shocked and heartbroken as we mourn the loss of one of our own," Whitfield said in the statement.He said the university would make all resources available so the incident can be reviewed. He said the school will look at how off-campus events can be "as safe as possible.""Our deepest sympathies go out to his family, friends, and loved ones. I am sure words cannot describe their feeling of grief and emptiness. They are in our thoughts during this very difficult time," Whitfield said.Valencia's family are heartbroken, and "mistakes were made and safety precautions overlooked" during the boxing match, they said in a statement issued through lawyers Nick Lasso and Ryan Zimmer of the Richard Harris Law Firm."We will be completing a full investigation to determine how UNLV and the Kappa Sigma Fraternity could allow and promote an event like this to take place. College students should not be placed in a situation where they are pitted against each other for combat," the statement said.RecommendedObituariesObituariesCarrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, diesWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials sayFight Night takes place every year, the statement said. Proceeds benefit Center Ring Boxing, a youth boxing club, the fraternity said on Instagram."We will leave no stone unturned to determine how a 20-year-old ended up in a school-sanctioned amateur fight that cost him his life," the family's statement said.A vigil was held Saturday night on what would have been Valencia's 21st birthday, NBC affiliate KSNV reported.CORRECTION (Nov. 28, 2021, 10:15 p.m. ET): Headlines on a previous version of this article misidentified the college Nathan Valencia attended. It is the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, not the University of Nevada.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Carrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, dies. FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. Carrie Meek, the grandchild of a slave and a sharecroppers daughter who became one of the first Black Floridians elected to Congress since Reconstruction, died Sunday. She was 95.Meek died at her home in Miami after a long illness, her family said in a statement. The family did not specify a cause of death.Meek started her congressional career at an age when many people begin retirement. She was 66 when she easily won the 1992 Democratic congressional primary in her Miami-Dade County district. No Republican opposed her in the general election.Alcee Hastings and Corrine Brown joined Meek in January 1993 as the first Black Floridians to serve in Congress since 1876 as the states districts had been redrawn by the federal courts in accordance with the 1965 Voting Rights Act.On her first day in Congress, Meek reflected that while her grandmother, a slave on a Georgia farm, could never have dreamed of such an accomplishment, her parents told her that anything was possible.They always said the day would come when we would be recognized for our character, she told The Associated Press in an interview that day.In Congress, Meek championed affirmative action, economic opportunities for the poor and efforts to bolster democracy in and ease immigration restrictions on Haiti, the birthplace of many of her constituents.She also was known for her liberal opinions, folksy yet powerful oratory and colorful Republican bashing.The last Republican that did something for me was Abraham Lincoln, she told the state delegation to the 1996 Democratic Convention in Chicago.Meek joined her son Kendrick, a former state trooper and state senator, in a 2000 sit-in at then-Florida Gov. Jeb Bushs office to protest an end to affirmative action policies. She had long argued in favor of such policies, since earning her masters degree from the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor in 1948. At the time, Blacks were not admitted to graduate schools in Florida.Meek decided not to seek a sixth term in 2002. Her son Kendrick succeeded in winning her heavily Democratic district, a seat he held for four terms before an unsuccessful bid for the U.S. Senate in 2010.After leaving Congress, Carrie Meek returned to Miami and created a foundation to work on education and housing issues. She was also criticized for some of her business dealings.She lobbied for a biotech park that was planned for Miamis impoverished Liberty City neighborhood but never materialized. County authorities eventually started a criminal investigation, and the parks developer was arrested in October 2009 on charges that he stole nearly $1 million from the project.Congressional records showed that Meek was paid while her son sought millions of federal dollars for the project. Meek said she was paid as a consultant, and both mother and son denied their efforts were linked.Before entering politics, Meek worked as a teacher and administrator at Miami-Dade College.RecommendedWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials sayCold Case SpotlightCold Case Spotlight52 years later, the unsolved murder of a Penn State student on Thanksgiving weekend in 1969 remains a mysteryShe was elected to the Florida House in 1978, succeeding pioneer Black legislator Gwen Cherry, who had been killed in an auto accident. She became one of the first African Americans and the first Black woman to serve in the Florida Senate since the 1800sCarrie Pittman was born to Willie and Carrie Pittman in Tallahassee on April 29, 1926, and was the youngest of 12 children. Her father worked in nearby fields as a sharecropper and her mother took in laundry from white families.She graduated from Florida A&M University in 1946 with a degree in biology and physical education. The university named its building for Black history archives in her honor in 2007. She was a member of Delta Sigma Theta sorority.She accepted a position at Bethune Cookman College as an instructor and became the institutions first female basketball coach. In 1958, she returned to Florida A&M as an instructor in health and physical education. She held that position until 1961.Meek continued her teaching career at Miami Dade Community College as the first Black professor, associate dean, and assistant to the vice president from 1961 to 1979.Then, she began her political career, representing Floridas 17th Congressional District as a Democratic Florida State House Representative.In Congress, Meek was a member of the powerful Appropriations Committee and worked to secure $100 million in aid to rebuild Dade County as the area recovered from Hurricane Andrew.She retired in 2002 and shifted her focus to the Carrie Meek Foundation, which she founded in November 2001, to provide the Miami-Dade community with much-needed resources, opportunities, and jobs. Meek spearheaded the foundations daily operations until 2015 when she stepped down because of declining health.Meek is survived by her children Lucia Davis-Raiford, Sheila Davis Kinui and Kendrick B. Meek, seven grandchildren, five great-grandchildren and multiple nieces and nephews.Funeral arrangements are pending.In a statement, Miami-Dade County Mayor Daniella Levine Cava called Meek a true trailblazer.She was never afraid to use her voice to speak out against inequality or to fight for the disenfranchised and the vulnerable  and her towering legacy will continue to shape our community and the nation for generations to come, Levine Cava said.
Extremely strong magnitude-7.5 earthquake hits northern Peru. The U.S. Geological Survey says a strong earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 7.5 has struck in northern Peru.A USGS map shows the epicenter of Sunday's earthquake in northern Peru.USGSThe earthquake took place at 5:52 a.m. Sunday local time (5:52 a.m. ET). While it was extremely strong, it was relatively deep  measured at 112 kilometers  which usually reduces damage and casualties.The epicenter was 42 kilometers (26 miles) north northwest of the coastal city of Barranca.RecommendedObituariesObituariesCarrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, diesWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials sayA 14-meter tower in a protected four-century-old church collapsed shortly after the 7.5-degree quake recorded Sunday in northern Peru, according to local media and witnesses accounts.Video and photos posted online showed the historic tower, part of a 16th-century complex that was considered the oldest Catholic temple in the Amazonas region, reduced to a pile of stones, although the main atrium appeared to be still standing.Social media posts also showed damage in other locations, including in a church in southern Ecuador. The quake was also felt in Colombia.
Overdue book returned anonymously to Idaho library 111 years later. A children's book checked out from the Boise, Idaho, public library in 1910 vanished for 111 years only to be returned anonymously, library officials said.A copy of New Chronicles of Rebecca by Kate Douglas Wiggin, still in good condition, was recently returned to the Garden Valley District Library, about 51 miles outside of Boise, city library officials said. The checkout desk noticed that it was rather old and it didnt have any current markings, so they looked into it, city library assistant Anne Marie Martin told NBC affiliate KTVB of Boise. A copy of "New Chronicles of Rebecca," a 1907 book by Kate Douglas Wiggin, was recently returned anonymously to a Boise library 111 years after it was checked out. Boise Public LibraryI dont think anybody here has seen a book thats been away for so long, she said.First published in 1907 as the follow-up to Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm, the book tells the tale of girl whos verve inspires her aunts. It was adopted as a 1938 musical that starred Shirley Temple as Rebecca.After the Boise Public Library welcomed the book home, it was placed in its history room, where books can be browsed but not checked out.According to the library system, the book had originally been checked out from the Carnegie Public Library, a circa-1905 building on the National Register of Historic Places that is now devoid of books. Readers could keep books for two weeks before fines were triggered, a pocket inside the cover said. RecommendedObituariesObituariesCarrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, diesWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials sayThe book was more than 40,000 days overdue and could have amassed fines of 2 cents per-day adding up to more than $800, the Boise library said. But in the early twentieth century fines were capped at the purchase price of the book, which would have been $1.50, KTVB reported.The figures are hypothetical these days.Like other library systems, including New York City's, Boise has eliminated late fees. "It would be great if we could find out what happened, but that said, sometimes there are just mysteries in history," Martin said.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
The Taliban destroyed Afghanistan's ancient Buddha statues. Now they're welcoming tourists.. BAMIYAN, Afghanistan  The Talibans destruction of the Bamiyan Buddha statues in early 2001 shocked the world and highlighted their hard-line regime, toppled soon after in a U.S.-led invasion. Now back in charge of Afghanistan and eager to present a softer image, the militant group is running the site as a tourist attraction.For around $5, curious visitors can wander around and take photos of the giant holes in the cliff face where the ancient Buddha statues once stood. Under a white Taliban flag, soldiers man a booth and write out admission tickets.Sidiq Ullah, who is a supporter of the militant group, came to see the historic site this week with friends from Kandahar, around 350 miles southwest of Bamiyan. Now that the Taliban are in control, he said, he feels free to tour the country.I was young when these were destroyed, about 7 years old, and since then it has been a dream to come and see what happened here, he said. Im happy it was destroyed. Im here to see the ruins actually.The site of the Bamiyan Buddha statues. Wakil Kohsar / AFP via Getty ImagesCarved into the face of a cliff, the two 6th century Buddha statues  one 180 feet tall and the other 124 feet tall  towered over the valley.The area was a holy site for Buddhists on the ancient trading route between China and Europe known as the Silk Road. When the Taliban announced their plan to destroy the statues in 2001, they had come under heavy international pressure to keep them standing. But, labeling them un-Islamic, the group brought the statues down using heavy explosives.Since taking over the country again a few months ago, the Taliban have sought to present a more moderate face to the world despite a brutal crackdown in some areas. As the hard-line Islamic group navigates the economic and security challenges of governing the country after years of insurgency, it is also under pressure from international organizations to protect Afghanistans cultural heritage.Bamiyan has always been a part of Afghanistan that the outside world has focused on, said Llewelyn Morgan, the author of The Buddhas of Bamiyan and a professor of classics at the University of Oxford. The Taliban know that and thats why in their slightly inept way they are still trying to paint themselves as a constructive government.A statue of the Buddha in Bamiyan in 1997, before the Taliban destroyed it. Jean Claude-Chapon / AFP via Getty ImagesCaves on the cliff face were once home toBuddhist monasteries and sanctuaries. Now those around the Buddhas are empty, while other caves farther away are home to families. Clothing flaps on laundry lines, children play in empty caves and some even have glass windows installed. UNESCO, or the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, declared the Bamiyan Valley a World Heritage Site in 2003.It worked with the U.S.-backed Afghan government to conserve what was left of the Buddha statues after the Taliban's destruction of the site. The organization had also backed a cultural center and museum in Bamiyan to integrate local communities as well as to identify Bamiyans rich cultural backgrounds, according to its website. With the Taliban in charge, its future was unclear. UNESCO didnt respond to requests for comment. In the days after the militant group swept back to power in the summer, UNESCO issued a statement calling for the preservation of sites like it.It is crucial for the future of Afghanistan to safeguard and preserve these landmarks, the agency said.Though scaffolding remains in the niches where the Buddha statues once stood, the preservation work has now ended. Few visitors arrived when NBC News was at the site, despite the Taliban's stated willingness to welcome tourists.Abdullah Sarhadi, the area's governor who spent nearly four years as a prisoner in Guantanamo Bay, said that the Taliban have changed and that they will preserve historic monuments. For now, he is waiting to hear more from the upper levels of the Taliban government before making any changes to the site. We want to show the world there is peace and security in Afghanistan now, Sarhadi said.Gabe Joselow reported from Bamiyan, Afghanistan, and Rachel Elbaum reported from London.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
India has an eroding image of tolerance in the West. A recent cricket loss proves why.. When India meets its archrival Pakistan on the cricket field, even those who do not follow the sport sit up and watch. But at the opening match of the T20 World Cup late last month, they were in for a rare disappointment when the Pakistan team beat India for the first time in almost 30 years  and by a lot.In the aftermath of the crushing defeat, ethno-religious tensions boiled over in India, a Hindu-majority country that neighbors Muslim-majority Pakistan. Cricket fans hurled online abuse at Mohammed Shami, the Indian teams only Muslim player, unfairly blaming him for the loss.In the state of Uttar Pradesh, three students from Kashmir, a Muslim-majority territory claimed by both India and Pakistan, who celebrated the win on social media were suspended from their college, arrested and charged with sedition.More than a dozen other Kashmiri students who cheered for Pakistan were assaulted on the night of the match at two universities in the state of Punjab, said Nasir Khuehami, the national spokesperson for the Jammu and Kashmir Student Association.This is not new, Khuehami told NBC News. Whenever politics is mixed with sports, these incidents happen.Protesters in the city of Srinagar demand authorities drop charges against students who were celebrating the Pakistan cricket team's win in the Twenty20 World Cup.Tauseef Mustafa / AFP via Getty ImagesTensions between Indias Hindus, who make up about 80 percent of the countrys 1.4 billion people, and Muslims, who make up 14 percent, go back hundreds of years and worsened during British colonial rule.But under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a Hindu nationalist who took office in 2014, experts say there has been a sharp rise in discrimination and violence against Muslims that is polarizing society and undermining Indias reputation for religious tolerance.India had a very good image internationally, as the worlds largest democracy and the country of tolerance, said Christophe Jaffrelot, the author of the 2021 book Modis India: Hindu Nationalism and the Rise of Ethnic Democracy.Now gradually this image is getting eroded in the U.S. and Europe.This poses a challenge to the United States, which is strengthening its relationship with India as it seeks to counterbalance China. In September, President Joe Biden hosted the prime ministers of India, Australia and Japan at the first in-person meeting of the Quad, a strategic grouping of the four nations.U.S. lawmakers have expressed concern over the rights of Indias Muslims and other religious minorities, and legislation before Congress would require the State Department to create a special envoy for combating Islamophobia around the world, including in India. But on Nov. 17, the State Department declined to add India to its list of the worlds worst violators of religious freedom as recommended for the second year in a row by a U.S. federal commission. (India rejected the commissions report in 2020, calling it biased.)The U.S. and Europe need India vis-a-vis China, Jaffrelot said. So for the moment the questioning of human rights in India has no consequence.Unresolved tensionsHindu nationalism, or Hindutva, is a very monolithic and exclusionary political ideology that relies on a vision of Hindu identity as being North Indian, upper caste and patriarchal, said Nikhil Mandalaparthy, advocacy director of Hindus for Human Rights, a U.S.-based group.Members of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), a militaristic group that has long espoused Hindu nationalism are known to march through the streets beating drums and blowing horns.AFP via Getty ImagesIn this version of India, he said, minorities are sidelined and not allowed the same status of citizens.Tensions between Hindus and Muslims were exploited by British colonial rulers to maintain their hold on power. But when India gained independence in 1947, the subcontinent was transformed by its violent partition into two states  Hindu-majority India and Muslim-majority Pakistan  setting off mass migration in both directions. At least 1 million people died and 18 million were uprooted during that period, according to the National Archives of the British government. That trauma was never fully addressed by Indian leaders, said Thomas Blom Hansen, author of the 1999 book The Saffron Wave: Democracy and Hindu Nationalism in Modern India.Politicians tried to put a lid on all these tensions, he said. They wanted to create a multinational, multicultural, multi-religious state that has room for everyone.While India is officially a secular state that enshrines the right to religious freedom in its constitution, Hansen said the BJP had created a narrative of Hindu victimhood that taps into a deep reservoir of stereotypes and myths, anxieties and anger about Muslims that has always been there.They believe Hindus are oppressed in India and they are oppressed by the minorities, but nothing could be further from the truth, he said.RecommendedObituariesObituariesCarrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, diesWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials sayAs prime minister, Modi has strengthened the economy, courted foreign leaders and ushered in some popular reforms. But critics say the Hindu nationalist policies of Modi and his Bharatiya Janata Party have only intensified since he won a second term as prime minister in 2019.Within months of that election win, the government stripped Jammu and Kashmir, Indias only Muslim-majority state, of its semiautonomous status after more than 70 years, deploying thousands of troops and making it easier for Hindu settlers to move there in what critics saw as an attempt to dilute the Muslim population.Indian army soldiers stand guard during a search operation for suspected militants in Srinagar, Kashmir earlier this month.Tauseef Mustafa / AFP via Getty ImagesIn the northeastern state of Assam, nearly 2 million people were left off a list of citizens in a crackdown on illegal immigration that critics said targeted Muslims, rendering them stateless.Nationally, Muslims were also excluded from an amendment to Indian law that provided a pathway to citizenship for members of persecuted religious minorities who had immigrated to India illegally.Atmosphere of intimidationThe tensions have been underlined by a recent spike in violence that went beyond Indias borders. In October, at least six people were killed in neighboring Bangladesh, a Muslim-majority country that gained independence from Pakistan in 1971, in its worst anti-Hindu violence in years, officials said.Across the border in the Indian state of Tripura, a Hindu nationalist group responded to the deaths in Bangladesh by organizing protest rallies that turned violent, with mosques, shops and houses in Muslim communities vandalized across the state.Abdul Basit Khan, a Muslim lawyer in the town of Dharmanagar, said his house was ransacked.They destroyed everything in the house: my TV, wardrobe, laptop and sofa set, he said. They threw my client records down the street and into the drains.Khan, who is also the president of regional political party Trinamool Congress in North Tripura district, estimates that he suffered a loss of around 8 to 10 lakh rupees ($10,000 to $13,000).There have been no arrests related to the violence in Tripura, which is governed by the BJP. But the police detained dozens of people who reported or commented on the anti-Muslim attacks, including journalists, lawyers and more than 100 social media account holders, accusing them of spreading communal hatred.Lawyers who conducted a fact-finding mission said the government had been warned about the violence and could have prevented it.This is the complete failure of state government, Supreme Court advocate Ehtesham Hashmi and lawyers Amit Srivastav and Ansar Indori said in a statement accompanying their report on Nov. 1. The political interests of BJP and the ideology of violent patriotism have captured the state and have conspicuous support amongst the public.NBC News reached out to three BJP spokespersons via email for comment on the incidents but did not get a response.Three Kashmiri students who were assaulted on the night of the cricket match declined to comment to NBC, saying they feared retaliation.But Khan said the atmosphere of intimidation affected not just Muslims but all those who reject the BJPs policies and rhetoric.Be they Hindu, Muslim, Sikh or Christian, he said, those who dont believe in BJP, they all live in fear.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
'It's scary': Overdose deaths driven by fentanyl mixed with other drugs. The spike of drug overdose deaths this year and last year has many drug abuse and addiction researchers, doctors and health officials worried about a growing trend among overdose victims that appears to indicate a new and different wave of the opioid epidemic.While the loneliness and the challenges of the coronavirus pandemic appear to have driven drug use, many experts say the latest overdose wave is driven in part by the use of fentanyl with other drugs.Overdose deaths hit new heights in the U.S.  over 100,000 dead this year, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  but experts say its part of a fourth wave of the overdose epidemic, in which a growing number of drug users die with multiple substances in their systems.Behind that 100,000 figure, they said, is an ongoing surge in the number of cocaine, methamphetamine and other drug deaths that are connected to the simultaneous use of fentanyl.Probably more than half of the cases involve fentanyl mixed with another drug, said Dr. Robert Anderson, the chief of mortality statistics at the CDCs National Center for Health Statistics.The co-use of fentanyl and other drugs distinguishes this wave from the ones that came before it, which were characterized by the growing use of prescription pain medications and then the rise of heroin and fentanyl individually."I actually dont refer to it as an opioid epidemic, said Dr. James Berry, the director of addiction services and chair of the behavioral medicine department at West Virginia University. I refer to it as an addiction epidemic, because the substance varies, and theres typically more than one substance being used.Although the trend has been identified, its not yet definitive what is causing it: Are drug users knowingly using fentanyl and other drugs, or does fentanyl enter the larger drug supply via dealers and distributors?It really could be happening at any point and multiple points along the drug supply chain, said Kelly Dougherty, Vermonts deputy health commissioner for alcohol and drug abuse programs. Some people want to use fentanyl, despite the dangers, and other people are using it without knowing  its scary. People are cutting it in, and it basically makes it more deadly.While Vermont is working to make fentanyl test strips more accessible so users can check whether their drugs are contaminated, Dougherty said users should assume more often than not that any illicit drugs they buy may contain fentanyl.The Biden administration announced this year that state and local governments can use federal funds to purchase fentanyl test strips in hope of curbing the spike in overdose deaths.   But many experts believe fentanyl is entering the greater drug supply at the distributor level. Distributors or dealers appear to be either cutting other drugs with fentanyl, as it is particularly cheap and provides a strong high, or contaminating their other drugs by accident by using unclean work surfaces, gloves and tools.RecommendedObituariesObituariesCarrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, diesWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials sayThere are instances where patients will be actually co-using both cocaine and fentanyl purposely, said Berry, who cited some of his interactions with patients, but a lot of it is just the fact that almost everything you could think of is cut with fentanyl on the streets nowadays.Besides anecdotes and assumptions, however, there is little firm data on why a growing number of overdose victims have multiple drugs in their systems when they die.Dr. Daniel Ciccarone, an addiction and drug researcher at the University of California, San Francisco, said it remains unclear whether most overdoses are caused by intentional co-use of fentanyl with other drugs or whether contamination or alteration is happening at the dealer level. He said the real reason remains in a black box that needs to be unpacked with further research.I think the contamination hypothesis is overblown and its fear-based, said Ciccarone, who has published about the fourth wave of overdoses and is working on a study about the reasons behind the latest trend. Theres evidence from around the country  a couple papers that have been published, but also data from my research in places like West Virginia  that show that the combination use of methamphetamine or a powerful stimulant with a powerful opioid is a popular combination now.This is a big, growing phenomenon, he added. Its one we shouldnt ignore.Unfortunately, the problem has multiple heads.Brendan Saloner, a Johns Hopkins School of Public Health professor who studies drug addiction and treatment, said fentanyl is beginning to move across the country and affecting communities that havent had to address the opioid epidemic in the past.It seems like whats happening is that a lot of the overdose risk has just shifted to parts of the country that didnt really have as much susceptibility before, so I think its taking a lot of people by surprise right now, Saloner said. Certainly some places, especially west of the Mississippi, it looks like its gotten really bad in a hurry.Beyond that, Saloner said, state and local governments need to work to build back addiction treatment and outreach systems that were left unattended during the pandemic. Addiction services, he said, should be the main focus of efforts right now.He said the U.S. also needs to expand whom it provides with those services and work in areas that arent given resources to address the opioid epidemic. Settings like hospital emergency departments, where most people cant get treated, or jails and prisons need greater attention, he said. There are a lot of crisis systems that just dont help people very well right now.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
A nursing home where 83 residents died of Covid is still in business under a new name. In December 2019, Sharon Farrell flew from Florida to visit her brother Stephen at a New Jersey nursing home, where, she said, she found disgusting conditions. "I told the nurse, 'I am calling the state,'" she said. "Im paying $9,000 a month, and I wouldnt let my dog live like this."Farrell said that four months later, as Covid-19 was spreading rapidly, she repeatedly called the facility to ask how her brother was doing. When she finally reached someone, she said, she was told he was fine. Within a few days, however, he was dead.It has been 19 months since the discovery of 17 bodies in a tiny morgue at the Andover Subacute II nursing home in Sussex County, New Jersey, in April 2020. The federal government fined the owners $221,115 for not being in "substantial compliance," and the attorney generals office began an investigation.But the owners are still in business. They changed the names of Andover and its sister facility and installed new signs out front. As of Friday, there were 25 residents of Andover with Covid, according to state data. And the owners are still being paid by Medicare and Medicaid, the taxpayer-funded programs that pay most costs for U.S. nursing home operators  even though one of the owners, Louis Schwartz, helped run a chain called Skyline Healthcare, which collapsed in 2019 amid accusations of neglect and financial mismanagement, which the chain denied.Andover Subacute Facility I and II was renamed Woodland Behavioral and Nursing Center at Andover.NBC News"The individuals that ran Skyline should not ever be in charge of a nursing home again, and yet here we are," said David Grabowski, a professor of health care policy at Harvard Medical School. He said the pandemic exposed an industry already in crisis, with a lack of resources and regulation."Different names, same practices," Grabowski said. "We need to ensure that there arent these kind of back doors, that nursing homes arent able to simply put a new name on the building and continue to operate as is."Some family members of those who died at Andover say they are frustrated, and some are suing over the facility's alleged lack of preparation to deal with Covid and for mingling the infected and the healthy.Farrell joined a lawsuit with other families but said: "I couldnt care less about the class action. I want these guys out of business."Before CovidAt its peak, Skyline Healthcare had more than 100 facilities andoversaw the care of more than 7,000 elderly residents. But from 2017 to 2019, the chain began a slow-motion collapse, and more than a dozen Skyline-operated nursing homes shut their doors, throwing residents, vendors, employees and state regulators into chaos.Many homes ran out of money. Others were shut down over neglect documented in government records.In one Arkansas nursing home regulators identified maggots in a residents catheter, according to an inspection.Fourteen homes were forced to close permanently, displacing more than 900 residents to new facilities, sometimes hours away.Skylines main owner, Joseph Schwartz, and his son Louis did not return multiple messages and emails requesting comment in 2019. They have denied the allegations of neglect.The Schwartz family has not left the nursing home business.While Skyline is defunct, Joseph Schwartz is still listed as the owner or a co-owner of four facilities, according to federal nursing home ownership data.Louis Schwartz and Chaim Scheinbaum have ownership stakes in at least seven nursing homes between them, including the facility once known as Andover Subacute II.In January 2020,New York health officialsrecommended against allowing Scheinbaum to take over a nursing home in upstate New York, citing an "ongoing investigation" and noting that they disapproved of his "character and competence," according to a Health Department document.Scheinbaum did not respond when asked to comment about the recommendation.A year before the Covid outbreak, a female Andover resident with dementia walked out of the facility through two broken doors and was found at 4:30 a.m. sitting in the snow with severe frostbite, according to afederal inspection.Terri Thompson, her daughter, sued the facility, alleging violations of the minimum standard of care. The lawsuit is pending, and the owners have denied the claims.Dante Maglioli said that in early 2020, his father, Joseph, complainedabout the quality of care at Andover. The family was talking about moving him to another facility.As Covid began to spread, Maglioli said, he heard his sister and his father talking on the phone. His father was saying he was not sure Andover could cope if he came down with the deadly new disease. And then, Maglioli said, "my sister never talked to my dad again." Magliolis father died April 9, 2020.Schwartz and Scheinbaum did not respond when asked to comment about the conditions at Andover before the pandemic.When the pandemic arrived, nursing homes in New York and New Jersey, including Andover, took the early brunt.Eighty-three of the homes 539 residents, or almost 1 out of every 6, died of Covid in the first four months of the pandemic. Farrells brother was among the casualties.Health care officials prepare to load a patient into an ambulance at Andover Subacute and Rehab Center in Andover, N.J., on April 16, 2020.Stefan Jeremiah / Reuters filePreston Nicolai, then a 20-year-old maintenance worker at the facility, said it was "horrific.""We were losing sometimes between 10 and 12 people a night," he said.Before the bodies began to pile up at Andover, Nicolai said,he was told to move residents from room to room, even though the facility did not know who had Covid and who did not. "I do believe it helped spread the cases of Covid throughout the building," he said.Nicolai said he was told to stack bodies on top of one another in a small room as the facility struggled to deal with the surge in deaths.RecommendedCoronavirusCoronavirusIsrael banning entry to all foreigners as new omicron variant spreadsCoronavirusCoronavirusHow variants like omicron develop and what makes them variants 'of concern'On Easter Sunday, April 12, Nicolai said, he went to work and found the body of a woman in an outdoor maintenance shed, next to shovels, rakes and a lawn mower. He said there was no more room for corpses inside the nursing home."I was so morally devastated," he said. "It felt so wrong to put someones loved one out in the shed."He moved the body back inside the facility, but he cannot shake the images. "I have had really bad dreams, and I dont have the money to pay a therapist," he said.They do not even know what they do not knowDocuments newly obtained through an open records request by NBC News show how the facility struggled to cope with the outbreak in April 2020.Emails from Andover staff members to Sussex County officials documentrepeated requests for personal protective equipment, or PPE, like masks and gloves, some of whichwas delivered to the facility.A summary of an inspection from the early morning hours of April 12 written by Kyle Wilson, a registered nurse, and addressed to the Andover Township chief of police describes in detail conditions inside the facility days before the first story broke about bodies stuffed into the tiny morgue.Wilson is employed part-time at the police department, according to a dispatch operator.He did not return a call seeking comment.Wilson wrote that protective equipment delivered to the facility by the Sussex County Sheriffs Office was unaccounted for.He said an Andover employee said the facility was "aware of a batch of PPE 'donated by the Sheriffs office' but could not account for its whereabouts or the inventory of the facilitys existing PPE, if such an inventory exists."Police find 17 bodies in New Jersey nursing home hit by coronavirusApril 16, 202002:26Wilson wrote, "Staff were observed to be touching their PPE (face shield, gown, mask) and their face with bare hands." He wrote that he "confronted [the nurse on duty] about this observed behavior.She assured me that it was okay because she was 'not in a room.'"Wilson wrote that there was no Covid testing at the facility and that the staff had not segregated the patients suspected of having Covid. He wrote: "It is my opinion that the acquisition of PPE alone will not resolve the rate of spread at this facility.  [S]taff are undoubtedly contaminated throughout their shift.While the staff are tangibly scared, a culture of safety is not present in this facility.They have not been educated.They do not even know what they do not know."Two days later, a federal Department of Health and Human Services administrator working in Sussex County, Carol Novrit, emailed county officials to say Andover staff members had told her that residents were "not being fed," that residents had "open wounds" and that the deaths of both residents and staff members were not being reported to public health officials.She wrote that the staff told her "there is no infection control now."Schwartz and Scheinbaum did not respond when asked to comment about the documents obtained by NBC News.Federal inspection reports conducted in mid-April 2020 showed similar observations, noting that residents who had symptoms were intermingled with those who were asymptomatic.'Impossible to know'Representatives for the owners said that at that time it was "often impossible to know who had Covid and who did not because of a lack of testing capability."In a statement, the owners of Andover, now known as Woodland Behavioral, said that "the safety and health of our residents has always been the top priority for Woodland Behavioral," adding: "The COVID-19 pandemic brought unprecedented challenges, and our heroic staff faced those challenges as best as they could.We continue to thank them for everything they did (and continue to do) to protect our residents."Representatives for Scheinbaum and Schwartz said they asked for help from multiple government agencies, including two verbal requests to the National Guard on April 11and April 15,but were told by military officials that they could not provide any assistance.A spokesperson for the New Jersey National Guard disputed their assertion. "The National Guard does not have any information indicating that the Andover Subacute facility made a request for assistance, much less one that was turned down." The spokesperson said that at the outset of Covid, the Guard "supported every single mission request we received."The National Guard did respond to a request for emergency aid that Sussex County officials sent to the governor on May 6. Two days later, 22 members of the Guard went to Andover and performed nonmedical tasks, like cleaning the facility.NBC News investigation: Nursing home chain collapses amid allegations of unpaid bills, poor careJuly 19, 201903:30The owners say problems identified in the federal inspections from spring 2020 have been resolved with state and federal regulators.A spokesperson for an industry trade group, the American Health Care Association, said, "Even the best nursing homes with the most rigorous standards could not stop this highly contagious and invisible virus. Many lives were lost because long-term care was not made a priority by public health officials, especially in the initial months of the pandemic. Critical resources were directed toward hospitals, leaving long-term care facilities at a severe disadvantage."The investigation continuesPreston Nicolai said he was fired four months after the overstuffed morgue was discovered, accused of improperly disposing of medical waste.He said he believes the owners were looking for an excuse to get rid of him after what he saw.He said he has not been contacted by the attorney generals office. Sharon Farrell, however, was contacted this April.Asked when the attorney generals office would complete its investigation, a spokesperson said, "As is our standard practice, we will not provide updates on the investigation or release any additional information unless and until we bring an enforcement action or close the matter."The spokesperson said the Andover inquiry is part of a larger investigation of "facilities with high numbers of Covid-related deaths and below-average track records for health inspections, staffing, and quality of care."The class-action lawsuit filed by some relatives of the deceased, including Maglioli and Farrell, recently won a legal ruling allowing the lawsuit to stay in state instead of federal court, said the families attorney, Daniel Marchese.Marchese said that is good for the plaintiffs, who can plead their case before a local jury instead of being referred to a federal compensation program set up through the PREP Act, which shields businesses from some forms of liability after natural disasters like Covid.Maglioli said: "I think that these gentlemen, their corporation, whatever it is, needs to pay the price. And I dont mean in a financial way."Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
3 men found guilty of felony murder and other crimes in fatal shooting of Ahmaud Arbery. Three white men were found guilty Wednesday of felony murder in the shooting death of Ahmaud Arbery, a Black man who was running in their neighborhood when they confronted him last year.The nearly all-white jury convicted Travis McMichael of malice murder, felony murder, aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony.His father, Gregory McMichael, and their neighbor William "Roddie" Bryan were acquitted of the top charge. All now face up to life in prison.Even though this is not a celebration, it is a reflection to acknowledge that the spirit of Ahmaud defeated the lynch mob, civil rights attorney Benjamin Crump, who is representing Arbery's father, Marcus Arbery, said outside the courthouse Wednesday afternoon.Wanda Cooper-Jones, Arberys mother, said that her son will now rest in peace.It's been a long fight. It's been a hard fight, she said. I never saw this day back in 2020. I never thought this day would come. But God is good, she said.The McMichaels and Bryan chased Arbery in pickup trucks after they spotted him in their neighborhood outside Brunswick, Georgia, on Feb. 23, 2020. Travis McMichael shot Arbery, 25, who was Black, with a shotgun at close range. Bryan filmed the fatal encounter on his cellphone.'It's been a long fight': Ahmaud Arbery's parents react to guilty verdictNov. 24, 202102:38The three men were arrested months later after the leaked video brought the worlds attention to the case.Arberys family and civil rights leaders have likened his death to a modern-day lynching. The men also face federal hate crime charges.The jury deliberated for about 11 hours before reaching its decision.Each man faced a total of nine counts: one count of malice murder, four counts of felony murder, two counts of aggravated assault, and one count each of false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony.Travis McMichael was convicted on all counts. His father, Gregory McMichael, was found guilty on all charges except the most serious, malice murder. Bryan was also acquitted of malice murder. He was convicted on three of the four counts of felony murder, one of the two counts of aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony.Superior Court Judge Timothy Walmsley had instructed jurors that they could consider simple assault, reckless conduct and reckless driving as lesser charges to aggravated assault for Bryan.About an hour into the second day of deliberations Wednesday, the jurors asked to review footage of the fatal encounter and a 911 call that Gregory McMichael made on the day of the shooting. The jury viewed two videos  one the original cellphone video and the other a high contrast version of the same video  three times each while seated in the courtroom.Arbery's father was removed from the courtroom as the verdict was being read after he audibly celebrated the announcement that Travis McMichael was guilty of malice murder."He could not contain it any further. Think about how long he and Wanda have been enduring all the innuendo, all the allegations, all the character assassinations," Crump said when speaking outside the courthouse after the verdict. "Just imagine all they went through."Analyzing closing arguments in Ahmaud Arbery murder trial as jury deliberations beginNov. 23, 202103:33The defense had argued that the men suspected Arbery was a burglar and that residents in the Satilla Shores subdivision were "on edge." Arbery was recorded on security camera video visiting a partially built home in the neighborhood several times. The videos did not show Arbery taking anything from the property. The last video was recorded the afternoon he was killed. Arbery could be seen visiting the home minutes before he was chased by Gregory McMichael and Travis McMichael and Bryan, who had separate defense teams.The defense had sought to convince the jury that their clients were trying to execute a citizen's arrest, which was legal at the time. Travis McMichael's attorneys have said he opened fire in self-defense.During the trial, Travis McMichael testified that he shot Arbery after he was "struck."RecommendedObituariesObituariesCarrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, diesWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials say"We were face to face. And being struck, thats when I shot," he testified. He said he believed he was in "a life-or-death situation."Under cross-examination by lead prosecutor Linda Dunikoski on his second day of testimony, Travis McMichael said that Arbery hadn't shown a weapon or spoken to him at all before he raised his shotgun. Gregory McMichael and Bryan did not testify.Attorneys for Travis McMichael said they intend to appeal the verdict, describing it as very disappointing and sad.""This is a very difficult day for Travis McMichael and Greg McMichael, Jason Sheffield, an attorney for Travis McMichael said. These are two men who honestly believed that what they were doing was the right thing to do. However, a Glynn County jury has spoken. They have found them guilty. They will be sentenced.Kevin Gough, an attorney for Bryan, told NBC affiliate WLTV that he would also appeal and said that while he respects the jurys verdict, he believes his client should have been found not guilty.In her closing argument, Dunikoski told the jury that the defendants made a series of "assumptions and driveway decisions" that led to Arbery's death and that the three men had no "immediate knowledge" that a crime had occurred. She said immediate knowledge of a crime is necessary to claim citizen's arrest. Without the claim of citizen's arrest, Dunikoski told the jurors during closing, the men cannot claim that they acted in self-defense.If you determine that this was not a citizen's arrest, this was not legitimate, he had no probable cause, he cant do this based on the law, then guess what? Dunikoski said. "Theyre not justified in killing him. They are not justified in any of the felonies they committed against him.Dunikoski was cheered outside the courthouse after the verdict.The verdict today was a verdict based on the facts. Based on the evidence," Dunikoski said. "That was our goal, to bring that to that jury so that they could do the right thing."Arbery verdict 'based on the facts' says prosecutor in trialNov. 24, 202101:05Dunikoski, a senior assistant district attorney in the Cobb County District Attorney's Office, was assigned the case last year by the state attorney general's office after local prosecutors and law enforcement faced scrutiny over their handling of the case.Prosecutor Jackie Johnson, the Brunswick-area district attorney, recused herself from the case shortly after the shooting, saying that Gregory McMichael had been an investigator in her office for more than 30 years as a former Glynn County police officer.She was later indicted by a grand jury on charges of violation of oath of public officer and obstruction of a police officer. Johnson was accused of showing favor and affection to Greg McMichael during the investigation, according to the indictment document released in September. She also was alleged to have hindered two police officers by directing that Travis McMichael should not be placed under arrest.The second prosecutor, George Barnhill, recused himself in April 2020 and defended the actions of the McMichaels and Bryan. In the letter recusing himself, Barnhill said the three had solid first hand probable cause to pursue Arbery, a burglary suspect, and stop him.The case was transferred that same month to Thomas Durden, the district attorney for Georgias Atlantic Judicial Circuit. Durden, who eventually asked to be removed from the case because of a lack of resources, asked the Georgia Bureau of Investigation to investigate after the leaked cellphone footage prompted widespread outrage.The McMichaels were arrested two days later on May 7, 2020, more than two months after the shooting. Bryan was arrested later that month, days after the Cobb County Judicial Circuit was tapped to handle the case.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Doorbell video appears to show arrest of Waukesha parade suspect . The suspect accused of mowing down a crowd of holiday revelers in Wisconsin was captured in a doorbell camera before his arrest pleading for help and telling a resident he was waiting for an Uber, according to video obtained Monday by NBC News.The Nov. 21 video also shows authorities arriving at the Waukesha home and telling the suspect, Darrell Brooks, 39, to put his hands up.It isnt clear whether the house, roughly a half-mile from the Waukesha Christmas parade route that Brooks is accused of plowing into, is where police placed him under arrest.Doorbell camera image appears to show Waukesha suspect, Darrell Brooks, standing on a porch before being apprehended.Courtesy / Daniel RiderThe Waukesha Police Department did not respond to requests for comment Monday. In videos shared with by NBC News by resident Daniel Rider, Brooks  wearing a T-shirt and shivering on Rider's front porch  can be seen knocking on the home's front door. A timestamp on the video shows that it was recorded just after 5 p.m. local time, about 20 minutes after Brooks allegedly tore through parade route barricades, killing five people and injuring dozens more."I called an Uber and I'm supposed to be waiting for it over here, but I don't know when it's coming," he can be heard saying. "Can you call it for me please? I'm homeless."In an interview, Rider, who'd been away on a hunting trip and was watching football when the crash occurred, said he had no idea about what had just happened blocks away. He said he invited Brooks inside and gave him a jacket, made him a sandwich and let him use his phone."All of a sudden, I look outside my street and I see a few cop cars drive by and I'm getting extra nervous," he said.Rider said he asked Brooks to leave, and he did. After Rider's neighbor called police, Brooks began "pounding" on Rider's front door, saying he'd left his ID, Rider recalled."Then the next thing you know, you see the cops with lights on him saying, 'hands in the air, hands in the air.'"The encounter, part of which was captured on video, showed Brooks walking around Rider's front porch. Police officers can be seen arriving at the house and ordering Brooks to put his hands up."Whoa, whoa, whoa," he can be heard saying while appearing to comply.Authorities have said that Brooks fled the scene of a domestic disturbance just before the crash. Responding officers were redirected to the parade route, which observers compared to a war zone.Brooks, who has a lengthy criminal history that includes sexual abuse and battery, was charged Nov. 5 in a separate domestic violence case. He posted $1,000 cash bond was released six days later.His lawyer in that case has declined to comment to NBC News. It isn't clear if he has another lawyer for the charges related to Sunday's crash. Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Groveland Four, the Black men accused in a 1949 rape, get case dismissed. In the summer of 1949, a 17-year-old lodged an accusation that would thrust the rural Florida community of Grovelandinto decadeslong turmoil: The white teenager told police she and her husband were driving home from a dance when they were attacked by four young Black men who abducted and raped her at gunpoint.The claims made by Norma Padgett, who is now in her 80s, set off a manhunt that spurred an onslaught of violence against Black residents of Groveland, near Orlando, mobilizing the National Guard and prompting Thurgood Marshall, then a lead attorney for the NAACP, to take up the cause of the men who would come to be known as the Groveland Four.It took seven decades before thestate of Florida formally recognizedhow the four accused  Charles Greenlee, Walter Irvin, Samuel Shepherd and Ernest Thomas  were failed by the criminal justice system. Thomas was gunned down by a mob in the wake of Padgett's allegations, and the others have also since died. In 2019, Gov. Ron DeSantis issued the Groveland Four aposthumous pardon.But Monday morning, a circuit court judge in Lake County went further, clearing the charges against the men and issuing a ruling that effectively exonerated them of the crime. Bill Gladson, a local prosecutor, set the extraordinary move into motion last month when he filed paperwork to toss Thomas' and Shepherd's indictments and set aside the sentences and judgments imposed on Greenlee and Irvin."We followed the evidence to see where it led us, and it led us to this moment," Gladson said at a news conference following the judge's decision.Carol Greenlee, the daughter of Charles Greenlee, who at 16 was the youngest of the suspects, wept and fell into the arms of those next to her as a judge formally dismissed the charges."If you know something is right, stand up for it," she said later of the lessons she learned. "Be persistent."In an earlier statement, Carol Greenlee said that despite proclamations from the governor and the state Legislature and a monument dedicated in honor of the Groveland Four, the families were awaiting "full justice" from the judicial branch to feel vindicated.How the lynching of a 14-year-old boy sparked a movementMarch 24, 201812:26Among those who traveled to Florida to witness the court's decision was Marshall's son, Thurgood Marshall Jr."There are countless people we need to remember who suffered similar fates who have been lost to history," Marshall Jr. said at the news conference. "Perhaps of all the cases my father worked on, this one haunted him for many, many years. And he believed there were better days ahead."The Groveland Four became a disturbing example of racial injustice from the Jim Crow-era, and preceded the high-profile killing of Emmett Till, a Black 14-year-old who was lynched in Mississippi in 1955 by white men after he was accused of whistling at a white woman.RecommendedObituariesObituariesCarrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, diesWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials saySuch incidents show how the desire to protect white women was used to justify racism and the oppression of Black people's rights, said author Gilbert King, whose book "Devil in the Grove," which investigated the Groveland Four case and won the Pulitzer Prize for nonfiction in 2013.Gladson's appeal to ask a judge to dismiss charges against the Groveland Four was not based on whether Padgett may be lying, King said, but rather on the prosecutorial misconduct and the fabrication of evidence at the time.Padgett had said the couples car had stalled as they drove home from the dance when they were confronted by the four Black men who attacked her husband before abducting and raping her. Following her accusations, a mob of hundreds of white men led by Lake County Sheriff Willis McCall tracked Thomas to a swamp, where they found him asleep and shot him more than 400 times. Meanwhile, Greenlee, Irvin and Shepherd were arrested and later convicted by all-white juries. Marshall, who years later would become the first Black justice of the Supreme Court, had helped Irvin and Shepherd win appeals to have their case retried. In 1951, while Irvin and Shepherd were being transported, McCall shot the men, claiming they tried to escape. Shepherd, a World War II veteran, was killed, but Irvin survived and was convicted even though an FBI agent testified that prosecutors manufactured evidence against the men.Relatives of the Groveland Four, including Carol Greenlee, right, gather at a  monument that was unveiled in front of the Old Lake County Courthouse in Tavares, Fla., on Feb. 21, 2020. Joe Burbank / TNS via Getty Images fileIrvin, also a World War II veteran, received the death penalty. His sentence was later commuted to life in prison, and he was eventually paroled in 1968. He died the following year.Greenlee was paroled in 1962 and died in 2012.Padgett has rarely spoken publicly about the case, and her family did not return a message seeking comment. She last appeared before the state clemency board in January 2019 to ask them not to pardon the men."Y'all just don't know what kind of horror I've been through for all these many years," she told the board at the time. "I don't want them pardoned, no I do not, and you wouldn't neither."As part of his investigation, Gladson spoke with a grandson of the prosecutor in the case, now deceased, who said his grandfather and a judge believed no rape occurred. Gladson also had Irvin's pants tested at a crime lab, and the results showed no evidence of semen even though jurors at his trial were made to believe it existed.Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, Lake County Sheriff Peyton C. Grinnell, state Rep. Geraldine Thompson and other elected officials and family members unveil the Groveland Four monument in front of the Old Lake County Courthouse in Tavares, Fla., on Feb. 21, 2020.  Joe Burbank / TNS via Getty Images file"Officials, disguised as keepers of the peace and masquerading as ministers of justice, disregarded their oaths, and set in motion a series of events that forever destroyed these men, their families, and a community," Gladson wrote in his motion. "I have not witnessed a more complete breakdown of the criminal justice system."The dismissal of the Groveland Four's case is a rarity, particularly when none of the accused are still living, and prosecutors are generally reluctant or unable to revisit older cases because witnesses are no longer alive or documents and evidence are destroyed or missing.Other states this month moved to recognize people arrested for crimes in such historic cases. A state board in Louisiana unanimously granted a posthumous pardon toHomer Plessy, a Creole man who refused to leave a whites-only train car in the 1890s, which led to the Supreme Court's "separate but equal" ruling. In New York, two men who served decades in prison despite proclaiming their innocence in the1965 assassination of civil rights icon Malcolm Xhad their convictions formally thrown out Thursday. Only one of the two men is still alive.A reopening of civil rights-era cases  and a reckoning with the past   are essential, King said."Sometimes, by going back into the past and correcting a gross injustice, it adds more integrity to the court system today," he said.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
The most entertaining and binge-worthy queer content arriving in November. As the cool weather sets in, hot new releases with queer themes and characters are hitting theaters and streaming platforms. From a Marvel superheroes feature to a Princess Diana biopic, commercial and indie films highlight LGBTQ romances, while reality shows stir up controversy on the small screen. And, across the board, fraught period pieces reign supreme.Here is a list of upcoming and recently released queer-inclusive shows and films to cozy up to as the year draws to a close  before Christmas content takes over.'Eternals'Brian Tyree Henry as Phastos in "Eternals." Marvel StudiosThe Marvel Cinematic Universe is getting a new band of superheroes. A team of ancient aliens, who have been secretly living on Earth for thousands of years, is forced out of the shadows by an unexpected tragedy following the events of Avengers: Endgame. Eternals, directed by Chlo Zhao (Nomadland), features Marvels first openly gay hero, couple and kiss, involving Phastos (Brian Tyree Henry) and his mortal husband, Ben (Haaz Sleiman). As if saving the world wasnt hard enough on a relationship, the couple is also raising a son in the suburbs.Eternals opens in theaters Friday.'Dickinson'Ella Hunt, left, and Hailee Steinfeld in "Dickinson."Apple TV+The Peabody Award-winning series about the early life of great American poet Emily Dickinson is back for its third and final season. In the last chapter, which takes place during the Civil War, Emily (Hailee Steinfeld) grapples with life in a divided, traumatized country and the demands of her complicated romance with longtime friend Sue. Despite the solemn backdrop, audiences can expect the series usual campy, stylized take on mid-19th-century living, along with a new host of comedic favorites playing historical characters: Ziwe as Sojourner Truth, Billy Eichner as Walt Whitman and Chloe Fineman as Sylvia Plath.Dickinson season three premieres on Apple TV+ on Friday.'Spencer'Kristen Stewart as Princess Diana in "Spencer."Pablo Larrain / NEONDirector Pablo Larrans Princess Diana biopic, starring Kristen Stewart in the title role, portrays three eventful days during the royals 1991 Christmas holiday. In the film  which is reminiscent of Larrans Jacqueline Kennedy biopic, Jackie  arguments over bulimia and infidelity lead to the eventual separation between the Princess of Wales and her then-husband, Prince Charles. How much of the film is actually based in reality  including an unexplored romance between Diana and a member of her inner circle  is sure to intrigue audiences and ruffle royal feathers.Spencer opens in theaters Friday.'Tampa Baes'Mel and Jordan in "Tampa Baes."Lindsey Byrnes / Amazon A young group of lesbians takes on the queer dating scene in Tampa Bay, Florida, in a new docuseries from Amazon Studios. Tampa Baes isnt the first lesbian-centered unscripted show of its kind  the most notable being Ilene Chaikens 2010-2012 Showtime series, The Real L Word  though it is a rarity in the larger landscape dominated by mainly heteronormative franchises like The Real Housewives. Whether that will be enough for audiences to tune in remains to be seen. The show attracted some early, and presumably unwanted, attention in the form of accusations about colorism and a lack of inclusivity based on promotional materials of the cast.Tampa Baes season one premieres on Amazon Prime Video on Friday.'Gentefied'Karrie Martin in "Gentefied."NetflixAfter fighting to save their familys taco shop from gentrification in the first season, the Morales clan now faces the terrifying prospect of their grandfathers deportation. Actor Karrie Martin returns as Ana Morales, a young queer artist who raises complex questions about the intersection of love, activism and identity. Last season, Anas relationship with her childhood friend Yessika hit a speed bump when the two faced the realities of being young, brown activists in a changing world. Will the love birds iron out their differences, or will Ana move on to someone new?Gentefied season two premieres on Netflix on Nov. 10.'Passing'Ruth Negga, left, and Tessa Thompson in "Passing." Edu Grau / NetflixInspired by Nella Larsens 1929 novel, the black-and-white film follows two childhood friends who choose two very different paths. After 12 years apart, Clare (Ruth Negga) and Irene (Tessa Thompson) reunite in 1920s New York at the height of the Harlem Renaissance. The two Black women find themselves living on opposite sides of the color line: Irene moves in the upper echelon of Black society, and Clare, playing with fire, passes for white in her marriage to a wealthy racist. As the film dives into issues around race and identity, the two women see their love for each other grow in new ways.Passing will be available on Netflix on Nov. 10.'Mayor Pete'Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg does a television interview with CNBC outside the White House on Oct. 13.Drew Angerer / Getty Images fileDirected by Jesse Moss, Mayor Pete shadows former South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg during his presidential bid and later appointment as the first openly gay presidential Cabinet member. From his victory in the Iowa caucus to his relationship with his husband, Chasten, the documentary explores the intimate and powerful moments that have led Buttigieg to where he is now.Mayor Pete will be available on Amazon Prime Video on Nov. 12.'The Power of the Dog'Benedict Cumberbatch in "The Power of the Dog."Kirsty Griffin  / NetflixBenedict Cumberbatch and Kirsten Dunst star in this new Western drama from Jane Campion (The Piano). In The Power of the Dog, a domineering rancher, Phil Burbank, played by Cumberbatch, faces a crisis of self amid the toxic masculinity and repressed sexuality of Montana in 1925. Phils brother brings home a new wife and her son, which spurs the hyper-masculine lead character down a path of cruelty and desire.The Power of the Dog opens in theaters Nov. 17.'Tiger King'Joe Exotic in "Tiger King."Courtesy of NetflixThe eccentric world of big cats in captivity is returning for its sophomore season. Joe Exotic  the gay, polygamist zookeeper who became a cultural sensation when the show premiered during the early days of the pandemic is still in prison after being found guilty in a murder-for-hire plot targeting fellow Tiger King star Carole Baskin. But thats not keeping Exotic from the limelight, if the shows trailer is any indication. Its unclear if Exotic, Baskin or yet-to-be-introduced characters will be the focus of the new season, but Netflix has promised it will bring the same chaotic energy to the table.Tiger King season two premieres on Netflix on Nov. 17.'Star Trek: Discovery'Wilson Cruz as Dr. Hugh Culber, Ian Alexander as Gray and Blu del Barrio as Adira in "Star Trek: Discovery."Michael Gibson / CBSIn the next installment of this historically diverse iteration of the cult classic series, the crew faces a massive, invisible anomaly that threatens life across the galaxy. Last season, the show introduced new fan favorites Adira (Blu del Barrio) and Gray (Ian Alexander), the franchises first nonbinary and transgender characters, respectively. While the particulars of the new season have remained shrouded in mystery, producers and co-showrunners Alex Kurtzman and Michelle Paradise have said Adira and Gray will continue to figure prominently in the Discovery universe.Star Trek: Discovery season four premieres on Paramount+ on Nov. 18.'The Humans'"The Humans."Linda Kallerus / A24Writer-director Stephen Karam has adapted his Tony-winning play into an unnerving film about existential dread, perfectly timed for the holidays. In The Humans, the Blake family reunites on Thanksgiving Day in the run-down basement apartment that Brigid Blake (Beanie Feldstein) shares with her boyfriend, Richard (Steven Yeun), in New Yorks Chinatown neighborhood. From crushing breakups to balancing the costs and responsibility of elder care, the family unpacks relatable traumas while trapped in the claustrophobic world of Karams chamber drama. The star-studded ensemble also includes June Squibb, Richard Jenkins and Amy Schumer, who plays Brigids older sister, Aimee Blake, a sarcastic lesbian who is processing the end of her long-term relationship.The Humans opens in theaters Nov. 24.In case you missed it ...'The Eyes of Tammy Faye'Based on the RuPaul-narrated 2000 cult documentary of the same name, the film stars Jessica Chastain as televangelist Tammy Faye Bakker. In it, Bakkers groundbreaking 1985 interview with a gay Christian pastor living with AIDS takes center stage. "The Eyes of Tammy Faye" is in theaters and available for purchase on Amazon Prime Video and iTunes.'Nuclear Family'The three-part docuseries looks back on filmmaker Ry Russo-Youngs childhood during the late 70s and early 80s, and her lesbian moms historic lawsuit, which played a crucial role in validating the legal existence of LGBTQ families. "Nuclear Family" is available on HBO Max.'The Morning Show'The Morning Show, starring Jennifer Aniston and Reese Witherspoon, dramatizes the lives of newsmakers who wake up with America every day. Julianna Margulies joins the latest season as Witherspoons love interest  an A-list television anchor who climbed back to the top of her field after being fired for being a lesbian in the late 90s. "The Morning Show" season two is available on Apple TV+.'Titane'The lead character in this unabashedly violent film, which won the top prize at this years Cannes Film Festival, is a gender-bending psychopath with a dangerous attraction to motor vehicles and an apathetic view on human life. "Titane" is in theaters and available for purchase on Amazon Prime Video and iTunes (if you have the stomach for it).'RuPaul's Drag Race U.K.'The influential drag competition series is back in the United Kingdom, with 12 new queens vying to make herstory  including the franchises first-ever cisgender woman contestant. Drag Race U.K. always delivers on British humor and campy, mid-tier looks, which have made it one of the most successful international versions of the show. "RuPaul's Drag Race U.K." season three is available on WOW Presents Plus.'The House'The new talk show centers on the voices and experiences of Black and brown queer people."The House" is available on Fox Soul.'We're Here'The reality show led by RuPauls Drag Race alums Bob the Drag Queen, Eureka OHara and Shangela is back on the road recruiting for one-night-only drag shows across the country. RecommendedOUT NewsOUT NewsSanta Claus gets a boyfriend in Norwegian Christmas commercialOUT Life and StyleOUT Life and Style12 LGBTQ milestones were thankful for this year"We're Here" season two is available on HBO Max.'Cured'The new documentary, which was released Oct. 11, National Coming Out Day, details gay activists yearslong battle to get the American Psychiatric Association to remove homosexuality from its list of mental disorders. "Cured" is available on PBS. 'Hightown' Monica Raymund (Chicago Fire, The Good Wife) stars as Jackie Quiones, a hedonistic federal agent whose life is thrown into disarray when she discovers the body of a murdered woman. Quiones identity as a queer Latina is notable in the crime genre, in which leads are typically played by white straight men. "Hightown" season two is available on Starz.FollowNBC OutonTwitter,Facebook&InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Santa Claus gets a boyfriend in Norwegian Christmas commercial. Norways 375-year-old postal service, Posten Norge, this week has released a festive commercial ahead of the holiday season with Santa Claus getting a boyfriend.The popular image of Mrs. Claus helping out at the North Pole has been dropped to show a more inclusive perspective this year.The four-minute clip titled "When Harry met Santa"  a light-hearted reference to the 1989 movie "When Harry Met Sally"  has well-known Scandinavian actors Johan Ehn and Terje Stromdahl, respectively, playing the lead roles.The couple meet when Harry spots Father Christmas delivering presents to his home. They gaze across to each other before Santa disappears up the chimney. The clip continues to show the annual meetings between the pair as Santa delivers more gifts. Before each fleeting visit Harry carefully selects his outfits and sprays himself with cologne.Eventually Harry is seen writing a letter to Santa saying, All I want for Christmas is you. In the final scene, the couple kiss in a loving embrace.The ad has been produced to mark 50 years since the decriminalization of homosexuality in Norway. The country has some of Europes most progressive LGBTQ legislation, with the Gay Travel Index consistently ranking Norway as one of the most gay-friendly places in the world. Civil partnerships have been legal since 1993 and LGBTQ people able to serve openly in the military since 1979.The clip has quickly garnered international attention with Canadian Member of Parliament, Randall Garrison, tweeting he was breaking his no Christmas before December rule to thank Norwegian Post for their strong and moving message of inclusion. The ad on YouTube has been viewed morethan 600,000 times in just three days.Norwegian Post tell NBC News their aim was to show love has no limits and reaction within Norway so far has been overwhelming. No decision has yet been made on if there will be a follow up to Santas love story next year.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
12 LGBTQ milestones were thankful for this year. As many LGBTQ Americans plan to gather with their families  or "chosen families"   for the holidays, Thanksgiving might look more normal this year. But whether you are celebrating over a Zoom call or laughing with loved ones over RuPauls Drag Race reruns and turkey, there is always a reason to be thankful.From a record number of LGBTQ athletes competing in the Olympics to JoJo Siwas historic run on ABCs Dancing With The Stars, here are a dozen queer milestones were thankful for this year.JoJo Siwa on 'Dancing With the Stars'Jojo Siwa and her dance partner, Jenna Johnson, finished in 2nd place. Eric McCandless / ABC via Getty ImagesReality star and YouTube sensation JoJo Siwa, 18, made history on ABC's "Dancing With the Stars" as the first competitor in the the show's 30 seasons to dance with a same-sex partner. Siwa and her dance partner, Jenna Johnson, finished in second place after their groundbreaking run. Following this season's finale on Monday, Siwa shared an Instagram post expressing her gratitude for the production crew, the judges, her loved ones and  of course  her dance partner. Im so beyond proud of you and Im so proud of us!!! We did it. Im so proud of every dance we did. Im so proud of the stories that we told. And I am MORE than proud of the message that we spread, Siwa, who came out as part of the LGBTQ community earlier this year, wrote. Im so thankful that kids today have moments in history like this to look to and realize that LOVE IS LOVE and being who you are is beautiful. Celebrate being born the way you are everyday no matter what!A record number of LGBTQ Olympians Canada's Quinn with their gold medal on August 6, 2021, in Yokohama, Japan. Naomi Baker / Getty ImagesThis year's Tokyo Summer Games was dubbed by some as the "Rainbow Olympics for its record number of LGBTQ competitors. At least 186 out athletes from around the world were present at this years competition, more than triple the number at the 2016 Rio Summer Games, according to LGBTQ sports site Outsports. Perhaps even more impressive is that these queer Olympians earned earned 32 individual and team medals in Tokyo. Outsports founder Cyd Zeigler noted that these athletes "didn't just show up  they also performed at a very high level." British diver Tom Daley was among the medalists, earning his first gold medal, along with his synchronized diving partner, Matty Lee. Daley, who is married to American screenwriter Dustin Lance Black, has appeared in four Olympic competitions and has won a total of four medals: one gold and three bronze.Canadian soccer star Quinn made history at the Tokyo Summer Games as the first out transgender athlete to ever compete in the Olympics. Quinn, a midfielder, helped Canada's women's soccer team defeat Sweden in the final game to win the country's first-ever gold in the event. These adorable 'Old Gays'(L-R) Bill Lyons, Jessay Martin, Robert Reeves and Mick PetersonJon Premosch for TODAYTikTok stars Robert Reeves, Mick Peterson, Bill Lyons and Jessay Martin  known collectively as the Old Gays  achieved fame this year for their viral videos showing everything from their hilarious reactions to Cardi Bs WAP music video to sharing their coming-out journeys to a look back on the loves of their lives.The foursome of gay men, who range in age from the mid-60s to late 70s, have more than 3.2 million followers and 320 million views across their social media platforms.Im still having a hard time wrapping my head around that, truly, Lyons, 77, told NBCs TODAY.com in June. I mean, at 77 years old, I never had any idea that this would happen to me. Its totally surreal. I feel like a dinosaur, but the way that people are reacting to me and to the others, I cant believe it.In November, the quartet signed with Brian Graden Media (BGM) to develop a docuseries about their personal and professional social media lives, all while living together in Cathedral City, California.Heartwarming stories of queer loveThis Valentines Day, we turned to the NBC Out community, asking longtime LGBTQ couples to give us guidance on what it means  and what it takes  to thrive together.Marianne and Vicki Oakes were among the couples that shared their story. Four years after they met, when they were both 19, Marianne came out to Vicki as transgender.I sat down with her and said, This is how it is for me. Ive got these feelings. I didnt know where it was going to go, Marianne told NBC News in February. I was on my own with this. Back then there was no education.A year later, they were married and have been together for more than four decades. Marianne said sharing her love story is part of her mission in the world as a counselor for trans people.Theres a narrative that trans people cant find love, Marianne said. That narrative and that myth keeps us frightened and from being seen. We can find love. Perpetuating the myth must stop.Celebrities who came out in 2021JoJo Siwa, Carl Nassib and Demi Lovato.NBC News; Getty Images; ReutersActor and singer Demi Lovato came out as nonbinary in May and said they would be changing their pronouns to they/them.Not only has my life been a journey for myself, I was also living for those on the other side of the cameras, Lovato, who got their start on Barney & Friends and has had roles on shows like Greys Anatomy and Prison Break, wrote on Twitter.Today is a day Im so happy to share more of my life with you all  I am proud to let you know that I identify as nonbinary & will officially be changing my pronouns to they/them moving forward, Lovato, 29, told fans at the time.Other celebrities and public figures to come out this year include NFL player Carl Nassib, Brothers Osborne singer-guitarist TJ Osborne and actor Cassandra "Elvira" Peterson.First-time gay parentsChasten and Pete Buttigieg shared this image of their newborns, Penelope Rose and Joseph August, on Sept. 4, 2021.Pete Buttigieg / via TwitterTransportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg announced in September that he and his husband, Chasten, officially became parents of two children.Chasten and I are beyond thankful for all the kind wishes since first sharing the news that were becoming parents, Buttigieg tweeted alongside a photo of him and his husband holding their newborn son and daughter. We are delighted to welcome Penelope Rose and Joseph August Buttigieg to our family.Being a first-time parent is the most demanding thing I think Ive ever done, Buttigieg, a former Navy intelligence officer and 2020 presidential candidate, said in October.Former boy band star Lance Bass and husband Michael Turchin also welcomed their two newborn babies, via surrogate, in October.Havent slept much in 5 days and Im covered in ick but Ive never been so happy! he captioned a quartet of photos of daughter Violet Betty and son Alexander James shortly after their birth. Now there are four of us in this house that wear diapers (hint: its not me or @michaelturchinart).Newly out queer superheroes Batman's Urban Legends series featuring Robin.DC ComicsQueer representation in comic books exploded this year, with comics reinventing character fan favorites  including Robin, Batwoman and the Flash  as part of the LGBTQ community.Most notably, the internet exploded when DC Comics announced that the next-generation Superman Jonathan Kent, the son of Clark Kent and Lois Lane, is bisexual. DC made the announcement on National Coming Out Day in October.When I was offered this job, I thought, Well, if were going to have a new Superman for the DC Universe, it feels like a missed opportunity to have another straight white savior, series writer Tom Taylor told Reuters in an October interview.When Marvels Eternals hit theaters earlier this month, superhero fans got to see the first openly queer superhero in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, Phastos. Played by Atlanta star Brian Tyree Henry, Phastos is part of a tribe of alien immortals with fantastic powers and is married to a human husband, played by actor Haaz Sleiman.A transgender winner on 'RuPauls Drag Race'Kylie Sonique Love during the finale of 'RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars 6.'VH1 / Paramount +For the first time in the history of the U.S. RuPauls Drag Race franchise, a transgender contestant was crowned the winner of the hit competition show.Kylie Sonique Love snagged the crown of the sixth season of RuPauls Drag Race All Stars, which streamed on Paramount+.I couldnt have done this without thanking the universe every single day, for all my blessings and all the people around me that believed in my dreams, Love said following her win in September. Im so grateful to Paramount+, World of Wonder and RuPaul for taking everything shes learned in the business and for giving people like me an opportunity. Not just drag queens but trans people, and Im so grateful to be the first trans representation with the crown.Lil Nas Xs cover of Dolly Partons 'Jolene'Lil Nas X performs on Jan. 23, 2020 in Los Angeles.Emma McIntyre / Getty Images for Spotify fileRapper Lil Nas X released a cover performance of Dolly Partons 1974 hit Jolene in September, garnering more than 3.8 million views on YouTube.Parton said in a tweet that she was so excited when someone told her that Lil Nas X had covered Jolene.I had to find it and listen to it immediately  and its really good, she wrote, adding, I was surprised and Im honored and flattered.The 22-year-old rapper appeared awestruck in his Twitter response to the music legend.Historic queer cover modelsBretman Rock has become the first gay man to grace the cover of Playboy.PlayboySporting the iconic Playboy bunny outfit  heels, black tights, a bow-tie and lingerie topped with bunny ears  makeup guru Bretman Rock  made queer cover model history in October, becoming the first gay man to grace the digital cover of Playboy magazine.For Playboy to have a male on the cover is a huge deal for the LGBT community, for my brown people community and its all so surreal, Rock, who is Filipino American, said at the time on Twitter.Model Ariel Nicholson also made history, as the first transgender person to be featured on the cover of U.S. Vogue.Nicholson was one of eight models to grace the cover of the fashion magazines Generation America-themed September issue.To have the opportunity to participate in the shifting landscape of fashion is a dream come true, she wrote in the caption of an Instagram post celebrating the milestone.Pulse nightclub designated a national memorialMourners lay flowers at the Pulse memorial in Orlando, Fla., on June 12, 2021.DeFodi / via Getty ImagesIn a rare showing of bipartisanship on LGBTQ issues, the U.S. Senate unanimously passed legislation in June designating the site of Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida, a national memorial.On June 12, 2016, 49 patrons were killed and dozens more wounded in one of the countrys most gruesome massacres.President Joe Biden signed the legislation into law several days after the fifth anniversary of the attack.The unanimous consent is such welcome news as we are set to mark the five-year remembrance of the Pulse tragedy, the Pulse nightclub said in a statement at the time. This recognition from both the House and Senate means so much to the LGBTQ+ community. #WeWillNotLetHateWinQueer Grammy and Emmy nomineesLil Nas X performs at the MTV Video Music Awards in Brooklyn, N.Y., on Sept. 12.John Shearer / MTV VMAs 2021 / Getty Images for MTV / ViacomCBSRapper Lil Nas Xs hit song about gay sex was nominated for three Grammy Awards, catapulting LGBTQ narratives to the highest echelon of achievement in the music industry.The provocative song  Montero (Call Me By Your Name)  is up for song of the year, record of the year and best music video at the 64th annual Grammy Awards, which are being held Jan. 31 in Los Angeles.Its title is a reference to the gay romance novel and 2017 film Call Me By Your Name. But its lyrics are less about love and more about lust, with lines including romantic talking? You dont even have to try and Im not fazed, only here to sin.Other LGBTQ artists who received Grammy nominations this year include singer-songwriter Brandi Carlile, pop star Halsey and singer-songwriter Arlo Parks.Although she did not end up wining in September, Mj Rodriguez made history in July for becoming the first transgender performer to pick up an Emmy nomination for a major acting category. Rodriguez was nominated in the lead drama actress category for her role as Blanca Rodriguez on FXs hit show Pose.FollowNBC OutonTwitter,Facebook&InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
'Sad and angry and frustrated': Black moms on the Rittenhouse verdict. Last week a 12-person jury acquittedKyle Rittenhouseof all charges related to his shooting and killing two people and injuring a third during a Black Lives Matter protest in the summer of 2020. Rittenhouse argued that his actions were self-defense. After deliberating for four days, the jury agreed.Manyexpressed genuine shock about the verdict on social media, posting tweets detailing their surprise. But for Black mothers and other parents of color who spoke to"TODAY" Parents, the verdict was no surprise at all.Outrage after jury finds Kyle Rittenhouse not guilty on all chargesNov. 20, 202102:41Each of the mothers say that far too frequently, they see just how differently their own children are treated compared to their white counterparts. And while Rittenhouses lawyers said the case was about self-defense, these moms say that, based on their experiences, race played a role. Their lack of surprise is also the result of other verdicts involving young Black victims, from Tamir Rice to Trayvon Martin to Michael Brown.Surprisingly, I felt really sad and angry and frustrated, said Jehava Brown, 37, a mother of three boys living in Pennsylvania. And when I say surprisingly, its because it was very much expected.Legal expertssaid Rittenhouses taking the stand and crying during his testimony, in addition to his mothers audibly crying in the gallery during the trial, may havehelped his lawyers win the case. After the verdict, Rittenhousetold Fox News Tucker Carlson that he supports the Black Lives Matter movement and is not a racist.He was 17 at the time of the offense, said Steven Wright, a law professor at the University of Wisconsin. Having someone who looks like a child there might make some jurors see their younger selves in him or their children in him, and they might think, What would my younger self have done or my son or daughter have done in his position?The parents who spoke to TODAY wonder when their tears and the tears of their children will ever have the same impact.They dont care about Black mom tears, said TChani Hill, a California mom who is raising two daughters.Black moms deal with a lot, and we have to compartmentalize in order to put smiles on our faces and move forward, Brown said. Because either people dont get it or they think its too heavy or its too frustrating or its too much of a debate.Brown said the verdict is a microcosm of what her children face in school, on playgrounds and in public; these experiences exemplify the ways Black children are seen as innately threatening, while white children are viewed as innately innocent.Her children have started to notice in school that, "depending how they dress, their teachers will treat them differently, Brown said. If a Black kid is reprimanded unjustly, the reaction is: Well, we dont know the whole story. It cant just be what we saw. Its automatic to justify the reasons behind a harsh punishment for a Black kid, while white kids get the benefit of the doubt. And people are less likely to speak up for Black kids because they think maybe they did something to provoke the situation.Hill, 52, said she sees the system at work when she watches how her two children are treated differently based solely on their skin tone.I have two beautiful daughters, and one looks white, and she is treated differently. People dont realize that Im her mom until she clarifies it, Hill said. My other daughter is ... dark ... and I have watched my own children be treated differently, whether its at a park or at school, because theyre completely different shades.Hill said that when she enters a store with her two daughters, people will watch and even follow her and her older daughter, but no one pays attention to her younger daughter, who presents as white.So am I surprised by the verdict? No, she said. As a Black person in this country, I am not surprised. And as a Black parent, I worry about my childrens safety.A study published this year byElsevierin the Journal of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry found thatBlack students ages 9 and 10 are 3.5 times more likely to be suspendedor put in detention than their white peers are. In another study, conducted by researchers at the Yale University Child Study Center in 2016, scientists fit 132 early education teachers with eye trackers and asked them to watch clips of four children  a Black girl, a Black boy, a white girl and a white boy  and to look for misbehaviors. None of the children actually misbehaved, but the eye trackers found that theteachers spent more time watching the Black boy.I go to Black and brown schools and find that theres a perception that these kids have the potential to do something wrong  a potential of violence, a potential of wrongness, the potential to lie, said Christoper Emdin, the associate director of theInstitute of Urban Minority Educationat Columbia University. Its the belief that the worst is expected of them and theyre treated accordingly.Emdin said he sees a different situation at play in predominantly white schools.When I go into white schools there is a freedom  a freedom to question, the freedom to express, the freedom to emote, the freedom to be frustrated and to be angry and not be perceived inherently bad because of that, said Emdin, the author of the book Ratchetdemic: Reimagining Academic Success.RecommendedObituariesObituariesCarrie Meek, pioneering Black former congresswoman, diesWorldWorldOmicron variant now in North America, Canadian officials sayThomishia Booker, 37, a mom of two kids ages 5 and 20 months, said her older child was only 2 when a day care worker treated him differently from his peers.The teacher was concerned about him making Legos, Booker said. The teacher said her son "was building a gun, and I asked her how she knew, and she said because my son was making an L shape and shooting sounds  pew pew pew. She made an assumption about the limitation of his creativity, and an assumption about what he was making, which had to be a gun.Booker added that the teacher also deprived her son of having a childlike creativity, because many of her sons favorite superheroes have guns or other shooters. Instead, she saw my son as aggressive and had to have a conversation with me about it.Research published in 2012 by the American Psychological Association found thatBlack boys as young as 10 are not viewed in the same light as their white peers and are instead mistaken as older, are perceived guilty instead of innocent and face police violence if they are accused of crimes.Tamir Rice was just 12when he was shot and killed by a Cleveland police officer for playing with a toy gun in a park.Michael Brown, who was 18 when he was shot and killed by a police officer in Ferguson, Missouri, was described ascrazy, aggressive, very aggravated and hostile.Trayvon Martin was 17 when he was shot and killed by George Zimmerman, who was acquitted of all charges after a jury found that he acted in self-defense. Before he killed Martin, Zimmerman described him asbeing up to no good, on drugs or something and showing suspicious behavior.I cant say the Rittenhouse verdict has made me feel hopeless, because the hope has already been lost, Booker said. I can only do what I can as a mother and as a parent to protect my children. But its difficult to do it alone in a system thats specifically designed to only protect one group of people.Studies have shown thatBlack children are more likely than white children to grow up exposed to frightening or threatening experiences and as a result are more likely to experience toxic stress that can impede their behavior, cognitive capacity and emotional and physical health. In addition, studies have shown that Black children aremore likely to be physically restrained during emergency room visitsandmore likely to die after surgery than white children.Many Black moms say their fears about their childrens health and wellness are nearly debilitating.The Rittenhouse verdict "made me feel hurt, knowing the world hasnt changed and will not change, said Tammy, 26, who has a 2-year-old and an 8-year-old step-daughter. My kids are people of color, and theres no doubt as they get older they will experience some racism and/or notice how people around the world view them.Tammy, who asked that her last name be withheld to protect her familys privacy, said her step-daughter is already noticing how others perceive her hair.She hasbeautiful big curly hair, and now she wants to straighten it, she said. I always tell her no, and I can see that it upsets her. She doesnt want her curly hair anymore. She says she wants straight hair like the girls at school. And that hurts my heart, because her hair is beautiful.Sentiments like the ones shared by Tammys daughter inspired Emdin, of Columbia University, to enter education. When I started doing my work, it was to create the conditions that allow Black children to have the freedom to simply be, he said. Basic things like the right to be there, the right to be in a school building without someone thinking theyre trying to steal things or cause a problem.Emdin said children of color need the right to emote without having their emotions be seen as fundamentally nefarious. If Im quiet, its Why are you so sinister? he said. If Im laughing, its Why are you high? If Im upset at something, its Youre out of control. Black and brown kids have the right to be and to feel and to express those emotions without being seen as a criminal but as a child.Thats what Suka Nasrallah, 31, said she wants for her three children, ages 8, 6 and 4. She said the Rittenhouse verdict made her feel sad for her children, who are a visible minority as Muslims living in Canada.I have been exposed to racism many a time before and continue to on a regular basis. Ive been living it since I was very young, Nasrallah said. But it breaks my heart to know my children will be exposed to such hate through no fault of their own.A 2017 study found that42 percent of Muslim children in K12 schools reported being bullied because of their faith. The study also found that teachers, school officials and other staff members have themselves participated in 1 in 4 bullying incidents that involved Muslim students.I felt like my hands were and will remain tied and no matter what may happen in the future, my children will not have a fair and fighting chance because the world we live in today has a preference, Nasrallah said, and we are not the first, second or third choice, for that matter.Booker said: Black women are often reluctant to express their full range of emotions and have to worry about how they will be perceived. We arent allowed to be angry and express how we really feel. We are pleading for our childrens lives, but our cries go unheard.FollowNBCBLKonFacebook,TwitterandInstagram.This article originally ran on Today.comGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
How one organization is combating a food crisis worsened by the pandemic. Christopher Bradshaw had already been running his nonprofit Dreaming Out Loud for more than a decade when the pandemic hit.The organization works toward fighting food scarcity in the Washington, D.C., area by partnering with local farmers, caterers, restaurants and other food relief organizations to prepare and distribute free meals. As the pandemic hit the District, Bradshaw knew the organization's work would be vital to helping people survive, like one single mother who came in search of meals for her children.She came to us and said, Im really happy that you all are here and thankful that you all are here, because I have $14 in my bank account, and my father died last week, and she was there with two kids, Bradshaw recalled. She said, I dont know how I was going to feed my kids. We see and hear those types of things.Food banks face harsh economic reality ahead of the holiday seasonNov. 21, 202103:38Beyond Washington, Black communities across the country face disproportionately higher rates of food scarcity, which has only been compounded by the Covid-19 pandemic. Food insecurity rates among Black households with children were nearly double compared to white households with children, according to a July 2020 report by the Institute for Policy Research at Northwestern University; food insecurity rates for Black respondents hovered around 41 percent, the report found, while for white respondent food insecurity rates were around 23 percent.In D.C., Dreaming Out Loud saw the need early in the pandemic, and got to work with World Central Kitchen, which provides meals to people around the globe struck by disasters, and Little Sesame, a renowned group of restaurants, to launch Meals for the City, with other Black-owned caterers and businesses. They distributed thousands of meals from a middle school from March 2020 to July.We knew there were folks who were already working on these issues, that had roots in the community, that had relationships, and that were trusted, said Nick Wiseman, co-founder of Little Sesame. So we really leaned on Chris and his team at Dreaming Out Loud to sort of establish that trust in the community we were serving.Black communities in the D.C. region were among the hardest hit  by the pandemic. According to 2021 research by the Kaiser Family Foundation, 58 percent of people infected with Covid-19 in Washington were Black, although Black people make up only 45 percent of the Districts population.Diane Schanzenbach, an economist and the director of the Institute for Policy Research at Northwestern University, said the problem of economic disparity in the Black community is linked to declining wages and wealth gaps. It is also harder for Black and Latino families, along with lower education groups, to recover from recessions.It is just an economic fact about recessions, that Black peoples unemployment rates spike higher when theres an economic downturn, and it takes longer for them to come back down to normal, Schanzenbach said. It means theres more suffering. It means theres more economic uncertainty for Black families.Bradshaw said he sees the results of these disparities across the communities he serves. Before the pandemic, one of Dreaming Out Louds main initiatives was leading a Black farm Community Supported Agriculture program, which sources produce from Black farmers from across the region. Dreaming Out Loud also partners with multiple local organizations to ensure healthy food is accessible in schools, restaurants and small grocers.Dreaming Out Louds Black Farm CSA program priority-sources produce from Black farmers in six states.Courtesy Dreaming Out LoudWe would have folks come up and say, literally, I have HIV and sickle cell. So, if this farmers market wasnt here, I wouldnt be able to afford healthy food to stay alive, Bradshaw said. So those are the things that drove our response, and also kept us going when things were challenging.While Bradshaw said that large-scale government restitution and economic protection would have a greater impact on these disparities, his organization is attempting to fill the gaps that systemic racism creates. The organization also tries to shape the nutrition of D.C.s young people through its food and farm hub, which sources fresh produce for its programs, and also provides ingredients for students lunches at Kelly Miller Middle School.For Thanksgiving this year, Dreaming Out Loud has already distributed turkeys and other ingredients to help as many families as possible gather around tables. The organization also plans to distribute soup made from recovered pumpkins.Beyond the holidays, through its annual Dream Program, the organization trains more than 30 food entrepreneurs in how to successfully launch their business. By expanding into a new shared location with its partner, D.C. Central Kitchen, Dream Program participants will use the new kitchen space to hone their skills and take advantage of opportunities such as taking on catering jobs and selling their products in stores.At an organizational level, Bradshaw said, its important for us to be involved in the work because by being involved in your work, were engaged and involved in the struggle, which allows us the platform to talk about these bigger picture issues around reparations and justice, that are integral to being able to build out a decent, honorable, deserved and well-lived life for Black folks in America.FollowNBCBLKonFacebook,TwitterandInstagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
'Licorice Pizza' faces criticism for scenes involving fake Asian accent. Director Paul Thomas Anderson's "Licorice Pizza" is being criticized by some on social media for including scenes where a white businessman speaks in a fake Asian accent with his on-screen wife, who is Japanese.The film, which debuts in theaters Friday, is a coming-of-age comedy-drama that stars Alana Haim (of the Haim band) and Cooper Hoffman (son of the late Philip Seymour Hoffman), two young people growing up in the San Fernando Valley in California in the 1970s. It also stars Sean Penn, Bradley Cooper, Tom Waits and others.While reviews so far have been overwhelmingly positive, some on social media who have gone to early screenings have called out a particular part of the film that they describe as racist. In the film, a white male restaurateur, played by John Michael Higgins, speaks to his Japanese wife with a fake Asian accent. He appears again in the film with another Japanese woman, his new wife, and he repeats the attempted gag.In a review from Slate, critic Dana Stevens described the film as a "blast" to watch. But she had one line noting the scene as a miss: "Not every attempt to ground'Licorice Pizza'in a de-nostalgized past bears fruit. A running gag about a white restaurant owner with a series of interchangeable Japanese wives seems meant as a joke about the characters racism, but the joke lands gracelessly."Some people on social media echoed similar sentiments."Picture this: You're watching LICORICE PIZZA. It's brilliant," David Chen, host of a podcast called Culturally Relevant, wrote on Twitter. "Then, early on, a buffoonish character drops an Asian caricature. The (mostly white) audience laughs. And now you gotta think about that laughter the rest of the film."Chen didnt immediately respond to a request for comment.Karen Maine, a director and screenwriter, shared a similar perspective."Theres an incredibly racist, seemingly pointless (other than a cheap laugh, which it got at the screening I was at) scene that mocks Asian accents," Maine, who did not immediately respond to a request for comment, wrote in a tweet.In August, a study of Asian American representation in the entertainment industry found that audiences are asked to laugh at nearly half of Asian and Pacific Islander roles. The study  which was conducted by the Geena Davis Institute on Gender in Media, the Coalition of Asian Pacifics in Entertainment and Gold House  reviewed the top 10 grossing films each year from 2010 to 2019. The analysis showed that while less than a quarter of the API characters were comedic themselves, audiences were asked to laugh at almost half of them.Nancy Wang Yuen, a sociologist, said criticism of Higgins character appears to be warranted because there is no clear pushback against his character in the film.Its irresponsible to use racism against Asians as a running gag, Yuen said. Though she hasnt seen the film yet, she noted its apparent that the plot is "not even about Asians or race, and what it does is normalize this violence, this casual anti-Asian racism."Racist stereotypes like the accent are a cheap way of getting laughs because you dont need to explain anything  even though there is nothing funny about accents, Yuen said.RecommendedPop Culture NewsPop Culture NewsProlific fashion designer Virgil Abloh dies at 41Pop Culture NewsPop Culture NewsTrial set to start on charges actor Jussie Smollett faked racist attackShe explained it was concerning, particularly given the rise in anti-Asian hate crimes during the pandemic. Anti-Asian hate crimes increased more than 73 percent in 2020, according to corrected FBI data released last month. That number was a disproportionate uptick compared to hate crimes in general, which rose 13 percent.This kind of representation gives permission for others to behave this way towards Asians, and it rehashes this trope of Asians as the perpetual foreigner  a trope that has been part of our society since the 1800s, Yuen said.Both Maine and Chen said on Twitter they liked the film. But those scenes, for them, overshadowed the beauty of the film itself."The whole Haim family and Bradley Cooper were my fave parts," Maine wrote in a follow-up tweet. "But that pointless, racist scene ruined the whole film for me, and more people need to call PT out on it."Chen described the film as "otherwise excellent." "But the heartbreaking thing is me imagining an alternate version of this movie," he wrote, noting that the scenes mocking the Asian accent "added virtually nothing to it."A representative for Higgins did not immediately respond to a request for comment Wednesday. A representative for Anderson also did not respond.However, in a recent interview with The New York Times, Anderson addressed the criticism. In the conversation, the Times journalist said the accent was "so offensive that my audience actually gasped."The filmmaker responded: "I think it would be a mistake to tell a period film through the eyes of 2021. You cant have a crystal ball, you have to be honest to that time. Not that it wouldnt happen right now, by the way. My mother-in-laws Japanese and my father-in-law is white, so seeing people speak English to her with a Japanese accent is something that happens all the time. I dont think they even know theyre doing it."While Anderson acknowledged it was a "period" piece, Yuen said the scenes still depict racism "unfiltered.""If there are no consequences, scenes like this can almost glorify this behavior," she said. "You're not laughing at [Higgins' character] because he's making fun of someone else; youre either laughing with him at the expense of Asians, or you're going to be upset as a viewer."Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Top Harris aide Symone Sanders expected to leave in second high-level departure from VP's office. WASHINGTON  Symone Sanders, a senior adviser and the chief spokesperson for Vice President Kamala Harris, is expected to leave her position at the end of the month, a White House official and four other sources familiar with the matter told NBC News.Her departure would mark the second high-level exit from Harris office in recent weeks. Ashley Etienne, the vice president's communications director, announced last month that she would leave in December.A White House official said Wednesday that Sanders had "served honorably" for three years, first as a part of President Joe Biden's 2020 campaign and then on the transition team before joining the vice president's office.Clyburn: Harris criticism could be 2024 mischiefNov. 16, 202112:08The official said the president and vice president were "grateful" for Sanders' work on behalf of the administration and called her a "team player" who will be missed.Sanders' plans beyond the vice president's office were not immediately known.Politico and CNN previously reported Sanders' departure.Although it is not uncommon for White House aides to leave a year into a new administration, the two senior-level departures come as Harris has struggled to define her role as vice president. In recent weeks, Harris has had to navigate a number of unflattering media stories that have portrayed a difficult internal work dynamic and have raised questions about her future as a party leader should Biden decide to not seek re-election in 2024.RecommendedLatinoLatinoTrump's border separations left children, parents with severe trauma, study findsU.S. newsU.S. newsAbortion rights advocates in Mississippi strategize for a post-Roe worldSanders has been one of the more vocal defenders of the vice president, particularly on topics such as Harris's work on immigration with the countries known as the Northern Triangle. Sanders repeatedly pushed back on Republican attempts to tie Harris to the migration crisis at the U.S.-Mexico border.With both Sanders and Etienne leaving, some outside allies of the vice president are hoping Harris can use the opportunity to bring in new leadership to help with what they view as a much-needed reset going into a midterm election year. Some allies have said 2022 will be an important opportunity for Harris to define her place in the administration and the party as a whole.It is unclear who will fill the top communications roles in the vice president's office. In September, Harris brought on Lorraine Voles and Adam Frankel, two veteran Democratic strategists, to help with her communications strategy.
Jan. 6 committee recommends contempt charge against ex-Trump DOJ official. The House committee investigating the Jan. 6 riot at the Capitol voted unanimously Wednesday night to advance a measure to refer former Trump Justice Department official Jeffrey Clark to his previous employer for criminal contempt of Congress, but is also giving him one last chance to testify.Committee chair Bennie Thompson, D-Miss., said Wednesday evening that Clark's attorney notified him on Tuesday night that his client "now intends to claim Fifth Amendment protection" against self-incrimination."This is, in my view, a last-ditch attempt to delay the Select Committees proceedings. However, a Fifth Amendment privilege assertion is a weighty one," Thompson said."I have informed Mr. Clarks attorney that I am willing to convene another deposition at which Mr. Clark can assert that privilege on a question-by-question basis, which is what the law requires of someone who asserts the privilege against self-incrimination. Mr. Clark has agreed to do so."Despite the development, the bipartisan committee voted to refer Clark for contempt, which Thompson suggested might not proceed if Clark cooperates, noting the committee's action is "just the first step of the contempt process.""We want the facts, and we need witnesses to cooperate with their legal obligation and provide us with information about what led to the January 6th attack," Thompson said.The panel's vice chair, Rep. Liz Cheney, R-Wyo., said the committee "will not finalize this contempt process if Mr. Clark genuinely cures his failure to comply with the subpoena this Saturday."Clark, who as acting head of the Justice Department's civil division played a key role in then-President Donald Trumps effort to overturn the 2020 election, drew Thompson's ire last month when he refused to testify or hand over subpoenaed documents.Thompson at the time called Clark's failure to cooperate "unacceptable" and said the House committee was in need of "the information that he is withholding and we are willing to take strong measures to hold him accountable to meet his obligation.In a letter to Clark in October, Thompson said the panel's investigation "has revealed credible evidence that you attempted to involve the Department of Justice in efforts to interrupt the peaceful transfer of power."NBC News reported in January that Trump had considered replacing then-acting attorney general Jeffrey Rosen with Clark, who was willing to help Trump push his claims of widespread voter fraud in an effort to overturn the election results.A nearly 400-page report released by the Senate Judiciary Committee in October found that Clark had pushed Rosen and his top deputy in late December "to publicly announce that DOJ was investigating election fraud and tell key swing state legislatures they should appoint alternate slates of electors following certification of the popular vote. He did so following personal communications with Trump, including at least one meeting that Clark attended in the Oval Office without the knowledge of DOJ leadership."RecommendedWhite HouseWhite HouseTop aide to Kamala Harris expected to leave White House in second high-level departure from VP's officeLatinoLatinoTrump's border separations left children, parents with severe trauma, study findsClark later told Rosen if he didn't do want Trump wanted, Trump would fire Rosen and put Clark in his job, the report said. Rosen refused to relent, and Trump's efforts were stymied after DOJ leadership warned of mass resignations if Trump followed through with the plan, according to the Senate report.In January, Clark told The New York Times, which had first reported on Trump's efforts at DOJ, that "There was a candid discussion of options and pros and cons with the president. It is unfortunate that those who were part of a privileged legal conversation would comment in public about such internal deliberations, while also distorting any discussions."If the panel decides to finalize the referral, the measure would head to the House floor, where lawmakers would vote on whether to send the criminal referral to the U.S. attorney's office in Washington, D.C.The House Rules Committee is scheduled to meet on Thursday morning to consider the resolution recommending the House hold Clark in contempt. Approval from the committee is a necessary step before the measure can come to the floor.Mark Meadows now cooperating with Jan. 6 committeeDec. 1, 202100:26The Jan. 6 panel's criminal contempt recommendation is its second so far.The bipartisan House committee recommended former Trump adviser Steve Bannon be referred for criminal prosecution in October after he refused to appear for a deposition or hand over any documents, citing executive privilege.The House later signed off on the measure, and Bannon was hit with two charges of contempt by the U.S. Attorney's office in Washington, D.C.. He has pleaded not guilty.Unlike Bannon, Clark appeared on Capitol Hill for scheduled subpoenaed testimony, but declined to answer any questions, citing executive and other privileges."As the Select Committee has repeatedly pointed out to Mr. Clark, his claims of executive privilege are wholly without merit, but even if some privilege applied to aspects of Mr. Clarks testimony or document production, he was required to assert any testimonial privilege on a question-by-question basis and produce a privilege log setting forth specific privilege claims for each withheld document. Mr. Clark has done neither," the committee said in a report released Tuesday recommending he be found in contempt.Thompson said last month the panel was also considering a referral against Trump's former White House chief of staff Mark Meadows, who did not appear for his scheduled Nov. 12 deposition. But on Tuesday, Thompson said Meadows "has been engaging with the select committee through his attorney.""He has produced records to the committee and will soon appear for an initial deposition," the committee chair said, cautioning that the committee panel "will continue to assess his degree of compliance with our subpoena after the deposition."
Chris Cuomo calls his suspension from CNN 'embarrassing'. CNN host Chris Cuomo said Wednesday that he never meant to compromise any colleagues by advising his brother and that his suspension from the network was "embarrassing."He addressed his indefinite suspension on his SiriusXM show, "Lets Get After It with Chris Cuomo."Hey everybody. Its Chris Cuomo. Lets get after it," he said to start the program. "Quick note about the obvious. Ive been suspended from CNN. ... You know this already. It hurts to even say it. Its embarrassing, but I understand it. And I understand why some people feel the way they do about what I did. Ive apologized in the past. I mean it. Its the last thing I ever wanted to do was compromise any of my colleagues. And do anything but help.I know they have a process that they think is important. I respect that process, he added. So Im not going to talk about this any more than that. So for right now, lets just get after it, and theres plenty to do on that score.CNN suspends Chris Cuomo indefinitelyNov. 30, 202103:36CNN suspended Cuomo on Tuesday after an investigation by the New York attorney general showed in more detail how he helped his brother, former Gov. Andrew Cuomo, defend himself against sexual misconduct allegations.The investigation by Attorney General Letitia James raised serious questions about Cuomos conduct, the network said in a statement this week.When Chris admitted to us that he had offered advice to his brothers staff, he broke our rules and we acknowledged that publicly, the statement said. But we also appreciated the unique position he was in and understood his need to put family first and job second. However, these documents point to a greater level of involvement in his brothers efforts than we previously knew. As a result, we have suspended Chris indefinitely, pending further evaluation.Andrew Cuomo, who was facing the possibility of impeachment, resigned in August. He has denied any wrongdoing.Chris Cuomo, who has hosted Cuomo Prime Time since 2017, has previously said that advising his brother was a family matter and that it was appropriate because he was not directly reporting on Albany, the state capital, at the time.Documents released Monday revealed that Cuomo offered to help his brother find out how many women were accusing him of sexual harassment.Cuomo said the advice he gave his brother was based on telling the truth.I am worried about my brother and worried that this is being handled the best way it can, he said of their discussions. And my feeling was that, to my basic mantra, you need to tell the truth and get in front of these if you have something to say. And if you have something to own, you need to do that, as well.Andrew Cuomo announced his resignation as governor on Aug. 10, saying: I never would intentionally disrespect a woman, treat any woman differently than I would want them treated, and that is the Gods honest truth."
Jacqueline Avant, wife of music legend Clarence Avant, fatally shot in Beverly Hills home. LOS ANGELES  Jacqueline Avant, the wife of the music executive known as the "Godfather of Black Music," was shot and killed in the couple's home early Wednesday.Beverly Hills police responded to calls about a shooting at the home of Jacqueline and Clarence Avantat 2:23 a.m., they said in a statement. Police said the victim was taken to a nearby hospital by paramedics but did not survive.A spokesperson for Netflix confirmed that Jacqueline Avant, 81, had been shot and killed. Netflix Co-CEO Ted Sarandos is her son-in-law.It is unclear whether Clarence Avant was home.Potential suspects were not at the scene when officers arrived, police said."Jacqueline was an amazing woman, wife, mother, philanthropist and a 55-year resident of Beverly Hills who has made an immeasurable positive contribution and impact on the arts community," the family said in a statement read by Beverly Hills Police Chief Mark Stainbrook. "She will be missed by her family, friends and all of the people she has helped throughout her life." Investigators and forensic specialists were processing the scene Wednesday afternoon, Stainbrook said. All potential motives are being investigated, including a possible robbery attempt, he said. "A lot of times people think of home invasion when it comes to robbing or burglarizing a residence," Stainbrook said. "And so obviously someone went into the home. We just don't know what for, what the purpose was or the motive was behind it." It appeared that a security guard was on duty, Stainbrook said. Investigators are collecting and reviewing video. The Black Godfather documentary explores the life of influencer Clarence AvantJune 1, 201907:46Jacqueline Avant, who once modeled in the Ebony Fashion Fair, married Clarence Avant in 1967, and the couple had two children together. Their daughter, Nicole Avant, credited her mother with helping keep her father balanced in the 2019 documentary "The Black Godfather." Well, theyve been married for 52 years, and my mom is really the one who brought to my father and our family the love and passion and importance of the arts and culture and entertainment, she said in the film. While my father was in it, making all the deals, my mother was the one who gave me, for example, my love of literature, my love of filmmaking, my love of storytelling.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'She said her mother was "the umbrella" in her father's life. Serving as a manager, producer and mentor, Clarence Avant has been credited as the influencer who helped launch the careers of some of the most notable Black musicians of all time, including Bill Withers. He was inducted into the Rock n Roll Hall of Fame this year, with Lionel Richie giving a speech honoring him during the ceremony. Richie called him a "teacher" and "master communicator." "What he did for us, the sons and daughters of the Afro-American community, he was the one that brought us to some understanding of what the music business was all about," Richie said. Former President Barack Obama said Avant was one of his favorite people in a video tribute that aired at the ceremony last month. "Clarence and others, they are really the bridge from a time where there was almost no opportunity to a time where doors began to open," Obama said. "They led the way: in politics, in business, in the arts, in saying, 'No, make room for us.'"
Jeffrey Epstein introduced me to Trump at 14, Ghislaine Maxwell accuser says. One of the four women who say they were groomed for sex by Ghislaine Maxwell testified Wednesday that the disgraced financier Jeffrey Epstein took her to meet Donald Trump when she was just 14.Testifying at Maxwells trial in New York City, the woman, who is being identified by the pseudonym Jane, said on cross-examination that she met the future president in the 1990s at Mar-a-Lago, his resort in Palm Beach, Florida.Jane didnt allege any improper behavior by Trump and didnt go into further detail about why she was at the resort.Mr. Epstein introduced you to Donald Trump, correct? Laura Menninger, Maxwell's defense attorney, asked.Yes, Jane replied.A courtroom sketch depicts defense lawyer Laura Menninger questioning witness "Jane" about previous inconsistencies in documents during the trial of Ghislaine Maxwell in New York City on Wednesday.Jane Rosenberg / ReutersJane also acknowledged that in 1998, she took part in a Miss Teen USA beauty pageant that was associated with Trump. It wasnt immediately clear whether that was before or after the meeting at Mar-a-Lago.Trumps spokesman didnt immediately reply to a request for comment about whether Trump, who once called Epstein a terrific guy, has any recollection of meeting Jane.Following Epsteins 2019 arrest, Trump told reporters that he was not a fan of him.Another woman, Virginia Giuffre, who isnt part of the case, said in a civil lawsuit that Maxwell trafficked her to Prince Andrew when she was 17. He has denied the allegations.Under questioning by Menninger, Jane recalled being on one of Epsteins private plane flights with Prince Andrew.Epsteins longtime pilot, Larry Visoski, testified Tuesday that he remembers meeting Jane on one of his flights but that he didnt know she was a minor.The flights became the focus of intense media scrutiny after it was discovered that Andrew and other boldface names, like former President Bill Clinton and Trump lawyer Alan Dershowitz, took trips on his planes. There are no allegations of trafficking against Clinton and Dershowitz.Maxwell, 59, a British socialite, has been accused of identifying and targeting vulnerable girls and young women and grooming them for sex with Epstein and other powerful men.Maxwell, who is on trial accused of helping Epstein recruit and abuse Jane and three other underage girls, mostly in the 1990s, has denied all of the accusations. She pleaded not guilty to the six charges against her.Maxwells lawyers contend that she is being scapegoated by federal prosecutors because they cant try Epstein, a convicted sex offender who hanged himself in a Manhattan lockup two years ago while he awaited trial on charges of sex trafficking.Maxwells siblings echoed the claim that Maxwell has been unfairly targeted for prosecution has been. On Wednesday, her sister Isabel and brother Kevin were in the courtroom.Jane revealed that she crossed paths with Trump a day after she testified in graphic detail that Maxwell trained her how to massage and sexually satisfy Epstein.Jane also testified that she was regularly abused by Epstein and took part in orgies that included both Maxwell and Epstein at Epsteins palatial homes in Palm Beach, Florida, and New York City and on his New Mexico ranch.When asked, Jane described the sex as kissing, oral sex on each other, oral sex on Jeffrey, full-on intercourse.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'Jane found her credibility questioned repeatedly by Menninger.Did you rehearse your testimony for direct questioning? Menninger asked.No, Jane replied.Menninger then produced a thank-you note to Epstein that included the line You rock my world and asked Jane whether she wrote it.Yes, embarrassingly, she answered.Jane, under questioning by prosecutor Alison Moe, said that her family was strapped for cash and that Epstein paid some of their bills. She said she regrets taking the money.Burying her face in her hands and bursting into tears, Jane said that she was seeking closure and that she had no financial stake in the outcome of the trial."Hopefully, this just puts it all to an end and I can move on with my life," she said. Jane was followed on the stand by an ex-boyfriend, an actor who was identified by the pseudonym Matt. He said Jane told him what she said Maxwell and Epstein did to her. He said Jane also confessed to her mother why Epstein had given her money. She told the mother the money was not free," Matt testified.Jane testified Tuesday that she was still mourning the death of her father when Maxwell and Epstein befriended her at age 14 at the Interlochen Arts Camp in Michigan.Epstein, who was a big donor to the prestigious program, also had a cabin near the camp.Jane said Maxwell acted like a big sister while, at the same time, luring her into sex trafficking. She admitted that she didnt tell investigators about Maxwells alleged involvement until after Epstein died by suicide in 2019.They did despicable things to me, and I didnt want to talk about them, she said Tuesday on cross-examination.Maxwells trial in the Southern District of New York started Monday and is expected to last six weeks.
Emotional Alec Baldwin says, 'I didn't pull the trigger' on 'Rust' set. A tearful Alec Baldwin said he "didn't pull the trigger" in the fatal shooting of cinematographer Halyna Hutchins, whose death rocked Hollywood and raised concerns about weapons on movie sets.In an interview with ABC News that is scheduled to air Thursday, Baldwin appeared baffled about how the shooting happened. "Well, the trigger wasn't pulled. I didn't pull the trigger," he said in a clip released Wednesday. "No, no, no, I would never point a gun at anyone and pull the trigger at them. Never." Hutchins, 42, was killed and director Joel Souza, 48, was wounded by a round apparently fired by Baldwin on the New Mexico set ofthe Western movie Rust on Oct. 21 at Bonanza Creek Ranch, in Santa Fe County, New Mexico, officials have said.I have no idea" how it happened, Baldwin told ABC News' George Stephanopoulos. "Someone put a live bullet in a gun, a bullet that wasn't even supposed to be on the property." Baldwin said Hutchins was popular among her peers."She was someone who was loved by everyone who worked with [her] and liked by everyone who worked with [her] and admired" her, he said, his voice choking with emotion and as he wiped away tears. "I mean, even now I find it hard to believe that. It just doesn't seem real to me."Much of the attention has fallen on assistant director Dave Halls, whowas firedfrom the film Freedoms Path in 2019 after a gun unexpectedly discharged on the set in New Mexico, injuring a crew member, a producer for the film has said.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'Investigators said in a search warrant affidavit that Hallsyelled cold gunon the Rust set before he gave Baldwin the weapon, indicating incorrectly that it didnt have any live rounds.Halls' attorney has said that he didn't hand the gun to Baldwin and that checking to see whether it was loaded wasn't his responsibility.A representative for the Santa Fe County Sheriff's Office, which is investigating the case, declined to discuss Baldwin's interview Wednesday.Baldwin, an Oscar-nominated and Emmy-winning actor, said he's at a loss over how the tragedy unfolded, telling ABC News: "I think back and I think of what could I have done?" The full interview airs Thursday at 8 p.m. ET on ABC.
Suspect in deadly Waukesha holiday parade crash says he feels demonized. MADISON, Wis.  The man accused of driving his SUV through a Christmas parade in suburban Milwaukee,killing six people and injuring dozens, said Wednesday that he feels like hes being demonized.Darrell Brooks Jr., in an interview with Fox Newsfrom the Waukesha County Jail, offered no details about a possible motive.I just feel like Im being monster  demonized, Brooks said, according to the Fox report.According to a criminal complaint, Brooks drove his SUV into the parade in Waukesha on Nov. 21. Witnesses said he was swerving andappeared to be intentionally trying to hit people.He was arrested minutes later as he stood on the porch of a nearby house asking the homeowner to help him call a ride.Police said he had fled the scene of a domestic disturbance when he turned into the parade, although officers were not pursuing him at the time. Hes been charged with six counts of first-degree intentional homicide.8-year-old identified as victim in Waukesha parade horrorNov. 24, 202101:30Brooks mother Dawn Woods, released a letter Wednesday offering the familys condolences to the victims.She said her son has long suffered from mental health issues and after he became an adult he lacked the insurance and finances to continue his medication and counseling, leading him to commit crimes.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'Mental illness is real and the system is broken it can and must be fixed NOW, not next year or with a new legislation NOW. So many like Darrell that have fallen through the cracks because of a broken system that no one cared to address, can get the help they so desperately need, Woods wrote in theletter, first obtained by WDJT-TV.At the time of the crash, Brooks was out on $1,000 bail in a Milwaukee County case in which he is accused of intentionally striking a woman with his car. He was charged in that case on Nov. 5.Hes also a defendant in another Milwaukee County case from 2020 in which hes charged with shooting at his nephew and another person.
'Home Alone' house will be on Airbnb for one night only this month . "Home Alone" fans can now live their dreams of hanging out at the McCallister house this holiday season. Airbnb announced Wednesday it is renting out the iconic home from the 1990 film for one night only."Celebrate the season McCallister-style, ya filthy animals. For the first time ever, one crew of mischief makers can book a holiday in the timeless house where the Home Alone story began (without the interruption of pesky intruders)," Airbnb wrote in a post to Instagram. The home, located in the Chicago area, will be available to book starting on Dec. 7 for $25. Those who secure their stay at the home will be able to spend time there on Dec. 12. Guests will be welcomed by actor Devin Ratray, who played Kevin McCallister's older brother Buzz. Kevin McCallister was famously portrayed by Macaulay Culkin.Big brother Buzz McCallister will join thousands of Hosts on Airbnb by opening the doors to his familys Chicago home as the ultimate gift this month.Sarah CrowleyIn addition to a picturesque Christmas home, guests will get to set booby traps, similar to Kevin's antics in the film, although AirBnB says those staying in the home won't have to worry about fending off intruders, like Culkin did in the film.Guests will also be treated "Chicago's finest pizza and a meet and greet with a real-life tarantula," according to Airbnb.A screening of the newest "Home Alone" film, titled "Home Sweet Home Alone," and released last month, will cap off the night. RecommendedLatinoLatinoBad Bunny tops Spotify's streaming charts for second year runningOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureThis month's watchlist, from lesbian nuns to an out-of-the-closet 'Matrix'Airbnb also said "in honor of the first-ever stay at the McCallister home" it will make a one-time donation to Chicagos La Rabida Childrens Hospital.This isn't the first time Airbnb has offered an experienced tied to pop culture.Last month, the company announced it isrentingout a recreation of Carries iconic brownstone apartment from "Sex and the City."
Majority of mumps cases are among the vaccinated, CDC finds. Mumps cases continue to circulate in the U.S., largely among vaccinated people, including children.Cases of mumps, once a common childhood illness, declined by more than 99 percent in the U.S. after a vaccine against the highly contagious respiratory infection was developed in 1967. Cases dropped to just 231 in 2003, down from more than 152,000 in 1968. But cases began climbing again in 2006, when 6,584 were reported, most of them in vaccinated people.According to the report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, one-third of mumps cases in the U.S. from 2007 to 2019 were reported in children and adolescents. As many as 94 percent of those who contracted the illness had been vaccinated.Before that, large outbreaks of mumps among people who were fully vaccinated were not common, including among vaccinated children, said Mariel Marlow, an epidemiologist at the CDC who led the new study. But the disease symptoms are usually milder and complications are less frequent in vaccinated people.Experts arent sure why vaccinated people get mumps, but multiple factors appear to be affecting immunity in vaccinated people, including a lack of prior exposure to the virus, waning immunity and the circulation of genotypes the vaccine doesnt contain.The mumps virusis spread through direct contact with saliva or respiratory droplets from the mouth, the nose or the throat of an infected person. An infected person can spread the virus by coughing, sneezing, talking or sharing drinks or during close-contact activities, such as sports. Nearly 91 percent of the U.S. population has had at least one dose of the two-dose measles, mumps and rubella, or MMR, vaccine, which is administered between 12 months and 6 years and is 88 percent effective against the disease.Cases in recent years have largely been driven by big localized outbreaks, although a peak in 2016 and 2017 included more than 150 outbreaks reported in 37 states and Washington, D.C., amounting to about 9,000 cases. Mumps cases decreased last year compared to the previous six years, but the illness continued to circulate in the U.S. despite distancing, lockdowns and masking. From April 1, 2020, to the end of the year, 32 health departments reported 142 mumps cases.Disruptions from the Covid-19 pandemic resulted in many children missing well-child visits and routinely recommended vaccines, including MMR, which could contribute to a future increase in cases or outbreaks.Mariel Marlow, CDC EpidemiologistThe numbers are still low, and they arent a reason to believe vaccines are no longer effective, said Joseph Lewnard, an assistant professor of epidemiology at the School of Public Health at the University of California, Berkeley.Were talking about an infection that almost every kid in America would get before they were 20. Compared to the pre-vaccine era, kids who get the MMR vaccine remain extremely protected against mumps, Lewnard said.Breakthrough casesIn some people, antibodies from mumps vaccination decrease over time, reducing protection. Lewnard said older adolescents are most at risk during outbreaks among young people because they are more likely than younger children to have reduced immunity due to waning vaccine protection.Protection is still high, but there will be some who lose protection within a decade or less even after they are vaccinated, he said. Marlow said most people arent routinely exposed to mumps, so there is also less immunologic boosting  when people are exposed to mumps that boosts their immunity but doesnt make them sick. Because mumps has continued to circulate globally during the pandemic, she expects cases and outbreaks of mumps nationally that could be worsened by a bigger unvaccinated population to continue.We know that disruptions from the Covid-19 pandemic resulted in many children missing well-child visits and routinely recommended vaccines, including MMR, which could contribute to a future increase in cases or outbreaks, she said.A third dose?Dr. Amesh Adalja, a senior scholar at the Center for Health Security at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, said the U.S. mumps vaccines contain genotype A strain, which no longer circulates in the U.S. But that doesnt seem to make the vaccines less effective.Thats one of the mysteries of understanding this is because when you give the genotype A vaccine during an outbreak, it still works, he said. Weve seen that during outbreaks on college campuses, a third dose of MMR is enough to stop it.RecommendedCoronavirusCoronavirusHospitals refused to prescribe ivermectin. Threats and lockdowns followed.California WildfiresCalifornia Wildfires'We're one cigarette away': Illegal weed farms are a wildfire risk in parched CaliforniaAdalja said combating new outbreaks may be as simple as shifting the MMR vaccine schedule from two to three doses. Adjusting the schedule is nothing new: The CDC's Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices initially recommended a single dose of the mumps vaccine for routine use in 1977 and upped it to two doses in 1989.In 2017, the panel suggested that a third dose of the MMR vaccine may be given to people at high risk of catching mumps during large outbreaks.Maybe we will need to update the vaccine to make it more tailored to the strain were seeing, but this might not be necessary. The current vaccine still works very well, and when it doesnt work, a third dose does, Adalja said.
Womens tennis tour suspends China events over Peng Shuai concerns. The head of the womens professional tennis tour announced Wednesday that all WTA tournaments would be suspended in China because of concerns about the safety of Peng Shuai, a Grand Slam doubles champion who accused a former high-ranking government official in that country of sexual assault.Peng dropped out of public view after raising the allegations about former vice premier Zhang Gaoli in a Nov. 2 social media posting that was quickly taken down.Unfortunately, the leadership in China has not addressed this very serious issue in any credible way, WTA Chairman and CEO Steve Simon wrote in a statement distributed by the tour. While we now know where Peng is, I have serious doubts that she is free, safe, and not subject to censorship, coercion, and intimidation.Chinese tennis star Peng Shuais reappearance in video call raises more questionsNov. 22, 202102:07Simon repeated his call for a full and transparent investigation  without censorship into Pengs accusations and took an unusually strong stand against China, which was supposed to be the site of several tennis tournaments next year, including the prestigious season-ending WTA Finals.In good conscience, I dont see how I can ask our athletes to compete there when Peng Shuai is not allowed to communicate freely and has seemingly been pressured to contradict her allegation of sexual assault, Simon said. Given the current state of affairs, I am also greatly concerned about the risks that all of our players and staff could face if we were to hold events in China in 2022.Beijing is set to host the Winter Olympics beginning on Feb. 4, and International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach said late last month he spoke with Peng on a video call. The IOC did not release video or a transcript of the exchange and said only that Bach reported she said she was well.The IOC said in a statement last month that Peng appeared to be doing fine and said she had requested privacy. The IOC did not explain how the call was arranged, although it has worked closely with the Chinese Olympic Committee and government officials to organize the upcoming Olympics.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'Critics have suggested that Peng would not have called the IOC if she was truly free to speak.If powerful people can suppress the voices of women and sweep allegations of sexual assault under the rug, then the basis on which the WTA was founded  equality for women  would suffer an immense setback, Simon said. I will not and cannot let that happen to the WTA and its players.Zhang has retired from the government and has not responded to past requests for comment on the accusation. 
'We're one cigarette away': Illegal marijuana farms pose wildfire risk in California's parched national forests. LAKE ELSINORE, Calif.  After a 2-mile trek through thick brush, Mourad Gabriel stepped into a small clearing. A month earlier, this half-acre swath of the Cleveland National Forest, nearly invisible from the air, had been an illegal marijuana grow estimated to be worth more than $1.2 million. The U.S. Forest Services law enforcement officers had hacked down the plants, but Gabriel and his team were there to cart out nearly 3,000 pounds of trash and to clean up something else the drug traffickers left behind: poison.Gabriel, a regional wildlife ecologist for the Forest Service, spooned swabs of pesticide into a military-grade testing device to identify chemicals used by illicit farmers, which kill the forests wildlife. Recalling a past bust, he said: We had a dead bear, a turkey vulture that was dead consuming that bear, and then another turkey vulture that was dead consuming that turkey vulture and that bear.We call it The circle of death.The illegal grow site in Cleveland National Forest visited by NBC News on Oct. 6.NBC NewsBut another looming danger to animals  and to the human residents of one of the most populous areas in America  is fire. Just over the mountains from this grow is the sprawl of greater Los Angeles and its 19 million people. Advocates estimate that Californias national forests, four of which ring the Los Angeles basin, are home to 80 percent to 85 percent of the countrys illegal marijuana grows on public land. Every time traffickers start a grow on Californias drought-stricken federal forests, they put millions of people at risk. They use scarce water and sometimes set bone-dry woodlands ablaze. At least 13 wildfires in the past dozen years have been linked to grows.The Forest Service has long struggled to keep up  the agency has about one law enforcement officer for every 300,000 acres of forest  but since the coronavirus pandemic started, it has gotten even harder.In the past two years alone, grow operations in California have rerouted millions of gallons of water, caused a 125,000-acre wildfire in Big Sur and helped add at least one species to the endangered list.This is an abuse of the natural resources and the land that we as an agency are stewarding for the public, Gabriel said.Firefighters monitor a controlled fire to help slow the Dolan Fire in Big Sur, Calif., on Sept. 11, 2020.Nic Coury / AP fileDeadly risksThe marijuana cultivation season coincides with the peak of wildfire season, diverting officers who would be targeting the grows into investigating the blazes, supporting firefighters and evacuating civilians.But sometimes those missions overlap. Last years 125,000-acre Dolan Fire was started by a marijuana grower in the Los Padres National Forest.It burned through an iconic international landscape  Big Sur. It killed 11 endangered condors, said Rich McIntyre, the director of the Cannabis Removal on Public Lands Project, or the CROP Project, a coalition advocating for more resources to reclaim grow sites and catch growers. It overran firefighters. I mean, its just a nightmare.Because marijuana cultivators live at their grow sites for months at a time, they introduce hazards like cigarettes, open-flame stoves and wood fires to highly combustible forestland. The CROP Project has identified at least 13 wildfires across California in the past 12 years caused by people associated with grow sites. NBC News was able to independently document half a dozen of them. From a 12,000-acre fire in 2014 caused by sparks from the tailpipe of a vehicle driving to a grow site to a much larger conflagration in 2009, fires associated with illegal grows have burned at least 275,000 acres across California.The Forest Service estimates that the true toll is far higher, as the origins of wildfires can be difficult to investigate and confirm.Many of the pesticides that drug traffickers use, meanwhile, are so poisonous that they have been outlawed in the U.S. for decades.These are some of the most toxic chemicals you could ever use on crops, said Greta Wengert, the executive director of the Integral Ecology Research Center, or IERC, a nonprofit organization that studies the impact of grow sites on the environment and assists the Forest Service in its cleanup efforts.Some of the biggest threats are the pesticides and rodenticides that growers spread to poison animals that threaten their plants or campsites.The chemicals are so toxic, Wengert said, and used in such high concentrations that a number of officers and cleanup workers have been hospitalized for exposure.Greta Wengert swabs chemicals at the illegal grow site.Sydney Krantz for NBC NewsYou take a little bit of carbofuran here: couple drops, mix it with some tuna fish, put it on the edge of your grow, an animal comes in, eats it and dies within two minutes, Wengert said. Theres your poison bomb, right there.Thats especially problematic because IERCs researchhas shownhow the deadly, illegal chemicals work their way up the food chain as animals feed on one another. Its passed on again and again, Wengert said.The Cleveland National Forest site is home to both the endangered Arroyo toad and the endangered California condor. But Wengert is also concerned about how the chemicals might be ingested by people  whether in the marijuana they consume or from runoff into water supplies. Through snowmelt and other sources, national forests provide 50 percent of the states water. The Cleveland Forest site sits in a watershed that runs directly into the water supply of San Juan Capistrano, a city of 36,000.Wengerts group is studying downstream exposure, and in several cases, has confirmed the presence of toxic chemicals in waterways immediately downstream of grow sites.The next significant precipitation event is just going to slough all this off into the San Juan Creek, said Gabriel, the wildlife ecologist, running the grow sites loose soil through his fingers. That creek right below us is going to not just contaminate critical habitat for the Arroyo Toad, but its going to go downstream to San Juan Capistrano.A federal officer holds a rope to help the crew climb down a steep path in the forest.Sydney Krantz for NBC NewsNet gainTypically run by drug-trafficking organizations, an average grow site may have 2,000 plants and yield hundreds to thousands of pounds of marijuana worth millions. New strains have allowed traffickers to get more product per plant, making grows even more profitable, according to law enforcement.And losing a few sites a year to busts by the Forest Service is just the cost of doing business, said Special Agent in Charge Don Hoang, who heads Forest Service law enforcement for the region. "Its a rule of probability. If they grow as many [sites] as they can, they know that were going to find a few of them. And then theres stuff that we dont find, and thats where they make their profit.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'Setting up a grow site isnt cheap. It takes time, planning and money to bring in the infrastructure and labor  from miles of irrigation pipe to thousands of pounds of fertilizers and armed workers who live at the grow site all season long.One drug traffic organization can invest, lets say, a quarter-million, a half-million dollars into one grow. And then pull out a 200 percent to 300 percent net gain from that, Gabriel said. I dont think anybodys investment portfolio could ever do that.While some grow sites may be hiding just a mile or so off a main highway, others can take officers days to reach. Growers are typically armed, Hoang said, and they often have a tactical advantage when law enforcement comes in to try to break up their operation.The Forest Services law enforcement division has arrested more than 2,170 people for cultivating marijuana on national forest land in California since 2000. The Forest Service and partner agencies bust more than 200 such sites on public lands annually, but cleanups, like the one in Cleveland National Forest, are expensive.Federal officers attach illegal grow site water tubing to a helicopter cargo hook.Sydney Krantz for NBC NewsA helicopter transports part of the crew from Cleveland National Forest to a nearby parking lot.Sydney Krantz for NBC NewsThe team at the Cleveland National Forest site pulled out nearly a ton and a half of trash on one day in October, more than a mile of irrigation piping, 1,110 pounds of fertilizer and bottle after bottle of banned pesticide, removing much of the bulkier material from the forest by helicopter. It is one of more than 40 sites cleaned up on national forest land in California alone this year, at an average cost of $40,000 per site  before hazardous material disposal. But thats just a drop in the bucket, Gabriel said.There are hundreds of sites a year spread across Californias 20 million acres of national forest alone  the Forest Service simply doesnt have enough resources to tackle every one. There is no dedicated funding for the operations; the agencys overall law enforcement budget has stayed about the same size for most of the last decade.In reality, we need 20.2 to 23.2 million [dollars] for five to eight years to fully address the topic in California alone, Gabriel said. Essentially, we put in only 10 to 12 percent of what is truly needed annually.Toxic fertilizer, grow pods and a backpack were left by marijuana farmers at the grow site.Sydney Krantz for NBC NewsThe technology to detect sites has improved over time, but the agency estimates that in a given year it detects about half of the sites on its land. And of the sites the agency detects, about a quarter are able to keep operating unhindered because the agency doesnt have the resources to bust them before the traffickers harvest. The agency identifies dozens of grow sites annually that it is unable to get to before harvest.Overall, arrests for the grow sites have been on the decline since 2008, and the number of grow sites and plants eradicated in Californias national forests has dropped steeply in the past five years.With the proper resources, Gabriel said, the agency could eliminate marijuana grows within the next eight years. We have the will to do this, and were ready to do this, he said. We leave them dirt, they dont come back.Mountains in Cleveland National Forest.NBC NewsOne campfire, one cigaretteAccording to the Forest Service, once a grow site has been cleaned up and restored to its natural state, growers tend not to come back. Thats why increasing funding for the cleanup efforts is so important, said McIntyre of the CROP Project.They need a lot more juice. They need a lot more people. And they need funding to actually see this through, said McIntyre, whose coalition includes lawmakers of both parties, scientists, law enforcement officials, environmentalists and legal marijuana organizations. Without substantial funding, its whack-a-mole.Some of the additional funding may soon be on its way. The infrastructure bill President Joe Biden signed last month included a substantial increase in Forest Service funding to fight and prevent wildfires. The House also increased money for the agency in its annual spending bill, with the Appropriations Committee specifically expressing support in its accompanying report for agency efforts to detect and remove the sites, but the Senate has yet to do the same. Bipartisan members of Californias House delegation have also proposed a bill that would increase criminal penalties for stealing water from federal lands.Black tubing, used to water the illegal marijuana plants, weaves through the forest floor.Sydney Krantz for NBC NewsThe alternative is dire, McIntyre said. We are one campfire, one dropped cigarette, one getaway fire in a trespass grow away from a landscape fire that could burn a million acres. And when that happens, we lose that public resource for an entire generation.
Still paying for antivirus software? Experts say you probably don't need it. Josh Brunty had spent more than a decade in cybersecurity  first as a digital forensics analyst for the West Virginia State Police, then as someone who taught the subject at Marshall University  when he discovered a shocking secret about his father, Butch.Butch Brunty was still paying money every year for third-party antivirus protection on his home computer, which his son felt hadnt been necessary for most people for years.He was talking about renewing his antivirus. I said, Are you literally paying for antivirus? Brunty said. I dont know how he ended up doing it, but he ended up getting connected to Norton, spending, like, $60 a year.Bruntys father, like a lot of other people, hadnt gotten the message that has become intuitive to many people who work in cybersecurity: Theres just no longer any reason for regular people to pay for antivirus software for their personal devices.Its a shift that highlights not only how computer security has evolved in the past decade but also the way many people misunderstand the greatest threats to their computer security.Antivirus software still centers on its original use: looking for and mitigating software viruses. Because modern computer systems already do that, many programs now offer additional protections, like monitoring the dark web to see whether someone posts customers personal information, which experts find to be of little use.But the greatest threats most users face are no longer from viruses, particularly now that so much personal computing happens over the internet.Brunty said his dad also paid for a virtual private network, which routes a computers internet traffic through a third party. They were once considered vital to prevent nearby hackers from spying on online activity, but security experts now say that thanks to additional built-in security protections in most major browsers, virtual private networks are useful in only a handful of specific scenarios, like streaming video that is restricted in certain countries or getting around government censors like Chinas Great Firewall.He had no understanding of those two technologies, really, Brunty said. I think he just felt like if he spent the money, the investment of paying for it was going to protect him from everything.Some antivirus programs can offer certain benefits, such as tools that help users avoid email-based phishing campaigns that steal sensitive login credentials. Others can help prevent identity theft.But most experts agree that the built-in antivirus protections on any major system  a fully updated Windows or Apple computer or an Android phone or iPhone  already protect against viruses just as well as the major programs people can pay for. Its important, however, for users to keep their systems protected through automatic software updates offered by all major software providers.PatchworkIt wasnt always that way. Formuch of Microsofts history, computer experts worried that Windows machines were susceptible to viruses, and there was no firm consensus about what third-party programs people needed to stay safe.But Microsoft Defender, the free and automatic antivirus program now built into Windows, has gotten so effective that its as good as anything customers can pay for, said Simon Edwards, the founder of SE Labs, a London-based company that compares and tests antivirus programs.We test it regularly, and its one of the top products weve seen. It has improved a lot, Edwards said.That doesnt mean malicious software isnt a threat. But newer devices tend to take care of most problems on their own. Hackers are constantly devising new ways to break into operating systems, and companies have to keep updating ways to stop them. Fortunately, the days of cybersecurity engineers writing patches for new, safer versions of software and just hoping users will update them is largely over.Its almost impossible these days to not have a fully patched Windows or Mac system, because they pretty much force updates, Edwards said.RecommendedTech NewsTech NewsChina-based Covid disinfo operation pushed fake Swiss scientist, Facebook says CongressCongressFacebook whistleblower Haugen urges lawmakers to avert impasse on social media lawsWhile its a myth that Macs cant get viruses, the myth is well-founded: Macs essentially had antivirus protections built into their operating systems from their early days. The same goes for iPhones and Android smartphones. The British government even tells its residents not to bother buying antivirus software for their phones, provided that they dont needlessly endanger themselves by installing programs not vetted by an app store.Butch Brunty isnt alone. A survey by Security.org, a cybersecurity advice website, estimated that nearly 45 million households pay for antivirus software. It also found that people are increasingly more likely to pay for antivirus software the older they are and that most have been using it for years. The dynamic has been observed in other parts of the technology world, such as people who continued to pay AOL for internet service even though they had other internet providers.McAfee, the once-ubiquitous Windows antivirus program, still has more than 20 million paying customers, a spokesperson said. More than half of the revenue the antivirus company Malwarebytes made last year came from personal users, a spokesperson for the company said. Other major antivirus companies, including Norton, ESET and Kaspersky, didnt respond to emailed requests for such information.But trying to stay secure by relying on antivirus software misses the way hackers have evolved, said Bob Lord, who revamped the Democratic National Committees cybersecurity strategy for the 2018 and 2020 elections after the party was hacked by Russian intelligence in 2016.When I look at all the personal account compromises Ive seen over the past three years, I dont think any of them were caused by malware, Lord said. They happened because the victims had poor password hygiene and didnt have two-factor authentication on their accounts.What to do insteadThe good news is that almost all of the tools everyone should be relying on to be more secure are free.Hackers today are most likely to target regular people by trying to take over their personal accounts for email, social media or financial websites. Its easier to stop them when you know that their goal is to impersonate you and take over an account you want to keep private, said Harlo Holmes, the chief information security officer at the Freedom of the Press Foundation, where she advises journalists around the world about the best ways to protect themselves from hackers.That meansusing unique passphrases  several words together, which are easier to remember than a string of random characters  because the longer a password is, the harder it is for an automated program to guess. People should also protect every important account with two-factor authentication. That lets users use their phones as a second way to prove their identities to websites, which gives hackers an additional hurdle if theyre trying to get into one of their accounts.Experts recommend using an app like Google Authenticator or Authy when you set up two-factor authentication, rather than through a text message, which dedicated hackers can intercept.Extra featuresSome for-purchase antivirus products come bundled with additional benefits that address more modern concerns, like monitoring whether customers passwords have been included in a giant dump of stolen credentials or telling them whether criminals are sharing their personal information on the dark web.But most of the services either do little or are available elsewhere for free, said Susan Grant, the director of consumer protection and privacy at the Consumer Federation of America, a nonprofit group that serves as an umbrella organization for consumer advocacy groups.Theres a limit to what that type of service actually provides, Grant said. They dont prevent you from becoming an identity theft victim. They cant prevent your information from ending up on the dark web, and they cant remove it. They can just alert you.The website Have I Been Pwned lets everyone check which of their accounts and passwords have been stolen and traded. The Federal Trade Commission offers a free guide for people who have had their identities stolen, as does the nonprofit Identity Theft Resource Center.It may make people feel better to pay for such a service, Grant said. But the advice that you get is available from other sources for nothing. 
Yall going to kill me? Years apart, mother and son die in police restraints. This investigation was published incollaborationwithThe Marshall Project,a nonprofit news organization covering the U.S. criminal justice system, and theMississippi Center for Investigative Reporting, a nonprofit news organization covering Mississippi.Sign up for The Marshall Projectsnewsletteror follow it onFacebookorTwitter.GRENADA, Miss.  Robert Loggins wandered into a neighbors backyard and fell down, crying for help. A woman dialed 911, telling the operator, Please hurry!When police arrived at the home in this small town between Jackson and Memphis, Tennessee, in November 2018, they found a Black man facedown with his arms tucked beneath his body. An officer recognized Loggins, 26, who had battled both mental health and drug problems.Officers repeatedly asked Loggins to put his hands behind his back, police video shows.Yall going to kill me? he asked.Nobodys going to kill you, an officer reassured him.In less than an hour, Loggins was dead in yet another fatality linked to police use of a dangerous restraint technique that the Justice Department condemned in 1995. The agency, along with the International Association of Chiefs of Police, warned law enforcement officials that keeping people restrained facedown in what is known as the prone position increased the risk of death from asphyxia.As soon as the suspect is handcuffed, get him off his stomach, the report urged. If thats not possible, the person should be closely and continuously monitored.The Justice Department also told officers never to use a hogtie  a form of prone restraint in which officers also attach wrists to ankles behind a persons back. Many police departments have banned the practice because of its link to positional asphyxia.But as the story of the Loggins family shows, actually persuading law enforcement officers to stop using hogties and prone-position restraints has proved almost impossible in small-town Mississippi.Excessive exertional activityAt 5:45 a.m. on Sept. 17, 2005, deputies in Carroll County, a rural area southwest of Grenada, responded to a call about a fight and found Loggins mother, Debbie, grappling with another woman.Debbie, 5-feet-4 and 220 pounds, had the woman in a headlock, Don Gray, the sheriff at the time, told reporters. When deputies tried to intervene, she became verbally and physically combative, he said, hitting one of the officers with his own flashlight.Deputies initially placed her in handcuffs and leg shackles.It still was not enough, Gray said. They were trying to reduce the amount of her kicking. They had difficulty getting her into the car because she was putting her legs up and blocking them.Thats when deputies decided to hogtie her, binding her arms and her legs together behind her back with an additional set of handcuffs and placing her facedown in the back seat of the squad car.Deputies said she continued to squirm, kick and twist even after being hogtied, according to a 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals decision in a lawsuit filed by her estate, which claimed that police violated her constitutional rights.Debbie Loggins, Roberts mother, was hogtied by officers responding to a call about a fight in 2005.Courtesy Robert FordDuring the trip to the jail, she became quiet and may have stopped breathing, but the deputy driving her didnt realize that, the court said. When they arrived, the deputy went to get assistance from a jailer. They found that she had no pulse. They began CPR and took her to a hospital, where she was pronounced dead at 7:37 a.m.Authorities didnt respond to requests for comment. In court filings responding to the estates lawsuit, they have said the officers did nothing wrong. A lawyer for Carroll County said in the filings that the death had little to do with the actions of the officers, and a federal judge dismissed the estates lawsuit, saying the restraints were reasonable.An expert in law enforcement training, Seth Stoughton, a co-author of the book Evaluating Police Uses of Force, said officers erred in leaving her handcuffed in the prone position because of the danger of positional asphyxia, which occurs when a person is immobilized in a position that impairs breathing.You may need to put someone into that position while theyre being handcuffed or while leg restraints are being applied, but you dont keep them in that position afterward, he said. You definitely dont hold them or transport them in that position.Asked why hogtie deaths keep happening, Stoughton replied, I wish I knew, adding that the cases seldom draw administrative discipline, civil liability or criminal prosecution.In Mississippi in 2015, four police officers in Southaven, on the Tennessee border, pinned Troy Goode down, handcuffed him and called for an ambulance. He died after having been kept hogtied in the prone position for 90 minutes.After the 5th Circuit court ruled that hog-tying a drug-affected person in a state of drug-induced psychosis and placing him face down in a prone position for an extended period constitutes excessive force, a lawsuit brought by Goodes family was settled in July for an undisclosed amount.A joint investigation by NBC News and The Marshall Project identified at least 23 deaths involving hogtying or similar restraints across the country since 2010. At least 13 of the people who died had mental illnesses or were in mental crisis.In the case of Debbie Loggins, the coroners chart suggested that bloodwork should be done to rule out positional asphyxia, but no such test results are reflected in the autopsy report. The late pathologist who conducted the autopsy, Dr. Steven Hayne, made no mention of positional asphyxia in his findings.Hayne ruled out trauma, drugs and alcohol, concluding that Loggins died because of advanced heatstroke, even though the sun hadnt risen when she was arrested, the temperature was in the 70s, and officers transported her in an air-conditioned car.Instead, Hayne  whose autopsies have been called into question  concluded that her death was an accident, blaming her excessive exertional activity.It gave him a different outlookAs a child, Robert Loggins loved to draw and write poetry, said Jessica Hayes, his sister.His mothers death when he was 13 years old devastated him, she said. It gave him a different outlook on the world and the officers.The tragedy was compounded by the death of his grandmother, who helped raise him. He began to struggle in school, family members said.He experienced mental and behavioral problems, getting psychiatric treatment. Marijuana and meth became an unfortunate escape for Loggins, said his father, Robert Ford.Loggins began committing burglaries and other crimes to fund his habit. He was 17 when he was arrested in 2010 for stealing four tires and wheels from a Toyota Camry. A judge sentenced him to 10 years in prison.In 2015, the parole board gave Loggins a second chance.Robert Loggins, who had mental health and drug problems, was restrained in a prone position by officers at the Grenada County Jail. He died less than an hour later.Courtesy Robert FordHe married, and he and his wife had a son. He earned his GED, worked a couple of jobs and began putting himself through community college, where he began to learn welding, his father said. He also won some local renown, writing and recording his own rap music.But drugs re-entered his life, his father said. He struggled to break the habit, enrolling in two different rehabilitation centers.In 2018, Ford visited his son in the Grenada County Jail; Loggins had been arrested for violating parole.Its kind of hard to talk about, but he was calling me, Dad, and he was crying, Ford recalled. I told him, Son, its going to be all right.When Loggins was freed several months later, Ford picked him up, and all Loggins could talk about was seeing his son in Oxford, about 50 miles north. Ford said he would be happy to drive him there at the end of the workweek.For Loggins, the weekend never came.My soul belongs to Jesus ChristThe 911 call early Nov. 29, 2018, recorded a neighbor saying, Someones in the back of my house calling for help.Five members of the Grenada Police Department responded, some ofwhom had known Loggins since he was young.In bodycam video obtained by the Mississippi Center for Investigative Reporting and The Marshall Project, officers repeatedly asked Loggins to put his hands behind his back.My soul belongs to Jesus Christ, he told them.Take your hands from up under you, an officer barked.Hes my savior! Loggins said.Your ass belongs to us now, an officer replied.When Loggins didnt put his hands behind his back, police used a Taser eight times, according to Grenada police records. (Tasers manufacturer warns that repeated blasts increase the risk of heart attacks.)Give me a baton. Give me a baton, an officer said.Officers then grabbed Loggins. Albert Deane Tilley, who had worked in the department for little more than a year in his first job in law enforcement, said Loggins bit him on the hand. Bodycam video showed officers striking Loggins with a flashlight.After handcuffing the 5-foot-8, 190-pound man, officers carried him to a carport, where, a report by the Mississippi Bureau of Investigation claims, Loggins disorderly behavior kept emergency personnel from conducting a full medical assessment.But bodycam video paints a different picture. As officers carry Loggins, an EMT can be heard saying, He looks fine to me.Jail video shows that at 5:59 a.m., officers carried Loggins upside down into the lobby of the jail. They left him on the floor, handcuffed and in the prone position.He seemed to be in distress, rolling from side to side, the shift supervisor, Sgt. Edna Clark, told the investigations bureau. To me, he was trying to gasp for breath because he couldnt breathe.She said she asked officers to take Loggins to the hospital but was waved off.After Tilley was reported to have told the jailers that he needed his handcuffs back, at least four officers and jailers piled on top of Loggins at 6:04 a.m. to remove the cuffs from his wrists, video shows. When the officers got off Loggins more than three minutes later, he didnt move.Clark noticed that he was bleeding and called 911. The dispatcher replied that EMTs had previously checked him.Hes bleeding from his mouth. Hes bleeding from his legs, she told the dispatcher. Im not going to take him.At 6:14 a.m., Clark checked Loggins pulse and his breathing. She called 911 again.This man has got no heartbeat, and hes not breathing. I want them officers back over here. I want an ambulance, she said. Get them over here now.A few minutes later, medical personnel arrived. They pounded on Loggins chest hoping to revive him, and when they couldnt, they airlifted him to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead. He was 26  seven years younger than his mother was when she died.Five officers were placed on administrative leave with pay, but there were no criminal charges and no known disciplinary action. The investigations bureau interviewed the officers, who denied any wrongdoing.Tilley told the bureaus investigator, Mark Steed, that when the police first encountered Loggins, he was saying things that didnt make sense, which made him believe he was under the influence.Tilley and Steed sparred about whether Loggins was hit with a flashlight, according to the transcript in the bureaus report. At first, Tilley denied using his flashlight to strike Loggins and said no one else did, either.After being pressed to tell the truth, Tilley conceded that he had seen Loggins being hit  in the elbow.Tilley denied seeing any broken teeth, but photographs of Loggins after his death show that his teeth were, indeed, broken.Asked whether he put his knee on Loggins neck or head at the jail, Tilley replied: Not to my recollection, no, sir. I dont believe it was.In the video, Tilley can be seen kneeling on Loggins, although its not entirely clear whether the deputy is kneeling on his neck or his upper back. Later, the officer can be seen sitting on Loggins. Tilleys attorney wouldnt comment on the matter.What these officers seem to be saying is this mans ability to breathe was less important to them than a pair of handcuffs, said the lawyer for Loggins estate, Jacob Jordan of Tannehill, Carmean & McKenzie in Oxford.On Dec. 31, Loggins wife, Rika Jones, filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court, accusing the officers of assault and the medical personnel and the private jail operator of failing to provide him with proper medical treatment.Tilleys lawyer wrote in response that there is no proof the officer caused Loggins death or acted with excessive force and that he is shielded by qualified immunity, a legal doctrine that says government workers cant be held liable for what they do on the job, except in rare circumstances.Other officers also deny any wrongdoing. They are asking the judge to throw out the lawsuit, saying they are immune from such litigation because Loggins constitutional rights were never violated.Loggins repeatedly failed to follow commands, would not display his hands, and even assaulted an officer, they wrote in court filings. The video shows only the use of force necessary to effectuate the arrest.In its response, the private jail operator, Corrections Management Services, says its staff acted in good faith, with Clark advising police multiple times that Loggins would not be accepted into the jail and that he needed medical attention. Medical personnel have denied the suits allegations of failure to provide proper treatment.Robert Ford at a protest Aug. 21 outside the Grenada County Jail, where his son died in November 2018.Mississippi Center for Investigative ReportingTwo accidentsThe state medical examiner ruled Loggins death an accident, just like his mothers.The alleged culprit? Methamphetamine toxicity.The chief medical examiner who conducted the autopsy, Dr. Mark LeVaughn, was placed on administrative leave in November 2020 as the result of an unspecified attorney generals investigation. In January, he resigned. He couldnt be reached for comment.The autopsy makes no reference to the jailhouse video, which isnt in the case file.After viewing the video, as well as the autopsy report and photos, at the request of the Mississippi Center for Investigative Reporting, a forensic pathologist, Dr. Michael Baden, concluded that Loggins death was a homicide, saying the methamphetamine wasnt a fatal amount.They killed him by piling on top of him, he said. He absolutely died from some kind of asphyxia.After the Mississippi Center for Investigative Reportings story about Loggins death appeared in April, with the video included, Democratic Rep. Bennie Thompson and other Mississippi leaders asked Attorney General Merrick Garland to have the Justice Department investigate. Loggins father said the FBI has interviewed him. (The FBI declined to comment.)This summer, Ford stood with other protesters outside the Grenada County Jail, calling for justice in his sons case. If officers had taken Loggins into a cell to remove his handcuffs instead of piling on top of him while he was facedown, he would be alive today, his dad said. He didnt deserve to die like that.
A Bitcoin City in El Salvador inspired by ancient Greeks? Heres a reality check.. Dressed in pristine white in front of an audience of investors and foreign visitors, El Salvador's president, Nayib Bukele, recently announced plans to create an oceanside "Bitcoin City" at the base of a volcano.Bukele said his new urban center was inspired by the legendary cities built by Alexander the Great  except El Salvador's would be fueled by cryptocurrency.How the switch to bitcoin currency will benefit El Salvadors economy&nbsp;Aug. 3, 202103:24This is not just a nice idea. Its the evolution of humankind, Bukele told the audience amid a display of lights, smoke machines, an AC/DC song and images that showed, among other things, his figure descending from a multicolored UFO, his face in maximalist proportions and a re-creation of the square that will be in the center of the new city.Seen from the air, the town square would show the Bitcoin sign. But several analysts and experts sayit's impossible for a project of that magnitude to materialize in the coming years.No technical plan for the project has been disclosed. Bukele promised that it will be very close to the Conchagua volcano, whose geothermal energy will power bitcoin mining, as well as the citys needs.El Salvador has the natural resources to generate that energy, but it does not have the infrastructure. We must remember that we are one of the poorest countries in the region," said Jos Miguel Cruz, the director of research at the Kimberly Green Latin American and Caribbean Center at Florida International University. "That money could be invested in health and education." Bukele said his planned city will be totally ecological and that it will have almost total exemption from taxes: Only a value-added tax will be charged  13 percent  of which 6.5 percent will go to issue bonds to build the city, and the rest of which will be managed by the municipality for public services and other urban needs. The incentives to attract investment to the country are a double-edged sword, analysts said, becausethe government lacks the institutional controls to detect and sanction money laundering activitiesrelated to bitcoins.The Salvadoran government has been characterized by the systematic destruction of the institutions of political and financial control," Cruz said. "In addition, all projects with bitcoins are not transparent. So wedo not know who guarantees that there are no money laundering operations."A plan 'for other people'Almost 125 miles away, Dalila Melndez, 45, watched the event as if it were news from another world.In Soyapango, nobody uses those bitcoins, neither my friends nor my neighbors, nor do they receive them in the store. They do not serve us, because here everything is still pure dollars," said Melndez, who works in a factory in the enterprise zone of San Bartolo. "That [plan] of the president is for other people. More than two months have passed since bitcoins began to circulate as legal currency in El Salvador, and a recent survey revealed that, when Salvadorans can choose which currency to pay with,91.4 percent of people use the dollar, while only a 4.9 percent favor bitcoins.When a poll by the Center for Citizen Studies at Francisco Gavidia University asked Salvadorans about the decision to adopt bitcoin as the country's currency, 35 percent said they were in favor, while 40 percent were opposed. The truth is that now everything is more expensive, everything in the basic basket has risen a lot. Oil, meat  this bitcoin thing has not helped us yet, Melndez said.'Desperation to seek financing' Despite Bukele's attention-grabbing event, many analysts didn't focus on the idea of Bitcoin City but on another announcement: the issuance of volcano bonds in the bitcoin ecosystem worth $1 billion.According to a document Salvadoran government officials have distributed among potential investors, to which Noticias Telemundo had access,the operation of the bonds would be carried out in 2022, and half of the amount would go to buy bitcoins.The rest would be used to develop infrastructure in areas like energy and cryptocurrency mining.The bonds would run for 10 years at 6.5 percent interest; that is, if the proposal materializes, El Salvador would have to pay about $1.65 billion to investors.The announcement came as Bukeles government was in negotiations with the International Monetary Fund for a loan of $1.3 billion to improve state finances, because, experts said,the country risks defaulting on sovereign bonds maturing in 2023.Behind the announcement of the city and the volcanos bonds, what I see is desperation to seek financing for its populist programs, said Ricardo Castaneda Ancheta, an economist at the Central American Institute for Fiscal Studies.El Salvadors risk profile has skyrocketed to levels never seen before. If the country went out to place bonds in international markets, it would have to pay an interest rate of 14 or 15 percent  that is, it would be financial suicide. They are looking for alternatives in case the IMF [loan] is not achieved," Castaneda Ancheta said.Cristian Flores, the president's commissioner for strategic projects, said El Salvadors foray into the world cryptocurrency scene has given the country an economic boost.He said the new city is one of a series of government projects developing in the southern region.This year we achieved a 10-point growth. It's the first time in our history.That had never been achieved, and it's thanks to the economic strategy," he said. "In addition, a few days ago we had  more than 2,000 investors, and some had capital of up to $6 billion in bitcoins. Everything is part of a plan."Salvadorans struggle with bitcoin as official currencySept. 10, 202101:28After a visit to the country, however, the IMF warned that the countrys public debt could grow to 95 percent of its gross domestic product by 2026. It also said the use of bitcoin as legal currency entails serious risks because of the volatility of cryptocurrencies.The government clings to that growth figure, but it's not real," said Carlos Acevedo, a former president of El Salvador's Central Reserve Bank. "It's a rebound due to the 8 percent fall of last year due to the pandemic. In addition, all projections estimate that in the next few years we will grow again between 2 and 2.5 percent. If it really were solid growth, we would have levels of 7 and 8 percent in the following years. But that won't happen."'A paradise for money laundering'Bitcoin was created to carry out transactions without the intervention of trusted third parties, such as central banks or financial institutions.That is one of its great attractions, and, paradoxically, it's what makes Bukeles commitment so novel, because it means spending part of a countrys budget in a deeply speculative market  much more speculative than investing in commodities like oil, for example. This is almost like a national casino. It is playing with public money,betting it without having any certainty.If there is a stroke of luck and it generates a lot of money, in the end it is not clear how it is going to be invested and distributed in the country," said Cruz of Florida International University. "But the worst thing is that bitcoin falls, and it is an irreparable loss for such a poor nation."RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'Another element that concerns experts is one of bitcoin's most touted advantages: allowing transactions using only digital identities, which gives users a certain degree of anonymity.Its increasingly widespread use has made bitcoin the preferred currency for many illicit activities, such as computer attacks, or for intricate digital networks of illegal trade in drugs and weapons andeven to hire hitmen, according to reports.At this time, the government does not have the ability to determine if a bitcoin comes from an investor who obtained it by mining, in legal exchanges or from someone who extorts or is engaged in drug trafficking.Criminals are going to find a fertile field, because there is no institutional framework  El Salvador could be considered a paradise for money laundering," Castaneda Archeta said.In addition, financial regulations weren't modified after the law that allows the circulation of bitcoins was approved, so there is no legal framework to detect and sanction illicit operations carried out with cryptocurrencies, Castaneda Archeta said.Flores, the commissioner, said El Salvador is out in front in the fight against corruption, and Bukele has demanded that the governments finances be clean.We have seen the development of cryptocurrencies and how control mechanisms have improved, Flores said. As a country, we know that it is necessary to be open to these investors, but they must always go through a filter, a knowledge process, that allows our laws to be applied.Everything in life improves and changes, so our laws will evolve as different cases arise.But in July,the U.S. State Department publicized a list of senior officials in Central America deemed to be corrupt, including seven current and former top Salvadoran officials, among them Bukeles labor minister, Rolando Castro; his Cabinet chief, Carolina Recinos; and his former justice and security minister, Rogelio Rivas.A city built from scratch? Bitcoin City is intended to be in an environment with many tourist attractions on nearby beaches, so it lacks the infrastructure to house thousands of people and dozens of companies.Flores said the south of the country will become a center for tourist, economic and technological development with the construction of the Pacific airport, the reactivation of the port of La Unin  a project that has never operated efficiently  the building of a shipyard and, of course, the new Bitcoin City.He said over $2 billion in private tourism investment is projected in the area of the Gulf of Fonseca.The first thing we need is to have the capital, because urban projects of this size are sold in plans, and then you start to decide the timeline," Flores said. "I think that in the next five years we could have great advances in the works and  why not?  in 10 years, the developed project." In general, building a city is a slow process despite contemporary technological advances.Bitcoin City would require the creation of a municipality and the use of national land to start building infrastructure, including the possible expropriation of land. Its crazy to think that everything will be done in a few years. In fact,I dont remember any project in a Salvadoran city that has been built from scratch in the last century,and this is going to cause problems for the people who live in those areas, because we are a densely populated country. So they will have to expropriate land, Cruz said. Three days after the event on Mizata beach, the Salvadoran Legislative Assembly, dominated by the ruling party, approved a law that allows the expropriation of real estate for municipal works.The energy problemIn his presentation, Bukele emphasized that Bitcoin City will have zero CO emissions, because the new urban center, as well as the cryptocurrency mining operations, will use geothermal energy.Investigations have warned of the vast environmental impact of bitcoin mining, because it can consume as much electricity as a medium-size country.It is true that we are pioneers, because 25 percent of the energy that the country uses is of geothermal origin, but that has been achieved in more than five decades," said Carlos Martnez Cruz, a professor of electrical engineering at the University of El Salvador. "It is not installing a plant. And at once, we are going to get a well with 90 or 100 terawatts?That will never happen so fast."The government plans to use part of the capacity of a geothermal plant in the town of Berlin while the facilities are being built on the Conchagua volcano.But Martnez Cruz said that would create another problem that would end up affecting the environment.They are going to use a plant that is already operational to use that clean energy in the cryptocurrency industry, but that is going to leave a lot of people without electricity, because we import electricity. So they aregoing to have to create plants that burn petroleum derivatives to cover the deficit, and that will increase pollution," he said. The new city will be in a very hot area, so mining not only will consume electricity as the computers are processing, but also require solutions to cool the equipment, which consumes much more energy, Martnez Cruz added.For entrepreneurs like Juan Mayn, the director of the Honduran company TGU Consulting Group, El Salvador is the promised land, a place where you can pay for a coffee or a pizza with an electronic wallet. He said he believes that will boost the use of cryptocurrencies in the region.We recently installed the first bitcoin ATM in Honduras, but what the government of El Salvador is doing is very innovative," Mayn said. "I think Bukele is going to raise a lot of money with the bonds and the city. This can change things."Meanwhile, many Salvadorans, like Dalila Melndez,distrust money they can't touch and continue to prefer dollars for their daily lives.In my neighborhood, many people took the $30 from the Chivo wallet but then didn't use it anymore, Melndez said, referring to the digital bitcoin wallet the government created to promote the use of bitcoins. I dont understand much of it. An earlier version of this story was published in Noticias Telemundo.
Europes border agency under fire for aiding Libya's brutal migrant detentions. This article was produced in partnership with The Outlaw Ocean Project, a nonprofit journalism organization based in Washington that focuses on reporting about environmental and human rights crimes at sea.Around 5 p.m. on Feb. 4, roughly 70 miles north of Libya, a white reconnaissance plane with a camera on its underside circled a raft that was carrying a hundred desperate migrants trying to cross the Mediterranean Sea to reach Europe. The surveillance footage from the airplanes camera was transmitted live to an office in Warsaw, Poland, at the headquarters of Frontex, the European Unions border patrol agency.Two hours later, a Libyan Coast Guard cutter caught up with the migrants and ordered them to stop, even though they were well outside of Libyan waters. According to several migrants who survived the experience, the armed officers then took the migrants on board, beat them savagely, and carried them back to the one place they did not want to go: Libyas gulag of detention centers.Aliou Cand.Courtesy Jacaria CandTwo months later, on April 8, one of the passengers, a 28-year-old Bissau Guinean and father of three named Aliou Cand, was shot and killed in Libyas most notorious detention center, Al Mabani.The Libyan Coast Guards discovery of the boat was no coincidence. A Frontex official confirmed what several investigations by European news organizations have already found: Officials in multiple E.U. countries routinely transmit Frontexs aerial surveillance footage to the Libyan Coast Guard, which uses that information to pick up migrants and return them to a network of abusive detention centers in Libya.Efficient and brutal, the at-sea capture and on-land internment of these migrants is what European Union officials hail as part of a successful partnership with Libya in their humanitarian rescue efforts across the Mediterranean. But the true intent of this joint campaign, according to many human rights advocates, legal experts and members of the European Parliament, is less to save migrants from drowning than to stop them from reaching European shores.Since the migrant crisis started in 2015 and hundreds of thousands of people began crossing the Mediterranean Sea, European officials have relied heavily on the Libyans to stem the flow. Not only did the E.U. equip and train the Libyan Coast Guard, it also lobbied the United Nationsmaritime organization to recognize an enlarged search-and-rescue zone so that the Libyans could have wider reach off their coast.The E.U., led by Italy, has trained and equipped the Libyan Coast Guard to serve as a proxy maritime force, whose central purpose is to stop migrants from reaching European shores. Flying drones and airplanes over the Mediterranean, Frontex locates migrant rafts, then alerts the Italians, who, in turn, inform the Libyan authorities. Once captured by the Libyan Coast Guard, tens of thousands of these migrants are then delivered into a dozen or so detention centers run by militias.This collaboration has been the principal factor in a precipitous drop in the number of migrants reaching Europe: Around 20,000 migrants arrived in the first seven months of this year, down from 70,000 during the same period in 2016. Without the support of aerial reconnaissance from Frontex, the Libyan Coast Guard would in effect be searching with its eyes closed.Though the Libyan Coast Guard routinely opens fire on migrant rafts, has been tied by the U.N. to human trafficking and murder and is now run by militias, it continues to draw strong E.U. support. In 2020, the E.U. shipped four new speedboats to the Libyan Coast Guard so that it could more effectively capture migrants and send them to the same detention centers that the U.N. has described as being involved in state-sponsored crimes against humanity.Growing evidence of collaboration with LibyaFrontex has long denied direct cooperation with Libya, which has been a failed state largely run by militias since NATO allies deposed President Moammar Gadhafi in 2001. Most migrants from the Middle East or Africa seeking to get to Europe launch from Libya because the passage is cheaper than from Morocco or Tunisia, and the trip across the Mediterranean from Libya is relatively short. Frontex has insisted its sole aim is to save lives, and a spokesperson for the agency said that it only directly alerts Libyan authorities of migrant boats in a true emergency.International law obliges all vessels to provide assistance to any persons found in distress, the Frontex press office said in a statement, in response to requests for comment on this article. [Frontex] has never engaged in any direct cooperation with Libyan authorities.But a mounting body of evidence collected by European journalists and nongovernmental organizations suggests otherwise.Bangladeshi migrants making their way from Libya to Europe are rescued by the crew of the Geo Barents, a rescue vessel operated by Doctors Without Borders in the central Mediterranean, on June 12, 2021.Ed Ou / The Outlaw Ocean ProjectLast year, for instance, Lighthouse Reports, a Dutch nonprofit journalism organization, documented 20 instances in which Frontex aircraft were in the vicinity of migrant boats later captured by the Libyan Coast Guard. In a dozen of those cases, Lighthouse determined, Frontex was the first to identify the boats, meaning that under international law, it was obliged to notify not just the Libyan Coast Guard, but the nearest vessel  government or commercial  so that a rescue might be promptly undertaken.There is a clear pattern discernible, Lighthouse researchers asserted. Boats in distress are spotted, communications take place between European actors and the Libyan Coast Guard. No notice is given to nearby commercial shipping or NGO vessels despite its proximity to urgent situations where boats are in distress on the open sea.While the real numbers could be far higher, this representative sample showed that Frontex was present and watching while at least 91 people went missing and are presumed to have drowned.Frontex says that in emergency situations, it contacts any potential seaborne rescuer, including the Libyan Coast Guard, but says this does not imply it coordinates with Libya to pick up the migrants.The Al-Mabani detention center in Libya on May 18, 2021.Pierre Kattar / The Outlaw Ocean ProjectDocuments released in October following an open-records request by the European transparency group FragDenStaat show that Frontex even sends the locations of migrant rafts directly to the Coast Guard.In a WhatsApp exchange from June, Frontex wrote to a Captain of the Libyan Coast Guard, saying, Good morning sir  we have a boat adrift [at these coordinates]... please acknowledge this message.Frontex officials recently sent The Outlaw Ocean the results of an open-records request, which indicate that, from Feb. 1 to Feb. 5, around the time that Cand was at sea, the agency exchanged 37 emails with the Libyan Coast Guard.Hussein Baoumi, Amnesty Internationals Libya researcher, said he was not surprised by Frontexs continuing denial of a formal relationship with the Libyan Coast Guard.They want to separate themselves from the dirtiest aspects of migrant containment, Baoumi said. It doesnt matter. They are cooperating. They are directly complicit.Behind the migrant prisons, E.U. moneyThe E.U. has also denied directly funding the gulag of migrant prisons in Libya, while consistently both conceding their barbarity and calling for improvements. But lawmakers and human rights advocates have called for the E.U. to end its work with Libya and take steps to rescue those caught up in the countrys migrant jails.But if the E.U. does not pay to build the detention centers or staff their guards, European money does pay for virtually everything else in the inhumane system where migrants are routinely tortured, raped, unlawfully held and sometimes murdered, The Outlaw Ocean Project and The New Yorker found in a 11-month investigation based on financial reports, interviews with European parliamentarians and U.N. officials and aid workers, E.U. purchasing documents, an open-records request to Frontex and the European Commission, flight-tracking data, and open-source platforms including Facebook and Instagram.Through Frontex drones and planes, the E.U. is first responsible for spotting the rafts and, via Italian and Maltese authorities, handing this intelligence over to Libya. Then E.U.-purchased boats operated by the Libyan Coast Guard capture the migrants and bring them back to shore.Migrants wait to be returned by Libyan Coast Guard off the coast of Garabulli, Libya, on Oct. 19, 2021.Anadolu Agency via Getty Images fileFunds from the E.U. and member states, sometimes routed through aid organizations, pay for most of what happens next, the investigation found by scouring public databases such as the E.U. Tenders Portal. This money bought the shipping containers that double as port offices for the Libyan Coast Guard staff, and the touch-screen tablets used by aid workers who count the migrants as they disembark in Tripoli.The team examined public disclosures, interviewed European parliamentarians and combed through annual reports and audits of the E.U.s Emergency Trust Fund for Africa, which indicated that money from the E.U. and its member states pays for much of what happens to migrants in Libya. Some of these efforts make the prisons more humane, but they also help sustain a brutal system, which exists largely because of E.U. policies that send migrants back to Libya.The project also studied the social media pages of Libyan authorities, sourcing images and video of the boats, SUVs, ambulances and buses provided by the European Union that are being used to intercept and transport migrants to the detention centers.The investigation found that the E.U. pays for every aspect of the migrant interception infrastructure in some way  from aerial surveillance to Libyas boats, from the SUVs that intercept migrants in the desert to the buses that bring them from port to the gates of the detention centers. It even pays for the offices of the Libyan Coast Guard.A Libyan coastguard vessel carries migrants recovered off the coast of al-Khums, about 120 kilometres east of the capital, as it approaches the pier in Tripoli's naval base on Feb. 10, 2021.AFP via Getty ImagesSome of it may appear to be humanitarian assistance: the blankets, winter clothes, and slippers that migrants often receive upon arrival. The bathrooms at some of the detention centers as well as the showers, toilets, soap, hygiene kits, and toilet paper were bought with E.U. money. The same goes for the mattresses where the detained migrants sleep. When migrants in detention get sick, often the ambulances that take them to the hospital have been purchased by the E.U.But E.U. money also paid for the SUVs used by Libyan migration authorities to look for migrants if they escape detention or as they enter Libya in the south through the Saharan desert. Ultimately, experts and advocates said the abuses suffered by migrants would not be happening if E.U. money did not make it possible.If the E.U. did not finance the Libyan Coast Guard and its assets, there would be no interception, and there would be no referral to these horrific detention centers, said Tineke Strik, the Dutch member of the European Parliament who wrote the parliamentary report on Frontex.Asked about the involvement of the E.U. in Libyan abuses of migrants, Josep Borrell, the E.U.s High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, said the treatment of migrants is the sole responsibility of the Libyan government.Josep Borrell, the E.U.s High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, left, and Libyan Foreign Minister Najla al-Mangoush attend a press conference in Tripoli, Libya, on Sept. 8, 2021.Hamza Turkia / Xinhua News Agency via Getty Images fileThe [European] Commission does not support Libyas detention system, he said in a statement. Accordingly, the E.U. Emergency Trust Fund for Africa does not fund the countrys detention centers. However, through its partners, the Commission does provide lifesaving support to detained migrants, including Voluntary Humanitarian Return to the country of departure, non-food items, medical assistance, cleaning, as well as fumigation and disinfection to prevent diseases from spreading inside the centers.Migrants face a brutal detention systemIn May, I went to Libyas capital, Tripoli, to report on the countrys gulag of migrant jails. I interviewed dozens of migrants who had been imprisoned at Al Mabani, one of the most notorious detention centers, in the heart of the city. They told me of cells so crowded the detainees had to sleep in shifts. They spoke of a special room where migrants were sometimes beaten while hung upside from ceiling beams. And they shared with me the audio message that Aliou Cand, the young migrant from Guinea Bissau who was captured in February, had recorded on a cellphone sneaked into the jail in which he made a final plea to his family to send the ransom he needed to be set free.Messages are scrawled on a wall in the Gharyan Detention Center in Libya.The Outlaw Ocean ProjectCand was killed, the other migrants said, one of hundreds who died at the hands of guards and were buried in an overcrowded migrant cemetery in Tripoli.No one was punished for Cands death. E.U. officials called for an investigation, but then went silent.And then I got my own taste of Libyas brutality. A week into my reporting on Cands killing, I was abducted from my hotel room and held for almost a week by Libyas intelligence service, run by a militia called Al-Nawasi. I was blindfolded, two of my ribs were broken, and I was held incommunicado for five days before my eventual release. My crime? Reporting on migrants.My colleagues and I were later forced at gunpoint by our captors to sign a confession letter at the behest of the head of the Libyan intelligence service, a man named Maj. Gen. Hussein Muhammad Al-Aib.Frontex didnt want to understandSince Frontex is the tip of the spear, more attention is being paid to the role it plays and the legality of its involvement.A recent investigation by the European Parliament produced a litany of allegations against the agency  that it turned a blind eye to human rights violations committed by coast guard personnel from European countries and partner countries in Africa; that its own internal system for receiving and acting on complaints of misconduct was itself a failure; and that the agencys head, Fabrice Leggeri, had failed to act on four years of warnings from his agencys own top human rights official.Frontex issued a statement at the time saying that while it was not in violation of any human rights, it was willing to look into the criticism and the recommendations and try to strengthen the respect of fundamental rights in all our activities, in Leggeris words.Frontex director Fabrice Leggeri speaks in Rezovo, Bulgaria, on Sept. 15, 2021.Hristo Rusev / Getty Images fileBut in an interview with The Outlaw Ocean Project in late October, a senior Frontex official said Leggeri had engaged in a calculated and disingenuous game for years  insisting that evidence of misconduct by E.U. border agencies be produced before he would act, all while failing to ensure that complaints of such potential abuse were aggressively investigated.The senior official, who is not allowed to talk to reporters publicly and asked for anonymity, said it is no longer clear that Frontex is meeting its most essential obligation: making sure the rights of some of the worlds most vulnerable people are respected. The official said the angry and volatile emotions in Europe concerning the question of migration enforcement had eroded Frontexs complete independence.The influence of politics is a problem when you are handling the question of fundamental human rights, the official said. Even if its participation in returning migrants to Libya is indirect, Frontex may be violating E.U. law.No interest in investigating the allegations, the official said of Leggeri and his other most senior aides. It didnt matter what you told them. They didnt want to understand.Presented with the findings of this investigation, Leggeris office denied repeated requests for an interview.Border agency faces European justiceThis year, two landmark cases are being brought by migrants against Frontex before the Court of Justice of the European Union, the E.U.s chief judicial authority. The first case, filed in May, claims that Frontex has long been operating in violation of its obligations to report and halt criminal abuse of migrants seeking asylum in Europe.The case alleges that two migrants  a 17-year-old Congolese boy named Jeancy Kimbenga and a woman from Burundi who asked to remain anonymous  were part of a group of 13 that was rounded up by Greek authorities after arriving on the Greek island of Lesbos. They say they were forcibly transferred to a Coast Guard vessel and brought back out to sea before being abandoned on a lifeboat, eventually ending up back in Turkey.The allegations in the second case, filed in October, are even stronger. The case alleges that a Syrian family, with four children between the ages of 1 and 7, were deported from Greece in 2016 without being given access to an asylum procedure, and were returned to Turkey on a flight arranged by Frontex, with the four young children separated from their parents while Frontex staff looked on. The family was detained on landing in Turkey and now lives in northern Iraq.Portuguese Frontex crew members check coordinates as they monitor the Aegean Sea between Turkey and Greece for boats carrying refugees on March 30, 2016, near Mithymna, Greece.Dan Kitwood / Getty Images fileThe cases are the first time Frontex has been brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union. The agency dismissed the cases as an activist agenda pretending to be a legal case.The nonprofit group Human Rights Watch, in a report published last summer, issued a sweeping indictment of Frontexs performance, its organizational culture and its leadership.Frontex has repeatedly failed to take effective action when allegations of human rights violations are brought to its attention, said Eva Coss, Western Europe researcher at Human Rights Watch. Its rapid growth into an executive agency of the E.U., with increased powers, funding, and legal responsibilities makes it all the more urgent for Frontex to put in place effective tools to safeguard fundamental rights.Created in 2004, Frontex now has a budget of 541 million euros (about $619 million) and it employs more than 1,400 staff members, including a uniformed force of roughly 600 officers. The agency is governed by a management board consisting of representatives of the 25 E.U. member states and two members of the European Commission.In theory, there are a range of mechanisms by which Frontex could be held accountable, but it has rarely, if ever, faced any genuine sanction. Obtaining basic information from the agency, even for a member of the European Parliament, is difficult.Employees work in the situation room at the headquarters of the European Union border agency Frontex in Warsaw, Poland, on Sept. 29, 2015.Wojtek Radwanski / AFP via Getty Images fileWe really have problems with the lack of transparency, said Tineke Strik, a Dutch member of the European Parliament.In its analysis of the history of Frontexs work, Human Rights Watch noted that under its own bylaws, the agency has the power to suspend or end the operations of E.U. border agencies found to have committed abuses against migrants. In its entire history, Human Rights Watch said, the agency has never done so.Leggeri, Frontexs executive director, has repeatedly faced calls to resign in recent months. Protesters gathered outside Frontexs offices in Brussels in June calling for the abolishment of the agency altogether. In a letter to his staff, Leggeri, who worked on migration enforcement as a member of the French interior ministry, called the protests a hate campaign and vowed legal action.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'In June, Human Rights Watch sent the agencys top officials what it said was evidence of serious misconduct either committed or overlooked by Frontex in three European countries. It has yet to get a response. The organization accused Frontex of a cynical semantic game in avoiding responsibility for abuses taking place in both the Mediterranean and Aegean Seas.Over the years, Frontex has relied on its coordinating role and lack of executive authority to evade human rights responsibility, Human Rights Watch wrote. In December 2020 Frontex Executive Director Fabrice Leggeri told the European Parliament there was no evidence of Frontexs involvement in abuses in the Aegean and that only member states had the authority to make operational decisions, implying that Frontex could not be held responsible.Frontex, under pressure, ordered an internal review of its operations. Its own investigators offered a withering critique of the agencys systems for reporting problems in its ranks. The investigators said the agency needed to acknowledge its failures, and recommended what amounted to an overhaul of the agencys culture concerning its responsibilities for identifying and acting on concerns about human rights violations. It suggested that Frontex record on video the enforcement work being done by E.U. member states and preserve the recordings for investigation.The European border agency Frontex is headquartered in the Warsaw Spire skyscraper, seen here on April 6, 2018, in Warsaw, Poland.Jaap Arriens / NurPhoto via Getty Images fileIn June, a migrants rights organization that had for years been part of an independent board of advisers to Frontex withdrew from the group. Saying it felt ignored and marginalized, the organization, the Platform for International Cooperation on Undocumented Migrants, said it had grown uncertain of Frontexs role in a civil society.On yet another front, in January, the European Anti-Fraud Office opened an investigation into Frontex, looking at allegations of fraud, cases of illegally turning back migrants, and issues of workplace harassment, but the specific allegations have not been made public.Both Frontex and the European Anti-Fraud Office confirmed an investigation was taking place, but did not offer further details.[They] are operating very carefully, Strik said of investigators. But I spoke to them in August and they hope to finish within a few months.Outsourcing enforcement to a failed stateFrontexs work with Libya is part of a much larger and more expensive European push to outsource immigration enforcement to third-party countries. The E.U. has sent billions to countries such as Libya, Niger, Tunisia and others, ostensibly to help them improve conditions in their countries and thus limit the need for people to flee. But tens of millions of those dollars have gone to toughen immigration legislation and empower enforcement agencies in those countries, according to a variety of studies by nongovernmental organizations.In July, Amnesty International issued its latest report on the state of migrants in Libya. It noted that the Libyan Coast Guard, often after being alerted by Frontex to migrants trying to make it to Europe, races to intercept the migrant boats and capture those aboard, sometimes firing guns at the rafts or dinghies, occasionally capsizing them. In February, for example, the Coast Guard fired on a raft, puncturing it and causing it to sink. Five people drowned as members of the Coast Guard filmed with their cellphones, the report said.A message is scratched out on a wall inside the Gharyan Detention Center in Libya.The Outlaw Ocean ProjectThe Libyan Coast Guard, really a hodgepodge of local port authorities, has for years been understood by the U.N. and other institutional observers to be working in concert with the countrys militias, many of whom are involved in human trafficking. Indeed, the head of the Libyan government agency overseeing the crackdown on migrants has admitted in a series of recent interviews that corruption exists within the ranks of the Coast Guard.The senior Frontex official who talked to The Outlaw Ocean Project said the agency should not do any sort of business with the Libyan Coast Guard, in part because Europe didnt have a clue as to the integrity of those purporting to belong to the Coast Guard. Things were simply too broken and opaque in Libya, a divided and violent country still struggling to emerge from years of civil war, the official said.Its impossible, the official said, to have any vetting of who is who.
9 months after the Texas freeze, the power grid remains vulnerable. This article was published in partnership withThe Texas Tribune, a nonprofit, nonpartisan local newsroom that informs and engages with Texans. Sign up forThe Brief Weeklyto get up to speed on essential coverage of Texas issues.MIDLOTHIAN, Texas After last winters freeze hamstrung the flow of electricity to millions of customers from one big Texas utility, the companys CEO, Curt Morgan, said hed never seen anything like it in his 40 years in the energy industry.During the peak days of the storm, Morgans company, Vistra Corp., Texas largest power generator, sent as much energy as it could to power the states failing grid, often at the expense of making money, he told legislators shortly after the storm.ERCOT faces Texas lawmakers after devastating power outagesFeb. 25, 202101:14But it wasnt enough. The states grid neared complete collapse, millions of customers lost power for days in subfreezing temperatures, and more than 200 people died.Since the storm, Texas legislators have passed measures to make the grid more resilient during freezing weather. Signing the bill, Gov. Greg Abbott said, Everything that needed to be done was done to fix the power grid.But Morgan isnt so sure. His company has spent $50 million this year preparing more than a dozen of its plants for winter. At the companys plant in Midlothian, southwest of Dallas, workers have wrapped electric cables with 3 inches of rubber insulation and built enclosures to help shield valves, pumps and metal pipes.An employee of Vistra Corp.s Midlothian Power Plant in Midlothian, Texas, adjusts the wiring of a power unit Oct. 15. Energy providers like Vistra are preparing their plants for extreme weather after the February winter storm.Shelby Tauber / The Texas TribuneNo matter what Morgan does, however, it wont be enough to prevent another disaster if there is another severe freeze, he said.Thats because the state still hasnt fixed the critical problem that paralyzed his plants: maintaining a sufficient supply of natural gas, Morgan said.Natural gas slowed to a trickle during the storm, leaving the Midlothian facility and 13 other Vistra power plants that run on gas without enough fuel. The shortage forced Vistra to pay more than $1.5 billion on the spot market for whatever gas was available, costing it in a matter of days more than twice what it usually spends in an entire year. Even then, plants were able to operate at only a small fraction of their capacities; the Midlothian facility ran at 30 percent during the height of the storm.Why couldnt we get it? Morgan asked recently. Because the gas system was not weatherized. And so we had natural gas producers that werent producing.Twelve miles of pipes at Vistra Corp.s Midlothian Power Plant in Midlothian, Texas, will be insulated and heated to maintain the internal temperature during extreme weather.Shelby Tauber / The Texas TribuneIf another major freeze hits Texas this winter, the same thing could happen, Morgan said in an interview.The predicament in Midlothian reflects a glaring shortcoming in Texas efforts to prevent a repeat of February, when a combination of freezing temperatures across the state and skyrocketing demand shut down natural gas facilities and power plants, which rely on one another to keep electricity flowing. The cycle of failures sent economic ripples across the country that cost hundreds of billions of dollars.The power and gas industries say they are working to make their systems more reliable during winter storms, and the Public Utility Commission, the state agency that regulates the power industry, finally acted on recommendations that federal regulators made a decade ago after another severe winter storm.But energy experts say Texas grid remains vulnerable, largely because new regulations allowed too much wiggle room for companies to avoid weatherization improvements that can take months or years. More than nine months after Februarys storm  which could exceed Hurricane Harvey as the costliest natural disaster in state history  a lack of data from regulators and industry groups makes it impossible to know how many power and gas facilities are properly weatherized.Many energy providers, like Vistra, are preparing their plants for extreme weather to prevent a repeat of last winter's power problems.Shelby Tauber / The Texas TribuneFor millions of Texans, that means there is no assurance that they will have electricity and heat if there is another major freeze.If we see a recurrence of the storm we saw last year, people should probably be worried, said Adrian Shelley, the director of the Texas office of Public Citizen, a nonprofit consumer advocacy group.The stakes are high, and not just for Texas, the countrys top energy-producing state. Its winter preparedness, which affects customers as far away as California and Minnesota, is a test of the U.S.s ability to deal with climate change, which is making weather more extreme, more unpredictable and deadlier.Extreme weather events, such as the one in February 2021, are unfortunately becoming more commonplace and the electricity ecosystem needs to come together to plan for and prepare to operate under more extreme, longer duration, and wide area weather events, Jim Robb, the president and CEO of North American Electric Reliability Corp., said in a statement.Robbs nonprofit organization, which helps set reliability standards for the power industry, published a joint report with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission this month that detailed the failures of both the power and the natural gas industries to protect against Februarys storm, despite recommendations by federal agencies after a similar disaster in 2011. That storm caused rolling blackouts across much of the state over three days  but no deaths  as then-Gov. Rick Perry asked Texans to conserve electricity.Although the natural gas industry has blamed electricity generators for the February blackouts  claiming gas slowed only after power was cut to their facilities  the report said freezing temperatures were the main cause of a sharp decline in natural gas in Texas and neighboring states in the early days of the storm that triggered a cascade of outages.Its a regulatory problemBut federal regulators have little say in how the Texas grid operates.The main Texas grid is an island, not connected to the countrys two major power grids. That is by design, the result of state leaders actions decades ago to avoid federal regulation and encourage free-market competition. Multiple state agencies, as well as a nonprofit organization, the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, or ERCOT, govern the grids operations, writing rules based on laws passed by state legislators.The legislators responded to Februarys disaster by passing measures to improve the power systems preparedness for winter. They established weatherization mandates but left it to state regulators to implement them.The Public Utility Commission followed with a rule enacting the weatherization requirements. But the rule allows power plants to request exceptions if they document their efforts to comply, explain why they couldnt and submit plans to do so later.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'The Texas Railroad Commission, which regulates the natural gas industry, is working more slowly. A proposal published in September and expected to be finalized Wednesday lays out a timeline that would identify, map and impose weatherization mandates for gas producers that supply power plants by early 2023. It also seeks to prevent a repeat of a major paperwork error that resulted in dozens of natural gas providers having their power cut off during Februarys rolling blackouts because they failed to declare themselves critical infrastructure.But the proposed rule, which the Railroad Commission said was written to reflect the language in the new state law, would allow gas companies to opt out of that classification and avoid having to weatherize their equipment. That infuriated many legislators, even though theyd voted for the law that allowed it after lobbying by the natural gas industry.Power is transformed into usable energy at the main switchyard of Vistra Corp.s power plant in Midlothian, Texas.Shelby Tauber / The Texas TribuneThe result is that Texas has done next to nothing to weatherize its natural gas supply, said Doug Lewin, an Austin-based energy consultant.We dont have a regulatory system in place that holds the industry accountable. That is the problem, Lewin said. Its not a technology or engineering problem. Its a regulatory problem.Natural gas fuels a majority of power generation in Texas, especially in the winter. At one point during Februarys storm, more than half of the states natural gas supply was shut down because of power outages, frozen equipment and weather conditions, ERCOT said, adding that at least 20 percent of all of the outages the week of the storm were due to power plants not getting enough gas.The natural gas industry, which has been among the most politically powerful in Texas for generations, has donated generously to the campaigns of governors, legislators and Railroad Commission members. That contributes to a culture in which gas companies have escaped strict weatherization mandates, energy experts and consumer advocates say.The Texas Oil and Gas Association, one of the most prominent energy lobbyist groups in Texas, defended the gas industrys image in a public relations campaign after the storm. It also has had a heavy hand in deciding who sits on an informal advisory council that legislators codified after the storm to ensure that energy and electricity operations continue during extreme weather.Industry group: Natural gas system will be prepared for winterTodd Staples, the president of the Texas Oil and Gas Association, said gas companies already weatherize to varying degrees and are working with a sense of urgency.The best way to avoid a repeat of February is for power companies to get access to more stored gas ahead of a storm, he said in an interview.Staples said more than 1,000 facilities  out of more than 250,000 statewide  have filled out paperwork to be added to the list of critical facilities that wont have their power cut off. Thats up from just 60 before the storm, Staples said.The number will continue to rise after the Railroad Commission enacts its weatherization rule, Staples said. Because not all gas facilities immediately need emergency power during storms, Staples said, the Railroad Commission should set up a system to prioritize which get power before others.Vistra Corp.s Midlothian Power Plant in Midlothian, Texas.Shelby Tauber / The Texas TribuneHe said the industry would be prepared for winter, including having more gas in storage. If the power is kept on, natural gas will continue at a reasonable level, Staples saidOncor, Texas largest electricity transmission and distribution company, which delivers power to 3.8 million homes and businesses, said that since the February storm it has received 1,061 forms from gas companies declaring their infrastructure as critical, a sign that they are likely to be weatherized and prepared to operate during a grid emergency. AEP Texas and CenterPoint Energy, which together service more than 3.6 million Texas households and businesses, said they have received 278 more forms from gas companies registering their facilities as critical.Several of Texas largest natural gas producers, including XTO Energy and Apache Corp., didnt respond to calls or emails seeking comment on their weatherization efforts. Representatives of BP and Devon Energy declined to comment.And the Railroad Commission said it didnt know how many natural gas companies are actually prepared for winter. An agency spokesperson said ERCOT would have the information. An ERCOT spokesperson declined to comment.As the Railroad Commission works on its weatherization rule, electricity companies  including Oncor, AEP Texas, CenterPoint and Texas-New Mexico Power Co.  have already begun criticizing the proposal. The companies filed a comment with the commission arguing that the proposed rule was too vague and that it does not provide information electric utilities will need in order to efficiently and effectively incorporate natural gas facilities into their respective emergency plans.Virginia Palacios, the executive director of Commission Shift, an organization that researches the Railroad Commissions ties to the oil and gas industry, said the long process of creating weatherization rules has prevented Texas from preparing for this winter.We are not going to have any assurances that operators are weatherizing for this winter, she said. And probably not for the next one.
Student becomes fourth person to die in Michigan school shooting as suspect is identified, charged with murder. A 17-year-old student is the fourth victim to die in a shootingat Oxford High School in Michigan as murder charges were announced against the teenage suspect.The suspect, Ethan Crumbley, 15, was charged Wednesday with four counts of first-degree murder, one count of terrorism causing death, seven counts of assault with intent to murder and 12 counts of possession of a firearm in the commission of a felony.He is being charged as an adult and was arraigned later Wednesday.Oakland County Prosecutor Karen McDonald said at a news conference that the shooting Tuesday at Oxford High School was planned, "not just an impulsive act." "There is a mountain of digital evidence  videotape, social media, all digital evidence possible  and it absolutely, we are confident that we can show it was premeditation," she told reporters. 17-year-old boy becomes fourth victim in Michigan high school shootingDec. 1, 202101:52The charges came shortly after authorities announced that the fourth victim had died  Justin Shilling, 17. Shilling died around 10:45 a.m. Wednesday at McLaren Oakland Hospital in Pontiac, the Oakland County Sheriff's Office said. Authorities previously identified the three other students who were killed as Hana St. Juliana, 14; Madisyn Baldwin, 17; and Tate Myre, 16. Seven other people were seriously wounded and taken to hospitals, including a teacher, Sheriff Michael Bouchard said. Three had been were released by Wednesday afternoon, and two teenagers remained in serious condition.The shooting happened just before 1 p.m. Authorities said more than a hundred 911 calls came in to dispatch.  Investigators allege that Crumbley began shooting after he left a bathroom and that he remained in the school's hallway until he was detained. Undersheriff Michael McCabe had said the suspect was in custody within five minutes of deputies arrival. He suspect was denied bond and will be transferred to the Oakland County Jail, where he will be isolated from other inmates.McDonald talked Wednesdays news conference about how students, teachers and staff members sought shelter as shots rang out. "When the shooting started yesterday, the students and teachers and staff in the school had to act quickly to save their own lives," she said."Law enforcement and all of the first responders had to act quickly to prevent more lives from being lost and get help for those who had been shot," McDonald said, adding that the suspect was being charged with terrorism because the people had to flee and hide."What about all the other children who ran, screaming, hiding under desks? What about all the children at home right now who can't eat and can't sleep and can't imagine a world where they can ever step foot back in that school?" she said. "Those are victims, too, and so are their families, and so is the community. And the charge of terrorism reflects that."Prosecutors considering charges against suspect's parentsThe handgun believed to have been used was recovered. Investigators said they believe the suspect's father bought the 9 mm Sig Sauer handgun Friday, Bouchard said.Bouchard said Wednesday morning on CNN that it is clear that the shooter "came out with the intent to kill people." "He was shooting people at close range, oftentimes towards the head or chest," he said. "It's just absolutely cold-hearted murderous. And our forensic team was working all night, and so far I believe they recovered over 30 shell casings. So we believe he fired at least 30 shots."RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'Eighteen live, unfired rounds were found after the suspect was detained. Police found seven in his pocket, and 11 more were discovered later in a magazine, Bouchard said. Bouchard said that the suspect's parents have asked for a lawyer and that, under Michigan law, authorities cannot speak with a juvenile without parental permission. "They have refused that permission," he said. "So we cant get the motive from the suspect that we have in custody, but we think weve got a path to get a lot of supportive information as to how and why this occurred." Because they have not yet been able to question the suspect, investigators are still unclear about what motive he may have had, Bouchard added."There is nothing that he could have faced that would warrant senseless, absolutely brutal violence on other kids," he said.Crumbley's parents had been asked to speak with the school Monday and Tuesday, before the shooting, to discuss "concerning" classroom behavior, Bouchard said. He did not detail the discussions but said there had been no history that would have offered warning signs. The high school's anti-bullying coordinator told investigators that the school did not have records that the suspect had any history of being bullied. It did not appear that students were individually targeted. This is a breaking story; check back for updates.
First U.S. case of omicron variant is found in California. The omicron variantof the coronavirus has been detected in California, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced Wednesday.The CDC said in a statement that the California Department of Public Health and the San Francisco Department of Public Health confirmed the case in a traveler who returned from South Africa on Nov. 22  three days before scientists in that country announced they'd detected the new variant.The person, an adult under age 50, developed symptoms a few days after arriving in the U.S. and got tested on Nov. 28, California Gov. Gavin Newsom said Wednesday. The test came back positive for Covid-19 on Monday, Nov. 29. "The individual, who was fully vaccinated and had mild symptoms that are improving, is self-quarantining and has been since testing positive," the CDC statement read. Close contacts of the person have been undergoing Covid tests and so far, no one has tested positive.The fact that the person had only mild symptoms is a testimony to vaccinations, Dr. Mark Ghaly, secretary of the California Health and Human Services Agency, said during a news conference."Vaccinations do a really important thing: protect against severe disease, against hospitalization and death," he said.During a separate news conference, Dr. Grant Colfaxof the San Francisco Department of Public Health said the patient had received two doses of the Moderna vaccine, but had not received a booster shot. 'We are prepared': San Francisco health official responds to omicron variant found in U.S.Dec. 1, 202101:43It is another example of the importance not only of vaccination, but also of the booster shot, Dr. Anthony Fauci, head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said Wednesday at a White House news conference.Even though the current vaccines do not target variants such as delta or omicron, "you get spillover protection even against a variant that the vaccine wasn't specifically directed at," he said."If you're eligible for boosting, get boosted right now," Fauci advised.Newsom said the person with the omicron variant had received the Covid vaccine within the last six months, and therefore was not yet eligible for a booster shot.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'The omicron variant has a high number of mutations that suggest it may spread just as or more easily than the delta variant, which accounts for 99.9 percent of Covid cases in the U.S. Scientists have cautioned that it's still unclear whether omicron is more dangerous than other versions of the virus that has killed more than 5 million people worldwide. It is also unknown how well the vaccines and treatments would work against the variant. The World Health Organization saidMonday that the global risk of thenew variantis "very high." "Omicron's very emergence is another reminder that although many of us might think we're done with Covid-19, it's not done with us," WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus tolda special sessionof the World Health Assembly.The U.S. last weekrestricted travelfrom South Africa and seven neighboring countries.The CDC is now also requiring all airline passengers traveling from those areas to provide their names and contact information while they remain in the U.S.On Thursday, President Joe Biden is scheduled to update the nation on his plan to combat Covid through the winter. It is likely to include a requirement that travelers entering from other countries get tested within a day of their flight."Anybody and everybody whos coming into the country needs to get a test within 24 hours of getting on the plane to come here," Fauci said Wednesday. Meanwhile, public health experts continue to recommend tried-and-true ways of Covid protection: vaccination and a booster, wearing masks indoors and in crowded spaces, and continued physical distancing.Colfax, of San Francisco, said Wednesday that the city was not considering altering any restrictions.The variant has been detected in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Italy, Portugal, Germany, Belgium, Canada, Australia, Israel and Hong Kong, among other countries.While world leaders and health experts are urging people to get vaccinated as soon as possible, some countries are struggling to inoculate their populations due to lack of access.
What today's activists can learn from  AIDS advocacy group ACT UP. Jesse Milan, who has been an advocate for people living with HIV and AIDS for more than 30 years, said that one memory from 1992 has returned to him repeatedly over the course of his work and continues to inspire him  especially when people mention the activist group AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power.By 1992, nearly 203,000 people had died from the disease, including Milans partner. Milan was the chair of the Ryan White Planning Council in Philadelphia, which allocates funding for HIV care and prevention services.Whenever someone mentions ACT UP  which was formed in New York City in 1987  immediately what comes to mind is me sitting at the head of a table of a Ryan White Planning Council meeting with a vocal leader of ACT UP standing in front, pointing their finger at me directing that we should do more, said Milan, who is now president and CEO of the national organization AIDS United, which fights to end the HIV epidemic. I will never forget it. Thats how important ACT UP has been in holding people accountable for the work that we need to do. That image informs and inspires and guides me all the time.The vocal leader pointing his finger was JD Davids, an advocate and writer.Milan, who has also been living with HIV for 39 years, said he and Davids continue to be colleagues and fellow advocates.Just because you were held accountable and just because we were being urged to do more does not mean that we ever view those as negative, he said, adding that, in fact, many public health and government officials appreciated that ACT UP brought the direct perspectives of people living with HIV.ACT UP formed out of the collective anger people felt in response to a lack of government action to address the AIDS crisis. The organization, led mostly by queer people, has come to have a worldwide impact on science, health care and how people organize to demand change.Transformed how queer people saw themselvesOn March 10, 1987, gay activist and playwright Larry Kramer gave a speech at the Lesbian and Gay Community Center in Manhattan and called for the creation of an AIDS activist group, according to ACT UPs website. Two days later, more than 300 people showed up to a meeting to create ACT UP, which is now known as ACT UP New York. There were 148 chapters worldwide at its peak.One member of the New York chapter, Ann Northrop, described the group at a meeting in November 1989 as a diverse, nonpartisan group of individuals united in anger and committed to direct action to end the AIDS crisis, Rolling Stone reported at the time.Flashback: Radical AIDS activist group ACT UPOct. 19, 201601:05The organization became nationally known for its large demonstrations. For example, in September 1989, seven members of ACT UP infiltrated the New York Stock Exchange and chained themselves to the VIP balcony. They released a banner that read, SELL WELLCOME, which specifically targeted Burroughs Wellcome Co., a pharmaceutical company that sold AZT, the only approved drug for AIDS at the time. ACT UP demanded that the company drop the price of the drug  which cost $8,000 a year at the time  by 25 percent. Four days later, the company reduced the price by 20 percent, to about $6,400.And that was just one of ACT UPs many achievements, according to Sarah Schulman, a journalist who was a member of ACT UP from 1987 to 1992 and authored the book Let the Record Show: A Political History of ACT UP New York, 1987-1993, which came out earlier this year.Protestors lie on the street in front of the New York Stock Exchange in a demonstration against the high cost of the AIDS treatment drug AZT, on Sept. 14, 1989.Tim Clary / AP fileThe group forced the pharmaceutical industry and scientists to change how they researched medications to prioritize the needs of people living with AIDS instead of trying to get the largest market share, she said. It also forced the Food and Drug Administration to make experimental drugs available to people who needed them, even if the drugs had not gone through an approval process. After a four-year campaign, it pushed the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Social Security Administration to change the definition of AIDS so that women with AIDS could access benefits and get into experimental drug trials. It also removed HIV as a pre-existing condition for private insurance, which Schulman noted suddenly made it available to up to 500,000 additional people.In New York City, specifically, ACT UP succeeded in a campaign to make needle exchange legal, and it started Housing Works for people living with AIDS who were experiencing homelessness.I guess you could say that ACT UP really transformed the way that people with AIDS and queer people saw themselves and were received by the general public, Schulman said.Mark Harrington, who joined ACT UP in 1988, was a member of its treatment and data team, which helped create parallel track, which allowed 35,000 people to get access to an AIDS drug before it was approved.Protesters take to the streets of New York's financial district on March 24, 1997. Some 300 protesters, marking the 10th anniversary of the forming of the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power (ACT UP), converged on the Wall Street area to call attention to the high price of AIDS drugs.Todd Plitt / AP fileThat achievement, among others, shows that ordinary people have a right to participate in science, have the ability to make tremendous changes in the way that research and policy is done in this country and elsewhere around the world, Harrington said. Harrington and a group of ACT UP members left the organization in 1992 to create the Treatment Action Group, a research and policy think tank that is fighting to end HIV, tuberculosis and hepatitis C.By the time we left ACT UP, it already made a tremendous difference that I think set the foundation for the way the country and indeed many parts of the world have responded to HIV and even sometimes other pandemics, Harrington said. He noted that, for example, much of the infrastructure that resulted in the Covid-19 vaccines was built on the architecture of AIDS vaccine research efforts of the last 30 years and epidemic outbreak work conducted at the National Institutes of Health.Be relentlessMilan said his work is informed not just by his personal experience with Davids in Philadelphia, but also by ACT UPs collective impact on activism.ACT UP had a tremendous impact on galvanizing not only grassroots response, but demanding a national response to the epidemic, and they were fearless in approaching anyone in power who had an influence over what should be done, how it should be done and how it would be funded, he said.The group held officials and organizations accountable, and were still holding officials and organizations accountable today, he said. And thats part of the important legacy of ACT UP.No longer a death sentence: How living with HIV has changedJune 10, 202111:11ACT UP members used what they called the inside-outside strategy to force change, Harrington said, and its something many groups today continue to use, though not by name.First, activists learn everything they can about the issues that are relevant to the area they want to change. Harrington said the treatment and data team learned everything it could about clinical trials, for example, and other groups did the same for issues related to housing, safe-sex education and needle exchanges.Then they would come up with policy ideas around how to address those issues and meet with people in power to change policy. If those people refused a meeting or wouldn't give activists what they asked for, he said, they held nonviolent demonstrations and engaged the media.You may want to make a lot of noise about it and then you want to create basically conditions where the people who have the power to change the situation are more or less under a lot of pressure to listen to you, and then to get to know you and to start making the changes that youre asking for, Harrington said.In December 1989, more than 5,000 ACT UP demonstrators protested in front of St. Patrick's Cathedral in midtown Manhattan against Cardinal John O'Connor and the Catholic Archdiocese. The AIDS awareness group blamed the Cardinal for preventing access to lifesaving AIDS prevention information for students and abortion access for women.Viviane Moos / Corbis via Getty Images fileHe added that, unfortunately, it can take years for research or policy to change the underlying conditions for people living with AIDS or any other illnesses. He pointed to New York City, which announced on Tuesday the first supervised drug injection sites to prevent overdoses.AIDS activists and harm reduction activists had been working on that for 30 years, he said. So it just happened yesterday, but it took 30 years to get a city anywhere in the U.S. to be able to have the political will to open it.He said oftentimes that means change comes too late for people like his friend Scott, who developed AIDS-related complex  a phrase thats no longer used that describes symptoms that indicate HIV infection prior to developing AIDS. Scott was unemployed and uninsured, and Harrington joined ACT UP because he wasnt sure how to help him. Scott died in 1991.He probably lived a little bit longer because of some of the early treatment advances that we made, but basically, it was too late for him, because the Reagan administration hadnt done enough and theyd waited too long, he said. So theres always a lot of losses along the way, and I guess the lesson is to keep at it, find some allies, get to know the issues. Try to get some allies inside of the policy and scientific communities, and be relentless.
The most entertaining and bingeworthy queer content arriving in December. December is delivering powerful queer cinema, blockbuster hits, the revival of a beloved TV show and, of course, tons of holiday content. Here is a list of upcoming and recently released LGBTQ-inclusive shows and films to watch as the clock counts down to the end of 2021.'Queen of the Universe'A global drag adventure is headed to Paramount+. As many as 14 drag superstars, representing 10 countries, will battle it out in front of live audiences in the new Queen of the Universe singing competition. Contestants include familiar faces such as American Idol alum Ada Vox and RuPauls Drag Race all-star Jujubee. Sitting on the star-studded judging panel are Vanessa Williams, singer Leona Lewis, longtime Drag Race judge Michelle Visage and All Stars season three winner, Trixie Mattel.Queen of the Universe season one premieres on Paramount+ on Dec. 2.'Single All the Way'Philemon Chambers and Michael Urie in "Single All The Way".Philippe Bosse / NetflixNetflix is gifting audiences with its first gay holiday rom-com, Single All The Way. Concerned that hell be judged for being single, Peter (Michael Urie) recruits best friend, Nick (Philemon Chambers), to pose as his boyfriend during the holidays with his family. Peter quickly finds himself in a complicated love triangle when his mom sets him up on a blind date with her spin instructor (Luke Macfarlane). Get ready for Christmas-themed romantic hijinks from a cast of campy comedy legends who include Kathy Naijmy, Jennifer Robertson, Barry Bostwick and Jennifer Coolidge herself. Single All the Way premieres on Netflix on Dec. 2.'The Bitch Who Stole Christmas'RuPaul has assembled the largest-ever cast of RuPauls Drag Race alumni for The Bitch Who Stole Christmas. In the film, an overworked fashion journalist is sent to a holiday-obsessed town by her editor  played by RuPaul, naturally  in search of a big story. Anyone familiar with Drag Race acting challenges can guess what comes next: a ball, cutthroat housewives and a plot to overthrow Christmas. The 20 queens who signed on to drag up the holidays include Ginger Minj, Canadas Drag Race host Brooke Lynn Hytes, Manila Luzon, Gottmik and the most recent All Stars winner, Kylie Sonique Love. Michelle Visage, Carson Kressley, Ross Matthews and Kim Petras also join in the festivities. The Bitch Who Stole Christmas premieres on VH1 on Dec. 2.'Benedetta'Paul Verhoevens "Benedetta" stars Virginie Efira.SBS ProductionsFrom Paul Verhoeven  the prolific director behind cult classics Showgirls, Basic Instinct, RoboCop and more  Benedetta features 17th-century lesbian nuns, irreverent comedy and over-the-top nudity. When a young nun, Benedetta Carlini (Virginie Efira), is tormented by religious-themed erotic visions, she becomes entangled with a woman who has joined the convent to escape her abusive father. Together, they grab power and live in Sapphic bliss until Benedettas God complex threatens to ruin them both. The film is loosely based on Judith C. Browns 1986 nonfiction book Immodest Acts: The Life of a Lesbian Nun in Renaissance Italy, though Verhoeven seems to be more much more interested in farce than history. Benedetta debuts in U.S. theaters Dec. 3.'Flee'Jonas Poher Rasmussens animated documentary FleeNeonThe animated documentary Flee centers on a man identified as Amin Nawabi, a refugee from Afghanistan who left his country for a new life in Denmark, as he shares a painful hidden past ahead of marrying his soon-to-be husband. The film, which won a grand jury prize at this years Sundance Film Festival, has generated a fair amount of Oscar buzz since it was announced as the official Danish entry. Flee was written by director Jonas Poher Rasmussen, in partnership with Nawabi, and executive-produced by actors Riz Ahmed (Sound of Metal) and Nikolaj Coster-Waldau (Game of Thrones), who voice the English-language version. Flee premieres in U.S. theaters Dec. 3.'Harlem'Girls Trip writer Tracey Oliver tells a more personal story in the new comedy Harlem. Meagan Good, Grace Byers, Shoniqua Shandai and Jerrie Johnson star as best friends navigating their 30s and chasing their dreams while living in the historic Black, New York neighborhood of Harlem. Johnson plays Tye, a tech entrepreneur with an alpha personality, who runs a successful queer dating app but struggles to be vulnerable in relationships. Tye is joined by fashion designer Quinn (Byers), singer Angie (Shandai) and adjunct professor Camille (Good). Behind the scenes, big-name producers such as Amy Poehler and Pharrell Williams and recurring guest characters like Whoopi Goldberg add even more star power.Harlem season one premieres on Amazon Prime Video on Dec. 3.'Coming Out Colton' Colton Underwood.Jerod Harris / Getty Images for TubiAfter multiple attempts to find love in The Bachelor universe, and a lot of speculation about his self-professed virginity, Colton Underwood came out as gay this year in an interview on Good Morning America. The former NFL player immediately received both praise and criticism, with some accusing him of attempting to capitalize on his sexuality. Netflixs reaction was to give him an unscripted show, Coming Out Colton. The series chronicles the story of Underwood coming out, including the controversy it created.Coming Out Colton season one premieres on Netflix on Dec. 3.'And Just Like That' Cynthia Nixon, Sarah Jessica Parker and Kristin Davis.HBOAnd just like that, Carrie, Miranda and Charlotte are together again. In the new Sex and the City revival, the trio of now fiftysomething friends deal with life, love and friendship in New York City (again). Alongside the three returning actresses  Sarah Jessica Parker, Kristin Davis and Cynthia Nixon  a handful of beaus and best friends reprise their original roles. Though Kim Cattrall declined to rejoin the franchise as fan-favorite Samantha, stirring controversy. The cast of And Just Like That is filled out with a slew of new members, including Sarita Choudhury, Nicole Ari Parker, Isaac Powell and Sara Ramirez, as a queer, nonbinary podcaster and comedian.And Just Like That season one premieres on HBO Max on Dec. 9.'West Side Story'Ariana DeBose, center, in a scene from "West Side Story."Twentieth Century StudiosSteven Spielbergs highly anticipated adaptation of the Broadway musical West Side Story stars Rachel Zegler in her feature film debut as Maria and Ansel Elgort as Tony. The original musical was the brainchild of some of the 20th centurys biggest names in theater: writer Arthur Laurents, composer Leonard Bernstein, director-choreographer Jerome Robbins and lyricist-composer Stephen Sondheim (the film gives cinephiles and theatergoers an opportunity to mourn Sondheims death recently). And, for an extra dose of nostalgia, Rita Moreno, who won best supporting actor for her portrayal of Anita in the 1961 film adaptation, returns in a new role.West Side Story will be available on HBO Max and in theaters Dec. 10.'Claws'The claws are coming out for one more round. TNTs crime series starring Niecy Nash is ending the year with its fourth and final season, closing the book on five manicurists in Florida who turn money laundering into a women-run crime empire. Claws  which also stars Carrie Preston, Judy Reyes (as lesbian enforcer Quiet Ann), Karrueche Tran, Dean Norris (as bisexual crime boss Uncle Daddy) and Evan Daigle (as Uncle Daddys boy toy, Toby)  will kick off the season with a two-hour premiere.Claws season four premieres on TNT on Dec. 19.'The Matrix Resurrections' Set 20 years after the last film in the franchise, The Matrix Resurrections finds Neo (Keanu Reeves) living as an everyday citizen, named Thomas A. Anderson, who is seemingly unaware of his past adventures as the Chosen One  and his time with Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss). When his old friend Morpheus shows up offering him the red pill, Neo will once again have to choose whether to open his mind to the Matrix. Joining Reeves and Moss, Jada Pinkett Smith reprises her role as Niobe, alongside a collection of new cast members, including Yahya Abdul-Mateen II, Jessica Henwick, Jonathan Groff, Neil Patrick Harris and Priyanka Chopra Jonas. Lana Wachowski, one half of the trans sister duo behind the original Matrix trilogy, directs the film, which she co-wrote with Sense8 collaborators David Mitchell and Aleksandar Hemon. Last year, Lily Wachowski shared in a Netflix interview that the original series was intended to be a trans allegory: The Matrix stuff was all about the desire for transformation, but it was all coming from a closeted point of view. The Matrix Resurrections will be available on HBO Max and in U.S. theaters Dec. 22.'Vigil'Detective Chief Inspector Amy Silva (Gentleman Jack star Suranne Jones) is tasked with investigating a mysterious death aboard the HMS Vigil, a ballistic missile submarine. But the inquiry quickly puts her at odds with the officers onboard and the Royal Navy at large, and it becomes clear that something sinister is lurking deep beneath the ocean  where she also happens to be trapped. On land, Amys partner and love interest, played by Game of Thrones star Rose Leslie, doesnt fare any better.  "Vigil is a thrilling, claustrophobic crime drama that originally aired on BBC One but is making its way to the U.S. this month.Vigil will be available on Peacock on Dec. 23.'Parallel Mothers'Written and directed by Spanish auteur Pedro Almodvar, Parallel Mothers is about two women, Janis (Penlope Cruz) and Ana (Milena Smit), who meet in the hospital while giving birth. The women are bonded by motherhood and tragedy, developing a relationship that fluctuates between maternal, platonic and sexual. In the background, a storyline about the brutality under Francos fascist regime plays out. While many male directors have attempted to make Sapphic romances, Almodvar is one of the few to produce something as political, complex and moving  and Penlope Cruz never shines so bright as in an Almodvar.Parallel Mothers opens in U.S. theaters  Dec. 24.'Queer Eye'The hosts of Queer Eye head to the Lone Star State for season six of the most affirming show on television. Bobby Berk, Tan France, Antoni Porowski, Jonathan Van Ness and Karamo Brown don denim and cowboy boots in the shows first look from Netflix, teasing what will surely be a season to remember. The new iteration of the beloved early aughts makeover series has had a highly successful run since it first aired in 2018, grabbing nine Emmys to date.RecommendedOUT Community VoicesOUT Community VoicesWhat today's activists can learn from  AIDS advocacy group ACT UPOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop Culture'Jeopardy!' winner will be 1st trans contestant in Tournament of ChampionsQueer Eye season six premieres on Netflix on Dec. 31.In case you missed it'Sort Of'Co-created by Bilal Baig and Fab Filippo (Queer as Folk), the groundbreaking series follows Sabi Mehboob (Baig), a gender-fluid, Pakistani Canadian millennial who straddles various identities as a bartender at a queer bar/bookstore.Soft Of season one is available on HBO Max.'Tick, Tick Boom!'Lin-Manuel Miranda directs the film adaptation of Jonathan Larsons play about a talented young composer living in New York. In a role previously played onstage by Miranda, Andrew Garfield stars as Larson, who died at the age of 35 and won a posthumous Pulitzer for his rock musical about losing friends to the AIDS epidemic, Rent.Tick, Tick Boom! is available on Netflix.'Gossip Girl'The new iteration of Gossip Girl returned Thanksgiving Day, kicking off part two of its first season. Aki (Evan Mock) is navigating understanding his bisexuality after his father outs him on TV, while Max (Thomas Doherty) is coming to terms with having feelings for both Aki and his own girlfriend. Will this new love triangle slow down the Upper East Sides resident playboy?Gossip Girl season one is available on HBO Max.
'Jeopardy!' winner will be 1st trans contestant in Tournament of Champions. Current Jeopardy! champion Amy Schneider is using her voice to help other transgender people.The engineering manager from Oakland, California, won her 10th consecutive game Tuesday night, earning her a total of $380,200, the eighth-highest total in regular season play. She has now become the first transgender contestant to qualify for the Tournament of Champions.Schneider also wore a transgender Pride flag pin on last weeks Thanksgiving Day episode to raise awareness.I didnt want to make too much about being trans, at least in the context of the show, shewrote in a Twitter threadlast week. I am a trans woman, and Im proud of that fact, but Im a lot of other things, too!The fact is, I dont actually think about being trans all that often, and so when appearing on national television, I wanted to represent that part of my identity accurately: as important, but also relatively minor," she added. "But I also didnt want it to seem as if it was some kind of shameful secret. While its gratifying to know that people didnt necessarily know I was trans until they read about it, I do want people to know that aspect of me. I think being trans is really cool!She also said the Thanksgiving holiday marked the "right time" to wear the trans Pride pin, as the "community might be having a hard time right now." Thanksgiving is a holiday that is all about family. And that can be hard for anybody who has been ostracized or otherwise cut off from their family ... a group which, sadly, still includes a disproportionately high number of trans people, especially trans youth and trans people of color."She also encouraged people to donate to causes that help the LGBTQ community.Schneider is not the first transgender person to win on Jeopardy! Last year, Kate Freemanbecame champion, just a few days after contestant Cody Lawrencewore a bisexual Pride flag pin.Schneider is the latest so-called super champion on the show this season, following in the footsteps ofMatt AmodioandJonathan Fisher.Its just so surprising, Amytold Jeopardy.comabout her run on the show. You know, Im not going to pretend that I didnt think I could do good. But this has just been so much better than what I thought I would do.RecommendedOUT Community VoicesOUT Community VoicesWhat today's activists can learn from  AIDS advocacy group ACT UPOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureThis month's watchlist, from lesbian nuns to an out-of-the-closet 'Matrix'This story first appeared on Today.com
World AIDS Day: Is the world closer to an HIV vaccine in the face of Covid-19?. As Covid-19 brought nearly every corner of the Earth to a halt early last year, researchers around the world scrambled to develop a vaccine to fend off the deadly respiratory coronavirus. And just several months later  in a process that normally takes years several vaccines were ready for worldwide distribution.In comparison, about 40 years since the earliest reports of what became known as AIDS, scientists are still scratching their heads to develop a vaccine against the virus that causes the life-threatening disease  HIV.No longer a death sentence: How living with HIV has changedJune 10, 202111:11But as the anniversary of the first Covid-19 vaccine shots approaches, experts say the brisk development of the lifesaving and highly effective coronavirus vaccines may have brought researchers closer to cracking the code to develop an HIV vaccine.Theres a lot of new energy and buzz among scientists looking at how quickly some of the Covid science got done, said Rowena Johnston, the vice president and director of research at amfAR, an international nonprofit AIDS research group. I think theres been a lot of soul-searching about how the scientific enterprise can be improved so that we can better serve the people were trying to help.Before the coronavirus vaccines, the most rapidly developed vaccine ever created  from sampling to deployment  was for the mumps in the 1960s. The process took about four years.The federal government has conducted five large-scale Phase 3 HIV vaccine trials, all of which have failed. Its third Phase 3 trial was notable for increasing the likelihood of HIV infection among those who were vaccinated.Scientists largely blame HIVs unrelenting evolution inside the body.The scale of mutations that HIV produces are beyond anything thats even in the same realm of what coronavirus does, Johnston said. If you mapped out a genetic tree of all the different variants of HIV inside the body of one person, its about as equivalent of all the genetic variations of all the influenza virus of all people around the world during one year.Therefore, HIV is always one step ahead of the antibody response that failed vaccines trigger in the body, said Dr. Ronald Desrosiers, a professor at the University of Miamis Miller School of Medicine, who was one of the first scientists to study SIV  the monkey disease from which HIV is thought to have originated.The antibodies thats present in a person can neutralize the virus that was present three months ago, but it cant neutralize the virus thats replicating at the current time, Desrosiers said. It would be predicted to make development of a vaccine very, very difficult, and those predictions have come true.But however elusive an HIV vaccine may be, scientists  including Dr. Anthony Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and the chief medical adviser to the president  say it is likely that one could develop from the pioneering technology used to make coronavirus vaccines.Two of the coronavirus vaccines, those made by the pharmaceutical companies Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna, were the first vaccines ever to successfully trigger immune responses using messenger RNA, or mRNA, a genetic material that our cells read to make proteins. The mRNA coronavirus vaccines have proven to be more effective at fending off the virus than the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, which resembles more traditional influenza vaccines and does not use mRNA.RecommendedOUT Community VoicesOUT Community VoicesWhat today's activists can learn from  AIDS advocacy group ACT UPOUT Pop CultureOUT Pop CultureThis month's watchlist, from lesbian nuns to an out-of-the-closet 'Matrix'Moderna announced in August that it would soon launch a Phase 1 clinical trial for two new mRNA-based HIV vaccines, giving scientists fresh hope.If it were just another way to deliver the vaccine ingredients, I would say it would probably have no chance of succeeding where others have failed, Johnston said.However, what has piqued Johnstons interest is that the mRNA coronavirus vaccine is delivered in the body through its lipid nanoparticles. Johnston said the lipid nanoparticles not only help deliver the drug but also act as an adjuvant, a substance that helps strengthen a drugs effect. And in this case, the adjuvant stimulation effect is working at a greater extent than any conventional vaccine, she said.When I learned that, it really did give me some hope that finally we have a really, truly a new concept to test in HIV, she said. So lets put our optimistic hats on and hope that this might be the thing that gets us over the finish line.Aside from the scientific advancements it sparked, some experts say, the coronavirus pandemic may also indirectly help the HIV vaccine effort by generating more interest in science.The world has now increased its scientific literacy. I think the opportunity to build on that in HIV and make people more vaccine-aware and engage in vaccine research and introduction has grown exponentially, said Mitchell Warren, the executive director of AVAC, a nonprofit organization promoting global HIV treatment.But others worry that the enthusiasm to stave off the coronavirus pandemic may have come at a cost to HIV research.When the pandemic pummeled the globe last year, many of the worlds leading HIV researchers shifted gears to the coronavirus. For instance, Johnson & Johnson tapped Dr. Dan Barouch of Harvard Medical School, who has studied HIV for over 15 years, to help develop its coronavirus vaccine.Overall, scientists who did not pursue Covid-19-related research initiated 36 percent fewer new projects last year compared to 2019, according to a study by Northwestern University that was published in October.Sometimes people chase the exciting new thing, they follow the dollars. But we need to get people back to HIV, or there will be a price, said the director of the Infectious Diseases Initiative at Georgetown University, Jeffrey S. Crowley, a former director of the White House Office of National AIDS Policy.Regardless of whether the coronavirus will lead to scientific improvements or setbacks, some scientists say defeating HIV will rely more heavily on commonsense global health practices.Any pandemic is a day away, and we sort of learned that initially with HIV, but this pandemic has brought that home in an extremely strong way, said Dr. Kenneth Mayer, a Harvard Medical School professor who is the medical research director of Fenway Health. What happens in one part of the world doesnt stay in that part of the world.
Biden HIV/AIDS strategy calls racism public health threat. The Biden administration in its newHIV/AIDSstrategy calls racism a public health threat that must be fully recognized as the world looks to end the epidemic.The strategy released Wednesday on the annual commemoration ofWorld AIDS Dayis meant to serve as a framework for how the administration intends to shape its policies, research, programs and planning over the next three years.The new strategy asserts that over generations structural inequities have resulted in racial and ethnic health disparities that are severe, far-reaching, and unacceptable.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'To reduce the disparities, the strategy includes calls for focusing on the needs of disproportionately affected populations, supportingracial justice, combating HIV-related stigma and discrimination and providing leadership and employment opportunities for people with or who experience risk for HIV.The Biden administration in its newHIV/AIDSstrategy calls racism a public health threat that must be fully recognized as the world looks to end the epidemic.The strategy released Wednesday on the annual commemoration ofWorld AIDS Dayis meant to serve as a framework for how the administration intends to shape its policies, research, programs and planning over the next three years.The new strategy asserts that over generations structural inequities have resulted in racial and ethnic health disparities that are severe, far-reaching, and unacceptable.To reduce the disparities, the strategy includes calls for focusing on the needs of disproportionately affected populations, supportingracial justice, combating HIV-related stigma and discrimination and providing leadership and employment opportunities for people with or who experience risk for HIV.
Prince Charles, Meghan Markle and the power of racist microagressions. Imagine that upon your engagement, instead of congratulations, you hear that your future father-in-law has begun musing about your future son or daughters complexion. Now imagine how that would feel if you were biracial and the first Black-identified person to marry into the modern British royal family, and none other than the next king of England was allegedly speculating about the race of your hypothetical children.Andersen claims Charles discussed the potential melanin levels of his future grandchildren over breakfast with his wife, Camilla.According to the new book Brothers and Wives: Inside the Private Lives of William, Kate, Harry, and Meghan, written by Christopher Andersen, Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex, didn't have to imagine how that might feel  she lived it. Among other tidbits, royals expert Andersen claims Prince Charles discussed the potential melanin levels of his future grandchildren over breakfast with his wife, Camilla.Charles spokesperson told reporters that the claim is fiction and not worth further comment. But we do know that this type of identity questioning is far too common for the multiracial demographic and that it often impairs ones social belonging, which is key to feeling positively about yourself. In fact, recent research has shown that in a sample of 293 multiracial people, over 94 percent reported having experienced questions like What are you? as they relate to their physical appearance or skin color. And although not all multiracial people mind questions like those if they are asked out of genuine curiosity, these types of encounters can be dehumanizing and othering.Charles reported comments also shine a spotlight on racial microaggressions  a subtle statement or behavior, whether intentional or not, that communicates something negative and yet still ambiguous about a person of color. While they are often small and even seemingly insignificant, microaggressions cause significant psychological harm, research shows. And if you have ever heard a question like Is your hair real? or Do you speak English? or Where are you from? you also have most likely faced a racial microaggression.Author of new book about Prince Harry and Prince William opens upNov. 29, 202104:31The ambiguity of these encounters can create even more stress as recipients try to analyze and re-analyze motives and intentions. Coined by Harvard professor Chester Pierce in 1970, microaggressions are one of the more common forms of discrimination and prejudice today. Interestingly, although white people experience the fewest racial microaggressions regardless of where they might live, living in racially diverse contexts has been shown to reduce the microaggressions racial minorities face.Much has been made of the British royal familys seemingly lukewarm embrace of Meghan Markle. Speaking with Oprah Winfrey, Prince Harry and Meghan also mentioned an incident involving speculation about skin color, but refused to name names. Prince William has countered by arguing that the royal family is very much not racist.And to be fair, Andersen, the books author, said on NBC's "TODAY" show that there may have been some distortion of Charles comments as it made its way through the royal grapevine. I mean, here's this beautiful biracial American woman and the world's most famous redhead. I'm a grandfather. Of course we all do this, speculate on it. But it was turned into something very toxic, he said. It was weaponized by the 'Men in Gray' who run the palace organization. This shifts the blame, in a sense, to the royal advisers (the Men in Gray), but it also increases the ambiguity surrounding Charles possible intentions.RelatedOpinionOpinionWhy Meghan terrifies the monarchyAnd why even question the skin color of your grandchild in the first place? I, too, am biracial Black/white and recently had twins. I faced the same types of questions while I was pregnant  I wonder if they will be Black? I wonder how dark or how white they might be? I couldnt help but wonder why the potential complexion of my children was such a popular and seemingly acceptable topic.RecommendedOpinionOpinionThe fate of Roe v. Wade may hinge on one word. And it's not looking good.OpinionOpinionThe Lauren Boebert 'jihad squad' controversy is only getting worseIm also not a member of the British royal family  but I do study biracial identity and perceptions for a living. This context colors my own interpretations of these types of comments, as the context of the monarchy surely influenced Harry and Meghans. It is not at all unsurprising that some in the monarchy might have been concerned about the possible darkening of the white royal lineage.Critical race theory argues this exact perspective  that race and racism are structural phenomena used to maintain the race-based power of white leaders. The unique dynamics of multiracial people further complicates this phenomenon. Labeling a multiracial person only as Black, for example, highlights the concept of monoracism, or the view that all people need to fit within neat, monoracial boxes, the same boxes that are used to maintain power and status.RelatedOpinionOpinionWe want to hear what you THINK. Please submit a letter to the editor.And this is how something that seems so innocently ambiguous like a microaggression can in fact be so incredibly powerful  there is simply nothing micro about the impacts that words like these can have. They shape our policies, our perceptions and treatments of others, and how we feel about ourselves.Subscribe to the THINK newsletterReTHINK the news cycle with timely op-eds, in-depth analyses and personal essays delivered weekly to your inbox.
Black golf fans mourn Lee Elder's death as Tiger Woods says injuries will limit his play. Andy Graham was stung by the news that one of golfs trailblazers, Lee Elder, had died Sunday at 87. Then, Monday afternoon, Tiger Woods said in an interview that he would not compete any longer as a full-time player on the PGA Tour because of injuries from a car crash.Two pieces of news that, as a Black golfer and fan of the sport, is hard to take, said Graham, 68, of Dallas, Elders hometown. I was inspired to play golf by Lee Elder. I literally began playing golf because of him. And Tiger, well, when I played so badly that I thought about giving up the game, he inspired me to keep going. So, for me, these two are linked.Elder and Woods are inextricably connected for countless Black golfers and fans of the game, but for different reasons  Elder for being the first Black person to play at the famed Augusta National in the 1975 Masters, enduring death threats along the way, and Woods for emerging as perhaps the greatest player in history, inspiring an entire generation of new Black golfers.Its easy to think of one of them and also think of the other, Graham said, because Lee Elder opened the door and Tiger stepped through it.Lee Elder talks to Tiger Woods before the final round of the 1997 Masters. Augusta National / Getty ImagesElder earned his tour card in 1968  seven years after the PGAs Caucasian-only rule was lifted. His perseverance, Woods has said, not only cleared a path for him to display his unique talent butalso proved that Black golfers could play on the highest level. He won four times on the tour and eight more times on the PGA Seniors Tour, now called the PGA Champions Tour.And he did much of it even as racial slurs were hurled at him and he got death threats from white people who did not want the sport to be integrated. He also often had to change clothes in his car, because, as a Black man, he was not allowed in segregated clubhouses. But he was undeterred, driven by his passion for the game he picked up as a caddie in his youth.It was a monumental occasion when Elder was named one of the ceremonial starters for the Masters Tournament in April.Lee Elder still hadntgot enough credit as an icon breaking down the color barrier in a sport that was exclusive of Black people, said avid golfer Robert Diggs, a lawyer in Atlanta. But he was finally getting the recognition he deserved. So its unfortunate he passed away now.And then you throw in Tiger not being able to play often, and its just sad, he said.If Elder took Black golf to one level, Woods, 45, took it into the stratosphere, earning 15 major championships and a historic 82 career wins, more than any other male player. He posted a video last week on social media taking swings for the first time since his serious car accident in February, when he suffered multiple open fractures along his right leg, as well as damage to the ankle and trauma to the legs muscle and soft tissue.In an interview Monday with Golf Digest, Woods said: I think something that is realistic is playing the tour one day, never full time, ever again, but pick and choose a few events a year and you play around that. You practice around that, and you gear yourself up for that. And you play. I think thats how Im going to have to play it from now on.Its an unfortunate reality, but its my reality. And I understand it, and I accept it, he said.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'It is not as easy for all fans to accept, however. Woods was a one-man television ratings bonanza whose dynamic play revolutionized the game and drew new fans to the sport.Im sure his body cant take it anymore, Diggs said. It just cant. Sounds like that was a really bad accident on top of the other surgeries hes already had. You hate to see him wind down his career like this, playing every so often. But he made history. Hes the greatest ever. And he made the sport cool for Black people.Graham said: Maybe its just me, but golf will not be the same without Tiger playing regularly. The day was going to come at some point, but he still had a lot left. I guess there will be a big buildup every time he tees it up. But through his success, so many people were inspired to play a game that they didnt have any interest in before him. He walked right in the path Elder and others created for him.Khary Mitchell, who co-created the Facebook page Black Golfers Association and the website Honor 61  which celebrates the legacy of Black golfers and seeks to continue its growth among Black people  said Elders lasting mark as a golfer and as a man speaks to more than the game.I can only hope that his spirit continues to embody the golfer in our day and age, especially in the African American community, he said. There were more Lee Elders out there that never got a club in their hand to learn what its like to imagine a shot, hit that shot. There was always some sort of legal, financial or racial issue hindering our ability to be a part of golf.And that continues today. Beside Woods, Cameron Champ and Harold Varner are the only Black mainstays on the PGA Tour. Recreationally, Blacks participation in the sport grew exponentially once Woods began dominating golf in the late 1990s.But it all goes back to Elder. He allowed my dad to get excited about the game and allowed me to participate in the game, Woods said on ESPN after he won the 2019 Masters. He set a progression ... society needed.FollowNBCBLKonFacebook,TwitterandInstagram.CORRECTION (Nov. 30, 2021, 9:40 p.m. ET): A previous version of this article misstated a record attributed to Tiger Woods. Although he has won 82 golf tournaments, more than any other male player, he has not won more golf tournaments than anyone else. Kathy Whitworth won 88 tournaments on the LPGA Tour.
Philly teenager, victim of brutal, racially-motivated train attack, speaks out. Christina Lu, a Philadelphia high school student who was one of the victims of a brutal, racially motivated attack earlier this month, spoke out for the first time Tuesday.The 18-year-old was with a group of students on a SEPTA train, Philadelphias public transit, when she saw a 14-year-old freshman, who is Asian, being attacked on his way home from school. When Lu tried to intervene, the group of attackers threw her to the ground and began kicking and beating her. Police say the assailants, four teenage girls, used racial slurs during the incident.Lu gave a speech to a crowd outside a municipal building Tuesday afternoon as a crowd rallied demanding accountability from SEPTA and an end to anti-Asian hate, according to a video from CBS Philly.You all have inspired me, she said. Everyone has been calling me a hero, but I am not. Im just an ordinary girl from an ordinary family who saw people in need of help and so I tried to help.The four girls who allegedly perpetrated the attack, all under the age of 17, were charged with aggravated assault, ethnic intimidation, criminal conspiracy, simple assault, recklessly endangering another person and disorderly conduct.The mother of one of the girls spoke to NBC10 Philadelphia anonymously, saying her daughter is 12 years old and had run away from home two weeks prior to the attack.I was extremely hurt  I needed to meet with you guys publicly so that you know that my family is very sincerely apologetic about what happened to that child because we all pray that our children make it home safe from school, she said.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'She said she tried to reach out to the families of the victims to apologize personally.A report released last year by the Stop AAPI Hate Youth Campaign revealed that one quarter of Asian American and Pacific Islander young adults have been targets of racism since the start of the pandemic. The discrimination most commonly came in the form of verbal harassment, cyberbullying and shunning, with students being followed home, coughed on and called racial slurs.I will continue to stand up against bullying and violence and help people in need, Lu said in her speech on Tuesday.
Korean pop group BTS talks anti-Asian racism in first live tour in 2 years. Members of the South Korean pop group BTS spoke out Sunday against anti-Asian racism after their first in-person concert since the pandemic.When we talk about Asian hate, our path, all the awards and our music, we just hope that this can truly help every Asian in the world, especially who live in the countries abroad, Kim Nam-Joon, known as RM, said at a news conference at SoFi Stadium in Los Angeles. If there is something that we can help ... were always open. Well try to expand the variety and stop the discrimination and racism.BTS performed two sold-out shows in Los Angeles over the weekend as part of its Permission to Dance on Stage concert series. The seven members of BTS  RM, Jin, V, J-Hope, Suga, Park Ji-min and Jungkook  also expressed gratitude for their fans support and the awards they have received, including artist of the year at the American Music Awards and their second Grammy nomination.K-pop stars BTS delight fans with return to in-person concertsNov. 29, 202101:28The concerts, which were sold out for months, were the bands first shows since 2019. Seeing the stadium filled with all the fans yesterday got me really emotional beyond words, RM said.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'Its not the first time BTS has spoken about the racism many Asians faced during the coronavirus pandemic. Band members this year addressed the discrimination they faced, saying in a statement on Twitter that some experiences made them feel powerless. We cannot put into words the pain of becoming the subject of hatred and violence for such a reason, the post said.BTS has also supported other social movements, including Black Lives Matter, to which it donated $1 million in June 2020. We stand against racial discrimination. We condemn violence. #BlackLivesMatter, the group tweeted. Within 24 hours of the donation, BTS fans had matched it.The BTS tour continues with concerts Wednesday and Thursday in Los Angeles.
Rapper Asian Doll facing backlash for hosting Indian-themed party. The rapper Asian Doll is facing backlash on social media after announcing and selling tickets to her Indian-themed birthday party.The rapper, whose real name is Misharron Jermeisha Allen, grew up in Dallas and is not of South Asian descent. She announced the details of the party on her Twitter and Instagram on Sunday with a flyer set to Arabic background music. The party, called Asian Doll Escapes to India, will be held in Atlanta on Dec. 7. According to the online invitation, Indian clothes are required to enter.On her Instagram account, which has since been deactivated, she posted outfit inspiration pics that included Indian celebrities dressed in traditional kurtas and clips from Hindi movie dance numbers.The announcement gained traction, and eventually thousands of users began denouncing the partys theme as blatant cultural appropriation. Some pointed to a now-deleted tweet Allen made in February in which she called Indian food nasty.How is Asian Doll going to have a 'Indian' theme party which is so ignorant. But was just saying Indian food looked/tasted disgusting? Now I feel like the culture is a joke to her, one person said.Others joked about her use of Arabic music to promote her Bollywood party, and some couldnt help but laugh at how ridiculous and overt it all was.LOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOL theme Bollywood music Arabic, another person wrote. [W]hy are some americans dense and this culturally unaware????RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'This isnt the first time Allen has faced backlash for cultural appropriation, or the adoption or profiting from a minority culture. Shes known for pushing those boundaries, in fact. Those following the controversy were quick to note that even her stage name Asian Doll and her past use of traditional clothing were objectionable.Allen seemed to respond to the backlash on Twitter, saying that she doesnt care what people say and that shell do what she wants with no apologies. She tweeted another announcement of the party on Monday morning, set to different music.Allen didnt respond to NBC Asian Americas request for comment.
For many Asian Americans, graphic novels are way to explore history, fight racism. In The Legend of Auntie Po, Shing Yin Khor uses watercolors and folklore to bring alive a late-19th century Sierra Nevada logging camp, where some of the countrys earliest Chinese immigrants lived and worked.Centered on the 13-year-old daughter of a Chinese cook, Khors middle-grade graphic novel, a finalist in this years National Book Awards, explores the hardships Chinese laborers experienced in the tumultuous years after the passage of the Chinese Exclusion Act.But rather than dwelling on the pain and setbacks the group faced, Khor offers hope and whimsy by focusing on the gains, like how Chinese workers developed friendships with Black and Indigenous loggers.A page from "The Legend of Auntie Po."Shing Yin KhorWhen you start to examine the history of marginalized groups, its never just about trauma, Khor told NBC Asian America. We wouldnt have ended up with generation upon generation of Chinese Americans in this country if it were complete and utter misery every single moment of the time.Graphic novels, with their powerful blend of images and words, have grown in popularity as a literary genre to explore the legacy of racism and the complexity of the immigrant experience. And in recent years, Asian American writers are increasingly publishing works that reckon with the countrys racial injustices, past and present.Illustrated memoirs in particular surged during the Trump years. Thi Buis The Best We Could Do, which won an American Book Award in 2018, recounts her familys flight from war-torn Vietnam to the United States. In her 2018 book Good Talk, Indian American writer Mira Jacob documents sobering conversations about race she has with her 6-year-old biracial son, including her own coming of age post 9/11 and her struggle to accept his Jewish grandparents support for then-President Donald Trump. And George Takeis 2019 memoir, They Called Us Enemy, chronicles his childhood years in a Japanese American internment camp during World War II.A page from "The Legend of Auntie Po."Shing Yin KhorFor Jacob, writing in the comic form can be liberating. The discomforting juxtaposition between the painful conversations she recounts and her illustrations of the characters unchanging, emotionless faces beckons readers to think deeply about how people of color are treated in America.I dont want to be the person whos holding onto all these emotions and asking you to care anymore, she said. Id rather be the unemotional face telling you the enormous difficulty of trying to get through my life, and you get to hold it for once.Tara Fickle, an associate professor at the University of Oregon who teaches Asian American literature and comics, said the growth of graphic memoirs can be partly attributed to the coming of age of certain Asian American subgroups that havent historically received as much attention in mainstream narratives, including the children of refugees, mixed-race Asian Americans and transracial adoptees.Graphic novels are part of a larger contemporary media landscape where we see debates over minority representation and self-authorization play out, she wrote in an email. Asian American graphic novelists have developed brilliant ways to expose and critique the microaggressions and everyday reality of growing up Asian American, as well as the broader historical and systemic forces that determine their specific racialization.In some ways, the graphic novel is almost uniquely equipped for writers to explore the complexities of race, said Gene Yang, author of 2006's American Born Chinese, the first graphic novel to be nominated for a National Book Award.The combination of words and images, he said, allows writers to convey the wide spectrum of emotions and memories that often characterize the immigrant experience."Displacement."Kiku HughesA well constructed graphic novel can have the same intimacy as a diary, he said. Issues of identity can be so emotionally fraught, so it makes sense to talk about them using a visual medium.While the rise of Asian American graphic novelists is a more recent phenomenon, Yang said, the group has had greater representation in comic books than perhaps any other storytelling industry. Jim Lee, a renowned Korean American artist whos now the chief creative officer and publisher of DC Comics, created such iconic superheroes as Wildcat and Gambit. Japanese Canadian creator Mariko Tamaki contributed to two recent DC anthologies that reimagined Batgirl and Harley Quinn.If you ask any comic book fan for a list of their favorite artists, thered be at least one to two Asian Americans, Yang said. You wouldnt get that with filmmakers or actors."Displacement."Kiku HughesIn her 2020 novel Displacement, Kiku Hughes uses a science fiction staple to explore the intergenerational impact of incarceration on Japanese American families like her own. While on vacation in San Francisco, her teenage avatar is abruptly transported back in time to the 1940s concentration camp her late grandmother was sent to during the war.I wanted to use the time travel device to put the reader in a place where the emphasis is not on historical fact, Hughes said, but on the personal experience of someone who went through it.The graphic novel form is a particularly powerful tool to examine the legacy of incarceration, she said. Because official records are scarce and government-produced films were often seen as propaganda, Min Okubos 1946 graphic novel Citizen 1366, an illustrated memoir about life in an internment camp, became one of the only existing visual renderings of camp conditions, including bathrooms, kitchens, clothing and the food they ate.Reading her book made me feel like comics are the foundational medium with which the story has been told since the 1940s, Hughes said.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'As more states consider legislation to integrate Asian American history into public school curriculums, some graphic novelists are hoping their works have a place in the classroom alongside history textbooks.Khor hopes The Legend of Auntie Po encourages young people to look into the history behind the Chinese logging camps, which now receive only a footnote in textbooks.Growing up, Khor loved books about courageous young girls who led wild adventures: "Anne of the Green Gables" and "Little House on the Prairie." But the heroines were always white.The moment I got a chance, Khor said, I just really wanted to write a story where a kid whos pretty similar to me could be the star.
Trump's border separations left children, parents with severe trauma, study finds. Children and parents separated at the border under the Trump administration experienced severe psychological trauma that some are dealing with long after being reunited, the first qualitative study of children and parents has found.The study by Physicians for Human Rights published in the peer-reviewed scientific journal PLOS ONE concluded that the separation of 31 parents and children whose cases the group reviewed constitutes cruel, inhumane, and degrading treatment and that the cases rise to the level of torture as defined by the United Nations Convention Against Torture.In the cases reviewed, it is apparent that U.S. officials intentionally carried out actions causing severe pain and suffering in order to punish and intimidate mainly Central American asylum seekers to not pursue their asylum claims, the study stated.Then-President Donald Trumps "zero tolerance" policy, which separated thousands of children from their parents, was fully implemented in May 2018. Under the policy, the U.S. government took children from parents, not all who had crossed illegally, at the border and prosecuted the adults. Some parents were deported without their children.Facing heavy backlash, Trump signed an executive order reversing the policy about a month later. Clinicians who interviewed and evaluated the families reported that most of the individuals met diagnostic criteria for at least one mental health condition such as post-traumatic stress disorder, major depressive disorder or generalized anxiety disorder.Children exhibited behaviors described as age-appropriate regression, such as crying, not eating, having nightmares, sleeping difficulties, excessive parental attachment, clinging to caregivers, urinary incontinence and recurring feelings of fear after being reunited with parents.Two children who had long been reunited with parents still showed severe trauma symptoms and met mental health disorder criteria, the researchers said.One was a 6-year-old Guatemalan girl who met criteria for PTSD a year after being reunited with parents. An 8-year-old boy met criteria for PTSD and separation anxiety two years after reunification.Neither had exhibited these symptoms prior to the separation event, the researchers stated.All parents in the study arrived at the border having already suffered significant trauma because of targeted violence in their home countries.In almost all cases, the children had also experienced harm, including being drugged, kidnapped, poisoned and threatened with death or bodily harm by gang members.Parents were confident that the journey to the United States would ensure protection for their children, the study said.But parents and children told the researchers that U.S. officials treated them punitively. They said immigration officials forcibly removed their children from their arms and transferred parents to other facilities as they slept.Almost all told the researchers the officials would not tell them why they were being separated, where their family member was sent and whether or how theyd be reunited.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'Parents said they were mocked when they asked about their children.Three of the 19 parents exhibited suicidal thoughts.Clinicians who interviewed parents and children found no signs that the immigrants were exaggerating their mental health trauma or were trying to deceive others, as some immigration restrictionists have asserted, the study said."Physicians for Human Rights has long documented the detrimental effects of forced familyseparationon asylum seekers, and the findings of this study provide additional medical evidence thatthe psychological trauma could potentially be lifelong," Kathryn Hampton, deputy director of PHR's asylum program, said in a news release.The researchers found that in almost every case, therapy, removal from detention and prescription of psychiatric medicines was needed.The study is based on an analysis of affidavits from clinicians interviews and evaluations of children and parents. The affidavits from the interviews are used for legal cases, including asylum claims and lawsuits for damages caused by family separation.The study builds on the warnings and findings by pediatricians, mental health experts and government watchdogs.The decision to separate children from parents was agreed on by a show of hands in a meeting of Trump senior advisers led by former Trump adviser Stephen Miller, NBC News previously reported.The White House said last month that more than 1,000 families   separated at the border had not yet been reunited.President Joe Biden has expressed support for compensating separated families, some of whom are seeking damages from the government. The Trump White House killed a deal for mental health care for separated families, NBC News reported last year."It is our moral imperative to not only reunite these families, but to provide them with the support and services they need to heal," said Liza Acevedo, a Department of Homeland Security spokesperson. She said Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas has heard firsthand from parents about their pain and trauma "after being cruelly separated under the previous administration's zero-tolerance policy."Hampton said the study's findings should be considered as the administration negotiates settlements. But she also said the administration should widen its focus as it determined a dollar amount. Researchers recommended the government include mental health support for the parents and children who were separated. They also urged changes in how immigration authorities question them, including allowing children to remain with parents during asylum interviews or allowing them to take breaks to see their children. The Biden administration's task force created a website to assist families with reunification. A lawsuit has made some reunited families  eligible for behavioral health services. HHS and the task force also offering screenings and treatment for behavioral health conditions caused by the separations, Acevedo said.  The task force also is identifying funding for ongoing treatment and future services for the families, she said.
Honduras elected its first female president,  Xiomara Castro. TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras   Honduras ruling party conceded defeat Tuesday in presidential elections held two days earlier, giving victory to leftist opposition candidate Xiomara Castro and easing fears of another contested vote and violent protests.Tegucigalpa Mayor Nasry Asfura, presidential candidate of the National Party, said in a statement that he had personally congratulated Castro, despite only about half the voting tallies being counted from Sundays election.The former first lady had 53% of the votes and Asfura 34%, with 52% of the tallies counted, according to the National Electoral Council. It has 30 days from the election to declare a winner.Honduras to elect its first female presidentNov. 29, 202102:40Asfura said he had met with Castro and her family.Now I want to say it publicly, the conservative candidate said. That I congratulate her for her victory and as president elect, I hope that God illuminates and guides her so that her administration does the best for the benefit of all of us Hondurans, to achieve development and the desire for democracy.U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken congratulated Castro minutes later.The United States congratulates the people of Honduras on their election and Xiomara Castro on her historic victory as Honduras first female president, Blinken said in a statement. We look forward to working with the next government of Honduras.Castro said via Twitter that Asfura had recognized her triumph. People, I am not going to fail you!Asfuras recognition of the outcome was a relief to many Hondurans who had feared a contested election after a debacle in 2017 led to street protests that left 23 people dead. Following that vote, the government imposed a curfew and only three weeks later declared now-outgoing President Juan Orlando Hernndez the winner despite the Organization of American States observation mission calling for an election re-do.Supporters of Xiomara Castro, presidential candidate of the Liberty and Refoundation Party celebrate at their headquarters in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, on Nov. 29, 2021. Jose Cabezas / ReutersFearing a similar prolonged vote standoff and social unrest, many businesses in Honduras capital had boarded up their windows for this election.Mabel Plata, a 28-year-old nursing student, said she appreciated Asfuras recognition of the outcome. It is a sign that he is a professional and polite person and went to see Xiomara for the good of the country.Plata couldnt remember another who did the same. Most always claim to be winners and its hard for them to accept defeat.Luis Guillermo Sols, former president of Costa Rica and head of the Organization of American States observation mission, said Tuesday in presenting the regional bodys preliminary report that Hondurans had overcome some technical difficulties to vote in great numbers.Honduran society voted with conviction, happiness and responsibility in a context marked by the pandemic and violence, which was denounced opportunely by the mission, Sols said. He said the mission had not received reports of other irregularities or fraud.Castro rode a wave of popular discontent with 12 years of National Party governance, which peaked in Hernndezs second term.She will face major challenges as the Central American countrys president. Unemployment is above 10%, northern Honduras was devastated by two major hurricanes last year and street gangs drag down the economy with their extortion rackets and violence, driving migration to the United States.On Tuesday, Vielka Yossira Lpez folded jeans at a stand in the sprawling Comayaguela street market.The 24-year-old single mother of two said she didnt vote, but hoped for change.How am I going to lose a day of work to go vote, Lpez said. I dont work, I dont eat.When Lpez contracted COVID-19, she wasnt able to work for two months. In that time she sold her bed, her refrigerator, television and cellphone so she could buy food and diapers for her children, ages 3 and 6.Lpez makes 200 lempiras, about $8.25 per day. She pays $1.60 of that just for transportation to and from work each day. Her 6-year-old has been out of school for more than a year.Lpez is hopeful that when Castro becomes president she will bring with her a better understanding of what it takes to raise a family.Hopefully there will be a change by having a woman, Lpez said. She has children and everything.Castros government could present challenges, but also opportunities for the Biden administration, which has sought to keep Hernndez at arms length.Many Castro supporters remember the U.S. governments initial sluggishness in calling the ouster of Castros husband Manuel Zelaya from the presidency in 2009 a coup, and then proceeding to work closely with the National Party presidents who followed. And from the U.S. perspective, Washington remembers how Castro and Zelaya cozied up to then-Venezuela President Hugo Chvez.Analysts say common ground between Castro and the U.S. government exists in at least three areas: immigration, drug trafficking and corruption. And with tense relations prevailing between Washington and the leaders of El Salvador and Guatemala, the U.S. government could use a productive relationship with Honduras.Despite opponents efforts to paint Castro as a communist, experts expect her to govern as a centrist with a desire to lift up Honduras poor while attracting foreign investment.A speech Castro made to her Liberty and Re-foundation party in June remains one her clearest expressions of how she will navigate the U.S. relationship.In the first 100 days, we will execute and propose to the administration of President Joe Biden and Kamala Harris a plan to combat and address the true causes of migration, Castro said.Castro describes Hondurans emigration in terms of flight to escape inequality, corruption, poverty and violence. That sounds a lot like Harris assessment of the root causes the Biden administration wants to focus U.S. aid on.But Castro also puts some of the blame on the U.S. government.I believe the Biden administration has an enormous opportunity to address the issue of migration, Castro said in the June speech. First, recognizing that they have part of the responsibility for what happens in our country, she added, noting the 2009 coup.Castro has hammered the outgoing Hernndez administration for corruption. It was Hernndezs administration that let the Organization of American States anti-corruption mission in Honduras expire in 2020 after its work had touched some of the National Partys lawmakers for alleged misuse of public funds.She has said shes interested in having an international anti-corruption mission return to Honduras. That combined with a strong, independent attorney general, could begin to tackle one of the countrys most profound problems.U.S. federal prosecutors have put corruption under the microscope in drug trafficking cases that have reached up to high-ranking Honduran politicians. The most notable was the conviction of Hernndezs brother, a former federal lawmaker, on drug trafficking charges that earned him a life sentence in the United States.In a speech late Sunday night, Castro told supporters: Get out war! Get out hate! Get out death squads! Get out corruption! Get out drug trafficking and organized crime!FollowNBC LatinoonFacebook,TwitterandInstagram.
A lifeline: Grants helped Latino nonprofit groups be pandemic 'first-responders'. The disbursement of millions of dollars to Latino nonprofit groups at the height of the Covid-19 pandemic last year enabled hundreds of organizations to serve as "safety nets" and provide direct assistance to Hispanic families, according to a new report.The Hispanic Federation, one of the nation's largest Latino nonprofit umbrella organizations, disbursed $20.6 million to more than 350 nonprofit groups and 798 small businesses through its Covid relief grant program. The funds were awarded between March 2020 and September this year, and about 73 percent of the beneficiaries served Latino and immigrant communities across the mainland United States and Puerto Rico.We knew from the very beginning because of our experience with Hurricanes Irma and Maria in Puerto Rico that these community-based organizations were going to be the lifeline of communities, Hispanic Federation President Frankie Miranda said. These were the ones that would not be able to close their doors and were going to be asked to do more, although they were underresourced and underfunded.The community-based organizations reached more than 2 million people and provided health care, food and housing assistance, among others.The local organizations, he said, "are incredibly important for communities and when these organizations disappear, it takes years for organizations to come back and be able to be re-established."One of the organizations that received a grant was the Redlands Christian Migrant Association in Immokalee, Florida, an agricultural region with many farmworker and migrant families. The association's primary goal is to provide education to children of farmworkers and low-income families, serving more than 6,000 children annually across the state.The $85,000 grant from the Hispanic Federation was for Covid vaccination efforts, rental and utility assistance, and educational programs. More than 200 families benefited from the funding, according to Isabel Garcia, the association's executive director.Most of the families and farmworkers are the ones that are always the last and have always been the ones that are forgotten about, she said. They would get sick and they would not have any other income coming in, because if you dont want to work in the field, you dont get paid.The Redlands Christian Migrant Association has helped relieve other financial stressors including gas and travel expenses for essential workers who missed work due to Covid, and covered child care service fees when schools were closed.We really want to target the rural population that are the hardest to reach areas where you have the most neediest families, Garcia said. The funding we did really helps to provide those needed services that the families are needing during this time of hardship.In Chicago, the nonprofit Latinos Progresando said through a statement that the Hispanic Federation funding "was the first to arrive," according to its founder Luis Gutierrez, and it was used for food and vaccination drives, as well as cash assistance for vulnerable residents. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsCapitol riot defendant cried during interview when using a stun gun on an officer, officials sayU.S. newsU.S. newsWoman who sheltered fleeing students during Michigan school shooting says they're 'traumatized for life'The initial funding for the Hispanic Federations Covid emergency grant program was $250,000 and was matched by Hamilton creatorLin-Manuel Miranda and other family members. The federation was established in New York City in 1990 by Luis Miranda, Lin-Manuel Miranda's father.  The report compiled and summarized data from an online survey of grantees during this summer.More than $10 million in grants for food assistance provided help to more than 550,000 people. At least 68 nonprofit groups launched food-related programs and 75 organizations expanded upon them. About $1 million in grant money went to 19 Latino health centers that provided more than 230,000 vaccinations in communities where fear of not having insurance or lacking legal status  even though vaccines are free and available to all regardless of immigration status  had kept some Hispanic and other families from getting shots.  The federation is hoping to disburse $7 million in additional funds by the end of the year, While we have been able to do this, our organizations are still not getting a fair and equitable share of the funding that is out there. They continue to be disproportionately underfunded," the Hispanic Federation's Miranda said.
Congress hatches novel plan to lift debt ceiling with only Democratic votes. WASHINGTON  Congressional leaders are hatching a complicated plan to lift the debt limit this month with only Democratic votes in the Senate, three sources told NBC News.The strategy, which remains fluid, is a product of negotiations between Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., that would tie it to a non-controversial Medicare bill."I believe we've reached a solution to the debt ceiling issue that's consistent with Republican views," McConnell told reporters on Tuesday.Schumer said Democrats support this approach as it would not be a "convoluted, risky, lengthy process," and he said it "looks like Republicans will help us facilitate that."The novel approach would tie debt limit provisions to legislation preventing automatic cuts to Medicare in a multi-vote process that would allow the federal government's borrowing authority to be lifted with a simple majority in the 50-50 Senate.The plan shifted on Tuesday after negotiators decided against an earlier idea of tying a debt limit increase to the $778 billion defense authorization bill. Instead, Congress plans to pass that separately.The House passed the Medicare bill, which includes the expedited debt limit process, 222-212. Rep. Adam Kinzinger, R-Ill., was the only Republican to break ranks and vote with all Democrats for the bill.The measure, which would require 60 votes to clear the Senate, would give that chamber one-time authority through mid-January to lift the debt limit with a simple majority vote and would delay automatic Medicare cuts. If passed by Congress and signed into law, it would enable the debt ceiling to be lifted quickly with no filibuster in the Senate  only Democratic votes.It's not a done deal yet as it needs at least 10 Senate Republican votes to move forward.The plan  an attempt to prevent an 11th-hour scramble to avoid what would be the nation's first ever default  would allow Republicans to stay on the sidelines of a debt ceiling hike vote, and let Democrats steer clear of the arcane budget reconciliation process that they've insisted they won't use for raising the debt limit."I leave it to Leader McConnell to find the best way to get the Democrats to raise the debt limit without us participating in that," said Sen. Mitt Romney, R-Utah, predicting the GOP leader would "find a way to make that happen."The scheme would require Congress to raise the debt limit by a specific dollar amount, rather than extend it to a certain date, two sources familiar with the plan said. Democrats would prefer to set an expiration date for the new extension, as Congress has done for years, instead of choosing a new debt limit figure. But Republicans want them to put a number on it so they can weaponize the issue in 2022 midterm election campaign ads.RecommendedLatinoLatinoMexico transfers migrants as it prepares to receive asylum-seekers from U.S.CongressCongressRoger Stone invokes Fifth Amendment in House Jan. 6 probeStill, some Republicans are worried that the approach could set a precedent of one-time rule changes at a time when many Democrats are pushing for changes to the filibuster on issues such as voting rights legislation."Its a terrible idea. Terrible. It would circumvent the filibuster. This is nuking the filibuster," said Sen. Mike Lee, R-Utah.Time is running short. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen has warned that the U.S. risks breaching the debt limit and triggering a recession if Congress doesn't act by Dec. 15.The new approach to resolving the debt limit comes after an acrimonious battle in October that left both Schumer and McConnell bruised. This time, both leaders have sounded optimistic about lifting the debt ceiling.McConnell said Monday evening at a Wall Street Journal CEO Council Summit that he doesn't expect the U.S. to default.Schumer, meanwhile, has described their talks as positive."We will also work to address the debt limit and preserve the full faith and credit of the United States," he said Monday afternoon on the Senate floor. "And I want to thank Leader McConnell for his cooperation in that regard."In October, 11 Senate Republicans voted to break a filibuster to temporarily lift the debt ceiling after an extended standoff, a process that led to McConnell absorbing criticism from the right wing of the GOP. Democrats then extended the limit on their own. Among those criticizing McConnell was former President Donald Trump, who urged the party to use the debt ceiling as leverage against Democrats. In 2019, Trump insisted the debt limit must not be used as a bargaining chip.Sen. Rick Scott, R-Fla., said he continues to oppose raising the debt ceiling but would look at the overall proposal before making a judgment.And Democrats warned that it's not a done deal."There's no agreement yet," said Sen. Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Roger Stone invokes Fifth Amendment in House Jan. 6 probe . Roger Stone, a longtime adviser to former President Donald Trump, is refusing to be deposed or hand over documents to the House committee investigating the Jan. 6 Capitol riot, his attorney said in a letter dated Monday.The letter, which Stone provided to NBC News on Tuesday, invokes his Fifth Amendment right not to testify.Given that the Select Committee's demand for documents is overbroad, overreaching, and far too wide-ranging to be deemed anything other than a fishing expedition, Mr. Stone has a constitutional right to decline to respond," his attorney, Grant Smith, wrote. "Indeed, the Select Committee seeks an imprecise and undefined category of 'documents and communications concerning' a broad range of constitutionally protected political activity."Mark Meadows no longer cooperating with Jan. 6 committeeDec. 7, 202100:58Last month, the panel subpoenaed Stone and other Trump allies to testify, arguing that Stone helped spearhead the former GOP presidents crusade to overturn the 2020 election. The committee said Stone was in Washington on Jan. 5 and 6 to "lead a march to the Capitol" and that he "promoted his attendance at the rallies and solicited support to pay for security.RecommendedLatinoLatinoMexico transfers migrants as it prepares to receive asylum-seekers from U.S.CongressCongressCongress hatches novel plan to lift debt ceiling with only Democratic votesThe committee has issued batches of subpoenas in recent weeks to dozens of Trump administration officials and allies of the former president. Although many of them have embraced Trump's directive to not cooperate with the panel, some have still testified and provided documents, according to the committee.The committee has pursued contempt charges against some subpoenaed witnesses who have refused to comply. Last month, a federal grand jury indicted former Trump adviser Steve Bannon, who has been charged with contempt of Congress for refusing to answer the committee's questions. On Tuesday, a federal judge set a July trial date for Bannon.Steve Bannon due back in court after pleading not guilty to contempt of CongressNov. 18, 202104:00Earlier this month, the panel voted unanimously to refer former Trump Justice Department official Jeffrey Clark to his previous employer for criminal contempt of Congress after he invoked his Fifth Amendment protection against self-incrimination.Former White House chief of staff Mark Meadows, who was also subpoenaed, said Tuesday that he is no longer cooperating with the investigation, prompting the panel to threaten contempt proceedings if he skips his scheduled deposition on Wednesday.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Thousands of service members miss Covid vaccination deadlines. Thousands of active-duty service members have failed to comply with the Biden administrations Covid-19 vaccine mandate, raising the prospect that they will be forced to leave their positions or the military altogether.The vaccination deadline for active-duty members of the armed services has passed for the Air Force, Navy and the Marine Corps. The Army's deadline is Dec. 15. Despite the Pentagon's vaccine mandate, approximately 27,000 members of the Marines, Air Force, Space Force and the Navy are still considered unvaccinated. About 19,000 of the Army's soldiers have yet to start the protocol with only a week left before that branch's deadline. An Army official with knowledge of the matter emphasized that records continue to be updated and that commanders are engaging their soldiers regarding their vaccination status."From my perspective, it's a discipline issue," said David Barno, a retired Army lieutenant general who led coalition forces in Afghanistan. "You've got thousands of troops who are essentially refusing a legal order to take the vaccine  I've never seen anything like that happen before. It's very unsettling."The mandate has worked. Since Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin required military personnel to receive the vaccine Aug. 25, an additional 21 percent of the active duty military is fully vaccinated, the Defense Department reported.Barno emphasized, however, that even a small number of unvaccinated service members undermines the entire force."This is definitely a negative in terms of overall military readiness," he added. "Even just 3 or 4 percent means tens of thousands of troops that are unvaccinated, which means they are hugely vulnerable to the virus and are pretty much nondeployable to anywhere in the world where the virus is raging."What comes next for these members of the armed services who have not received the vaccine becomes an open question.The Marine Corps has been most explicit regarding consequences for service members who do not receive the vaccine. Its policy states that any active duty Marine "who did not receive a final vaccination dose by Nov. 14 is considered unvaccinated.All unvaccinated Marines without a pending or approved administrative exemption, medical exemption, or religious accommodation, or appeal, will be processed for administrative separation."That kind of separation or discharge could mean that Marines and members of other services may not receive veterans benefits. They may also have to pay back certain bonuses or education benefits they received during their service. Breaking down Covid vaccination exemptions in the militaryNov. 1, 202102:33So far, no Marine has been discharged, but that could soon change. Receiving a permanent exemption in any of the service branches is difficult. The Marine Corps has provided only 15 permanent medical exemptions so far for Covid vaccinations. More than 2,400 Marines applied for religious exemptions, but none of the 2,009 processed as of Monday had been approved.  With 95 percent of the Marine Corps partially or fully vaccinated, however, that leaves around 9,000 Marines who could be headed for "administrative separation."RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor saysWhile the vaccination rates for the Air Force, Space Force and the Navy are higher  all are near 97 percent  thousands of airmen, guardians and seamen who remain unvaccinated could also see their military careers come to an end. "If you are going to refuse to take a vaccine, you are failing your shipmates, you are failing your battle buddies, you are failing your fellow airmen," said James Stavridis, a retired Navy admiral and a  former supreme allied commander for NATO. "I look at this as a necessity. Although we will lose some people who are otherwise good at their jobs, I think we're better off overall for enforcing this mandate."The Army, the military's largest branch, is 96 percent vaccinated as of Dec. 2, when it last reported vaccination data. Lt. Col. Terence Kelley, an Army spokesperson, said the Army and the military's decision to mandate the vaccine was to ensure that soldiers were ready to enter the field at a moment's notice."The Covid-19 vaccine is a readiness issue for theArmy: our units and troops must be ready to deploy and fight. Required vaccinations are nothing new to the U.S. military," he said.Unvaccinated soldiers in position of leadership will be relieved of their position, Kelley said, and soldiers who refuse the vaccine without an approved exemption will receive a note of reprimand on their record and be "flagged," which means they cannot receive a promotion or transfer and would be barred from re-enlistment.Soldiers could also face nonjudicial and judicial punishment, and be discharged from the Army, he added. Looming in the distance is another issue: the National Guard and Reserve. Austin ordered that all members of the National Guard and Reserve also receive Covid vaccinations or lose pay and be banned from drills and training. Missing drills can lead to demotion and release from the force. Republican governors, particularly Oklahoma Gov. Kevin Stitt who last week filed a lawsuit against the Department of Defense over vaccine mandates, have threatened to turn these mandates into a political issue.The deadline for the Air National Guard and Reserve has passed, but members of the Army National Guard and Reserve don't have to be fully vaccinated until June 2022. Barno and Stavridis both reflected on the long history of vaccinations in the military. Barno said he had received "a bazillion vaccines in my military career" and Stavridis noted he received nine anthrax vaccine shots just during the Gulf War."Being in the service involves getting a lot of vaccinations that you would never encounter in civilian life, and that's part and parcel being in the military," Barno said. "Everybody pretty much recognizes that."Both agreed that any service members who refused the Covid vaccine should be separated from the military.Stavridis, however, remained optimistic that the military would quickly see a spike in vaccinations once service members realized the stakes of refusal, particularly as anything less than an honorable discharge from the military can drag a career, within and outside the armed forces."I think when people are faced with those kinds of choices, my guess is that in the end, 99 percent of the force will get vaccinated," he said. "Can we deal with a 1 percent loss? Yes, we can. And in the end, we'll be readier force because of it." Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Music and cultural critic Greg Tate dead at 64. Greg Tate, a music and cultural critic who elevated hip-hop as a cultural phenomenon worthy of the kind of respect and admiration jazz has received, has died. He was 64.Laura Sell, a spokeswoman for Duke University Press, which published Tate's "Flyboy 2: The Greg Tate Reader" in 2016, confirmed his death Tuesday. The cause was not immediately available.Tate began impacting popular music and criticism in the 1980s as a staff writer for New York's Village Voice, and he eventually contributed to the New York Times, the Washington Post and Vibe. He was a Louis Armstrong Visiting Professor at Columbia Universitys Center for Jazz Studies and lectured at New York's Museum of Contemporary Art.The Source magazine called him "one of the godfathers of hip-hop journalism."Tate praised the Voice's music critic, Robert Christgau, for hiring him in 1981. He's been quoted as saying Christgau "believed Afro-diasporic musics should on occasion be covered by people who weren't strangers to those communities."Early hip-hop, however, was rarely a topic for Rolling Stone. When it  did draw the attention of pop's mostly white critical establishment, it was often seen as a bubble-gum fad responsible for bright, baggy and tasteless fashion. It was rarely taken seriously. Tate rolled it up, smoked it and exhaled dissertation-worthy observations.Today it's hard to find a greatest-emcee list that doesn't feature Rakim near its very top. In 1988, Tate reviewed Eric B. & Rakim's latest single by clearing space for the duo on the top shelf of American musical greats, including Miles Davis."The music on 'Follow the Leader' is spooky, a science-fiction score that sounds straight out of the Tangerine Dream songbook," he wrote in the Voice. "Rakims on an elocutionary speed-trip, a black bullet train slitting through hyperspace."He also wrote about rock 'n' roll, hardcore, jazz, street art, and "the post-nationalist black aesthetic." He played guitar, co-founded the Black Rock writers' coalition and founded Burnt Sugar the Arkestra Chamber, described on its website as "a sprawling band of musicians whose prodigious personnel allows them to freely juggle a wide swath of the experimental soul-jazz-hip hop spectrum."In that 1986 Village Voice essay on the Black American aesthetic, Tate wrote, as a parenthetic aside, "It is our music, especially jazz, which confronts Western culture with its most intimidating and improbable Other: the sui generis black genius."He was born in Dayton, Ohio, grew up in Washington, D.C., and was influenced both by the critics of Rolling Stone and the writing of Amiri Baraka, according to Artforum International Magazine, which first reported the news of his death. He studied film and journalism at Howard University."I got to New York in 81, just as hip-hop was blowing up," he told New York magazine in 2016. "Radio wasnt playing hip-hop. There were no videos. The way I found out about KRS-One, Rakim, Big Daddy Kane and Public Enemy was word-of-mouth. It was very much an underground conversation, but being in New York in the 80s we were basically at the epicenter of world culture."One of Tates earliest feats, New Yorker staff writer Hua Hsu noted in 2016, was to "help to establish jazz and hip-hop as part of the same continuum of expression."RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor saysFor the hip-hop generation, now old enough to feature on the obituary page, Tate's nods could be revelatory. "His form of writing could be as exhilarating as art," Hsu wrote.Tate was celebrated among peers and artists. Hip-hop writer Michael A. Gonzalez wrote in 2007 that the critic's 50th birthday party at the Studio Museum of Harlem was attended by Vernon Reid, Dream Hampton, Kevin Powell, Maureen McMahonand other luminaries.Like a lot of writers who gravitated toward hip-hop, Los Angeles journalist Donnell Alexander, a University of Southern California journalism fellow and author of "Ghetto Celebrity: Searching for My Father in Me," said Tate influenced his career."He was one of the very first writers I wanted to be," he said by email. "Id be reading the Village Voice music section. I almost literally disbelieved the column inches were real, it was so Black and idiosyncratic."Tate's bibliography includes "Flyboy in the Buttermilk: Essays on Contemporary America" (1992), "Everything But the Burden: What White People Are Taking From Black Culture" (2003), "Midnight Lightning: Jimi Hendrix and the Black Experience" (2003), and "Flyboy 2."On Tuesday, New Yorker magazine staff writer  Jelani Cobb, who's an MSNBC contributor, tweeted that "Flyboy in the Buttermilk" is "a clinic on literary brilliance."Alexander said that one of Tate's impacts was to tease readers with takes on pop music but then take them down a different road."Tate referenced sci-fi," he said. "Hed throw a hip-hop feel onto a piece about rock. He wrote about weird jazz albums with such clued-in passion that I had no idea the forms relevance was fading. All of this was dazzling in the possibility it presented."His demise is sad, Alexander said, but it will open eyes."It's exciting to think of how many more people are going to read him now," he said.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Rain eases in parts of Hawaii after Kona Low storm lashes state. Flood watches for Honolulu and the rest of Oahu were canceled Tuesday, but not before a slow-moving storm dumped more than a foot of rain on parts of Hawaii, flooding some areas and prompting rescues, officials said.No deaths have been reported from the Kona Low storm, which dumped more than 12 inches on parts of Hawaiis Big Island and  Maui.But the storm caused flooding, downed trees and power outages.  Gov. David Ige issued an emergency declaration Monday, allowing for aid.A flood watch remained for the islands of Kauai and Niihau, to the west of Oahu, until 6 a.m. Wednesday.The damage is substantial, Maui County Mayor Michael Victorino said Monday night, adding that the south part of the island was especially hard hit by flooding.The Honolulu Fire Department on Monday afternoon rescued five boys, all 9 and 10 years old, from a rushing stream, the departments said.Firefighters responded to 90 calls about the weather on Oahu, including 55 flooded houses, three swift-water rescues and two people pulled from vehicles trapped by high waters, the fire department said.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor saysAround 9 inches of rain fell in some parts of Oahu over 24 hours, according to the National Weather Service. Honolulu's airport got almost 8 inches of rain Monday.Roads in Maui County were covered in mud, and a landslide struck a home in Oahu, NBC affiliate KHNL of Honolulu reported.Power was knocked out in much of downtown Honolulu, and full restoration wasnt likely until Wednesday morning, utility Hawaii Electric said.A substation and undergrounds vaults flooded overnight, and when the water was pumped out, crews discovered around 300 feet of high-voltage cable was damaged, the utility said in a statement.A remaining flood watch for Oahu was canceled Tuesday afternoon, National Weather Service Meteorologist Vanessa Almanza said.The weather system responsible for all that rain is a Kona Low, a seasonal cyclone that pulls deep tropical moisture over Hawaii.It prompted a blizzard warning for Hawaiis tallest and second-tallest peaks, Mauna Kea and Mauna Loa, both of which are over 13,500 feet.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Defense rests in Jussie Smollett trial; actor blasts attackers as 'liars'. CHICAGO  Actor Jussie Smollett's defense team rested its case Tuesday after he returned to the stand in his criminal trial, sparring with prosecutors over the sequence of events in 2019, when he says he was the victim of a hate crime attack, and blasting the testimony of the two brothers involved in the incident as "liars."After more than a week of witness testimony, the trial of Smollett, the once-rising star of the television show "Empire," is expected to continue with closing arguments Wednesday.Smollett, 39,is charged with six counts of felony disorderly conduct; prosecutors say he made a false police report about the alleged attack. The case hinges on whose narrative the jury determines is more credible: that of Smollett, who denies having masterminded an attack on himself to gain public sympathy and raise his profile, as prosecutors allege, or that of brothers Abimbola and Olabingo Osundairo, who maintain that Smollett paid them to stage the attack.Smollett, who is Black and gay, laid out what he says occurred early Jan. 29, 2019, as he was walking home in downtown Chicago after having gotten food. He testified this week that he heard someone yell "Empire" and "MAGA country," a reference to former President Donald Trump's campaign slogan, "Make America Great Again," as well as racist and homophobic remarks.Smollett said that he turned around and responded using an expletive and that he was punched in his left eye. Smollett, who is 5 feet, 11 inches tall, said he tried to fight back, testifying that the person who attacked him was bigger. He also said he saw a second assailant."It felt like something out of 'Looney Tunes' adventures. It felt like someone massive coming up to me. Not enough time to think," Smollett said. "This person felt significantly larger than me. Dressed in dark clothes. A ski mask."Jussie Smollett testifies in his own defenseDec. 6, 202101:23Under cross-examination, Smollett said he initially refused to give Chicago police his cellphone for their investigation because he wanted his privacy. Asked by special prosecutor Dan Webb whether he was concerned that the phone would show several calls to Abimbola Osundairo, Smollett said no.Smollett testified that he first met Abimbola Osundairo in 2017 at a club, where he learned that Osundairo also worked on the "Empire" set. He said they did drugs together and went to a bathhouse, where  they "made out." He said they later did more drugs and participated in sex acts together.Abimbola Osundairo at the Leighton Criminal Courthouse in Chicago after a lunch break in the trial of actor Jussie Smollett on Dec. 1. Charles Rex Arbogast / APAbimbola Osundairo testified last week that he and Smollett did not have a sexual relationship.Before the staged attack, Osundairo said, Smollett sent him a text message about needing to talk secretly "on the low." He said that during the conversation, Smollett brought up orchestrating a planned assault. Smollett said the text message was in reference to an illegal steroid that Osundairo had told him he could get from Nigeria.Abimbola and Olabingo Osundairo, who are Black, also testified last week that Smollett instructed them to yell "this is MAGA country" during the assault.Smollett reiterated Tuesday: "They're liars. They also said I had something to do with it, and I didn't."RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor saysDefense attorneys have suggested that the Osundairo brothers accused Smollett of staging the hoax because they disliked him and saw an opportunity to make money. They suggested that after police questioned the brothers, they asked Smollett for $1 million each not to testify against him.Smollett's lawyers also have argued that police rushed to judgment when they charged Smollett. He initiallyfaced as many as 16 felony countsinvolving filing a false police report before prosecutors dropped the charges in March 2019. Webb, the special prosecutor, secured another indictmentlast year.Smollett said that the twisting saga has been "embarrassing" and that it has caused him to lose out on work."I've lost my livelihood," he told the jury.Smollett could face up to three years in prison if he is convicted, although legal experts say his lack of a criminal record and the fact that no one was seriously hurt might result in probation and community service.Samira Puskar reported from Chicago and Erik Ortiz from New York.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Nick Cannon's 5-month-old son, Zen, dies of brain tumor. Nick Cannon announced Tuesday that his 5-month-old son, Zen,died of a brain tumor over the weekend.The 41-year-old TV host made the tragic announcement on his show, "Nick Cannon."Zen was Cannons seventh and youngest child; Alyssa Scott delivered him in June."Over the weekend, I lost my youngest son to a condition called hydrocephalus that is pretty much a malignant, midline brain tumor  brain cancer," Cannon said. Hydrocephalus is characterized by an abnormal increase in the amount of fluid on the brain.Nick Cannon announces death of 5-month-old son from brain tumorDec. 7, 202101:16Cannon broke down in tears as he explained his son's medical condition. I always noticed he had a cough and so I wanted to check it out, he said. "He had this real interesting breathing, and by the time he was 2 months old I noticed ... he had this nice-sized head, too. I called it a Cannon head," he said. "We didnt think anything about it. But I wanted to take him to the doctor for his sinus and breathing. We thought it would be routine."Cannon said he found out the fluid building up on Zen's brain caused it to expand. Doctors discovered the malignant tumor, and Zen underwent surgery to drain the fluid.Zen's condition worsened around Thanksgiving.The process sped up. Ultimately, it was cancer in the brain. The tumor began to grow a lot faster, Cannon said."This weekend, I made an effort to spend the most quality time with Zen. We woke up on Sunday ... and went to the ocean with him," Cannon said.Cannon was overcome with emotion as he described holding Zen for the last time. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor says"I was preparing my day as it normally went. I didnt know what it was going to be. But even by the time I got in the car headed for the airport, I had to turn around," to be with Zen, Cannon said."I turned around and not only did we get to see the sunrise, but we got to see the sunset, too," he said."You cant heal until you feel," he told his viewers, adding that "this is a special show dedicated to my beautiful son."The actor said hell take time off to grieve.Cannon shares 10-year-old twins, Moroccan and Monroe Cannon, with singer Mariah Carey; son Golden, 4, and daughter Powerful Queen Cannon, 11 months, with Brittany Bell; and 5-month-old twins, Zion Mixolydian Cannon and Zillion Heir Cannon, with Abby De La Rosa.CORRECTION (Dec. 7, 2021, 6:03 p.m. ET): A previous version of this article misstated the title of Nick Cannons talk show. It is called Nick Cannon, not The Nick Cannon Show, which aired in the early 2000s.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Brooke Shields calls 1981 Barbara Walters interview 'practically criminal'. Brooke Shields slammed Barbara Walters over a 1981 interview she did about her famous Calvin Klein ad, describing Walters' questions about her sexual history as "practically criminal."In 1980, Shields, who was then 15, starred in a Calvin Klein TV commercial that featured the famous slogan You want to know what comes between me and my Calvins? Nothing.The commercial sparked a public and media outcry, prompting Shields to address the controversy in a series of interviews  most of which were characterized by invasive questions about her personal life.On Monday's episode of Dax Shepard's podcast Armchair Expert, Shields said the interviewers she spoke to in the wake of the Calvin Klein ad "never wanted my answer  they just wanted their point of view."Shepard said the 1981 interview with Walters after the release of the Calvin Klein commercial was particularly "maddening." Shields agreed, saying: "It's practically criminal. It's not journalism."Brooke Shields and her mother, Teri Shields, in New York City around 1980. Bettina Cirone / Images/Getty Images fileWalters asked Shields about her measurements, whether she wanted to be like her mother and whether she kept any secrets from her. Shields, who appeared to be visibly uncomfortable, defended her mother throughout the interview and said she was still growing up as a teen.RecommendedPop Culture NewsPop Culture NewsPeople are blasting Chanel's $825 Advent calendar on TikTokPop Culture NewsPop Culture NewsA TikTok star shared his weight loss with his followers. He was called 'fatphobic.'It isn't the first time Shields has addressed the outcry.In a video for Vogue in October, Shields, 56, said she didn't realize the ad was overtly sexual at the time.They take the one commercial, which is a rhetorical question. I was naive. I didnt think anything of it. I didnt think it had to do with underwear. I didnt think it was sexual in nature," she said in the Vogue video. "I would say it about my sister: Nobody can come between me and my sister.Brooke Shields around 1980. Archive Photos / Getty Images fileShields added that the backlash "backfired," saying the campaign made the brand a household name.The campaign was extremely successful. And then, I think, the underwear sort of overtook the jeans, and they understood what sells and how to push the envelope," she told Vogue.Theres an appeal to it that is so undeniable, and they tapped right into it, she said. They knew exactly what they were doing, and I think it did set the tone for decades.
Mississippi inmate revealed location of sister-in-law's body before he was executed for another murder, officials say. Three weeks before he was executed for killing his estranged wife, authorities say, a death row inmate in Mississippi revealed the location of the body of his sister-in-law, who disappeared in 2007.Attorneys for the man, David Neal Cox, told prosecutors about the purported confession of his involvement in a second homicide in hand-delivered writings on Nov. 19, First Circuit District Attorney John Weddle said in a statement.The notes were provided two days after he was killed by lethal injection at the Mississippi State Penitentiary at Parchman, Weddle said.Mississippi executes first inmate in 9 yearsNov. 17, 202102:00Cox's writings, which were provided by attorneys with the Office of Capital Post-Conviction Counsel, revealed the alleged location of the body of Felicia Cox; missing since July of 2007, said the statement, which added, Cox has been a longtime suspect in her disappearance. The Pontotoc County Sheriffs Department and the District Attorneys Office were in contact with Cox ... prior to the execution urging the disclosure, it said.David Neal Cox.Mississippi Department of Corrections via APCox shared an admission of guilt and details about his sister in-laws whereabouts on or about Oct. 26, prosecutors said.Weddle said Tuesday by telephone that he is hopeful that authorities will find the body of Felicia Cox, who was 40 years old when she vanished.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor saysThe case has been open for a long time, 14years. Weve never had the evidence that we needed to prosecute this, Weddle said. Hes always been a suspect because he was one of the last people to see her alive. But he never confessed to it. We didnt have a body.Officials are working on the logistics of searching for Felicia Coxs remains, and her relatives are optimistic that she will be found, Weddle said. He said the body will be looked for in Pontotoc County.Authorities have contacted experts in archaeology and anthropology at Mississippi State University to help in the search and recovery if Felicia Cox is found, officials said.David Cox, 50, last month became the first inmate to have been executed in Mississippi in nine years. He had pleaded guilty to killing his estranged wife and sexually assaulting her young daughter as her mother lay dying more than a decade ago.Cox exhausted his appeals and filed court papers saying he was worthy of death. He appeared calm as he received a lethal injection on Nov. 17. A coroner pronounced him dead at 6:12 p.m.I want my children to know that I love them very much and that I was a good man at one time, Cox said just before the injection started. Dont ever read anything but the King James Bible.Cox was sentenced to death for the fatal shooting in 2010 of Kim Kirk Cox. He pleaded guilty in 2012 to capital murder and multiple other charges, including sexual assault. A jury handed down the death sentence.Prosecutors said Cox shot his wife and let her bleed to death over several hours while he sexually assaulted his stepdaughter three times in front of her dying mother.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Statue of KKK leader Nathan Bedford Forrest taken down on land near Nashville. A statue of an early Ku Klux Klan leader and Confederate general that long raised the ire of motorists along Interstate 65 in Tennessee was removed Tuesday morning from the private property where it had sat for decades.The owner of the land where the statue of Nathan Bedford Forrest stood died recently, NBC affiliate WSMV of Nashville reported. The man, Bill Dorris, left the property to the Battle of Nashville Trust, and the group had the statue removed. The statue of Forrest is ugly and even he would think so, the trust said in a statement. Forrest was not present at the Battle of Nashville, and the property has no historical significance, it said.Democratic state Sen. Heidi Campbell said the statue's removal was "great news.""As Oak Hill Mayor I implored the state to allow vegetation to grow in front of it (they kept that particular stretch trimmed in a way that was inconsistent with the rest of the roadside)," she tweeted.A statue of Nathan Bedford Forrest, a Confederate Army general and the first grand wizard of the Ku Klux Klan, is splattered with pink paint in Nashville, Tenn., on Dec. 28, 2017.Mark Humphrey / AP fileDorris is said to have placed the statue alongside the highway to showcase the "area's history," WSMV reported.As news of the statue's removal spread online, social media users noted the peculiarly poor rendering of Forrest's face, with his jaw hanging open."Its a very strange looking statue at best. Id like to know what the artist was thinking," a Twitter user said. Other monuments to Forrest have sparked controversy for decades. In July, a bust was moved from the Tennessee Capitol to a nearby museum after years of debate, one of a long stream of Confederate memorabilia and monuments that have fallen in recent years. The roadside statue was vandalized with pink paint in 2017, which Dorris vowed to leave, according to the newspaper the Tennessean: "Theyve been trying to figure out how to cover it up," he said. "I do think theyve chosen a real good color."Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Mexican nationals accused of kidnapping 9, murdering 6, including 3 U.S. citizens. Six Mexican nationals are accused of kidnapping nine people and murdering six of them, including three American citizens, authorities said Tuesday.The group, based in Tijuana, Mexico, was in the custody of Mexican authorities and faces charges there, the U.S. Attorney's Office for Californias central district said in a news release.It wasnt immediately clear where they are being held or what they are accused of in Mexico. A spokesman for the federal prosecutors office in California declined to say if theyll be brought to the United States.In the United States, the group is accused of operating a kidnapping gang for four months last year that often lured victims to meetings under false pretenses, then held them at gunpoint and brutally beat them, the release said.After victims were assaulted, the group called relatives and demanded money or cars in exchange for their release. Victims were killed if the ransom wasnt paid, the release said.The group is also accused of killing victims despite receiving a ransom payment in order to protect their alleged "conspiracy," authorities said.A federal grand jury indicted the group on charges of conspiracy to commit hostage taking resulting in death, conspiracy to commit extortion and other crimes.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor saysIn one case, after a U.S. citizen from Southern California was allegedly kidnapped while visiting a relative in Tijuana on April 11, the gang demanded $25,000 for his release, the release said. After his mother offered $1,000 and her son's car, the group allegedly murdered him. His body was found in Mexico the next day, according to the release.None of the victims were identified.In another case in April, a Pasadena woman told authorities that the group demanded $20,000 in exchange for the release of a relative. Mexican authorities found the victim alive at a Tijuana hotel. It was unclear if the ransom was paid. Authorities identified the gang's alleged ringleader as German Garcia Yera Hernandez, 37. Others indicted include Gilberto Omar Avila Lopez, 27; Aylin Estrada Reyes, 24; Joel Eduardo Mascorro Delgado, 22; Victoria Camila Espinoza Ballardo, 22; and Oscar Bautista Valencia, 30.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
People are blasting Chanel's $825 Advent calendar on TikTok. TikTok users unboxing Chanels $825 Advent calendar are complaining about the quality of items in the holiday package. The calendar, which starts on Dec. 5 instead of the first day of the month as a nod to the iconic perfume Chanel No. 5, features such items as a keychain, a Chanel-stamped wax seal and a perfume bottle-shaped paperweight. The package itself is shaped like a massive bottle of perfume. This has to be a joke, TikTok creator Elise Harmon says in a video she posted Sunday, in which she unwraps the calendar. The first box she opens, labeled 9, reveals a sheet of branded stickers. This is a joke! Stickers? In follow-up videos, she unboxes a "baby"-size body cream, a flip book, mini lipsticks, temporary tattoos, a money clip and a magnet. "I'm pretty sure this is enough cream for my left arm, but it's very cute," Harmon jokes. Although Harmon said she was pleasantly surprised by the nail polish and a larger bottle of Chanel No. 5, which were the only two full-size items in the calendar, she said she was disappointed by the product overall.When youre buying from a brand like Chanel that is coveted and known for quality and luxury and you receive things that [are], like, gumball status and free things that they had given away months prior, its questionable, she says in one of her videos.Harmon did not immediately respond to a request for comment. "When you're buying from a brand like Chanel that is coveted and known for quality and luxury and you receive things that [are], like, gumball status and free things that they had given away months prior, it's questionable."tiktok creator elise harmonA spokesperson for Chanel also did not immediately respond to a request for comment. In a statement to People magazine, Gregoire Audidier, the international communication and client experience strategy director for Chanel Fragrance & Beauty, pointed to the brand's website, noting that customers can see everything in the calendar if they buy it online. The advent calendar was a limited editionitem specially created by CHANEL to celebrate the 100 years of N5. Directly inspired by the mythical silhouette of the N5 bottle, the collectors item and the contents included aredetailed on our website,chanel.com," he told the publication.The description for the product on Chanels website reads: "To celebrate the holiday season and mark 100 years of the legendary fragrance, CHANEL presents a first-of-its-kind calendar crafted in the timeless silhouette of the N5 flacon. Count down to the holidays with this collectors item featuring 27 boxes numbered from 5 to 31, filled with mysterious delights and surprises. A piece to treasure for years to come." It goes on to list every single item. The product is sold out.Harmon said she bought her calendar in a store to be more surprised by its contents. Other creators who posted unboxing videos were similarly baffled. TikTok creator Emily McCart paired a video unwrapping the box of Chanel stickers with audio of Wendy Williams saying, "What was that?"Another video, posted by TikTok user ideservecouture, shows a woman ranting in Cantonese as she unboxes each item. One of the Advent boxes reveals a Chanel dust bag. "While I do not speak the same language, I understood every word," a commenter said. "SMH Chanel."Another replied, "The fact it's an advent calendar is funny. So you can be disappointed every day for a month." TikTok creator chuacookie began posting videos featuring the calendar Sunday. The first box to be opened, labeled 5, was the tiny bottle of Chanel No. 5. Chuacookie placed it next to a measuring tape and tucked it into the crook of a Barbie doll's arm to show just how small the bottle was.  Harmon claims Chanel blocked her on TikTok. Other TikTok users say Chanel deleted its account following the backlash. The account @Chanel on TikTok has no followers, and it is set to private.Audidier told People that the account is "not an active account and no content has ever been published."RecommendedPop Culture NewsPop Culture NewsA TikTok star shared his weight loss with his followers. He was called 'fatphobic.'MusicMusicOlivia Rodrigo performs 'Drivers License' at a California DMV (yes, really)"The page therefore appears empty to anyone who visits it," Audidier said. We are committed to sharing our creations with our followers on all social networks we are active on. Our pages are open to everyone, and our followers are free to express their feelings and opinions, whether they are enthusiastic or critical.On Instagram, where Chanel has a verified account, the brand faced a barrage of complaints. "They should make a outfit with all the stickers," a user commented on Chanel's Instagram post Tuesday."I can't afford $825 just for stickers," another wrote. In an interview with Womens Wear Daily, Audidier said the controversy was a bit of a shame."Because it was not what Chanel intended," he said. "Chanel thought it would please some of its customers by offering this type of product. Evidently, we see that you have to be careful, and therefore, in future, we will certainly be much more cautious."
A white man shot his Black neighbor in Missouri, claiming self-defense. Neighbors tell a different story.. The fatal shooting of a Black man in a trailer park is rocking a rural community in Missouri as neighbors who say they witnessed the killing dispute the police narrative of events.Justin King, a 28-year-old Black and Filipino man, was shot Nov. 3 at 11:45 a.m. in the small town of Bourbon, located about 73 miles southwest of St. Louis.Police say he was shot by the owner of a home he was trying to break into, but witnesses and family members say he was shot in "cold blood" by a man he called his friend.King succumbed to his wounds at the scene. The 42-year-old white neighbor who shot him was taken into custody and later released.Justin King and his daughter.Courtesy John KingThe Crawford County Sheriff's Department said King was shot "after forcing entry into a neighboring residence where an altercation took place." The homeowner "feared for his life" and shot King, the department said in a news release.The department said evidence, video surveillance and statements "preliminarily corroborate the homeowner's account of the events."But family members of King and five people who live in the trailer park told NBC News they doubt that narrative.Three neighbors told NBC News the shooter was a man who had expressed a desire to kill someone, has a history of violence and was known to use racial epithets. Several neighbors said King and the shooter were friends. Nimrod Chapel Jr., the president of the Missouri NAACP, who is representing the King family, said Justin King was shot outside the neighbor's home and had not entered it, contrary to the sheriff's account."The only person that says it's a home invasion is the guy that shot my son," King's father, John King, told NBC News. "And all the neighbors are saying, 'No, you shot him in cold blood outside.'""He had no shirt on, only pajama bottoms. So how was he a threat?" John King said. "Justin was shot in cold blood outside in broad daylight."Under Missouri's "castle doctrine" law, individuals are allowed to use deadly force against intruders without the duty to retreat, based on the notion that their home is "their castle."The shooter, whose name has not been made public and who is not facing charges, did not reply to NBC News' request for comment.What happened on Nov. 3Neighbors described King as a happy-go-lucky man who always offered a helping hand. He had moved to Bourbon from St. Louis recently to be close to his 9-year-old daughter, Harlee.Lesa Stiller, the manager of the trailer park, said she saw King outside heading toward the neighbor's trailer moments before the shooting. All of a sudden, she heard a "pop, pop, pop.""And right at that last pop, I saw Justin slowly stagger backwards real slow with his hands up in the air," near the outdoor front steps of the shooter's trailer, Stiller recalled. She noted that she didn't see King enter the trailer itself and that King and the shooter lived across from each other."I heard him say, 'I thought we were friends.' And [the neighbor] said, 'We were!' and he just slowly walked back," she said.Another neighbor, Katie Bosek, described King as "a gentle man who helped everybody." She said he helped her search for her dogs that went missing the same day as the shooting. Later that day, King and the neighbor who shot him worked together to fix her car, she said."They both got under the hood together. They're just cutting it up laughing as they're doing it," she said.She claimed she saw King and the neighbor walk off together. She said she heard three gunshots about 15 minutes later and rushed to the window to see King lying on the ground.Trina Willson, who lives several trailers behind the shooter, said: "He knew Justin. You would think that if your friend was coming into your house, you'd be like, 'Hey, man, what are you doing?' Why do you automatically resort to pulling out a gun and shooting him? How can this even possibly go down as self-defense?"Chapel noted that the neighbor and King had cameras at their homes.Police have not released any video footage from the incident to the public or the family but said they have "viewed all videos at our disposal." The Crawford County Sheriff's Department said it intends to share the footage "upon the final case review by the county prosecutor."King's death has torn apart the close-knit community in the small town of Bourbon, home to 1,600 residents."It's been crazy here since that. We've never had nothing like that in this little small town since I've been here in 20 years," Earl McCoy, another neighbor, said. "We take care of each other in here. It's been eerily quiet here. It was like a ghost town."A history of threatening violence and racist languageThree people who live in the park said the neighbor who shot King had threatened violence before.Stiller said the neighbor was known to show off his gun  including once at a party she threw on Oct. 30."He never went anywhere without that .32 in his belt," she said.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor saysBosek recalled that King told her months before the shooting that the neighbor had threatened to shoot him."Justin came over about two months prior to all this happening. He was like, 'You know he threatened to shoot me? Yeah, that dude threatened to shoot me,'" she said. "Justin was such a good guy. He would always forgive people and keep going back."McCoy said the shooter "had guns all over his house.""The last time I talked to [the neighbor] was at a party on Halloween when he showed everybody his little pistol," McCoy said. "He said, 'I don't fight no more; I shoot motherf------.'"King's father believes the shooting was an act of "racially motivated hate" and said his son was the only Black person in that trailer community.Two neighbors also said the shooter was known to use racial slurs."He was always open with the N-word. He never said 'Black man,'" Stiller said."He would blurt [racial epithets] out. He wouldn't call it to Justin if he was standing around me and Justin because he knows I'd knock his a-- off," McCoy said.The neighbor who shot King has a criminal record involving violence. He was arrested in June 2017 and charged with second-degree assault and unlawful use of a weapon while intoxicated, both felonies, according to court records.Court records do not show if those charges were dismissed. The Crawford County court clerk declined to comment, and the Crawford County prosecutor's office did not respond to NBC News' request for comment on those charges.Federal law generally prohibits people from possessing firearms if they have been convicted of a felony, according to Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. Further, Missouri also prohibits possession of a firearm by any person convicted of a felony under Missouri law.Outrage over the handling of the caseJohn King said he was outraged to see sheriff's deputies escorting the shooter back to his trailer the day after his son's death.The family, along with local activists, are calling out the sheriff's department and demanding a thorough investigation."I feel, like, betrayed by all the police," Kings mother, Eva Bruns, said. "They're not being fair. I don't know if it's because of color or because of the way the killer is." "In the investigation, nothing has been done," she said. "Twenty-four hours later and he's out of jail. I don't know what kind of justice that is."Crawford County Sheriff Darin Layman said in a statement that all the information shared thus far in the case is "accurate in relation to our investigation and findings.""Our office has not uncovered any evidence to support the idea that this was a racially motivated incident," he said. "We have contacted the FBI regarding this investigation and requested their assistance in processing a portion of the evidence collected."The FBI in Missouri declined to comment on the case.Now the family is focusing on getting answers on what happened in the build-up to King's death.  "The family wants to make sure that whoever is responsible for the death of their son is held accountable," Chapel, the King familys lawyer, said. "But right now we just settle for the disclosure of the truth."So far, no lawsuit has been filed in the case, but Chapel said, "I wouldn't rule anything out at this point."A statewide issue of failing to investigate the deaths of Black menChapel said the lack of action in King's case is part of a statewide problem when it comes to investigating the deaths of African Americans, pointing to the cases of Tory Sanders and Derontae Martin.Sanders, 28, a Black inmate at a rural jail, died in May 2017 under similar circumstances to George Floyd, after a white law enforcement officer pressed his knee on his neck, according to a wrongful death suit filed by his family. Missouri Attorney General Eric Schmitt declined to file charges in his death.Martin, 19, was found dead from a gunshot wound to the head on April 25 at the home of a white man who had posted racist memes on social media. Authorities concluded that he died by suicide, but in July, a jury of six people ruled during a coroner's inquest hearing that Martin was killed by violence."That's Jim Crow justice," Chapel said. "This is a statewide issue. In Justin's case, they allege that there's an investigation, but then they produce the results of the investigation before the investigation is complete. What kind of police work is that?"Missouri's NAACP chapter issued a travel advisory in 2017 that remains in effect today warning people to travel with caution in the state because "race, gender and color-based crimes have a long history in Missouri.""What Missouri needs is to have some federal oversight to ensure that law enforcement is trying to treat people in the way that the Constitution demands, whether you're the alleged perpetrator of a crime or victim of a crime  that you have the same rights regardless of skin color," Chapel said.On Nov. 16, the Crawford County Sheriff's Department said the investigation into King's death is still open and evidence is being processed and sent off for lab analysis. The department also said an informal case review was conducted with the Crawford County prosecutor's office, and there will be follow-ups with witnesses and evidence collection.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
ric Zemmour been called racist and dangerous, and he's running for president of France . PARIS  ric Zemmour does not mind comparisons to Donald Trump.We are not the same but we have points in common, the far-right TV pundit, who Tuesday declared his candidacy for French president, told NBC News at a recent book signing outside Lyon. He is very American and I am very French, almost to the point of being a caricature.In fact, a central plank of his political vision echoes Trumps Make America Great Again message: I want a French France, he has said.A woman walks past a poster of ric Zemmour, a political pundit who has emerged as a new leader of the countrys formidable far right.Rafael Yaghobzadeh for NBC NewsSlight and charismatic Zemmour, whose parents were French Algerian Jews, may be very French, but the media frenzy surrounding him and his background as an outspoken star of the small screen is drawing parallels to the former American presidents meteoric rise. A recent video of Zemmour pointing a sniper rifle at journalists in Paris has been watched by millions. His controversial opinions on women and Frances role in World War II have shocked many.But his leitmotif is immigration and Islam.We will not let ourselves be dominated, subjugated, conquered, colonized, he said in a video announcing his candidacy Tuesday.We will not let ourselves be replaced, he added, a nod to the great replacement, a conspiracy theory which posits that European, white and Christian populations are being supplanted by nonwhite immigrants from Africa and the Middle East, particularly Muslims. It has been adopted by white supremacists, and linked to mass shootings in the United States and New Zealand.Seemingly out of nowhere, Zemmour, 63, has electrified Frances presidential race. The neatly-dressed firebrand has hammered home warnings of a country in decline and exploited sentiments thriving well beyond its shores to emerge as a new leader of the countrys formidable far right, while still appealing to more mainstream conservative voters. More than one poll has predicted he could overtake Marine Le Pen, the doyen of the hard right, to reach the final round of the election in April and go head-to-head with President Emmanuel Macron.I think people are not enough afraid of him  they dont think he can make it, said Gaspard Gantzer, a former strategy and communications adviser to the last Socialist president of France, Franois Hollande. Nobody thought that Trump could win.Modest beginningsZemmour spent much of his early childhood in Drancy, a modest Parisian suburb whose high-rise social housing and private apartment blocks dwarf the small detached properties set back behind iron railings below.ric Zemmour grew up in the culturally and ethnically diverse Parisian suburb of Drancy. Rafael Yaghobzadeh for NBC NewsThe population of this sprawling suburb reflects the waves of immigration over the years, including those who arrived from southern Europe and former African colonies like Algeria. His parents, widely reported to be named Roger, an ambulance driver, and Lucette, a housewife, moved to France from Algeria in 1952. Storefronts tout everything from French patisserie to kebabs, the streets are clean if not beautiful, and the houses neatly kept. In one central bar, men congregate around a television checking the numbers theyve drawn in a lotto-style game against those on the screen.The extent of Drancys diversity is difficult to grasp exactly because Frances commitment to universalism, which subsumes other identities into Frenchness and encourages immigrants to integrate, largely prohibits the government census from counting people by race or religion.It is this Frenchness that Zemmour wants to preserve, and what has led him to label Islam as incompatible with France. On a recent visit to his home suburb televised by TV channel CNews, he confronted a woman who was wearing a headscarf.Youre not doing as the French do, he told the woman, who was introduced as Rachida, a naturalized French citizen, and who had just insisted that she is French.I work, I pay my taxes, I raise my children, she responded. See the woman that I am, not the piece of fabric on my head.I see only the fabric on your head, because you only show that  you say to everyone, Im Muslim, Zemmour responded.If he wins, the risk is civil war, said Hamid Chabani, a deputy mayor of Drancy. Rafael Yaghobzadeh for NBC NewsHamid Chabani, a deputy mayor of Drancy and the founder of a Franco-Berber cultural center in the suburb, said Zemmours rhetoric was dangerous and risked emboldening the most extreme members of the Muslim community in France. The Berbers are an indigenous people of North Africa.Its Islamism thats not compatible with France, its the terrorists who arent compatible with France, he said in his office in Drancys municipal building, which is framed by a neat square complete with bright bedding plants and a fountain. We have the right to have a religion.If he wins, the risk is civil war, Chabani said, adding that he doubted Zemmour would win.France has one of the largest Muslim populations in Europe, a legacy of its colonial domination of large parts of Africa and the Middle East. In recent years, it has also been bloodied by deadlyterrorist attacks, many of which were carried out by homegrown radical Islamists.Zemmour says he makes a distinction between Islam and Muslims and says everyone has the right to practice their religion. He says he has nothing against foreigners, but prefers French people, and asks that immigrants assimilate. He wants to oblige parents to give their children French names rather than foreign ones such as Kevin or Mohammed.He has warned repeatedly of the great replacement, an idea popularized by the French writer Renaud Camus.Asked by NBC News whether the great replacement was in fact a conspiracy theory, Zemmour demurred, describing it as an unstoppable demographic process.Some in Drancy believe he speaks cold hard truths even if they say he sometimes goes too far.Michelle Ardinge, a French citizen born in Madagascar who now runs a funeral home in the suburb, said she agreed with most of what Zemmour said on immigration.Were a cosmopolitan country, but still at home you shouldnt feel invaded by foreigners who dont respect anything, she said.It is necessary to refuse the language that the media imposes, said Zemmour, seen here shaking hands with supporters as he arrives at a promotional event for his new book "France hasn't said its last word."Chesnot / Getty ImagesBut Zemmours controversial opinions have also landed him in hot water.Last month, he went on trial for inciting racial hatred for calling unaccompanied child migrants thieves, killers and rapists on TV last year.Zemmour said in a statement that the proceedings were nothing more than a further intimidation attempt and that he would not attend the trial because he believes political debate should not take place in courtrooms.His lawyer, Olivier Pardo, told RMC radio that the charges dont hold up: Hes wanted for racial hatred, for inciting racial discrimination with regards to unaccompanied minors, but as far as I know, unaccompanied minors are neither a race, nor a nation, nor an ethnicity.Immeasurable good luckWhile espousing Frenchness, Zemmours own roots come from further afield.He was born in Montreuil in the eastern suburbs of Paris; his parents had moved to metropolitan France from Algeria  a colony that gained its independence in 1962 after 132 years of French rule.Zemmour has said his parents idolized France and that he and his family, whose surname means olive tree in Berber, successfully assimilated to the French way of life. In his most recent book, he writes that he always thought it immeasurable good luck to be able to become the compatriot of the likes of Ren Descartes and Gustave Flaubert.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor saysHe has spoken about how growing up, he wore a skullcap in the synagogue but not on the street, and how his name was ric outside and Moses inside the place of worship.As for his own beliefs, Zemmour has said hes doubtful about the existence of God but that he goes to the synagogue when he wants to re-immerse himself in the rites of his childhood and to remember his parents.He has shocked many with his claims that Frances wartime Vichy regime, which teamed up with the countrys Nazi occupiers, protected French Jews while handing over foreign ones.Around 76,000 Jews are estimated to have been deported from France to the death camps during World War II. The majority went through a camp in Drancy, situated less than a mile from the modest apartment block where Zemmour grew up.Protesters hold a banner that reads "Marseille Anti-Fascist" during a visit to the city by French far-right media pundit Eric Zemmour.Christophe Simon / AFP via Getty ImagesToday, a somber sculpture of figures lying across one another, a symbolic rail carriage and a museum mark the site of what was then an antechamber to Auschwitz concentration camp. But it took time for France to reckon with this dark chapter in its history. In 1995, then-President Jacques Chirac acknowledged that France had handed over those under its protection to their executioners, finally owning up to the countrys role in the Vel dHiv round-up, a mass arrest of Jews by French police in 1942.Frances chief rabbi, Ham Korsia, has described Zemmour as anti-Semitic and racist.In response, Zemmour accused Korsia of being a court Jew who wanted to deliver his scalp to Macron. For Serge Klarsfeld, a historian and Nazi hunter, it is what Zemmour says about Muslims that is most alarming.He speaks like Hitler, Klarsfeld said. He has a beastly vision of society and what he says is either its them or us.Some blame the media for giving oxygen to Zemmours ideas.A recent poll found that 2 in 3 French people are concerned that a great replacement could happen in France.But Zemmours supporters say efforts to protect the French people and their interests do not make Zemmour  or them  racist. As for the charge of anti-Semitism, they point to the fact that he is Jewish and say he will protect Jews against insults and attacks by Islamists.Press contacts around Zemmour did not respond or declined to field requests for comment regarding allegations that the TV pundits speech is racist, sexist, Islamophobic and anti-Semitic, as well as clarification about his run-ins with the French justice system.Among his most vocal supporters is a group of young people, Gnration Z, who have a strong online presence and are led by a cherub-faced president, Stanislas Rigault.Sitting on the terrasse of a Parisian cafe, the 22-year-old former law student described Zemmour as the brains of the French right and said he was the only person capable of synthesizing the working-class electorate of Le Pen, with those who usually vote for the conservative Les Republicains.Its those two electorates that could lead to victory in the end, he added.Stanislas Rigault, President of Zemmour support group "Generation Z".Joel Saget / AFP via Getty ImagesRecent polls consistently put Macron ahead of right-wing candidates, but that hasnt stopped supporters from throwing their weight behind Zemmour.Other fans include a group of teachers who recently wrote an Op-Ed in a conservative daily in which they lamented the influence of progressive propaganda on schools and called for reform founded on merit, excellence and authority  a transformation they say only Zemmour has the courage to pull off.The authors believe standards in French schools are in decline, children are no longer taught to love their country, teachers no longer have enough authority, and ideology is seeping its way into the classroom, a spokesman for the teachers, Guillaume Bessires, said recently over coffee.He wants to keep ideology away from the classroom, Bessires said of Zemmour, adding that Zemmour differentiates between teaching and raising children. Its up to parents to orientate children morally and politically, Bessires said.When schools take charge of raising children, and even the ideology of children, for us its a danger, he added.But for others, it is Zemmour himself who poses a threat.A recent poll found that he is the most rejected political personality in France, with 70 percent of eligible voters considering him racist, 66 percent misogynist and 67 percent considering him dangerous. Zemmour has denied being a misogynist or racist.Recent polls have also shown Le Pen to be Macrons principal rival once again, overtaking Zemmour.Separately, on Friday, lawyers announced that Zemmour and one of his political aides, Sarah Knafo, would launch legal proceedings after Closer magazine claimed they were expecting a baby.But the polemicist wont give up without a fight  and like Trump, one place that starts is by pushing back against the media.It is necessary to refuse the language that the media imposes, Zemmour said recently. Trump does that in his own way and I do it in mine.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
'Magic dirt': How the internet fueled, and defeated, the pandemic's weirdest MLM. The social media posts started in May: photos and videos of smiling people, mostly women, drinking Mason jars of black liquid, slathering black paste on their faces and feet, or dipping babies and dogs in tubs of the black water. They tagged the posts #BOO and linked to a website that sold a product called Black Oxygen Organics.Black Oxygen Organics, or BOO for short, is difficult to classify. It was marketed as fulvic acid, a compound derived from decayed plants, that was dug up from an Ontario peat bog. The website of the Canadian company that sold it billed it as the end product and smallest particle of the decomposition of ancient, organic matter.Put more simply, the product is dirt  four-and-a-half ounces of it, sealed in a sleek black plastic baggie and sold for $110 plus shipping. Visitors to the Black Oxygen Organics website, recently taken offline, were greeted with a pair of white hands cradling cups of dirt like an offering. A gift from the Ground, it reads. Drink it. Wear it. Bathe in it.BOO, which can be taken by anyone at any age, as well as animals, according to the company, claims many benefits and uses, including improved brain function and heart health, and ridding the body of so-called toxins that include heavy metals, pesticides and parasites.By the end of the summer, online ads for BOO had made their way to millions of people within the internet subcultures that embrace fringe supplements, including the mixed martial arts community, anti-vaccine and Covid-denier groups, and finally more general alternative health and fake cure spaces.And people seemed to be buying; parts of TikTok and Instagram were flooded with #BOO posts. The businessman behind Black Oxygen Organics has been selling mud in various forms for 25 years now, but BOO sold in amounts that surprised even its own executives, according to videos of company meetings viewed by NBC News.The stars appeared aligned for it. A pandemic marked by unprecedented and politicized misinformation has spurred a revival in wonder cures. Well-connected Facebook groups of alternative health seekers and vaccine skeptics provided an audience and eager customer base for a new kind of medicine show. And the too-good-to-be-true testimonials posted to social media attracted a wave of direct sellers, many of them women dipping their toes into the often unprofitable world of multilevel marketing for the first time.But success came at a price. Canadian and U.S. health regulators have cracked down on BOO in recent months, initiating recalls and product holds at the border, respectively. And just as an online army of fans powered BOOs success, an oppositional force of online skeptics threatened to shut it down.Just before Thanksgiving, the company announced in an email it was closing up shop for good. Sellers packed video calls mourning the death of their miracle cure, railing against executives who had taken their money and seemingly run, and wondering how they might recoup the thousands of dollars they paid for BOO that never arrived.The announcement was the apparent end of one of the most haltingly successful companies to ride a wave of interest in online and directly sold alternative medicines  immunity-boosting oils, supplements, herbs, elixirs and so-called superfoods that, despite widespread concerns over their efficacy and safety, make up a lightly regulated, multibillion-dollar industry.In a world where consumers flock to alternative health products, BOO seemed to provide an answer to the question: Just how far are people willing to dig to find their miracle cure?A social post from Black Oxygen Organics and a Facebook post from a fan of the "magic dirt."Obtained by NBC NewsWhat is BOO?Monica Wong first learned about BOO in May. The 39-year-old was scrolling Facebook from her home in Brentwood, California, and saw a Facebook ad that caught her eye: A woman in a bright green shirt emblazoned with a marijuana leaf holding a sign that read, F--- Big Pharma! alongside a kind of treatment that promised to detox heavy metals.Wong had been looking for such a product, for her boyfriend and herself, and while the price was steep, a little internet research convinced her that the health effects would be worth it. Wong clicked on the ad and bought some BOO.Wong said that for two months she dissolved a half-teaspoon of the black stuff in a glass of water and drank it every day. But unlike people in her new BOO Facebook group who posted miraculous testimonials of cured diseases, weight loss, clearer skin, whiter teeth, regrown hair, reclaimed energy, expelled worms and even changes in eye color (from brown to blue), Wong didnt feel like any toxins were leaving her body. In fact, she started having stomach pains.I cant say it was the BOO for sure, Wong said she remembers wondering as she went to the hospital for tests, but wasnt it supposed to heal my gut?How the internet defeated multi-level marketing fad that sold bags of dirt for $110Dec. 3, 202103:29Wong quit taking BOO and told the head of her Facebook group, a higher-ranked seller who earned commission off Wongs participation, about her new pains. When asked why she didnt alert others, Wong said the group administrators, BOO sellers themselves, censored the comments to weed out anything negative. Theyd never let me post that, she said.These online groups are filled with true believers, acolytes who call it magic dirt. (Thats not to be confused with the same trademark name of an unrelated brand of potting soil.) They post that they are drinking, cooking, soaking, snorting and slathering BOO on their bodies and giving it to their families, children and pets.Who would have thought drinking dirt would make me feel so so good? one person in a 27,000-member private Facebook group posted, her face nuzzling a jar of black liquid.Another user posted a photo of a baby sitting in a bathtub of water colored a deep caramel. In the caption, she shared that the baby had contracted hand, foot and mouth disease  a virus that mainly affects children and causes painful sores. Tiny is enjoying his Boo bath! she wrote. Were happy to say our bottom feels happier and were in a better mood!Many such posts are dedicated to tactics for getting kids and loved ones to take BOO.Boo brownies for the picky family, one poster offered.Testimonials like these make up the majority of posts in dozens of Facebook groups, set up and overseen by BOO sellers, with hundreds of thousands of collective members, where BOO is heralded as a miracle drug. Teams of sellers in these private Facebook groups claim that, beyond cosmetic applications, BOO can cure everything from autism to cancer to Alzheimers disease. Conveniently in these times, BOO proponents say it also protects against and treats Covid-19, and can be used to detox the newly vaccinated, according to posts viewed by NBC News.None of the posters contacted by NBC News returned a request for comment. But there may be an incentive for the hyperbole.The MLM boomBlack Oxygen Organics products cant be bought in stores. Instead, the pills and powders are sold by individuals, who theoretically profit not only off their sales but off those of others they recruit. Its the type of top-down and widening profit-modeled business, known as multilevel marketing or MLM, that has led critics to label BOO and products like it pyramid schemes.Participation in MLMs boomed during the pandemic with 7.7 million Americans working for one in 2020, a 13 percent increase over the previous year, according to the Direct Selling Association, the trade and lobbying group for the MLM industry. Wellness products make up the majority of MLM products, and, as the Federal Trade Commission noted, some direct sellers took advantage of a rush toward so-called natural remedies during the pandemic to boost sales.More than 99 percent of MLM sellers lose money, according to the Consumer Awareness Institute, an industry watchdog group. But according to social media posts, BOOs business was booming. In selfies and videos posted to Facebook, Instagram and TikTok, women lather BOO on their faces and soak their feet in sludge-filled pasta pots while, they claim, the money rolls in.Black Oxygen Organics compensation plan, like most MLMs, is convoluted. According to their company handbook, sellers, called brand partners, can earn income in two distinct ways: through retail commissions on bags of BOO they sell, and through recruiting other sellers, from which they earn additional commission and bonuses. The more recruits a seller brings in, the more quickly the seller rises in the ranks  there are 10 titles in the company, from brand partner to director to CEO, with compensation packages growing along the way.A common strategy for MLM participants, including BOO sellers, is to create Facebook groups to collaborate and attract new customers.I earned $21,000 in bonuses in my first 5 weeks! one post read. I am a single mom, 1 income family, this business was the best decision!!!Black Oxygen Organics vice president of business development, Ron Montaruli, described the craze in September, telling distributors on a Zoom call viewed by NBC News that the company had attracted 21,000 sellers and 38,000 new customers. Within the last six months, sales had rocketed from $200,000 a month to nearly $4 million, Montaruli said, referring to a chart that showed the same. (Attempts to reach Montaruli were unsuccessful.)Facts around the companys actual income are as hazy as the mud it sells, but the secret to dealing dirt seems to be Facebook, where sellers have created dozens of individual groups that have attracted a hodgepodge of hundreds of thousands of members.The largest BOO Facebook groups, including one with over 97,000 members, are led mostly by MLM jumpers, the term for people who sell a range of MLM products. The groups have also attracted more general alternative health consumers, as well as people seemingly suffering from delusional parasitosis, a condition characterized by the misguided belief that ones body is being overrun by parasites. Users in these groups mimic activity in anti-parasite internet groups by dosing according to phases of the moon and posting photos of dirty water from foot baths or human waste from toilets asking others to identify a mystery worm.Facebook did not respond to requests for comment on the BOO groups or whether their claims violated the companys content policies.User testimonials about the Black Oxygen Organic dirt posted to social media.Obtained by NBC NewsIn the last several months, the groups have seen a rise in members from anti-vaccine and Covid-denial communities, including prominent activists who sell the product to raise funds for anti-vaccine efforts.A profile of one top seller featured in BOOs semiregular glossy magazine, The Bog, noted that Covid had drawn more people to the industry.Its been kind of a blessing, the seller said.While it undoubtedly attracted sales and built teams, Facebook also created a unique problem for Black Oxygen Organics: Those testimonials might have violated federal law that requires efficacy claims be substantiated by competent and reliable scientific evidence. They also attracted attention, not only from customers, but from health professionals, regulatory agencies and a group BOO executives have dubbed the haters.After a summer of unbridled success, the internet backlash began.The rise of MLMs online prompted criticism from some people who have created informal activist groups to bring awareness to what they say are the predatory practices of MLM companies and organized campaigns to disrupt specific businesses. Many of the groups use the same social media techniques to organize their responses.Online activists who oppose MLMs formed Facebook groups targeting BOO for its claims. Members of these groups infiltrated the BOO community, signing up as sellers, joining pro-BOO groups, and attending BOO sales meetings, then reporting back what they had seen to the group. They posted videos of the company meetings and screenshots from the private BOO sales groups and urged members to file official complaints with the Federal Trade Commission and the Food and Drug Administration.YouTube creators made videos debunking BOO peddlers most outrageous claims, ridiculing BOO executives and making public recordings of the private company meetings.Ceara Manchester.Courtesy of Ceara ManchesterCeara Manchester, a stay-at-home mother in Pompano Beach, Florida, helps run one of the largest anti-BOO Facebook groups, Boo is Woo. Manchester, 34, has spent the last four years monitoring predatory MLMs  or cults, in her view  and posting to multiple social media accounts and groups dedicated to exposing Black Oxygen Organics.The health claims, I had never seen them that bad, Manchester said. Just the sheer amount. Every single post was like, cancer, Covid, diabetes, autism.I dont feel like people are stupid, Manchester said of the people who purchased and even sold BOO. I think that theyre desperate or vulnerable, or theyve been preyed upon, and you get somebody to say, Hey, Ive got this product that cures everything. You know when youre desperate like that you might listen.The mudmanBlack Oxygen Organics is the brainchild of Marc Saint-Onge, a 59-year-old entrepreneur from Casselman, Ontario. Saint-Onge, BOOs founder and CEO, did not respond to calls, texts, emails or direct messages.But decades of interviews in local press and more recently on social media offer some details about Saint-Onge, or, as he likes to be called, the mudman.Saint-Onge describes himself as an orthotherapist, naturopath, kinesitherapist, reiki master, holistic practitioner, herbalist and aromatherapist. As he said in a video posted to YouTube that has since been made private, his love of mud began as a child, chasing bullfrogs around Ontario bogs. Years later, he went on to practice orthotherapy, a kind of advanced massage technique, to treat pain. He said he packaged dirt from a local bog, branches and leaves included, in zip-lock baggies and gave them to his patients, who demanded the mud faster than he could scoop it.Saint-Onge said he was charged by Canadian authorities with practicing medicine without a license in 1989 and fined $20,000.Then my clinic went underground, he said on a recent podcast.He has sold mud in some form since the early 1990s. Health Canada, the government regulator responsible for public health, forced him to pull an early version of his mud product, then called the Anti-Rheuma Bath, according to a 1996 article in The Calgary Herald, because Saint-Onge marketed it to treat arthritis and rheumatism without any proof to substantiate the claims. Saint-Onge also claimed his mud could heal wounds, telling an Ottawa Citizen reporter in 2012 that his mud compress healed the leg of a man who had suffered an accident with a power saw, saving it from amputation.The doctor said it was the antibiotics, he said. But we believe it was the mud.In the 90s Saint-Onge began selling his mud bath under the Golden Moor label, which he did until he realized a dream, a way to do a secret little extraction, in his words, that would make the dirt dissolve in water. In 2015, with the founding of his company NuWTR, which would later turn into Black Oxygen Organics, Saint-Onge said he finally invented a dirt people could drink.In 2016, he began selling himself as a business coach, and his personal website boasted of his worth: I sell mud in a bottle, he wrote. Let me teach you to sell anything.The troublesIn September, Montaruli, BOOs vice president, led a corporate call to address the Facebook groups and what he called the compliance situation.Right now, its scary, Montaruli said in a Zoom call posted publicly, referring to the outlandish claims made by some of BOOs sellers. In 21 years, I have never seen anything like this. Never.These outrageous claims, and Im not even sure if outrageous is bad enough, are obviously attracting the haters, giving them more fuel for the fire, and potential government officials.Montaruli called for a reset, telling BOO sellers to delete the pages and groups and start over again.One slide suggested alternatives for 14 popular BOO uses, including switching terms like ADHD to trouble concentrating, and prevents heart attack to maintain a healthy cardiovascular system.A common strategy for MLM participants, including BOO sellers, is to create Facebook groups to collaborate and attract new customers.Obtained by NBC NewsAnd so in September, the Facebook groups evolved  many went private, most changed their names from BOO to fulvic acid, and the pinned testimonials from customers claiming miracle cures were wiped clean, tweaked or edited to add a disclaimer absolving the company from any liability.But that wasnt the end of the companys troubles. While individual sellers navigated their new compliance waters, regulatory agencies cracked down.Days after Montarulis call, Health Canada announced a recall of Black Oxygen Organics tablets and powders, citing potential health risks which may be higher for children, adolescents, and pregnant or breastfeeding women. Further, the regulatory agency noted, The products are being promoted in ways and for uses that have not been evaluated and authorized by Health Canada.Stop taking these products, the announcement advised.Inventory for U.S. customers had already been hard to come by. In private groups, sellers claimed the product had sold out, but in the company-wide call, Montaruli confirmed that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration was holding its products at the border.Jeremy Kahn, an FDA spokesperson, declined to comment. A day after the publication of this article, the FDA issued an advisory against taking BOO. In the public notice, the FDA said it had been pursuing a recall when the company closed.Saint-Onge did not respond to requests for comment from NBC News. Phone messages and emails sent by a reporter to the company, its executives and its legal counsel were not returned.Whats in BOO?BOO is not the only dirt-like health supplement on the market. Consumers have the option of dozens of products  in drops, tablets, powders and pastes  that claim to provide the healing power of fulvic and humic acid.Fulvic and humic acids have been used in traditional and folk medicines for centuries, and do exhibit antibacterial qualities in large quantities. But there is little scientific evidence to support the kinds of claims made by BOO sellers, according to Brian Bennett, a professor of physics at Marquette University who has studied fulvic and humic acids as a biochemist.I would say its snake oil, Bennett said. There is a lot of circumstantial evidence that a pharmaceutical based on the characteristics of this material might actually work, but I think eating handfuls of soil probably doesnt.Beyond the questions of the health benefits of fulvic acid, theres the question of just what is in Black Oxygen Organics product.The companys most recent certificate of analysis, a document meant to show what a product is made of and in what amounts, was posted by sellers this year. Reporting the product makeup as mostly fulvic acid and Vitamin C, the report comes from 2017 and doesnt list a lab, or even a specific test. NBC News spoke to six environmental scientists, each of whom expressed skepticism at the quality of BOOs certificate.Assuming the company-provided analysis was correct, two of the scientists confirmed that just two servings of BOO exceeded Health Canadas daily limits for lead, and three servings  a dose recommended on the package  approached daily arsenic limits. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has no comparable daily guidelines.In an effort to verify BOOs analysis, NBC News procured a bag and sent it to Nicholas Basta, a professor of soil and environmental science at Ohio State University.The BOO product was analyzed for the presence of heavy metals at Ohio States Trace Element Research Laboratory. Results from that test were similar to the companys 2017 certificate, finding two doses per day exceeded Health Canadas limit for lead, and three doses for daily arsenic amounts.Growing concern among BOO sellers about the product  precipitated by an anti-MLM activist who noticed on Google Earth that the bog that sourced BOOs peat appeared to share a border with a landfill  pushed several to take matters into their own hands, sending bags of BOO to labs for testing.The results of three of these tests, viewed by NBC News and confirmed as seemingly reliable by two soil scientists at U.S. universities, again showed elevated levels of lead and arsenic.Those results are the backbone of a federal lawsuit seeking class action status filed in November in Georgias Northern District court. The complaint, filed on behalf of four Georgia residents who purchased BOO, claims that the company negligently sold a product with dangerously high levels of toxic heavy metals, which led to physical and economic harm.Black Oxygen Organics did not respond to requests for comment concerning the complaint.The doctor said it was the antibiotics, said Marc Saint-Onge, BOOs founder and CEO. But we believe it was the mud.Obtained by NBC NewsA heavy heartThe lawsuit hit at an inopportune time, just as the company had reformulated its products and added a new label on the powder that now specifies the product is not for human consumption.Things are starting to settle a little bit, BOO executive Montaruli said in a video meeting explaining a change from tablet to capsules and a relabeling of the powder.The powder is strictly for cosmetics, Saint-Onge said on the call, a recording of which was shared with NBC News by an attendee.In the BOO groups, the companys sellers were undeterred.You can continue to use the powder as you choose in your own home, the admin of one Facebook group wrote to members announcing the product update. Know that it is the same powder.We cannot TECHNICALLY tell customers to use the product internally, Adam Ringham, a Royal Diamond CEO (BOOs highest seller title), told his group. WE CAN HOWEVER  tell them that the powder is THE EXACT SAME as before  Ringham did not return requests for comment.Just as the BOO sellers were planning their Black Friday sales, the rug was pulled out from them again, this time, seemingly, for good.Two days before Thanksgiving, an email landed in the inboxes of BOO customers and sellers.It is with a heavy heart that we must announce the immediate closing of Black Oxygen Organics, it read. Details in the note were sparse, but Black Oxygen executives and employees offered an explanation in company Zoom meetings that afternoon.According to BOO President Carlo Garibaldi, they had weathered the FTC complaints, the FDA seizures, the Health Canada recalls and the online mob. But the fatal blow came when their online merchant dropped them as clients.With no actual product in stock for the last two months, sellers had been urging customers to preorder BOO. Now, the throng of customers responding to the nonconsumable reformulation by asking for their money back had spooked their payment processor.This is our baby, Garibaldi said, flashing his Black Oxygen elbow tattoo to the screen. We needed this to go on forever.Saint-Onge appeared briefly, holding his head in his hands. This was my limit, he said.Members of anti-BOO groups celebrated.WE DID IT!!!!!! Manchester, the group administrator, posted to the Boo is Woo Facebook group. I hope this is proof positive that if the anti-MLM community bans together we can take these companies down. We wont stop with just BOO. A new age of anti-MLM activism has just begun.In a separate Zoom meeting unattended by executives and shared with NBC News, lower-rung sellers grappled with the sudden closure and the reality that they were out hundreds or thousands of dollars.I am three weeks to a month away from having a baby and Ive been depending on this money to arrive in my bank account, one seller said through tears. Its the only income we have.The future of BOO is uncertain. Tens of thousands of bags remain in warehouses, according to Black Oxygen executives. Sellers are unlikely to receive orders, refunds or commissions. The federal lawsuit will continue, Matt Wetherington, the Georgia lawyer behind the proposed class action lawsuit, said.But in the land of MLMs, failure is just another opportunity. Saint-Onge may have walked away from this cohort of customers, but for those who sold it, BOO was more than just a product; it was a way of believing. Now, the thousands of BOO acolytes still convening in BOO Facebook groups are funneling into a new Facebook group, named The Solution, and turning their outstretched hands toward a new direct-sales company, one that BOOs top sellers claim offers an even purer fulvic acid product and a colloidal silver as well.Thanks for all your continued support, The Solutions admins wrote in a welcome post. Moving forward is all we can do.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Strip searches, trauma, isolation: Trans men describe life behind bars. By the time he ended up in the custody of the Texas Department of Criminal Justice on insurance and theft charges, Tahj Graham was 33 and had been living as a man for nearly half his life. Born in 1985 as the youngest of three kids, Graham soon realized he was not like other children who had been assigned female at birth.As early as 5 years old, I knew that something was different, Graham, 36, said in a phone call from his home in Mansfield, a suburb between Dallas and Fort Worth.He came out as a teenager, started taking hormones at 17 and had his breasts removed when he was 20 in a procedure known as top surgery. Once he had undergone a medical transition, Graham said, he passed completely as a man.Unless it was someone that I was dating, I never disclosed being trans, he said.As he was transitioning, Grahams life also moved forward in other ways. He started working toward a college degree, taking classes at other schools before enrolling in the University of Texas at Austin in 2006. After he tried out a couple of other majors, he finally settled on religion. I was given a Bible at age 7, he said, and faith was just something I always felt.Tahj Graham with the Bible he kept with him at the Texas Department of Criminal Justice women's prison in Gatesville.Allison V. Smith for NBC NewsHe had dreams of starting his own ministry and distributing Bibles around the world. However, in 2016, Graham was arrested for insurance fraud and was also under investigation for wiring himself about $90,000 from an ex-girlfriends bank account without her permission. In 2018, he pleaded guilty to both charges and was sentenced to three years in prison.First, he was sent to a mens prison  until, he alleges, guards started to perform invasive strip and cavity searches and he raised the alarm.I was then transferred to a womens unit, where the big nightmares occurred, he wrote in an email. Over the next few months, he endured voyeuristic strip searches by female staff, was forced to grow out his hair and was sexually harassed by other prisoners, he said. So many incidents occurred at the female unit I nearly lost count.Currently and formerly incarcerated transgender people, like Graham, are increasingly coming forward to discuss their difficult experiences behind bars, and over the past few years, news outlets have devoted considerably more space to their stories. The reporting, however, has focused primarily on trans women, who are incarcerated at a higher rate than any other segment of the LGBTQ community. Transgender men are also incarcerated at disproportionate rates: According to the 2011 National Transgender Discrimination Survey by the National Center for Transgender Equality and the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, about 10 percent of trans men have spent time in jail or prison  approximately twice the rate of U.S. adults overall.Assault, retaliation and abuse: Life as a transgender woman in a men's prisonFeb. 26, 202006:20Incarcerated transgender men encounter many of the same issues as their transfeminine peers including high rates of solitary confinement and sexual assault and denial of gender-affirming care and gender-appropriate clothing. But they also face unique issues that are separate from what trans women experience, said Aaron El Sabrout, the advocacy manager of Black and Pink, a nonprofit group based in Nebraska that supports LGBTQ people in prison.Trans women have hypervisibility, he said, whereas trans men, most people think we dont exist.Trans mens experiences, however, are not uniform. Every city, county and state, as well as the federal government, has broad authority to establish its own policies about the treatment of trans prisoners. For that reason, the conditions experienced by these men vary significantly across the country. Individual prison environments and leadership also affect what someone may experience behind bars.Verbal and physical harassmentIn March 2018, Graham turned himself in to the Texas Department of Criminal Justice to begin serving his sentence. Although he had transitioned medically years before and passed as a man in his daily life, Graham did not fit neatly into the binary categories of male or female, and for that, he said, he paid. On his first day in custody at the mens prison where he was first sent, two correctional officers began to strip search him inappropriately, he said.The officer asked me to lie down on a table, then told me to spread my legs and hold them open, Graham said, adding that he was then instructed to pull his genitalia back so the officer could get a better look. He said he could see that the officer was getting an erection. When the search was over, Graham said, he told a counselor at the facility what had happened.After an invasive exam at the nurses office, they moved as fast as they could to get me out of there, he said. Graham also filed a sexual abuse complaint about the incident, which, he said, was never pursued by the Texas Department of Criminal Justice. (With Grahams permission, NBC News requested a copy of Grahams medical file and complaint history. The department denied the request; Graham was able to provide copies of several records he had.)After having spent several weeks at an Austin jail, Graham was transferred to a womens prison run by the Texas Department of Criminal Justice. But rather than offer him greater safety and security, the womens prison was a million times worse, he said. Upon his arrival, Graham said, he underwent a strip search in view of a large group of incarcerated women.They forced me to bend over and open up my legs to make sure I didnt have a hidden penis, he said.Graham recalled experiencing near-constant verbal abuse from staff members from then on. In a grievance form he filed while he was incarcerated, Graham described an incident in which an officer became enraged at him, screaming, You were born a f------ girl, youre at a woman unit.I do not expect an officer to berate me and argue with me and declare as if theyre God in front of other offenders, Graham wrote in the May 2019 complaint, according to a copy provided by Graham and reviewed by NBC News.Tahj Graham holds the Texas offender card he used for identification at the Texas Department of Criminal Justice women's prison in Gatesville.Allison V. Smith for NBC NewsIn its response, the Texas Department of Criminal Justice said there was no evidence to support Grahams allegations and concluded, No further action is warranted.The department said it is unable to comment on Grahams grievances because they are not public.Robert Hurst, a spokesman for the department, also declined to comment on Grahams account of the strip search and directed NBC News to the departments written policy regarding the Health Appraisal of Incoming Inmates. According to additional policy documents provided by Hurst, Texas Department of Criminal Justice officers are not required to refer to transgender people by their preferred pronouns.Giovanni Gonzales, 31, is incarcerated at the Central California Womens Facility in Chowchilla, just north of Fresno. He said in a phone interview that he has dealt with transphobic harassment from prison staff members. In spring 2021, when Gonzales was working at the prisons clothing exchange, his supervisor on the site  an employee of the facility  consistently made discriminatory remarks, he said.He makes comments to me that are inappropriate. He always refers to me as a she. He refuses not to, he said. In July, Gonzales said by email that he had been barred from going to work. He filed an official complaint, but his boss denied Gonzales account, and prison officials ultimately determined that his complaint was unsubstantiated, he said.The cameras have no audio  how convenient for them  so all he had to say was no he didnt disrespect me, Gonzales wrote in an email.Terry Thornton, the deputy press secretary for the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, said that the department has a policy mandating respectful communication and that it has developed training specifically to help staff members better engage with incarcerated people who are transgender or nonbinary.Repeatedly or intentionally using inappropriate pronouns or any other type of derogatory comments about a persons gender is a violation under PREA, constitutes staff-on-offender sexual harassment, and subjects the staff member to discipline, she said in an email, using the acronym for the federal Prison Rape Elimination Act.Gonzales, who grew up in San Jose, California, said his childhood was not easy. He knew he was different but did not have the language or the framework to pinpoint why.I didnt understand. I didnt know about gender dysphoria, he said.It was only once he was in prison that he started taking testosterone.I had to wait a whole year to get on the shots, because I got in trouble a lot, he said. I wanted this so bad I got [myself] together.Gonzales has now been on testosterone, also known simply as T, for five years.'Forced to be someone we are not'In addition to what he said was routine verbal and physical harassment from prison staff members, Graham also said he was prevented from dressing and grooming himself in a way that aligns with his gender. Correctional officers told Graham he would get written up unless he grew out his hair, and they forced him to shave his beard, which he had permission to maintain on religious grounds, he said. He also alleged that they told him he was required to wear womens underwear and a bra, even though he had had his breasts removed.Tahj Graham at home in Mansfield, Texas, on Sunday.Allison V. Smith for NBC NewsSeveral other trans men incarcerated in Texas and contacted by NBC News said they had encountered officers who required them to wear sports bras and womens underwear, as well as to grow out their hair to longer than 2 inches or risk catching a case  getting written up for breaking the rules. According to advocates and currently and formerly incarcerated people, trans men in the state have no routine access to boxer shorts and are unable to buy chest binders, which are used by those who have not yet had top surgery to flatten their breasts.Ive tried to request boxers and chest binders and was denied, which made my depression worse, Angel Ochoa, 49, another incarcerated trans man in the state, said in a letter. Asked to clarify the states position on clothing for transgender people, Hurst, the Texas Department of Criminal Justice spokesperson, said, Inmates are to dress according to the sex assigned to them at birth.Ochoa said he was a tomboy growing up and started dressing as a boy when he was 12. His family supported his transition from the start, he said. I was loved by my mom and grandmother and accepted as a boy.Ochoa, who has been incarcerated since the 1990s, said he has faced humiliating and degrading treatment in the prison system.The most pressing issue is us being forced to be someone we are not, he said, adding that he was made to grow out his hair, which was shaved bald when he entered prison. They say its a security precaution. ... Its just a way to hurt us.According to data recently obtained through a public information request, 980 transgender women and 113 transgender men were in Texas Department of Criminal Justice custody in 2019. A policy document provided by the department states that inmates are housed according to their genital status.Nell Gaither is the president of the Trans Pride Initiative, a Texas-based nonprofit group founded in 2011 that has communicated with over a thousand transgender people incarcerated in the state. Gaither said it is her impression that in recent years the Texas Department of Criminal Justice has been less aggressive in forcing trans men to wear sports bras or grow out their hair but that it reflects a shift in priorities and culture rather than a change in policy. Facial hair continues to be a problem, she said, because trans men cant get enough razors to keep cleanshaven, then get cases for having beards. She also said that one significant impact of Covid-19 on trans prisoners has been the delay or lack of access to gender-affirming hormones.But the situation can vary significantly from state to state and even city to city. In California state prisons, for example, trans men in womens prisons can buy the same hygiene items available to people in mens prisons and are provided with male clothing. They can also purchase chest binders, though the $40 or $50 price tag puts the option out of reach for many individuals. In Georgia state prisons, trans men in womens facilities can shave their heads and grow out their beards, but, except for boxers, they are only able to obtain clothing from the female order form.Ronnie Fuller, 42, is incarcerated at Georgias Arrendale State Prison in Alto, about an hour northeast of Atlanta. He said he has identified as male since he was a kid but did not always know what those feelings meant.I didnt know what transgender was until I came to prison, and that was years within my sentence, he said.Ronnie Fuller said he has identified as male since he was a kid but did not always know what those feelings meant.Courtesy Ronnie FullerFuller has been incarcerated since 2004, and for his first decade behind bars, the state refused to provide hormones to trans people who had not been prescribed them before they entered the prison system. In 2015, the policy changed.When the option became available here in the prison, I jumped on the opportunity, Fuller said of obtaining hormones.Since then, the prison administration has made other small concessions, including allowing trans men to buy boxers, he said. However, he and others are still unable to get chest binders, and he said the prison turned down an offer from a volunteer who was willing to donate them.Prison staff members give us male hormones, boxers and believe that is enough, he said, adding that being unable to obtain a chest binder and get gender-affirming surgery has affected him emotionally, mentally and physically.Fuller said that with so many barriers to obtaining gender-affirming care, he believes prison is the worst place to begin a medical transition.I have experienced more judgment and discrimination behind these walls than I have ever experienced on the outside, he said in a letter.The Georgia Corrections Department did not respond to requests for comment made by phone and email.'It should not be so hard to get normal treatment'As a result of lawsuits successfully litigated across the country, most transgender prisoners in the U.S. now have the right to obtain gender-affirming hormones, regardless of whether they had been prescribed them before they were incarcerated. However, according to advocates, prisoners rights attorneys and currently and formerly incarcerated people, while the policies may exist on paper, hormones are often difficult to obtain in practice. Trans people behind bars said it can take months or even years for them to obtain gender dysphoria diagnoses and be evaluated by endocrinologists or other specialists, resulting in delays in treatment that are distressing and perplexing to those seeking care.Graham was in custody of the Texas Department of Criminal Justice for about six months before he was given access to the gender-affirming hormone treatments he had been receiving before his incarceration, according to Graham and prison records he provided. Fuller similarly said that while he was approved to be evaluated for hormone treatment in April 2017, it took well over a year for him to get his first endocrinologist appointment.It should not be so hard to get normal treatment, whatever that may be, Fuller wrote in a letter.Furthermore, while the U.S. has taken steps to ensure that trans prisoners have access to gender-affirming hormones, the vast majority of jurisdictions still do not allow incarcerated people meaningful access to gender-affirming surgery, said Danny Waxwing, an attorney at Disability Rights Washington, who has represented many trans prisoners in the state. For trans men, that means not being able to undergo top surgery for the duration of their sentences.Jason Yoakam is suing the Virginia Department of Corrections.Courtesy / Lambda LegalIn August, the LGBTQ civil rights group Lambda Legal sued the Virginia Corrections Department on behalf of an incarcerated transgender man, Jason Yoakam. The organization said the suit is among the first filed on behalf of an incarcerated trans man for the denial of treatment for gender dysphoria.Under the Eighth Amendment, prison systems are required to provide adequate medical care, said Richard Saenz, a senior attorney and criminal justice and police misconduct strategist at Lambda Legal. This lawsuit is necessary because for a number of trans people behind bars, even those who are provided some care, [they] are often not provided adequate medical and mental health care.All medically necessary treatment is available, a Corrections Department spokesperson told the Washington Post in August. Treatment decisions are made on a case-by-case basis. In addition to medical treatment, individual and group therapy is also available. We follow the community standard of care. The case is currently scheduled for mediation.A handful of states, including California and Washington, have policies that make it possible for trans people to obtain gender-affirming surgery while incarcerated. However, according to prisoners interviewed by NBC News, the process for evaluating who qualifies for the procedure is flawed and inadequate.Giovanni Gonzales, the California prisoner, said neither he nor his doctor has played a key role in determining whether he qualifies for top surgery on the grounds that it is medically necessary. Instead, the decision is made by a committee responsible for evaluating trans prisoners across the state, he said. Under Corrections Department policy, primary care providers on the institutional level are tasked with passing along requests for surgery to a statewide body known as the Gender Affirming Surgery Review Committee. The committee, which is made up of medical and mental health experts who have not treated the prisoner, then votes on whether to approve or deny the request.Gonzales and others interviewed by NBC News expressed frustration that the committee exists at all, since no parallel committee exists for individuals seeking to obtain treatment deemed medically necessary by their physicians  for example, people who need to have their breasts removed due to a cancer diagnosis.My doctors dont have a say in my surgery. Its these doctors that go on this committee that dont have nothing to do with me, Gonzales said.With the support of his psychologist, Gonzales initially made a request to obtain surgery in November 2018. He was issued a denial several months later and filed a lawsuit afterwards alleging that the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation was violating his constitutional rights. In February, more than two years after he filed suit, his request for surgery was finally approved.No 'simple' housing solutionIn addition to facing barriers in obtaining their preferred clothing, as well as gender-affirming health care, incarcerated trans men also say they struggle when it comes to housing. As NBC News documented in an investigation last year, the vast majority of trans people in the U.S. are incarcerated in prisons that match their birth sexes or genitalia, rather than their gender identities, even though doing so without considering safety concerns or prisoners preferences is illegal under the Prison Rape Elimination Act. That reality has put many trans women in danger of sexual assault, violence and harassment.El Sabrout of Black and Pink said that transgender men would not necessarily be safer if they were housed in mens facilities, as opposed to being housed according to their sex assigned at birth. However, he added, that does not mean they do not experience physical or sexual violence in womens prisons.Graham said women on his unit would undress and climb into his bed at night saying they were going to have sex with him or would try to look at his body while he was showering, even though he was supposed to be permitted to shower alone.Prison staff members did not take steps to keep him safe, he said. After staff members were alerted to one particular incident, he spent about 10 days in safekeeping, a form of isolation also known as protective custody. Incarcerated trans people often end up in protective custody for their purported protection, because they are uniquely vulnerable to sexual and physical assault when they are in the general population. But the conditions in protective custody generally mirror the conditions faced by those in disciplinary isolation. When he was in safekeeping, Graham said, he was fed through a door and had very limited access to showers or his property. After a third time in safekeeping, Graham said, he was fed up and vowed never to end up there again.Tahj Graham at home in Mansfield, Texas, on Sunday.Allison V. Smith for NBC NewsTrans men may also be unfairly identified as threats to other inmates and punished, said El Sabrout, who said others perceive them as threatening and dangerously sexual, particularly when they begin taking testosterone.Ochoa said he was once placed in solitary confinement after he was accused of having a sexual relationship with a correctional officer.Anyone can say anything about you and its believed, especially if youre a trans guy, said Ochoa, whose prison records were not independently reviewed by NBC News.When they were interviewed, most incarcerated trans men said they would not want to be transferred to a mens prison. Some, including Graham, said they would prefer to be placed in transgender-specific housing units, an approach that was previously used by Immigration and Customs Enforcement and some city jails to house trans women, while others said they would not feel comfortable in those environments.Special units can cause you to feel isolated, Ronnie Fuller, the trans man incarcerated in Georgia, wrote in a letter, adding that he would feel like I am not being treated as a human but as an outcast.El Sabrout said trans women and trans men may end up behind bars at disproportionate rates for broadly the same reasons  including discrimination, a heightened risk of interpersonal violence, homelessness and reliance on the survival economy. Yet because the issues they face on the inside are somewhat different, the solutions to improve their conditions may be different, too.In recent years, some advocates and legislators across the country have focused on passing legislation or changing prison rules to allow trans people to be housed according to their gender identities or in the facilities where they feel safest. Battles to enact such policies have been won in some states, including California and New Jersey, enabling trans women in all stages of transition to be transferred from mens to womens prisons. According to data provided by the California Corrections Department, 315 people housed in male institutions have requested to be housed in female institutions since the state began implementing its new policy, and 10 people housed in female institutions have requested to be housed in male institutions. None of the requests to transfer to mens facilities has thus far been approved.Some trans women have been successful at getting transferred to womens prisons, and that improves their health outcomes, said El Sabrout. But theres not quite so simple a solution for transmasculine people.Minimizing harm, maximizing safetyWhile research on transgender men in prison is limited, currently and formerly incarcerated trans men and their advocates cite many of the same potential solutions to improve the experience of transmasculine people behind bars  whether they are in mens or womens prisons. The solutions include access to the same clothing, hygiene products and grooming standards as cisgender men; the availability of gender-affirming items, including chest binders; expanded access to gender-affirming health care, including hormones, surgery and mental health services. Relatively simple interventions, such as allowing trans people to participate in peer support groups, can also make a significant difference in their wellbeing, sources said.Waxwing, the attorney who works for Disability Rights Washington, said prison systems must ensure access to mental health and medical providers who are experienced and competent in caring for transgender people. If the expertise is not in-house, he said, prison administrators need to bring in providers from the community.Oftentimes working with community-based providers can be an important transitional step for agencies and minimize harm to trans patients as policy changes and training are implemented over time, he said.Waxwing also said not enough is being done to understand and implement changes that would enable trans men to be housed in mens facilities.At the present moment, many trans men will be safer, and would prefer to remain, in facilities designated for women, he said in an email. What systems rarely, if ever, ask of trans individuals, though, is what they could be doing differently to address their safety and other needs such that being housed according to their gender identity could be a viable option.Another important step, El Sabrout said, would be to make the Prison Rape Elimination Act substantively enforceable. Currently, states that fail to comply with the law risk forfeiting 5 percent of prison-related federal grants, a sum so small that its impact on corrections budgets is negligible. In addition to provisions regarding how to house trans people, the law also requires facilities to allow trans prisoners to shower privately and to limit when cavity and strip searches can be conducted and by whom.Actually making PREA regulations and standards meaningful is really important, he said.For Richard Saenz, the Lambda Legal attorney, keeping trans prisoners safe is not just about where they are housed but how they are housed. Prisons have a constitutional duty to keep everyone in their custody safe and should implement policies that actually do that, he said. They shouldnt rely on the use of protective housing, where those restrictions are the same as solitary confinement and could cause additional harm to the person seeking help.In addition, simply enacting official policies mandating that corrections staff members use transgender inmates preferred pronouns would improve their lives, he added. That is what he said his client, Jason Yoakam, is being denied at Virginias Fluvanna Correctional Center.Departmental staff, with the exception of mental health staff providing treatment, are trained to refrain from using pronouns altogether, Benjamin Jarvela, the Virginia Corrections Departments deputy director of communications, said in an email.Asked about the Yoakam lawsuit, he said, All inmates are provided access to the community standards of medical and mental health care, in keeping with the constitutional mandate to provide the necessary care.'I wont give up'For many incarcerated trans men, the battle to improve their conditions of confinement is ongoing.I wont give up and encourage others not to either, Ochoa wrote in a letter.Other trans men have taken the fight for justice to a national stage. In the last national election cycle, Ronnie Fuller, who is serving a life sentence, launched a campaign to run for president.I never thought about politics as a kid and nor did I ever hear my family talk about it, he said. It was not until I was in prison that I witnessed and experienced injustices and saw the turmoil in society that I started to speak out.Since he was released in late 2019, Graham has been rebuilding his life. He is back in school, working toward completing his college degree, and he was recently promoted in his customer service role at a high-end retail company. But he said the 19 months he spent in prison is not quite behind him. Hearing the sound of keys jangling, he said, drives him into a panic.Tahj Graham with his girlfriend, Isha Williams, at home in Mansfield, Texas, on Sunday.Allison V. Smith for NBC NewsI went into that prison sentence knowing Id done something wrong, he said. My punishment was that sentence, and they inflicted a whole other level of trauma that wasnt ordered.Graham is also not as optimistic as some of the other currently and formerly incarcerated trans men about the possibility of change in the prison system at least not in Texas.Its going to take time and attention and somebody giving a damn for the transgender population to be properly handled, he said. And thats nobody at the Texas Department of Criminal Justice.FollowNBC OutonTwitter,Facebook&InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
6 states account for more than half of the countrys recent Covid hospitalizations. Covid-19 hospitalizations are once again rising in the United States. Among the 30-plus states that have seen increases in Covid-19 hospitalizations over the last two weeks, six stand out.Michigan, Ohio, Indiana, Pennsylvania, New York and Illinois have accounted for the majority of the countrys increase in hospital beds filled, according to an NBC News analysis of U.S. Department of Health and Human Services data.Full coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicWhile these states make up 35 percent of the population among states with increasing Covid hospitalizations, they make up 60 percent of the added beds, the analysis showed. The nationwide increase began in early November, when the U.S. was averaging about 45,000 hospitalizations per day. It has since ticked up to nearly 58,000 per day, according to the analysis. Health experts say they fear hospitalizations could continue to surge this winter as more Americans head indoors and the fast-moving delta variant continues to spread.Since HHS began tracking Covid hospitalizations in early 2020, the U.S. has crossed the 50,000 mark five times. Deltas first hospitalization surge this summer saw a peak of more than 100,000 hospitalizations, on average, and last winters surge peaked at more than 137,000 hospitalizations, on average.While much of the world is focused on the new omicron variant, first identified in South Africa, delta is still a threat, as "over 99 percent of sequenced cases in the United States continue to be from" that strain, Dr. Rochelle Walensky, the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said Tuesday at a White House Covid-19 Response Team briefing.Hospitalizations in Michigan, which has the highest share of new hospitalizations when adjusted for population, are up 70 percent since Nov. 10. In the neighboring states of Indiana and Illinois, hospitalizations have almost doubled.In Michigan, 3 of 4 Covid patients are unvaccinated, according to Chelsea Wuth, an associate public information officer at the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services.Unvaccinated people make up 87 percent of Covid patients who are in an intensive care unit in the state, she said, and 88 percent of Covid patients who are on a ventilator are unvaccinated. More than 70 percent Michiganders age 16 and older have had at least one shot of a Covid vaccine, she said.Dr. Matthew Sims, a physician and director of infectious disease research at Beaumont Health, the state's largest health care system, said "almost all" the Covid patients coming in are unvaccinated. Roughly 600 patients are sickened with Covid across the system as of Tuesday, he said, noting the staff is exhausted."We've been doing this for so long," he said. "It does get tiring to the nurses, the doctors, everybody when we see this huge number of patients that are all coming in that are not vaccinated."Demand for Covid vaccines increases as omicron variant spreads across U.S.&nbsp;Dec. 7, 202103:47He said the system's network of hospitals and outpatient sites is prepared for a potential surge in patients this winter; they've gathered enough personal protective equipment and have mandated Covid vaccinations for the entire staff.Its still unclear whether the heavily mutated omicron variant will exacerbate the situation seen at hospitals over the colder months, experts say, though early reports suggest the new strain may cause milder symptoms.Sims said he is concerned about omicron "and whether it is going to take over and make things worse." It's some 50 mutations "is scary," he said, but he added that scientists and the public still need to wait for more data.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor saysCoronavirusCoronavirusPfizer vaccine may be less effective against omicron, early lab data indicateDownload theNBC News appfor full coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIn Ohio, the state with the second highest share of new hospitalizations, health officials warned last week that the state is approaching the record admissions seen in January, when there were about 4,000 patients hospitalized with Covid statewide.Dr.Bruce Vanderhoff, director of Ohio's Department of Health, said during a news conference that cases arent occurring evenly among age groups. Young people, particularly those between the ages of 23 and 49, have a case rate that's 25 percent higher than the statewide average, he said.As in Michigan, the vast majority of hospitalized patients in Ohio are unvaccinated, Vanderhoff said. Covid cases spike back up as Americans set to gather for the holidaysNov. 22, 202101:44State officials continue to urge people to get vaccinated. Doing so would help hospitals in the state as they face staffing challenges."Almost every hospital really doesn't have the elasticity that maybe we had this time last year to really expand capacity on a short-term notice when there's a flood or surge in local patients," Dr. Andy Thomas, with Ohio State Universitys Wexner Medical Center, said at the same briefing. "If these trends continue through the month of December into January, we will be at a point where the hospitals in Ohio will not be able to take care of all the patients we need to take care of." Last week, in the state of New York, home to the fifth largest share of new hospitalizations, Gov. Kathy Hochul announced that hospitals with less than 10 percent capacity must stop doing elective surgeries until at least Jan. 15, 2020. There are around 50 hospitals that meet that criteria, the vast majority of which are upstate, Hochul said during a press conference last Thursday.Dr. Celine Gounder, an infectious disease specialist at NYU Langone Health in New York City, said people may be getting tired as the country approaches two years into the pandemic.People "think in terms of personal action, personal responsibility, personal freedom, and unfortunately that's not how viruses transmit and infect," she said.FollowNBC HEALTHonTwitter&Facebook.Get the Morning RundownGet a head start on the morning's top stories.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Pastor who performed in drag on HBO's 'We're Here' leaves church. An Indiana pastor has been forced to leave his job after being criticized for performing in drag on the HBO show "We're Here." The show follows three drag queens  Bob the Drag Queen, Eureka O'Hara and Shangela Laquifa Wadley  as they travel to small towns to put on drag shows. In each town, they pick out local community members whom they dub their "drag daughters"  and teach them how to perform in drag. The show tackles issues of self-love and finding LGBTQ community in small towns and conservative areas.Craig Duke, a pastor at the Newburgh United Methodist Church in Newburgh, Indiana, a small town near the Kentucky border, performed alongside "drag mother" O'Hara in an episode that aired on Nov. 8. The duo performed to Kesha's "We Are Who We Are," with Duke wearing a bright pink wig and a white robe."You can't do a drag show like this in southern Indiana and not offend someone," he said in the episode, noting that the community is conservative. "I'm hoping it's a bridge for my daughter, for the church I serve, for the denomination I love and for me. And I'm hoping that my voice will become stronger."Duke has not responded to a request for comment regarding his separation from the church, but he told the Religion News Service that he started receiving emails from congregants shortly after the episode aired. Enough of them were negative that his church's Staff-Parish Relations Committee insisted that he request a new assignment from Bishop Julius C. Trimble of the Indiana Conference of the United Methodist Church.While he awaited that appointment, he had planned to lead a Bible study about sexuality in the church, but he received another negative, bullying, attacking email from a church person that "flipped the tide" for him about a week after the episode aired.It just got to the point where the conflict, the anger grew too much, and so for my mental health, too, I started to back away, and I told my district superintendent that the conflict was so much, it was at such a level from some, that I was unable to be an effective leader, he told Religion News Service.Craig Duke talks to his "drag mother," Eureka O'Hara, left, while having a wig fitted for his performance on "We're Here."Jakes Giles Netter / HBOIn an email to NBC News, Mark Dicken, the interim pastor at Newburgh United Methodist Church, shared a letter regarding Duke's departure that he said was sent to the church members. The letter is signed by Mitch Gieselman, superintendent of the south and southwest district of the Indiana United Methodist Church."No single resolution will be satisfactory to all," the letter states. "Ive received numerous calls and emails that are highly critical of Craigs actions, and Ive received numerous messages of support for him. In such a polarized climate, our main intent is to foster an environment in which both NUMC and the Duke family can move forward in grace."According to the letter, Duke was "relieved from pastoral duties" effective Dec. 1 and will receive a reduced salary until Feb. 28. It clarifies that he has not resigned nor has he been fired. "While there is a diversity of opinion regarding the moral implications of Rev. Dukes actions, he has not been found to have committed any chargeable offense or other violation of the United Methodist Book of Discipline," the letter states. "In short, Craig has reached a place where he feels unable to continue to serve in parish ministry at present." Last week, friends of Duke created a "Craig and Linda Duke Assistance Fund" on GoFundMe.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. news$2.2 million settlement for family of transgender woman who died in Georgia men's prisonOUT NewsOUT NewsChile legalizes same-sex marriage in historic vote"Unfortunately, Craigs participation in this show caused much turmoil in the church that he was serving at the time and ultimately lead to him being 'relieved of pastoral duties' at that church," a statement on the GoFundMe page stated, adding that Craig's salary was "significantly" reduced. "Obviously, this poses a major challenge to Craig and his family as they determine their next steps."The fundraiser has since surpassed its $30,000 goal, raising more than $40,000 as of Tuesday. Duke's family will use the money for living expenses, the description says, and "any donations above the goal amount will be put towards the most effective and inclusive ministry going forward."O'Hara, Duke's drag mother on the show, shared the GoFundMe on Twitter and encouraged people to support it.The LGBTQ media advocacy organization GLAAD called Duke's departure from the church a "disservice" to the community. Pastor Craig Duke stepped into a community that has experienced disproportionate church-based trauma to proclaim a message of Gods love for all of creation," Ross Murray, senior director of education and training at the GLAAD Media Institute, said in a statement. "Pastor Craig is emulating the example of Jesus, who also spent time with those who were rejected by the pious. That his own church members bully him and the church hierarchy into removing him from his ministry is a disservice to the congregation, to the Evansville community, and to the ministry of the United Methodist Church."Duke said during the episode that he wanted to perform to show the local LGBTQ community that it is welcome in the church and have an ally there. His daughter also came out to him as pansexual two years ago, and he wanted to show support for her. He told Religion News Service in November, when the episode aired, that being on the show was an incredibly wonderful, refreshing, deepening, powerful spiritual experience.I was surrounded and immersed in a culture that Ive never been immersed in, and one of the things in ministry, if you want to involve people different than yourself in your ministry, you have to go to where people different than you are, he said. The invitation to be part of the show allowed me that.FollowNBC OutonTwitter,Facebook&InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
$2.2 million settlement for family of transgender woman who died in Georgia men's prison. Georgia's prison system agreed Monday to pay $2.2 million to the parents of a transgender inmate who died by suicide in her cell in 2017. The settlement, first reported by CNN, came four years to the day after the inmate, Jenna Mitchell, 25,died after having been in a coma for two days before life support was withdrawn. Mitchell's parents said in a lawsuit filed in 2019 that she had been approved for gender reassignment surgery but was being held at Valdosta State Prison, a men's prison. Valdosta State Prison in Georgia.Google MapsShe had been in and out of solitary confinement at the prison for months. Before she hanged herself on Dec. 4, 2017, she had been housed in solitary confinement for more than two weeks, according to the lawsuit. When Mitchell was placed in solitary confinement, the prison staff told her she was "being moved to the compound for transgender inmates," the suit says.Mitchell's mother had called the prison on Dec. 2 after she received a letter from her daughter saying she was going to pull a suicide stunt. She took the threat seriously because Mitchell "had a history of mental illness, was suffering from gender identity issues, and had engaged in a pattern of suicidal and self-harming behavior," the suit says. Mitchell's mother told the woman who answered the phone at the prison about the threat and asked that her daughter be put on suicide watch. The woman said that Mitchell was already "in medical" for attempting suicide and that she was "okay,"the suit says.The warden was made aware of the call, according to the lawsuit.But Mitchell was placed back in solitary confinement, and on Dec. 4 she told a corrections officer that she was about to hang herself. The officer didn't wait with Mitchell or try to prevent her from hanging herself but rather left to alert others about the threat, the suit says. Mitchell hanged herself while she was alone. The suit says it took too long to cut her down because officers couldn't find a cutting tool nearby and had to travel to and from the medical unit for scissors. After Mitchell died, according to the suit, the supervisor of the corrections officer who left Mitchell alone "prepared a false incident report to cover up" the officer's conduct so he and other staff members would avoid discipline, an investigation or a lawsuit. RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor saysThe warden approved the report, even though he knew it wasn't true, the suit says.In 2016, the state Corrections Department was the subject of the first U.S. Justice Department investigation into the treatment of gay and transgender inmates. And in September, the Justice Department announced that it was once more investigating Georgia prisons after an increase in homicides. The inquiry is focusing on inmates who harm one another, and it will continue to investigate cases of sexual violence against LGBTQ inmates carried out by fellow prisoners and prison staff members. Mitchell's parents' attorney, DavidB.Shanies, said in a statement that the family is calling on the state attorney general and the Justice Department to investigate her death and hold wrongdoers accountable. "There is no question that they should," he said. "Even a record-setting civil recovery cannot begin to repair the damage caused by this horrific event."The Corrections Department didn't respond to a request for comment Tuesday. Lawyers for the three prison employees named in the suit also didn't respond. If you or someone you know is in crisis, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 800-273-8255 or text HOME to 741741 to reach a trained counselor at the Crisis Text Line. You can also visitSpeakingOfSuicide.com/resourcesfor a list of additional support networks.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Chile legalizes same-sex marriage in historic vote. SANTIAGO  Chiles Congress passed a law to legalize same-sex marriage on Tuesday, in a milestone for the conservative South American nation after a decade-long legal battle and with the country delicately poised ahead of a crossroads election this month.Today is a historic day, our country has approved same-sex marriage, one more step forward in terms of justice, in terms of equality, recognizing that love is love, Minister of Social Development Karla Rubilar said after the vote.Chiles Senate and lower house of parliament both voted heavily in favor of the bill on Tuesday, which had previously been partially approved in November before the Senate sent it back to a committee to clarify ambiguities.Current President Sebastian Pinera, who will leave office in March, has backed the bill and is expected to sign it into law.A couple holds hands outside Congress as the Senate votes to approve a same-sex marriage bill in Valparaiso, Chile, on Dec. 7, 2021. Rodrigo Garrido / ReutersThe vote culminates a process that began in 2007, when then-President Michelle Bachelet pushed Congress to pass a same-sex law. Chile is now poised to join 30 other countries where same-sex marriage is legal  including Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica and Uruguay in Latin America  according to the Human Rights Campaign. It is hard to believe that today we are taking this step, said Rolando Jimenez from LGBTQ rights group Movilh, one of the major backers of the bill and which helped spearhead Chiles push to legalize same sex marriage for more than a decade.Chile will elect a new president on Dec. 19, choosing between progressive Gabriel Boric and social conservative Jose Antonio Kast, a practicing Catholic. The two offer wildly different visions for the countrys future.While Kast disagrees with same-sex marriage, he had said he would have signed the bill into law anyway had it been passed by Congress during a potential presidency of his.Chile has long had a conservative reputation even compared with its deeply Catholic Latin American peers. Still, a strong majority of Chileans now support same-sex marriage and Chileans have shown signs of moving left on social and cultural issues in recent years.Civil unions have been permitted in Chile since 2015, which affords same-sex partners many but not all the benefits of married couples, like the right to adoption.FollowNBC OutonTwitter,Facebook&InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
'West Side Story' banned in parts of Mideast over transgender character. Some audiences in the Middle East wont get to experience the epic love story between Maria and Tony.Disney and 20th Centurys West Side Story, directorSteven Spielbergs adaptation of the classic musical, has been banned in Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Bahrain, Oman and Kuwait. In some cases, like Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, the film wasnt granted a release certificate. In other countries, such as Qatar and Oman, Disney refused to comply with cuts requested by censors.The move isnt entirely surprising because Middle Eastern countries have strict censorship mandates regarding sexuality, swearing, and other aspects that dont comply with the nations cultural views. West Side Story isnt profane, but its understood that censors werent on board with Anybodys, a character who is transgender and portrayed by nonbinary actor Iris Menas. Films with LGBTQ references have been regularly targeted by censors in the Middle East, as well as China. Most recently, Disneys comic book epic Eternals was pulled from release across the same region due to the inclusion of Marvels first openly same-sex couple. In the movie, Brian Tyree Henrys otherworldly character Phastos shares a kiss with his mortal husband Ben (Haaz Sleiman).West Side Story releases elsewhere in theaters on Friday. The new version comes 60 years after the original movie (itself adapted from the 1957 Broadway show) and featuresRachel Zeglerand Ansel Elgort as star-crossed lovers. Their new romance fuels the rivalry between warring street gangs, the Jets and the Sharks. The cast also includes Ariana DeBose as Anita, David Alvarez as Bernardo, Mike Faist as Riff, and Rita Moreno (who won an Oscar for portraying Anita in the 1961 adaptation) as Valentina.RecommendedOUT NewsOUT NewsPastor who performed in drag on HBO's 'We're Here' leaves churchU.S. newsU.S. news$2.2 million settlement for family of transgender woman who died in Georgia men's prisonVarietyschief film critic Owen Gleibermanpraised Spielbergs takeon the well-known tale, saying the director made the movie his own while staying true to what audiences love about the storys central Romeo and Juliet-esque romance.There are scenes in Spielbergs version that will melt you, scenes that will make your pulse race, and scenes where you simply sit back and revel in the big-spirited grandeur of it all, he wrote.FollowNBC OutonTwitter,Facebook&InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Inspired by the social justice movement, Black entrepreneurship rises. Sisters-in-law Ashley Billings and Zoe Baker both knew they could be strong business partners. After talking all summer last year, Baker took their discussions to another level in an email.The email was the incorporation of our company and the application for our business license, Billings recalled. It was the moment when I thought, Were actually going to do this. Were going to make this happen. And it was exciting because, coming off the social justice movement, we had been conscientious about buying Black and supporting small businesses. And now we were going to jump into the fray.Six months later, in May, she and Baker launched A+Z Collections, an online apparel boutique that provides affordable luxury vacation wear that can be worn on the beach or at dinner.We love fashion and we love to travel, Baker said, so its two passions coming together as a business. Also, the social justice movement inspired a buy Black movement and it inspired independence and doing for self. So, it all came together for us.Ashley Billings, left, and Zoe Baker wearing A+Z Collection items. A+Z CollectionsTheir journey to business ownership reflects a surge in Black entrepreneurship after the first month of the pandemic.Businesses were initially crushed by the shelter-in-place orders. But out of necessity and inspired by the Black Lives Matter-led social justice movement after George Floyds murder in Minneapolis, more Black workers became business owners compared to workers of other races, according to Robert Fairlie, a researcher and professor at the University of California, Santa Cruz.Fairliesdata, based on an analysis of data from the U.S. Census Bureau, shows there was a 38 percent increase in new Black business owners across the country from February 2020 to August 2021. Latino business owners increased by15 percent in the same period, while white entrepreneurs fell by 3 percent and Asian entrepreneurs by 2 percent, according to Fairlie.This follows his report last year that showed Black business ownership had fallen 41 percent in the first month of the pandemic. That initial report earned Fairlie the Bradford-Osborne Research Award for research in support of entrepreneurs of color. Black people were hit hard economically by the pandemic, which shut down many industries and led to mass layoffs and job losses. Women, more broadly, and Black women in particular, were forced out of work to fill the caregiving gaps in their families. Essential workers, who were disproportionately Black, were vulnerable to the coronavirus.Those area few reasons for the dramatic increase after the initial fall, Fairlie said. Black people, especially Black women,left or were fired from their jobs at a disproportionate rate and instead of seeking new employment, started anew by becoming business owners. Also, many seized the opportunity of the call to buy Black, believing the support exists to make an upstart business a success.In Billings case, she resigned from her position as a marketing director for a tanning salon in Atlanta to start A+Z Collection with Baker, a digital designer. The pull to step into business ownership was strong. It was extremely hard to quit my job. Its nice to get that direct deposit every two weeks, said Billings, a wife and mother of a young son. "Its scary to step out on faith. But Im blessed to have a husband who supports this and is allowing me to pursue my dream.Becoming business owners was not a dream of sisters Sheylon Haywood and Sandy Reid, from Fresno, California. They happened upon it after Reid experienced severe digestive issues, nausea and a weakened immune system while pregnant with her second child.Reid earned a degree in biological sciences from the University of California, Riverside; Haywood has a degree in kinesiology. Research was our thing, Reid, the younger of the two, said.Haywood also was a certified mixologist and well-versed in combining ingredients, so she created a beverage with Peruvian ginger for her sister. Reid quickly felt better, and it was not long before she suggested they make the drinks to help others.Within months, relying on intense research, they invested their savings and were in business as the owners of Ginsation, an organic drink featuring the Peruvian ginger, which is considered the most natural on earth, grown in the Amazon Basin, rarely touched by man.Haywood crafted four holistic versions of their drink: Citrus Mist, Sunshine Burst, Cherry Delight and Fresh Zest, an unsweetened vegan option.The summer of 2020 was challenging, Reid said. But the social justice movement inspired us in a number of ways, including to take a leap into business. Theres always risk involved, but we believe in our product and we were empowered to do our own thing.Added Haywood: And the pandemic showed us that there is no point in waiting. Life is too short and not one day is promised to us.This mindset was similar to Erinn Cottmans, a veteran teacher and assistant principal who, during the pandemic, quit her job and started her company, Erinn Cottman Teacher Development. She trains educators across the country  in person and virtually  on how to cultivate an anti-racist environment that champions all students; how to build long-standing relationships with students, leadership for administrators and other staff; and how to increase influence by working with school partners, among many other areas.Teacher consultant Erinn Cottman.Kelley RayeShe had been contemplating her business for some time. In my head, she said. Finally, because we were teaching virtually, it allowed me time to really put all I had thought about on paper.In May, after six months of research and developing her curriculum, she bypassed a new job offer to launch her business. A big but gratifying step, she said.All her career, she made a conscious decision to teach Black kids from underserved communities. As a consultant, she continues to reach them through the principals and teachers she instructs. She has clients in Atlanta, New Orleans, New Jersey and Texas.I probably shouldnt have been so shocked at how well I am received, Cottman said, but I am. A little. Still, its gratifying because all of my clients are Black principals. Their staffs are diverse, but they are teaching the same kinds of kids I taught. And thats important to me.For Trevor Lawrence, it was important that the business he launched this year focuses on Black empowerment. He worked for decades in the health care industry in Oakland, California. But when the state legalized cannabis, he began researching and learning of the myriad health properties found in the plant.So, he applied for a license through the city program that was designed to attract people of color to the industry. For three years, he completed the seemingly endless requirements to finally earn his manufacturing and distribution license.Trevor Lawrence, owner of Kamnisha Wellness.Kamnisha WellnessDuring the pandemic, he made his venture, Kamnisha Wellness, his only job. When you consider how criminalized marijuana was  and still is in too many places  and how Black people have been incarcerated for it, its devastating to individuals and communities, Lawrence said. Now, people are finally learning that the cannabis plant is an amazing healer. And thats what drives me in business  informing our community that cannabis is the avenue to greater health. It can heal our community naturally.Kamnisha Wellness is a manufacturer of custom topical, organic CBD oils that deal withpain management, incontinence and at least 55 other ailments.Its time our community understand there is a viable, safe, plant-based option for us, Lawrence said. But there remains a stigma attached to it that we have to get over. Its a multibillion-dollar industry because people are acknowledging its power. We, as a community, have to get there, too. Thats a driving force for me.The new entrepreneurs, while enthused about their ventures, understand the work is intense.In many cases, Billings said, its not that hard to start a business, especially an online retail boutique. But it takes a lot to maintain it. And thats where the excitement of owning a business meets the reality of making it successful. We believe in buying Black, and we are counting on that mindset from everyone to help all these new businesses thrive. We have the buying power to do that.FollowNBCBLKonFacebook,TwitterandInstagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Racial pay gaps are an issue in every industry. Nowhere is it worse than in influencer marketing, a new study says. . A study published Monday suggests that Black content creators make significantly less money than their white counterparts.The report, titled Time to Face the Influencer Pay Gap, looked at issues of annual income, size of followings, the amounts influencers were offered for deals and more. It was published by the public relations firm MSL U.S. in partnership with The Influencer League, an influencer education organization. The research tapped into more than 400 U.S.-based influencers on a wide range of platforms, according to a news release. Participants were ask to report their follower counts, race and income from brands.Issues of systematic injustice have plagued Influencer marketing for years  and been largely ignored for far too long, Diana Littman, the CEO of MSL U.S., said in a statement. Our research shines a spotlight on the present state of influencer marketing and charts the path forward for both the agency and our industry."Influencing is still the Wild West of the marketing world, where regulations are almost nonexistent and algorithms, sometimes created with inherent biases that engineers might be blind to, can make or break a career.Even after platforms acknowledged that their algorithms had inherent biases and worked to fix them, Black creators say they still feel they have to work twice as hard as their white counterparts.The study found that the pay gap between white influencers and influencers who are Black, Indigenous or other people of color is 29 percent. When the research focused specifically on white and Black influencers, the margin widened to 35 percent. About 77 percent of Black influencers fall into the "nano" or "micro" influencers category because their followings are less than 50,000, the study said. About 59 percent of white influencers fall into that category.The average annual compensation for nano and micro influencers is about $27,000, the study found. While Black influencers make up a significant proportion of the micro and nano influencer tier, only 23 percent are considered part of the "macro" influencer sphere, meaning they have more than 50,000 followers, the study reported. Forty-one percent of white influencers were found to be in the macro category.Average annual earnings for macro influencer are upward of $100,000, the study reported. Nearly half of Black influencers in the survey said their race contributes to marketing offers that are below market value. Fifty-nine percent of Black influencers said talking about issues of race negatively affected their incomes, but only 14 percent of white creators said the same. "The gap this study uncovered in influencer marketing vastly overshadows the gaps in any other industry," DAnthony Jackson, a digital and influencer strategist at MSL, said in a statement. "The gap this study uncovered in influencer marketing vastly overshadows the gaps in any other industry.At the close of the study, researchers offered three suggestions to make the influencer marketing industry more equitable: bridging the pay gap through initiatives like sponsorship and education; boosting pay transparency, to which end MSL U.S. said it commits to develop and release an influencer pay index; and advocating for creators of color to help restructure marketing.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Lewis Hamilton could make history in riveting F1 season finale. Grand Prix racing, the world's pre-eminent motorsport, is potentially headed for an extraordinary moment: The last Formula 1 race of 2021 could firmly establish Lewis Hamilton as the greatest competitive driver of all time.On Sunday, Hamilton, the British star of team Mercedes-AMG Petronas, won the Saudi Arabian Grand Prix, tying Red Bull Racing Honda's Max Verstappen in championship points for the season and setting up a tiebreaker for the ages at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix on Sunday, Dec. 12.Formula 1 said that, even though the two are tied on points, Verstappen "technically maintains the lead" because he has one more victory this season than Hamilton. Nonetheless, the driver who finishes faster next week will in all likelihood take the 2021 championship.With a victory, Hamilton would surpass Michael Schumacher, the retired German legend, when it comes to world titles. Both have seven. Verstappen has never won the title.Hamilton has also made headlines off-track in the last few years, speaking out about human rights, gender inequality, racism and homophobia. He received a knighthood as part of Queen Elizabeth II's New Year's honors list for 2021.However, his presence in Saudi Arabia has sparked criticism, with the human rights group Amnesty International accusing the country of using the Grand Prix as a "PR stunt" to "deflect attention from its brutal crackdown on activists and human rights defenders.For his part, Hamilton said at a news conference ahead of Sundays race that he felt duty-bound to raise concerns about Saudi Arabias record on human rights. The sport has taken a choice to be here, he said. And whether its right or wrong, while we are here, its important we do try to raise awareness.In the days ahead of Novembers Qatar Grand Prix, Hamilton also announced that he would wear an LGBTQ flag on his helmetto highlight human rights in a country where homosexuality is illegal.Jean Todt, president of the Fdration Internationale de lAutomobile, Formula 1s governing body, told CNBC in remarks that aired Friday that it isnt FIAs role to get involved with political issues." He said he believed that being in Saudi Arabia, despite its record, encourages dialogue. Bahrain protests ahead of Formula One raceApril 17, 201300:44 Hamilton won Sunday despite facing sometimes chaotic race conditions. His car and Verstappen's made contact during the race, and Verstappen was later penalized."Ive been racing a long time, but that was definitely, that was incredibly tough," Hamilton said after the race.It was Hamilton's third win in a row, a streak that has given him momentum despite Verstappen's tying the Formula 1 record for most podium (first-, second- or third-place) finishes in a season. Verstappen took the championship points lead in May with a win in Monaco. On Sunday he finished second.Red Bull has also fallen behind Mercedes, by 28 points, for the annual constructors' title, given to the top team.Hamilton told trackside reporters Sunday that he planned to keep his head down and focus on winning in Abu Dhabi. Lewis Hamilton prepares to drive at the F1 Grand Prix on Sunday in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.Lars Baron / Getty ImagesYet two drivers being tied for the world title with only one race to go in the season has happened only once before in Formula 1 history, when Emerson Fittipaldi emerged victorious over Clay Regazzoni after the last flag of 1974 dropped.Hamilton already has the most Grand Prix wins, 103 to Schumacher's 91, as recognized by Guinness World Records. But at 36, Hamilton, from Stevenage, England, is more than 10 years older than the sport's freshman drivers. When Hamilton started in the 2000s, he competed against Schumacher. Today he races against the German's son, Mick, who drives for Haas.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor saysIt seems clear Hamilton has been thinking about his legacy, particularly because when he became the youngest driver to win a world championship, in 2008, he was Formula 1's first and only Black driver.Today he still is.After taking note of the sport's lack of diversity, particularly among drivers, Hamilton launched the Hamilton Commission in 2020 to address barriers to motorsport for people of color.That year, amid global protests over the murder of George Floyd by police, he became an outspoken supporter of Black Lives Matter. At the Austrian Grand Prix that year he took a knee in a Black Lives Matter T-shirt. Most of his fellow drivers joined him.As part of his contract with the Mercedes team, Hamilton ensured the organization would invest in his support of diversity and inclusion for motorsport.His concerns are coming from a personal place. There were times when he was a child, competing in karting, when he and his father faced racial epithets at tracks.Lewis Hamilton during the F1 Grand Prix of Saudi Arabia at Jeddah on Sunday. Lars Baron / Getty ImagesGo-cart startWhen he was a 10-year-old karting champ, Hamilton, whose father got him a go-cart and helped him hone his skills at an early age after recognizing his passion for the sport, met Ron Dennis, a top Formula 1 team boss at the time. Three years later Dennis pledged to support Hamilton's racing career so long as he continued to go to school in earnest.It's that kind of support that Hamilton wants to create for others."Being the first Black anything is a proud and lonely walk," he told Gayle King of CBS "This Morning" in late 2020. "We were always the only Black family on the scene."At the height of his career, Hamilton said, "I realized that that has barely shifted" as he vowed to focus on creating new opportunities in a sport that has historically developed its talent with the help of households that could afford constant travel, expensive gear and personal trainers. "There's been an awakening and an opportunity to use your voice," he told King.On Friday the Hollywood Reporter said a bidding war had erupted over a motorsport-related project involving some of the industry's biggest names as well as, possibly, Hamilton's.Asked last year by King if he's pondered retirement, the racer said, "I love doing what Im doing, and honestly winning this seventh world title is an incredible thing, but I think weve still not won this fight for racial equality."The athlete with a global fan base and a highly ranked income has become the face of a sport that is trying to rekindle its relationship with American motorsport fans while also expanding its fan base in the Middle East.Lewis Hamilton has used his status as Formula 1's lone black driver to raise awareness on the need to diversity the sport.Bryn Lennon  / Formula 1 via Getty ImagesFormula 1 returned to the United States in 2012 after a five year absence by launching the U.S. Grand Prix at the Circuit of the Americas in Austin, Texas.In the last two years, Formula 1 has allowed Netflix viewers inside some of those racing teams that each spend hundreds of millions of dollars a year on drivers, engineering, equipment, and marketing.The show, "Formula 1: Drive to Survive," has been popular with racing fans, and The New York Times said it has "ignited" the sport. Sports business guru Joe Pompliano tweeted Sunday that it's got nothing on the Grand Prix season's spectacular ending."Netflix is great  ," he said. "But Lewis Hamilton and Max Verstappen being tied for the World Drivers Championship with just one race to go is the best marketing for Formula 1 in years."Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
A 'Shang-Chi' sequel is officially in the works. A sequel to Shang-Chiand the Legend of the Ten Rings is officially on the way withDestin Daniel Crettonreturning to direct and write. Hes also in development on a Marvel series for Disney Plus.Cretton has signed an exclusive multi-year overall deal with Marvel Studios and Hulus Onyx Collective. The new deal will allow Cretton to develop TV projects for both Marvel Studios on Disney Plus and the Onyx Collective for Hulu and other platforms.Shang-Chi released over Labor Day weekend and currently is the highest-grossing film at the domestic box office with $224.5 million. The film made history for the Marvel Cinematic Universe as the first to feature an Asian lead and mostly Asian cast, which included Simu Liu, Michelle Yeoh, Awkwafina and Tony Leung. At the worldwide box office, the film has made $431.9 million so far and stands as the eighth highest-grossing film.Destin is an amazing collaborator who brought a unique perspective and skill to Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings. We had a fantastic time working together on the film and he has so many intriguing ideas for stories to bring to life on Disney Plus, so were thrilled to expand our relationship with him and cant wait to get started, said Marvel Studios president Kevin Feige in a statement.Not much is known about Crettons Marvel series on Disney Plus, but sources tellVarietyit is a comedy.Destin is a powerhouse storyteller with impeccable taste in material. As we continue to expand our roster, Destins unique voice will help usher in an exciting slate of content for our global audience, said Tara Duncan, president of Freeform and Hulus Onyx Collective, in a statement.Working on Shang-Chi with Kevin and the Marvel Studios team was one of the highlights of my life, and I couldnt be more excited about Taras vision for Onyx Collective. I cant wait to explore new stories & build new worlds with this community, said Cretton.He is repped by WME, Pangea Media and Goodman Genow Schenkman Smelkinson & Christopher LLP.Deadline was first to report the newsGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Kal Penn to produce, star in biopic of beloved NBA Hall of Fame superfan. Actor Kal Penn announced hell produce and star in a biopic about Toronto Raptors superfan Nav Bhatia.Superfan, the upcoming film by Stampede Ventures, will chronicle the story of Bhatia, played by Penn, who began going to Raptors games in 1995 and went to every single home game until the coronavirus pandemic in 2020.His story of perseverance & unity is incredible, & Im super excited to bring his super fan story to the (super?) big screen, Penn tweeted.Kal Penn talks engagement to partner of 11 years, new bookNov. 1, 202106:08Bhatia, a local celebrity in Toronto, became the first fan to be inducted into the NBA Hall Of Fame this year and the first fan to be awarded a championship ring. I went to every game. I cheered the most. Everyone noticed this turbaned guy, he said in a 2014 TEDtalk.Im speechless. To have the opportunity to continue to tell my story with such esteemed producers is a dream. Then to find out Kal Penn has been brought on to play me is even more surreal, Bhatia told Deadline.Bhatia, who is Sikh, grew up in India and later immigrated to Canada.Despite his mechanical engineering degree, Bhatia told CTV News he couldnt get a job because of the turban and beard.He eventually found work as a car salesman, going on to become one of the most successful salesmen and dealership owners in Canada. During his TEDtalk, Bhatia said he endured racial slurs and even had employees resign when he entered management.Basketball became a passion for him and he now spends more than $300,000 a year to allow underprivileged children from across Canada to attend Raptors games. I want these kids to integrate with each other during the young age so they dont have to go through what I went through 30 years ago and its working, he said during the TEDtalk.He also funds and organizes two Raptors home games each season to change the perception of Sikhs in the mainstream  one that celebrates Diwali and another that celebrates Vaisakhi (the Sikh New Year), giving many Canadians an opportunity to celebrate together.Ive been researching and following Navs incredible story ever since I saw him at a Raptors game the year we started filming "Designated Survivor" in Toronto, Penn told Deadline. The crowd loves him  to see what a source of pride he is for Canadians  and all basketball fans, really  makes me smile. His story is one of unity, which Im especially excited and proud to bring to life.Penn is an actor known for his roles in the Harold & Kumar franchise, How I Met Your Mother and House. He recently published his memoir, You Cant Be Serious, in which he detailed his life and announced his engagement with his partner of 11 years. He was also a former White House staff member in the Obama administration for two years.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Dictionary.com anoints allyship word of the year for 2021. Allyship, an old noun made new again, is Dictionary.coms word of the year.The look up site with 70 million monthly users took the unusual step of anointing a word it added just last month, though allyship first surfaced in the mid-1800s, said one of the companys content overseers, John Kelly.It might be a surprising choice for some, he told The Associated Press ahead of Tuesdays unveiling. In the past few decades, the term has evolved to take on a more nuanced and specific meaning. It is continuing to evolve and we saw that in many ways.The site offers two definitions for allyship: The role of a person who advocates for inclusion of a marginalized or politicized group in solidarity but not as a member, and the more traditional relationship of persons, groups or nations associating and cooperating with one another for a common cause or purpose.The word is set apart from alliance, which Dictionary.com defines in one sense as a merging of efforts or interests by persons, families, states or organizations.Its the first definition that took off most recently in the mid-2000s and has continued to churn. Following the summer of 2020 and the death of George Floyd, white allies  and the word allyship  proliferated as racial justice demonstrations spread. Before that, straight allies joined the causes of LGBTQ oppression, discrimination and marginalization.This year, we saw a lot of businesses and organizations very prominently, publicly, beginning efforts to promote diversity, equity and inclusion. Allyship is tied to that. In the classroom, there is a flashpoint around the term critical race theory. Allyship connects with this as well, Kelly said.In addition, teachers, frontline workers and mothers who juggled jobs, home duties and child care in lockdown gained allies as the pandemic took hold last year.Without an entry for allyship, Kelly said the site saw a steep rise in lookups for ally in 2020 and large spikes in 2021. It was in the top 850 searches out of thousands and thousands of words this year. Dictionary.com broadened the definition of ally to include the more nuanced meaning. The terms DEI and critical race theory made their debuts as entries on the site with allyship this year.What it means to be an authentic ally has taken on fresh significance as buzz around the word has grown louder. One of the aspects of allyship, as it has emerged, is how badly it can go.Among the examples of how to use the word in a sentence cited by Merriam-Webster is this one written by Native activist Hallie Sebastian: Poor allyship is speaking over marginalized people by taking credit and receiving recognition for arguments that the unprivileged have been making for their entire lives.As global diversity, equity and inclusion executive Sheree Atcheson wrote in Forbes, allyship is a lifelong process of building relationships based on trust, consistency and accountability with marginalized individuals and/or groups of people. Its not, she said, self-defined  work and efforts must be recognized by those you are seeking to ally with.Allyship should be an opportunity to grow and learn about ourselves, whilst building confidence in others, Atcheson added.Among the earliest evidence of the word allyship, in its original sense of alliance, is the 1849, two-volume work, The Lord of the Manor, or, Lights and Shades of Country Life by British novelist Thomas Hall: Under these considerations, it is possible, he might have heard of Miss Cloughs allyship with the Lady Bourgoin.Kelly did some additional digging into the history of allyship in its social justice sense. While the Oxford English Dictionary dates that use of the word to the 1970s, Kelly found a text, The Allies of the Negro by Albert W. Hamilton, published in 1943. It discusses extensively the potential allies of Black people in the struggle for racial equality:What some white liberals are beginning to realize is that they better begin to seek the Negro as an ally, he wrote. The new way of life sought by the liberal will be a sham without the racial equality the Negro seeks. And the inclusion of the Negro in the day-to-day work, in the organization, the leadership and the rallying of the support necessary to win a better world, can only be done on the basis of equality.On the other side of allyship, Kelly said, is a feeling of division, of polarization. That was Jan. 6. Allyship, he said, became a powerful prism in terms of the dichotomy at a chaotic cultural time during the last two years.Other dictionary companies in the word of the year game focused on the pandemic and its fallout for their picks. Oxford Languages, which oversees the Oxford English Dictionary, went for vax and Merriam-Webster chosevaccine.The Glasgow, Scotland-based Collins Dictionary, meanwhile, pluckedNFT,the digital tokens that sell for millions.While Merriam-Webster relies solely on site search data to choose a word of the year, Dictionary.com takes a broader approach. It scours search engines, a broad range of text and taps into cultural influences to choose its word of the year.FollowNBC OutonTwitter,Facebook&InstagramGet the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Harvard adds caste bias protections for graduate student workers. Harvard University is the latest U.S. school to add measures protecting caste-oppressed students following a push from graduate workers and a national organization.Since March, South Asian graduate student organizers have tried to point out to the university's administration what they say is a real problem on campuses across the U.S.: discrimination based on the Hindu caste system.Those born into lower castes, known as Dalits in India's deeply rooted hierarchies, have faced violence and oppression on the subcontinent for thousands of years. Though the system is now illegal in India, its impact is still far-reaching and can manifest themselves in a lack of social and economic mobility.With the increase in South Asian immigration to the U.S. since the 1980s and '90s, the hierarchies have been carried overseas.Twenty-five percent of Dalits in the U.S. report having faced verbal or physical assault, according to research by Equality Labs, an organization dedicated to ending white supremacy and casteism. One in 3 Dalit students also reported experiencing prejudice that affected their education, the study found.Students trying to combat this on their campuses say they run into barriers in the process, particularly a sheer lack of knowledge among administrators.Aparna Gopalan, a South Indian doctoral student at Harvard and a member of the Graduate Student Union, has been part of negotiations since March to add more protected classes to the unions contract. She says she found herself in board rooms filled with white administrators who had no foundational grasp of the caste system.They had no idea what caste was, Gopalan said. I dont think they really understood. At one point, they asked, Why isnt caste just protected under nationality? and I was flabbergasted. We were operating on a very basic level.But after months of talks between the union and the administration, as well support from Equality Labs, the Graduate Student Union's contract was ratified this week and caste was added as the only new protected category.Harvard declined to comment other than confirming the contract has been ratified.Gopalan said that after the provision was approved, Dalit students began to come forward with their own experiences of discrimination, including by South Asian supervisors and instructors who would give their work less attention than that of upper caste students. Slurs and microaggressions from other students were also common.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor saysWe need for every student covered under this contract to be aware that this is even in there, Gopalan said. No one can come forward if they arent explicitly aware that this is protected.Slurs are just the beginning of what Dalit students across the country have experienced on campus, said Thenmozhi Soundararajan, executive director of Equality Labs. The longtime Dalit rights activist has advocated for young people facing sexual harassment, housing discrimination, diminished opportunities and physical assaults."This important step recognizes first that we, too, exist at Harvard and that our experiences matter," said Raj Muthu, a Dalit Harvard alum and a member of Equality Labs' coalition. "As an alumni, I have certainly witnessed expressions of disdain and hostility directed towards members of oppressed castes, students and faculty."Dalits on campus might also feel like they don't belong in South Asian circles that are heavily pervaded with casteism or dominated by upper caste students. "Overall as a student from a caste-oppressed community, there is a deep sense of alienation and not belonging in South Asian settings," he said. "Its a very isolating experience because as immigrants we try to seek refuge in our own ethnic communities."But progress may be on the horizon. Through Equality Labs, Soundararajan has supported student bodies as they push their administrations to protect the caste-oppressed among them. Harvard is only the latest to add a measure, with the University of California, Davis, and Colby College both taking similar steps in the last few months.These arent overnight wins, she said. These are the results of many leaders going through the administrative process and building power toward caste equity.Shes sure that there are more to come.I see the change, she said. There hasnt been a university that hasnt wanted to do this.After Black Lives Matter protests in the summer of 2020, Soundararajan said schools became much more open to inclusive language. With high profile institutions beginning to adopt caste protection into official documents, she thinks others will soon follow suit.For Gopalan, Harvards new contract with the union is the beginning of change, not the end.This is just the Grad Student Union, she said. We would like every union to have it at Harvard. We would like the university itself, outside of just workers, to put it in their handbooks.Those affected by caste oppression know its a struggle that has long been invisible to non-South Asians in the U.S. Soundararajan hopes these university-level changes can be the first steps in a broader conversation.It makes sure that our civil rights are being respected, she said.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
'Latinx' can be 'counterproductive' among Hispanic voters, poll finds. A new poll of Hispanic voters finds the term Latinx does not resonate among them and 40 percent say use of the word bothers or offends them.The poll was conducted in mid-November by Bendixen & Amandi International, a Democratic firm focusing on Latino outreach. It found that 30 percent of Hispanic voters   24 percent of Democrats and 43 percent of Republicans  are less likely to support a politician or political organization using the word.The numbers strongly suggest that the use of this term may actually be counterproductive, as opposed to productive, because only 2 percent of Hispanic voters nationally embrace the term, said Fernand Amandi, the firm's principal, who's worked on a number of national and presidential campaigns.  The term Latinx was created as a gender-neutral alternative to Latino or Latina. It has gained some traction during the past several years among politicians, academics and corporations and is more common among younger and progressive Latinos, but it's not used widely in the community, according to Pew Research.Around 57 percent of the voters surveyed in the new poll said they are not bothered by the word. When broken down by party affiliation, 60 percent of those who identify as Democrats said Latinx does not bother them, while 43 percent of Republicans say they are not bothered.But Amandi said, up to 40 percent are saying that this term, either bothers or offends them, which in my mind suggests the potential costs outweigh the benefits.Among political candidates or elected officials, the term is used primarily by Democrats in mailings as well as social media, and even in speeches. The term is also used by more progressive and center-left political organizations.I think one has to be careful in saying, this is the silver bullet reason for why Republicans are making inroads, Amandi said. But what I think the data makes clear is that this is not helping  Democrats potentially maximize this critical voting bloc for that, and their electoral chances.A majority of voters  68 percent  said Hispanic is the term that comes closest to describing their ethnic background. Around 21 percent chose the term Latino and only 2 percent said Latinx is what best describes them.Even when broken down among age groups, the majority of respondents said they prefer Hispanic.Hispanic was favored more among those born in the U.S.  71 percent versus 61 percent of those born in another country. Around 33 percent of those polled who are foreign born prefer Latino.Other polls in the past have came up with similar findings about the term Latinx; a Pew Research Center poll conduced in August 2020 found that about 1 in 4 Hispanics had heard of the term and 3 percent used it. The new poll was conducted among 800 Latino registered voters in the United States and the interviews were conducted in both English and Spanish. The margin of error is 3.46 percent.FollowNBC LatinoonFacebook,TwitterandInstagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
'The Latin American Cookbook' highlights, celebrates region's vast diversity. Putting together an entire nations distinctive dishes is a daunting process for anyone. Then imagine doing it for 22 countries and you get a sense of what went into creating The Latin American Cookbook.Just a single dish  say garlic shrimp or grilled street corn  can vary in assembly from neighborhood to neighborhood, region to region and nation to nation.How to capture this in one dish and say, like, This is the recipe has been one of the toughest things Ive done in my life, says Virgilio Martnez, a Michelin star-winning chef whose restaurants include Central in Lima, Peru.What Martnez and his collaborators have created is a beautiful and thoroughly researched book with 600 iconic recipes that offer a snapshot of the spirit of Latin American cuisine.There is a dazzling array of dishes, from sea urchins in salsa verde from Chile and a black turkey stew from Belize and Mexico, to a Venezuelan pasta casserole and Ecuadorian potato pancakes. There are recipes for several mole sauces, the classic Pisco Sour, a Dulche de Leche Thousand Layer Cake and the wonderfully named Chilean Disco Fries.The book is broken down not by nation but by ingredients, including vegetables, corn, pork, lamb and goat, roots and tubers, and fish and seafood. It celebrates such regionally distinctive ingredients as the edible flower loroco, the bluish fungus huitlacoche and unripe bananas known as guineos.Martnez and the volumes co-writer, food and travel writer Nicholas Gill, consulted home chefs, farmers, food journalists, village elders, bakers and restaurant owners across Latin America. Martinez took what hed learned at hisMater Iniciativa an interdisciplinary gastronomic and cultural research organization dedicated to conserving and sharing Perus biodiversity  and applied it throughout Latin America.The process was absolutely daunting, says Gill. The landscape stretches from the Rio Grande to the tip of Patagonia. Thats a massive swath of the Earth.But it meant often delicious field work, from sampling hot bowls of beef soup in Bogota to downing a dish of fish and acai berry beside the Amazon River.The Latin American Cookbook,from Phaidon Press, is stuffed with fascinating dishes that expand the food vocabulary beyond the continents more famous offerings like empanadas, arepas, tamales and caipirinhas.The authors celebrate the diversity of ingredients and what makes one dish different from a sister recipe, often spotlighting its quirks and the stories behind it. While most Latin American countries do embrace common ingredients like corn and beans, the vastness is hard to simplify.Im from Peru, and Im very different to a Brazilian. I mean, we have things in common. I have more in common with a Mexican than a German, right? said Martnez. The idea is not to try to push one Latin American identity because there are too many.Martnez says Latin Americans tend to improvise in the kitchen, perhaps a reflection of many regions going through tough economic times, with some ingredients unavailable and others too expensive. Improvising them, making what you can with what you have, is part of Latin American culture, he says.The authors know that home chefs may substitute some of the more hard-to-find ingredients with more common ones and they encourage it. What they wanted to do was codify the most authentic version of the dish.We tried to specify the ingredients as much as possible. We tried not to dumb them down, says Gill. For instance, if there was a special tuber that really gives it a different flavor, we tried to name that specific tuber, even though someone in another part of the world probably isnt going to find it.In addition to his restaurants, Martnez is dedicated to documenting Perus bountiful produce and experimenting with natures gifts to discover culinary uses. In many ways, the new cookbook is also a way to preserve the past.We need to support our farmers and support people that are producing the food. And we need to promote some ingredients that probably will be forgotten in a few years time, he says.Gill hopes the book can also be a guide for people  post-pandemic, of course  to visit the continent and embolden them to try new dishes. We wanted to inspire travel, and for people to go to these places and understand them, he says.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Bob Dole's standing with Latino voters reflects changing Republican Party. In 1977, a Republican senator from Kansas joined the newly formed Congressional Hispanic Caucus as an honorary member. In the 1980s, he voted for amnesty for undocumented immigrants.In the 1990s, he ran for president while embracing anti-immigrant measures.Such was the complicated legacy of Bob Dole  who died Sunday at 98  with the Latino community.During Doles political heyday, the Latino population tripled, and immigration emerged as a hot-button issue among conservatives. While his national campaigns failed to draw strong Latino support, Doles passing is an opportunity to reflect on the politics of a Republican from a different era.Former Senator Bob Dole dies at 98Dec. 5, 202102:37He was a real leader in the Senate, and he was very effective, said Linda Chavez, a senior fellow at the Niskanen Center, a moderate conservative think tank. She worked with Dole during the Reagan administration, when she was director of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. He was always willing to reach across party lines, reach out to Democrats. He was the kind of person whose door was always open, and he would listen to you.Dole, a staunch conservative, is difficult to categorize by the standards of the contemporary Republican Party. In 1982 he played an instrumental role in extending the Voting Rights Act, and in 1983 he was a co-sponsor of the bill to make Martin Luther King Jr. Day a legal holiday. In 1987, he introduced a bill in the Senate proposing a referendum in Puerto Rico on statehood. In 1986, he voted in support of President Ronald Reagans landmark amnesty program for undocumented immigrants.As NBC News reported, Dole "did not shy away from a muscular use of government at home and abroad,"  supporting an expansion of  the federal food stamp program, pushing the Americans With Disabilities Act in 1990 and sending U.S. troops to foreign conflicts. Then, in 1996, Dole ran for the Republican nomination for president.At the time, the Republican Party was going through a period when it adopted an anti-immigrant message, said Stephen Nuo-Prez, an associate professor of politics and international affairs at Northern Arizona University. It was the aftermath of Proposition 187 passing in California, Nuo-Prez said, referring to a measure that would have barred undocumented immigrants from using state services. Dole was probably the first modern Republican candidate who was subject to that acid test, to show he could be tough on immigration. Dole tacked hard to the right on immigration to win over the base of his party.Doles 1996 presidential campaign website warned about illegal aliens and a flood of undocumented immigrants who sap precious American tax dollars and undermine the nations security. As a candidate, he supported Proposition 187s limits on educating children of undocumented immigrants. He backed making English the official language of the U.S., called for ending most bilingual education and opposed affirmative action. While the approach helped Dole win the nomination, it did not help him with most Latino voters in the general election, Nuo-Prez said, adding the campaign did not put much emphasis on Hispanic voters.Dole lost the election, getting just 21 percent of the Latino vote. Latino Republican leaders generally liked and respected Dole, said Geraldo Cadava, the author of The Hispanic Republican and a professor of history at Northwestern University. But to the average Latino voter in the Southwest or Florida, Dole was not really a known quantity.Some Latino voters were probably attracted to Dole because of his party affiliation, his military background and his support of the U.S. embargo on Cuba, but that was not enough to overcome what was then a damaged Republican brand among Latinos. Cadava said the Republican Party was then reckoning with two competing impulses. The Latino population was rising  it grew from 9.6 million in 1970 to 28.4 million in 1996  at the same time that the partys base was coalescing around anti-immigrant sentiment. Dole was the face of the party at a time of nativist sentiment, and he paid the price for that with Latinos, he said.In 1996 Dole voted for legislation that overhauled immigration enforcement and made more people eligible for deportation. President Bill Clinton signed the measure into law. In his later years, Dole remained somewhat politically unpredictable. In May 2016, he was one of the few establishment Republicans to endorse Donald Trump. Im a Trumper, Dole told USA Today this year, while adding that there was no doubt that Trump lost the 2020 race. Yet in the same interview, he called President Joe Biden a great, kind, upstanding, decent person.Bob Dole truly had an amazing life, said Mary Sanchez, a syndicated columnist with the Tribune Content Agency. He was a member of the Greatest Generation, he served in the war, served in Congress, saw so much happen, from the civil rights era to now. For her, Doles legacy is exemplified by the Dole Institute of Politics at the University of Kansas, which is devoted to celebrating public service and promoting civil discourse. The institute hosted Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor in 2011, for example.Sanchez, a former reporter for The Kansas City Star, said, Dole was in many ways what people wanted a traditional Republican to be. She added that, among Latinos in Kansas, there is a generational divide between those who are old enough to recall his legacy and those who are unfamiliar with it. For some Latinos, Doles passing feels like the end of an era. Probably the only person who I would compare him to is the late John McCain, Sanchez said. Chavez said: He was a warm and engaging person, with a real affinity for the Hispanic community. He had a very dry sense of humor. I think a lot of people who did not know him did not realize what a caring person he was.FollowNBC LatinoonFacebook,TwitterandInstagram.Get the Evening RundownA rundown of the day's top stories and headlines.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Latinas in trucking are finding their place  in the driver's seats of 18-wheelers. Vanessa Rivas was the girl who found her dolls boring and liked trucks. So, as the coronavirus pandemic fed her anxieties about losing her auto financing job, she learned how to be a truck driver.There was plenty of time to study, because motor vehicle offices were closed by Covid-19. Convincing her parents was the bigger obstacle. Dadsaid "no," and Mom said "never." But Rivas, 34, of Los Angeles, went for it anyway."My dad had to understand its not a mans world anymore when it comes to trucking," said Rivas, who is training to get her license.Just 6.6 percent of truck drivers are women, but Latinas are increasingly joining the overall workforce in other industries. They number about 12.5 million, about 16 percent of all working women, according to the Labor Department. While many people dispute claims that theres a shortage of truck drivers, the jobs are billed as good opportunities for Latinas and other women. The reality is much more complicated in an industry in which high turnover is often attributed to poor wages and treatment. Rivas is working her auto finance job while she continues trying to get her license to drive trucks.Alyson Aliano for NBC News"My dad had to understand its not a mans world anymore when it comes to trucking," said Rivas, who is still training to get her license.Alyson Aliano for NBC NewsWhat might seem like a growth opportunity for someone working at the minimum wage in a service industry job actually comes with hidden costs and risks of assault and harassment. Making $80,000 a year or more is a strong draw, but higher salaries could mean longer hours and days away from family. It could also take years to reach that level of pay.The Latinas who spoke about their experiences said taking up trucking has brought them notable benefits along with challenges.You can change your life and make great money at this job, and you are going to feel like you have a job with purpose, said Desiree Wood, the president of Real Women in Trucking, which promotes safety, mentorship and industry transparency for women in trucking.But Wood warned that some companies claim that there is a driver shortage to bring in more women and minorities who are desperate to get out of fast-food work or other kinds of work where theyre not really making a living wage. The unemployment rate for Latinas ages 20 and older at the end of October was 5.5 percent, with about 57.8 percent of all Latinas participating in the workforce, according to Bureau of Labor Statisticsdata.Latinas median weekly earnings were $705 last year, putting them at the bottom of the earnings scale. Median weekly earnings for Asian men  at the top  were $1,447, the BLSreported.Congress is trying to give the industry a push in hiring more women.The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, which President Joe Biden signed Nov. 15, orders the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to create a volunteer advisory board to boost hiring and retention of women in trucking.In the meantime, Rivas is still working her auto finance job while she tries to get her license to drive trucks.  She said she has been told she can make $2,000 to $3,000 a week, depending on how many hours she's willing to work, and $3,000 to $4,000 if she drives out of state. "I didn't know that much money in one week can happen," she said.Skeptical parents, encouraging friendsLatinas who have entered the trucking industry say the new careers have meant better pay and that they have taken them from jobs they found unfulfilling and given them a sense of empowerment and accomplishment.Although some encountered resistance from spouses or other relatives, they said male friends, fellow students (who were overwhelmingly male) and significant others generally encouraged them to get into truck driving, joined them on the road or helped them with training."I didn't know that much money in one week can happen," Rivas said.Alyson Aliano for NBC News / Alyson Aliano for NBC NewsAs Covid lockdowns have eased, employment among Latinas is recovering faster than among Hispanic men, said Mnica Garca-Prez, an economics professor at St. Cloud State University in Minnesota, who specializes in labor economics.So far, trucking isnt attracting Latinas nationwide, but there may be regional increases in areas with concentrations of warehouses and distribution centers, Garca-Prez said.Those re-entering the workforceappear to be filling jobs in fields that have been more male-dominated, such as packing and shipping, she said.Antoinette McIntosh, 42, was working as a financial adviser at an East Coast bank when the market crashed in 2008. Her job and her six-figure salary disappeared overnight. Antoinette McIntosh.Courtesy Antoinette McIntoshA good friend, Robert Montgomery, who later became her fianc, told her to cash in on her love of driving and join him at his company as a truck driver.The company they worked for paid for her transportation to Salt Lake City and training in exchange for the couples working for the company for a year. Ive been in it ever since, said McIntosh, who is Black and Puerto Rican and lives in the Cleveland, Mississippi, area. She has been a truck driver for 15 years.McIntosh's father also had been a truck driver, and her parents did everything they could to keep me out of a truck, she said. Trying to fulfill their wishes, she went to college, double-majored in psychology and social work and made everyone else happy.McIntosh now makes more than she did at her bank job, she said.What a lot of people dont tell you is this pays you better than a white-collar job in a lot of businesses, so its not so much of a stigma anymore, McIntosh said.Shifting in the pandemicRosio Villagrana, 35, got her Class A truck drivers license on July 30. The company that hired her told her it hadnt had a female truck driver for several years, she said.She had worked in and managed a pawn shop for about a decade. But her friends' work driving semi-trailer trucks had long intrigued her. With time on her hands and feeling restless confined to work and home early in the pandemic, Villagrana decided to give truck driving a try.Why not? she recalled saying.Im so for women empowerment.I feel like we are capable of what we do, plus more, especially in this male-dominated industry.Ultimately, her goal is to be an owner-operator and one day own her own fleet of trucks. Tracy Barajas, 27, of Corona, California, has been driving trucks for three years. She had worked in online fashion stores and as a dispatcher for a plumbing company.Tracy Barajas of Corona, Calif., has been driving trucks for three years. Courtesy Tracy BarajasHer boyfriend, Oscar Hernandez, and cousins, who were truck drivers, inspired her to make the jump into trucking, she said.Barajas said she had lived paycheck to paycheck before she got into trucking. She had briefly attended community college with plans to be a psychologist. In trucking, she and Hernandez, who drive as a team and log their journeys online, have individually saved tens of thousands of dollars, and she makes four times her previous income, she said.I never in my head would have thought that I would be able to or I would be in truck driving, Barajas said.Steering through sexism, danger and scamsAll of the positive accounts notwithstanding, trucking can be a dangerous profession, and it can affect marriages and families. Not everyone experiences a financial windfall.McIntosh said her marriage ended over trucking. Her spouse at the time she started didnt want her driving trucks.RecommendedU.S. newsU.S. newsN.H. college student reported missing after night out drinking is found deadU.S. newsU.S. newsPediatric brain tumors are rare but serious conditions in infants, doctor saysShe also lost money when she leased a truck from her employer. Costs for maintenance, gasoline, inspection and registration tags, insurance and other expenses were deducted from her paycheck, McIntosh said. She was falling short even when she increased her workload.McIntosh ended up joining a class-action lawsuit against the company, which settled with her and other drivers over the leasing arrangement.McIntosh used to travel with her fianc, Montgomery. On a trip in Wisconsin in June, he suffered a massive heart attack while they were in their truck cab. He died in her arms, she said.She continues to drive, in part, to keep a promise to help support his brother who has autism, she said. Barajas was rear-ended by a drunk driver while she was driving a truck in Colorado in February 2020.Soon after the accident, her company reduced her and her boyfriend's wages by 10 cents and terminated their benefits, including their health care plan and their 401(k) retirement benefits.Barajas and her boyfriend switched to driving for FedEx in May 2020 and are making a good living again.Wood, of Real Women in Trucking, said that as more Latinas start driving trucks, there is a need for caution.Women are often paired with male drivers they dont know for training, and thats where a lot of women fall through the cracks," she said. Some are raped or harassed and then retaliated against when they report the incidents, she said.The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration has been studying harassment and assaults of women and minority truckers.None of the Latinas who were interviewed said they had experienced any physical sexual harassment or assaults. Barajas said she gets hateful and sexist comments on her YouTube page for being a woman who drives a truck. But the comments that stick with her are from women who say she inspires them, she said.Student drivers also can be exploited because they work for low wages while they are in training, Wood said. She warns women not to enter company-sponsored training, although the women interviewed for this article said they had good experiences.The American Trucking Association, the trade and lobbying group for major trucking employers, reported that the annualized turnover rate for truck drivers last year was 90 percent, a point less than it was in 2019. For smaller fleets, it was 69 percent, down from 72 percent. A lot of the turnover happens in truckers first year, Wood said. Rivas said she has been told she can make $2,000 to $3,000 a week depending on how many hours she's willing to work and $3,000 to $4,000 if she drives out of state. Alyson Aliano for NBC NewsMany companies pay drivers based on how many miles they drive. The rate per mile can vary by experience. Drivers also might not drive enough miles to earn the money they thought theyd make.In May 2020, median pay for heavy and tractor-trailer truck drivers was $47,130 a year, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. That means half of such drivers made more and half made less.Ellen Voie, the president of Women in Trucking, said private fleets have lower turnover. Walmart has said that its average annual pay for its drivers is about $87,500 and that they earn training pay and pay when they arent driving.Voie said the biggest predictor of turnover is whether drivers feel misled about what they were promised.The carriers who can match that reality with what theyre promising the driver will keep the drivers, but the ones who oversell or dont live up to what theyre selling are the ones where the drivers get discouraged and leave, Voie said.Voie advised women to ask questions, such as whether a truck driving school is credible and will hold proper trainings and which carriers "walk the walk." She advised asking whether carriers give drivers the promised miles, what kind of time at home they provide and what pay raises and safety bonuses they offer. McIntosh advises Latinas getting into trucking to learn the industry first, drive for a company, increase their savings, pay off bills at home and be diligent about understanding the costs associated with leasing trucks.The women acknowledge that there are pitfalls and barriers to consider, which may dissuade others from following them into the industry. But Barajas said the small number of women in the field shouldnt be one of those reasons.Who cares if it is a male-dominated industry? she said. I would say just take the leap. Do it.FollowNBC LatinoonFacebook,TwitterandInstagram.Breaking news emailsBe the first to know about breaking news and other NBC News reports.Sign UpThis site is protected by recaptchaPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service
Senate rules could undercut Democrats prescription drug plan. A critical part of Democrats plan to control prescription drug prices would apply not only to the governments Medicare program but also to the commercial market that covers most working Americans  unless the Senates rules stop it.Democrats have a multi-pronged strategy for addressing drug prices in the Build Back Better Act. First, they would allow Medicare to negotiate with pharmaceutical manufacturers on the prices of a certain number of prescription drugs, something they have been promising to do for years. But Democrats also want to limit drug companies ability to hike the prices of their medications for everyone  regardless of what kind of health insurance they have  in the future. To do that, Congress has proposed requiring drugmakers to pay rebates for any price increases, in either the Medicare health program or the commercial health plans that cover 180 million Americans.But, as Politico reported this week, the plan to apply the inflation-indexed rebates to the commercial market could be in trouble. Senate Republicans  at the urging of the drug industry  plan to challenge whether the rebates for commercial health plans are permissible in a bill passed through the budget reconciliation process. If they succeed, it could have significant consequences for US patients and the prices they pay for medicines.This precarious situation is a direct consequence of the process Democrats are using to pass the Build Back Better Act: budget reconciliation, which allows them to pass a bill with a slim majority but must meet a certain condition known as the Byrd Rule.In brief, the Byrd Rule requires that all the provisions in a budget reconciliation bill directly change federal spending or revenue.Republicans will argue that the purpose of the provision is to control drug prices for the private plans, full stop, and that does not have anything to do with federal spending or revenue  at least not directly.The Democratic counterargument would be that applying these rebates to commercial plans would have a serious, more than incidental, effect on the federal budget. The federal government subsidizes almost all private insurance plans in one way or another, and so lower or higher costs for those plans could have major implications and lower costs for private health plans could also mean higher wages for workers, who would then pay more in taxes.Who wins is likely ultimately a decision for the Senate parliamentarian.But what would happen if the parliamentarian determines rebates covering commercial plans cannot be allowed under the Byrd Rule?The big fear, voiced by advocates of the Democrats plan, is that drug companies would extract higher prices from the commercial market in order to make up for the revenue they would lose from Medicare once that programs new price controls take effect.According to several experts, that appears unlikely. Loren Adler, associate director of the USC-Brookings Schaeffer Initiative for Health Policy, covered why in a lengthy analysis published in September.Fundamentally, for this to occur, it would have to be the case that drug companies are benevolently choosing not to profit-maximize at present, Adler told me this week, which I find rather difficult to believe.In other words, drug companies are already charging the highest possible prices they can get in their negotiations with private insurers. They are not suddenly going to be able to secure higher prices in this new reality; private insurers will have the same incentives and leverage to keep costs down that they did before.Drug companies maximize their profits and get as much as they can out of their negotiations, Darius Lakdawalla, a USC health economist, told me. They are not leaving money on the table that they would then choose to scoop up if they lose Medicare profits.Private health plans may actually still see some savings, according to the Congressional Budget Office, because inflation penalties in Medicare could discourage drug companies from raising list prices altogether.But the savings would not be as big as they would be if the inflation rebates covered the commercial market as well  and there may be some cases where drug companies charge ahead and hike their list prices higher than inflation anyway. Under the current plan, drugmakers would pay a rebate based on their sales volume in both the Medicare and commercial markets. In that scenario, there would be little reason to raise list prices faster than inflation, because you are paying the penalty based on the entire market.But if those rebates cant include the commercial market, the penalty will be based on the Medicare market only  making it a smaller price to pay if a company does decide to hike the list price of a drug at a rate higher than inflation.If the penalty is only based on Medicare sales, it still may be worth it financially for drug companies to increase their list price faster than inflation, just as they would have before, even though it wont mean any higher revenue from Medicare, Adler said.Most people dont pay the list prices of medications, and health insurers negotiate the prices they pay to drug companies. They will still have the same incentives to drive down that price as much as they can, which should limit the likelihood that drug costs would rise for commercial plans in the aggregate.But rising list prices can still drive up costs to patients, if they must meet their deductible before their insurance kicks in or if they must pay any coinsurance that is based on a list price. Deductibles and coinsurance have been steadily rising as a share of out-of-pocket costs over the past few years, according to a 2020 report from the IQVIA Institute.Those rising costs can have a deleterious effect on peoples health. About 1 in 12 prescriptions issued for people on commercial plans are abandoned, likely because of the out-of-pocket cost to the patient, a higher rate than is seen in Medicare, according to the same IQVIA report. For uninsured people who pay entirely in cash, and who would still be exposed to price increases going forward, 1 in 5 prescriptions end up being abandoned.The bottom line is, if the commercial rebates are nixed under the Byrd Rule, the people on private plans would end up saving less money than they would have if the Democratic plan were enacted in full  and any future price increases that are allowed under a more limited version of the plan could end up hitting certain patients particularly hard.The price controls for only Medicare would still be a big step. But they would end up being a half-measure compared to what Democrats currently propose.The real problem for [large-employer insurance plans] would be the loss of a rare opportunity to gain relief from high drug prices, which are becoming a bigger problem over time, Paul Ginsburg, a senior health economist at the Brookings Institution, told me.Why do prescription drug savings for half of Americans ultimately turn on how one person interprets the Senates rules? Because budget reconciliation is dictating the legislative process, leading to half-measures and incoherent policies that do not work as originally intended in the real world. So long as the filibuster still exists, budget reconciliation is the only way for the Democrats to move a bill, unless 10 Republicans were willing to break ranks with their party and break a filibuster. That is exceedingly unlikely in a highly polarized Congress.But the budget reconciliation rules place such tight restrictions on which provisions can be included and which ones cant  all subject to the interpretation of the parliamentarian  that it can be difficult to craft policies that are internally consistent. A prescription drug plan that lowers costs for some people and increases them for others would be entirely the result of this misshapen process.Budget reconciliation wasnt meant to pass complex legislation. It was created in the 1970s to make sure no amount of partisan gridlock could prevent Congress from dealing with its most basic duty  determining how much the federal government spends and how much revenue it raises. The Byrd Rule exists in the first place, to limit the processs use to those core functions.But over time, as bipartisan comity faltered and filibusters against any and every kind of legislation became the norm, budget reconciliation has devolved into the only tool by which a slim Senate majority can advance its legislative agenda. Yet both parties keep bumping up against its limitations. In 2017, Republican majorities struggled to roll back the Affordable Care Acts insurance reforms in part because a straightforward repeal or even a more modest alteration was not allowed under the Byrd Rule. It didnt directly affect federal spending or revenue enough to satisfy the parliamentarian, and they were forced to come up with awkward workarounds to clear the Byrd Rule. (Ultimately, they failed to craft a plan that could win 50 votes.)Now, Democrats are trying to pass an omnibus social spending bill  which covers everything from prescription drugs to child care to green energy  within the strictures set down by Sen. Robert Byrd (D-WV) many years ago. If there were no filibuster, they could have simply put up one bill for child care, another bill for green energy, another bill for prescription drugs. Each one could pass on its own merits if it had 50 votes. The provisions wouldnt be subject to the arbitrary restrictions of budget reconciliation. The plan to apply these drug pricing rebates to the commercial market could be approved as intended. The dissonance would be gone.Instead, Democrats may end up being forced to pass a compromised version of their drug pricing proposal  with significant consequences for millions of patients.
The intellectual rights war on Americas institutions. Chris Rufo is arguably the most important intellectual entrepreneur on the political right today. A senior fellow at the right-wing Manhattan Institute, he is nearly single-handedly responsible for the rise of critical race theory as a right-wing boogeyman  an issue that came to dominate the national political conversation during the Virginia gubernatorial election.On Tuesday, Rufo elaborated a bit more on the project he has in mind: Its time to clean house in America: remove the attorney general, lay siege to the universities, abolish the teachers unions, and overturn the school boards, he tweeted.Confronted with unsavory parallels to militant fascist rhetoric against intellectuals, Rufo clarified that he was not calling for violence. For the Godwins Law aficionados: remove the attorney general through resignation or impeachment, lay siege to the universities through cutting federal subsidies, abolish the teachers unions through legislation, and overturn school boards through winning elections, he tweeted on Tuesday night.Some of the clarifications are reassuring (theres nothing wrong with contesting elections). But others, in particular the comments on universities and teachers unions, were disturbing. Rufo is calling for the use of law as a weapon to weaken or even eliminate the social bases of his opponents political power. Its a vision of politics in which power is not shared democratically but wielded against ones enemies.Hes been quite explicit about this. During an appearance at the National Conservatism Conference in early November, Rufo argued that reform around the edges is not enough to protect America from the progressive revolution. Instead, conservatives should embrace a defund the left political strategy in which they strangle new identity programs in red tape and accelerate the student loan Ponzi scheme [and] make universities partially responsible for defaults.Rufos ruthlessness is best understood as the applied version of a political vision that has become widespread in influential right-wing intellectual circles. From demagogues like Tucker Carlson to highbrow thinkers like Notre Dames Patrick Deneen, the emerging right-wing line is that Americas core institutions have become captured by the left and must be seized if the country is to be saved. This means going on offense when you have power  not merely to accomplish conservative policy goals but to crush the left and stamp out its cultural viability.The Postliberal Order is a new Substack publication by four right-wing Christian intellectuals: Deneen, Harvards Adrian Vermeule, University of Dallass Gladden Pappin, and Catholic Universitys Chad Pecknold. Its premise is that the modern liberal ordering of the world is exhausted  meaning not just liberalism in the American political sense but the more capacious philosophical one. Liberal ideals of individual rights, separation of church and state, and free markets have, in their view, created a society ever more solitary, ever more detached from ourselves, from our families, from our countries, and our God.In an essay published Wednesday, Deneen essentially develops an intellectual framework for Rufo-ism  the high-level justification for using the state to crush liberals and their institutions.Deneen believes that conservatism is in a defensive crouch  and has been so since its rise in the 20th century. This may seem odd to liberals and leftists, who have seen a string of conservative victories in the past several decades: the withering of the social safety net, the demolition of labor unions, the spread of strict state-level abortion restrictions, and even the restructuring of the electoral system in the GOPs favor. Yet in Deneens view, the Supreme Courts jurisprudence on social issues over that time  abortion, same-sex marriage, and trans anti-discrimination protections  left progressivism ascendant. It began to dawn on many conservatives that, in spite of apparent electoral victories that have occurred regularly since the Reagan years, they have consistently lost, and lost overwhelmingly to progressive forces, he writes.What is the reason for this failure? Deneen cites mainstream conservative adherence to seven liberal principles  religious liberty, limited government, the inviolability of private institutions (e.g., corporations), academic freedom, constitutional originalism, free markets, and free speech  as the root of its defects.Liberalism has become consistently more aggressive in extending each of these features to their logical conclusion  their own contradiction in the form of liberal totalitarianism, Deneen argues. Liberalism inevitably produces the evisceration of all institutions that were originally responsible for fostering human virtue: family, ennobling friendship, community, university, polity, church. This so-called liberal totalitarianism  Deneen is not specific on what current policies exactly resemble Soviet or Nazi repression  cannot be defeated by the conservative establishment because it accepts basic liberal premises. In his view, mainstream conservatives play a key role in propping up the regime, acting as a controlled opposition for the powers behind the powers  the oligarchs, the corporations, the power elite.Deneen, a political theorist who likes to write at a high level of abstraction, does not lay out what policies follow from his diagnosis. But he does suggest that any progress requires abandoning core liberal commitments to ideals like free speech and religious liberty  that any new conservatism should not see a respect for the diversity inherent in a large and complex society as a defining value.What to liberalism seems a tolerant and decent regime, in the eyes of its predecessor tradition seems nothing more than cruel indifference, allowing clear vices not only to proliferate, but to enjoy implicit public approval, he writes, calling for a return to pre-modern Christian politics in the tradition of St. Thomas Aquinas.So what does it mean to actually practice a politics thats no longer indifferent to clear vices? Rufo provides an answer. There is a reason both Rufo and Deneen single out universities for special ire: For all their flaws, they are one of the key places where liberal cultural ideals flourish.There are differences between the two: Rufo places more emphasis on left-wing racial politics while Deneen is more exercised by debates over gender and sexuality. But what they share is a vision of conservatism on offense, wielding the power of the state against its political opponents.Rufo and Deneen are part of a bigger intellectual trend on the right  one in which Americas core institutions are described as hopelessly corrupted by liberal forces.Take Tucker Carlson. His new documentary, Patriot Purge, is a conspiratorial retelling of January 6 in which peaceful demonstrators were pushed to violence by FBI agents. This isnt true, obviously. But think about what it would mean if it were: that the FBI, of all government agencies, was so deeply in league with Democrats and liberals that it had masterminded a totalitarian crackdown on Trump supporters. It would mean the entire edifice of the American state has become a tool for repressing conservatives.That is the more or less explicit message of the documentary. If permanent Washington is willing to launch a second war on terror on its citizens, what else are they capable of? Carlson asks. Theyre telling you that crushing the civil rights of American citizens is necessary. ... We must spy on our political opponents, silence them, defame them, prevent them from having jobs, take away their bank accounts, throw them in solitary confinement, shoot them in the neck.The Claremont Institute, a right-wing think tank in California, is dedicated to developing a more highbrow version of Carlsons worldview  one in which American institutions and even citizens are the rights enemy. Claremont is undoubtedly the most radically pro-Trump of any major right-wing intellectual institution, its thinkers willing to defend both his presidency and his false claims of a stolen election. Claremonts output in the past year or two has been astonishingly radical, all but openly calling for regime change and rebellion.In a May Claremont podcast, Hillsdale College lecturer and former Trump administration official Michael Anton chatted with entrepreneur Curtis Yarvin  a self-described monarchist who wants to appoint a Silicon Valley CEO king of America  about their shared desire to topple what Anton terms the American regime, a government Yarvin characterizes in the podcast as a theocratic oligarchy controlled by a cadre of progressive priests.  During the episode, Yarvin muses about how an American strongman  whom he alternatively calls Caesar and, more honestly, Trump  could seize authoritarian control of the US government by turning the National Guard and FBI into his personal stormtroopers. In a March article in the American Mind, Claremonts blog, writer Glenn Elmers declares that most people living in the United States today  certainly more than half  are not Americans in any meaningful sense of the term. If Trump voters and conservatives do not band together and wage a sort of counter-revolution against these citizen-aliens, then the victory of progressive tyranny will be assured.And an August essay in the Claremont Review of Books by scholar Angelo Codevilla describes a country whose government is clinging to an illusion of legitimacy after a half-century of Progressive rules abuse has demolished American society.Views like these  that repudiate Americas core institutions and ideals, up to and often including its democracy  are becoming more and more mainstream on the right. They can be found at right-wing intellectual gatherings, like the National Conservatism conference. They can be found from one of the rights leading moneymen, venture capitalist Peter Thiel, who once argued that I no longer think that freedom and democracy are compatible. They even have champions on Capitol Hill, like Sen. Josh Hawley (R-MO), a critic of woke capitalism who has argued that the idea that a person should be free to define your own values is a kind of heresy.Its easy to dismiss this kind of illiberal language as purely rhetorical: radical posturing with few practical implications. But the past year of conservative politics, from the January 6 riot to the spread of voting restrictions and extreme gerrymandering to the rise of Rufos war on the education system, has shown that the rights illiberal impulses are actually shaping our reality.Conservatism, in theory, is supposed to be an ideology of preservation. But the current right is increasingly being shaped by a reactionary impulse bent on the radical transformation  if not the outright destruction  of Americas leading institutions.
One of the billionaire scientists behind the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine on whats next. When the novel coronavirus first reached Europe, the married scientists Uur ahin and zlem Treci were working in the small town of Mainz, Germany, at the helm of a biotech company that relatively few people had heard of. The couple founded BioNTech in 2008 to develop individualized vaccines for cancer patients. But the company specialized in a type of genetic material, messenger RNA, that had also shown promise for other diseases  including viral infections.So when ahin read an article about Covid-19 in January 2020, he and Treci both recognized that their companys mRNA technology might have something powerful to contribute. Treci, BioNTechs chief medical officer, led a team that rapidly whittled down 20 vaccine candidates to just one: BNT162b2, which could be described as the shot that changed the world. BioNTech partnered with the pharmaceutical giant Pfizer, and in July 2020, the US placed a $1.95 billion order. A few months later, the German government gave BioNTech a $445 million grant to speed up research and production. The Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine was the worlds first approved Covid-19 vaccine, and it has helped protect more than a billion people from the coronavirus. The mRNA inside the shot instructs human cells to produce a protein that Treci compares to a wanted poster. The protein warns the immune system to watch out for the coronavirus. Meanwhile, ahin and Treci became famous almost overnight. We are incredibly proud to have such researchers in our country, Angela Merkel, then-chancellor of Germany and a chemist by training, said in December 2020. In March, they were awarded one of the nations highest honors, the Knight Commanders Cross of the Federal Order of Merit. Though ahin and Treci are now billionaires, they are known for living modestly, commuting to work by bicycle and working long hours in the lab. But the companys ascent has also come with new scrutiny. When I sat down with Treci at the Falling Walls Science Summit in early November, BioNTech, its partner Pfizer, and its competitor Moderna had been drawing fierce criticism for huge, persistent gaps in access to Covid-19 vaccines. The vast majority of Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine doses have gone to a small minority of people  roughly 16 percent of the worlds population  who live in high-income countries.It is obscene that just a few companies are making millions of dollars in profit every single hour, while just 2.5 percent of people in low-income countries have been fully vaccinated against coronavirus, said Maaza Seyoum of the Peoples Vaccine Alliance, which has joined the African Union, India, and the US government in calling on vaccine producers to waive their patents so more countries and companies can produce them. Pfizer, BioNTech, and Moderna have used their monopolies to prioritize the most profitable contracts with the richest governments, leaving low-income countries out in the cold.I asked Treci about what BioNTech can do about vaccine inequity, and the company also provided a statement to Vox. As a Covid-19 vaccine manufacturer we see it as our responsibility to support the worldwide supply of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine by continuously increasing our manufacturing capacities, a spokesperson said, adding that the companies are in the process of doubling their production capacity and plan to make more than 3 billion doses in 2022. We are fully committed to supplying our vaccine to people around the world in all countries and across all income levels.Treci also discussed the scientific process, the state of the pandemic, and what the past two years have been like. Our conversation has been edited and condensed.Can you tell me about the first moment you realized that you and your team could play a big role in fighting Covid-19?It was the last weekend in January 2020, and my husband  who is with me the founder of the company  read about the virus. The pattern that was described made it very clear that we were already in the midst of a pandemic. It was very clear that a vaccine would be needed as fast as possible. And our technology, which we had optimized for moving fast from a known genetic sequence to vaccine design to manufacturing  it was very clear that it would contribute in this situation. This was the epiphany.Your team had been working on mRNA vaccines for many years, and your company had recently sold shares to the public and received some major investments. BioNTech was in the right place at the right time  but, of course, this wasnt by accident. What have you learned about preparing for the next problem that humans havent encountered yet?Even though it might have seemed that way, this was not something which was developed overnight, as an immediate reaction. We started in the mid-1990s to experiment with mRNA. In 2012, we treated our first patient. These were long years of preparation. The next threats are already there  but a sense of urgency is not there yet. It is very important, without already seeing the clear threat, to have a vision which can serve as a North Star. And with this perseverance and grit, to work toward actualizing the potential of the technology and trusting in the science to solve it.The second most important thing is to understand that we are a global community. We are scientists. It wasnt too clear to us what nonscientific challenges  geopolitical ones, global ethical ones, societal ones  had to be overcome to make all this feasible. Understanding that those are major hurdles, and starting to fix them early on, is important.Your insight is that we have to treat future problems with the urgency of the present day. We cant wait for them to emerge, but we should move forward as though they are already here.Yes. And this is an anthropological thing. Our ancestors have been prepared by evolution to feel alerted and react to anything that is immediately there. We still have this in us. Even though we can visualize what will happen  take the climate, for example  we push it aside.What do you wish you had done differently?There is actually nothing I wish I had done differently. It is difficult to reverse-engineer what would have been different with a different action. So the way we did it was the right one.What do you think the near future holds for the Covid-19 pandemic? What are you concerned about, and what gives you hope?What I think is important is that we continue to vaccinate. Infection rates and disease rates are rising again. These are not primarily in the vaccinated but rather the unvaccinated. So we need to reach them.Equality of distribution is obviously a topic. We are trying to do our share by even further increasing our production and going to all those underserved regions for production facilities.We have to continue to be alert and test each and every emerging variant to understand when the signal is there to adapt the vaccine to a potential escape variant  and not act prematurely or preemptively. We have to also see what has been achieved. More than a billion humans have been vaccinated [with the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine]. Several vaccines are available. So its also important to see the positive side of this.How do you stay optimistic when cases rise? For example, right now, in Europe and here in Germany, cases are near record highs  after the rollout of this very effective vaccine.The same way that scientists always do: to focus on solutions which can help. For the current situation, this includes continuing with production and delivery, informing the public about the need for a third booster dose, and providing the data very transparently to the authorities.You mentioned inequity across the world in distribution. In wealthy countries, around 70 percent of people are vaccinated, but in low-income countries like Haiti or Tanzania, the rate is often under 10 percent. What else can governments and vaccine producers do to close that really large gap?I think there is not much we can add on top other than what we are already doing as developers and also companies and institutions. Covax, for example, has to facilitate what is not so easy  to deliver to those countries. I think also it is important to ensure the high quality of vaccines going to those countries, and therefore I dont like this discussion about patent waivers. In those countries, there is some vaccine hesitancy. People want to be sure that the vaccine they get has the same high quality as we have here in the Western world, where regulatory authorities ensure that, and the manufacturers are qualified to produce the vaccine. Its important that we keep vaccine quality on the same standard and continue to educate and inform the public there.[After speaking with Treci, I asked advocates whether patent waivers could lead to the production of lower-quality vaccines. Anna Marriott, health policy manager at Oxfam  a member of the Peoples Vaccine Alliance  said in a statement that its nonsense to claim that the experience and expertise to develop and manufacture lifesaving medicines and vaccines does not exist in developing countries. This is just a false excuse that pharmaceutical companies are hiding behind to protect their astronomical profits.]Are you troubled by the low numbers of doses that are delivered to low-income countries?Actually, I dont think that low numbers in terms of input is a real problem. For example, 40 percent of what we have delivered  and this will continue  have gone to low- and middle-income countries. [Vox asked BioNTech for data supporting that figure, but the company didnt provide it and we were unable to independently verify the claim.]In the beginning, getting the framework right, from a geopolitical and logistical and distribution perspective, was a hurdle  and we have overcome that as a global society. Not fully, but important steps have been made, and this has to continue.What advice would you give to the generation of scientists that may have to respond to the next pandemic?One needs to be courageous to do things that are risky. On the other side, its very important to have humility. Threats of this unprecedented scale and of a global dimension  you can only overcome them with science if you get support from all involved. That needs an interaction which is based on humility and also on trust.In the past year and a half, you [and your husband] have been extremely busy. Have you found any time for yourself?We are not really those who distinguish between life and work. We are blessed that what we do is what we love to do. So its not really about time for something special. What we do is already fulfilling.
We are going to make you beg for mercy: Americas public servants face a wave of threats. Democracy doesnt work unless citizens make it work. This not only means showing up to vote but also helping operate and administer the key institutions in a democratic society  such as schools, polling places, and local health agencies.Yet over the course of the past year and a half, the Americans who do this critical work  mostly anonymous individuals motivated by a sense of civic duty  have been subject to a wave of violent threats. Consider the following examples:These are not one-off incidents. Surveys have found that 17 percent of Americas local election officials and nearly 12 percent of its public health workforce have been threatened due to their jobs during the 2020 election cycle and Covid-19 pandemic. While none of the threats against public servants appear to have led to deadly violence yet, the volume has gotten severe enough that the Justice Department created two separate initiatives to help combat threats against election administrators and education workers (board members, teachers, administrators, and other school staff).Its not even accurate to say [threatening election workers] was rare prior to 2020. It was so rare as to be virtually nonexistent, said David Becker, executive director of the Center for Election Innovation & Research. This is beyond anything that weve ever seen.The new wave of threats is cresting on one side of the partisan divide. Generally, the individuals responsible seem to believe former President Donald Trumps fraudulent claims about the 2020 election, oppose Covid-19 vaccines and masks, and claim schools are indoctrinating their kids with critical race theory.This most likely reflects the way extreme polarization and Trumpian populism have convinced a segment of the population that their political opponents are not mere rivals but existential threats to American society. Political scientists, who have termed the spread of this us-versus-them mindset pernicious polarization, find that it has undermined the foundations of democracy in countries such as Hungary, Venezuela, and Turkey.Threats against public servants show how such democratic erosion manifests in practice. Already, experts are warning of a retention crisis in public institutions, with election workers, school officials, and public health leaders so overwhelmed that theyre likelier to quit rather than continue to subject themselves and their families to abuse.If a staffing crisis does emerge in these areas, it could do real damage to Americas core institutions. A democratic society needs civic-minded members to step up. In todays America, the vicious political environment is dissuading people from participating in public life  a loss that could make us more vulnerable to the next pandemic, further damage our educational systems, and even contribute to a democratic crisis in the 2024 elections.Anecdotal media coverage and viral stories about threats against public officials certainly contribute to the impression of a surge. But is the trend real?Unfortunately, deeper analysis suggests that it is  and that the people on the receiving end are genuinely frightened.Start with election workers: For the past several months, Reuters reporters Linda So and Jason Szep have interviewed dozens of election administration officials across the country, compiled a database of more than 800 threats against them, and even unmasked some of the individuals responsible for the harassment. Their conclusion is unequivocal: The spate of threats is real, and a direct outgrowth of Trumps campaign to undermine the 2020 election.The harassers expressed beliefs similar to those voiced by rioters who stormed the US Capitol on January 6, trying to block Democrat Joe Bidens certification as president, So and Szep write. Nearly all of the threateners saw the country deteriorating into a war between good and evil  patriots against communists. They echoed extremist ideas popularized by QAnon, a collective of baseless conspiracy theories that often cast Trump as a savior figure and Democrats as villains. Some said they were preparing for civil war.So and Szeps reporting is supported by the results of an April survey conducted by the Benenson Strategy Group for the Brennan Center for Justice, which found that 32 percent of election officials had felt unsafe while on the job, with 18 percent saying they were somewhat or very concerned about their life being threatened during the 2020 cycle. High-level election officials, such as state secretaries of state, might be used to some level of harassment  but the scale and intensity of the threats is novel, reaching even typically anonymous election administrators and poll workers.It is definitely unprecedented, said Rachel Orey, a policy analyst at the Bipartisan Policy Center think tank. What weve been seeing this last year and a half [is] a mass campaign across the country with all kinds of officials receiving threats.Philadelphia City Commissioner Al Schmidt, a Republican responsible for election oversight, became a lightning rod when Trump singled him out by name in a tweet as someone who was being used big time by the Fake News Media as a cover for election fraud. He received a wave of threats; a deputy commissioner, Seth Bluestein, was subjected to anti-Semitic abuse. Schmidts wife got emails with threats such as ALBERT RINO SCHMIDT WILL BE FATALLY SHOT and HEADS ON SPIKES. TREASONOUS SCHMIDTS. The family left their home for safety reasons after the election; Schmidt has announced he will not run for reelection in 2023.The Covid-19 pandemic did the same thing for public health workers that the 2020 election did for election officials like Schmidt: put them in the crosshairs of a radicalized public as targets for citizens hostile to mask mandates and vaccination campaigns.In a CDC survey of over 26,000 public health workers released in July, a little under 24 percent of respondents reported feeling bullied, threatened, or harassed as a result of their work. Public health workers, who in surveys prior to the pandemic were found to have high levels of job satisfaction, were at least 10 percent more likely to have symptoms of PTSD than frontline health care workers like doctors and nurses, likely owing in no small part to the high levels of mistreatment.We had a feeling that public health workers were under [an] immense amount of stress, Carol Rao, a CDC epidemiologist who worked on the survey, told Statelines Michael Ollove. The amount of threats, harassment and bullying, that was the surprise. (Stateline is the nonprofit news service of the Pew Charitable Trusts.)Sara Cody, the chief health officer in Californias Santa Clara County, received a series of escalating threats by mail in 2020. The notes, which reportedly included references to the extreme-right boogaloo movement, warned that you will pay a heavy price for your stupidity bitch and that you are done  its over  say goodbye. Police arrested Alan Viarengo, then a math teacher at a community college in Gilroy, California, in August 2020; he was charged with stalking and threatening a public official, both felonies.Its a similar story with school board members and teachers.Theres a rising sense among scholars, reporters who cover K-12 education, and school administrators themselves that something new and scary is happening. School board meetings are becoming more contentious, at times even violent, in a way they havent in decades. These conflicts stem primarily from parents angry about critical race theory and school masking policies, as well as measures to accommodate trans students, such as gender-neutral bathrooms.Controversies at school board meetings are definitely not new. But my sense is that threats of violence at school board meetings are up markedly, said Joseph Kahne, a professor of education policy at UC Riverside.There isnt much systematic data on this rash of threats, seemingly because theyre so new. I suspect the reason we dont have data on such threats is that, in general, threats have been so rare and localized that the data is not aggregated, Kahne told me. But recently such threats have become far more common.In a recent article, the New York Timess Alan Feuer documented a significant number of violent threats against school board members and teachers  including an incident near Sacramento, California, where one entire school board had to flee its chamber after protesters accosted the members.Since the spring, a steady tide of school board members across the country have nervously come forward with accounts of threats they have received from enraged local parents, Feuer writes.One high-profile example is Jennifer Jenkins, a speech-language pathologist and school board member in Brevard County, Florida. In a Washington Post op-ed, Jenkins detailed the wave of harassment shes received, which escalated from contentious board meetings about critical race theory and masking in schools to threats against her family:By April, protesters had begun to gather not just at board meetings but also in front of my house. A group of about 15 shouted Pedophiles! as my neighbors walked their dogs, pushing their infants in strollers. Were coming for you, they yelled, mistaking friends standing on my porch for me and my husband. Were coming at you like a freight train! We are going to make you beg for mercy. If you thought January 6 was bad, wait until you see what we have for you!In a letter to President Joe Biden, the National School Boards Association (NSBA) likened some of these attacks to domestic terrorism, a claim that came under fire from Republicans and that the NSBA eventually withdrew. But professional associations for educators remain convinced that their members are being routinely menaced, often in grotesque and personal ways.When I speak to a lot of our system leaders, what they say is, Dan, I can deal with the conflict, Daniel Domenech, executive director of the American Association of School Administrators (AASA), said during a UCLA-hosted panel in early November. But when my family is threatened, when my children in school are threatened, thats a whole different story.The reporting and survey data on these threats against public servants consistently cite social media platforms as a source of the problem. Fifty-four percent of election workers in the Brennan survey, for instance, agreed that social media had made their jobs either a lot or somewhat more dangerous.There are a few reasons to think social media might be facilitating the current wave of death threats.One is the ease of communication that social media allows: When you can contact your local public health official on Twitter and Facebook, its logistically easier and less risky to deliver death threats than it may have been in the past.Another is that it makes it easier for harassers to coordinate or follow an instigators lead: Jenkins, for example, received a renewed surge of threats after a Republican state lawmaker posted her cellphone number to his Facebook page.Yet another is the spread of misinformation: Social media allows for the efficient dissemination of false narratives about election fraud, vaccination, and critical race theory in schools.But social media alone cant explain whats happening now. These technologies have been widespread for well over a decade, but threats against civil servants seem to have spiked only in the past year or so. And social media cant explain why these particular civil servants are being targeted: poll workers but not mail carriers, public health officials but not animal control officers, school board members but not DMV staff.What ties these specific areas together is that they work in increasingly politicized sectors  ones that have been demonized primarily by one side of the political aisle.Trump and his allies are, in essence, singlehandedly responsible for convincing many Americans that the 2020 election was stolen and that election administrators were part of a vast conspiracy to rig the vote against the former president. Fox News and Republican politicians have been among the driving forces behind misinformation about vaccines and anti-mask hysteria. And many of the organizations behind the revolt against critical race theory were founded by conservative activists and funded by right-wing dark-money groups.Of course, theres nothing wrong with Republicans making political arguments or engaging in political activism. Some of their complaints are within bounds  theres room to argue over, say, the inconsistency of public health officials Covid messaging, or school diversity exercises of dubious quality.The problem is how these arguments have departed from the civil give-and-take of a pluralistic society and devolved into the demonization of public servants and the normalization of threats against them. In this narrative, government officials are no longer people merely implementing policies you disagree with  they are agents of darkness, existential threats to your freedom and to your families. And when people start thinking that, they start thinking about sending death threats.This kind of rhetoric is best understood as an outgrowth of pernicious polarization: a phenomenon where a society is split into mutually distrustful Us vs. Them camps, write Jennifer McCoy and Murat Somer, the political scientists who coined the term.In polities defined by pernicious polarization, they find that the identities and interests of the two camps are viewed as mutually exclusive and antagonistic. These factions attempt to label all individuals and groups in society as one or the other, undermining the notion of neutral civic institutions respected by all political factions. Elite rhetoric plays a key role in making things worse: Polarizing speech articulates or even suggests a grievance, stoking fears, anxieties, and resentments that then become expressed as hostility, bias, and eventually enmity, McCoy and Somer write.The US is a key example in McCoy and Somers paper. Under pernicious polarization, it makes sense that some Republicans are waging war on not only Democrats but also nonpartisan civil servants who help make democracy work.When Reuterss So and Szep tracked down Ross Miller, a real estate investor in Georgia who had threatened to tar, feather, and execute the chief election official in Fulton County, he proudly acknowledged making the call.I left the message because Im a patriot, and Im sick and tired of whats going on in this country, Miller said, adding that he would keep sending threatening messages to election officials until they do something about what he sees as the fraudulent 2020 election.So far, Millers actions havent gone beyond warnings. That appears to be the norm: The vast majority of people making these death threats against civil servants have not acted on them in any way.But to the person on the receiving end, thats little solace. Targets of death threats (and I speak as someone whos been on the receiving end) cant ever be sure they wont be acted upon. The cumulative stress is crushing  and for civil servants with thankless tasks and heavy workloads, it could be enough to convince them they need to find a new line of work.A recent nationwide survey of election officials conducted by the Early Voting Information Center at Reed College found that a quarter of respondents planned to retire before the 2024 presidential election. One of the top reasons cited was the political environment  meaning that the politicization of their jobs and attendant threats made them want out.That is part of what we think is going on here: that the focus on what was sort of more classically a clerical role is now becoming a more political role, Paul Mason, a political scientist at Reed College, told CNN.A New York Times investigation found that over 500 top health officials have left their jobs in the past 19 months, with the political climate a key reason why.Public health agencies have seen a staggering exodus of personnel, many exhausted and demoralized, in part because of abuse and threats. Dozens of departments reported that they had not staffed up at all, but actually lost employees, the Timess Mike Baker and Danielle Ivory write. About 130 said they did not have enough people to do contact tracing, one of the most important tools for limiting the spread of a virus.In a TV interview, the AASAs Domenech said hes starting to see a wave of resignations among school superintendents, board members, and even teachers intimidated by threats against themselves and their families. In Virginias Loudon County, school board member Beth Barts resigned after a wave of threats made her fear for her daughters life.All it would take is one person believing it was their mission to do something about us all  and in five minutes, maybe even two minutes, we could be gone, Barts told the Washington Post. I couldnt do it anymore.When a dedicated public servant quits, it means the persons years of expertise in specialized and technical areas vanishes. One departure, or a handful, might be manageable. Mass resignations  and an environment that dissuades the civic-minded from stepping up to fill the vacancies  can be catastrophic  to our institutions.Your best-case scenario is more problems at polling places and in voting, the Center for Election Innovation & Researchs Becker told me. The worst-case scenario is not just if we lose it, but what happens when that experience gets replaced by hackery  more people who believe that their job is to deliver their election to the candidate that they want to see win.Lori Tremmel Freeman, CEO of the National Association of County and City Health Officials, believes the retention crisis in public health is hampering the fight against the pandemic  and setting up the US for even worse responses to future ones.These health official departures come at a time when they are hardest to backfill, leaving leadership gaps in communities across the country, Freeman wrote in a letter to the Justice Department. They take with them institutional knowledge that we will not have as we continue to fight the pandemic or face the next crisis.When it comes to education, the fear among professional advocates such as Domenech is not only that well lose dedicated professionals at a time when schools need them, but also that increasing partisanship will cause ideologues to take over key roles in education.Redefining every sphere of life into an us-versus-them competition with existential stakes turns the cogs of democracy  the nonpartisan bureaucrats and local elected officials who administer key functions of the state  into partisan targets.The result could well be the increasing decay of the American states ability to perform its basic functions. Running free and fair elections, protecting public health, educating children: These are essential functions of any democratic government. But our polarization crisis, accelerated by Trump and his allies, is making those tasks harder and harder to carry out.They say the system is broken. But theyre the ones breaking it.Correction, November 18, 10 am: A previous version of this article said the threats Philadelphia City Commissioner Al Schmidt faced included ones that used anti-Semitic rhetoric. The specifically anti-Semitic threats were directed at Deputy Commissioner Seth Bluestein.
Two confusing questions about Covid-19 boosters, answered . The big Covid topic on everyones minds is boosters. On Friday morning, the FDA authorized Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna booster shots for all adults ages 18 and up. And later in the day, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) followed suit. The CDC said that every adult who is at least six months removed from their second shot of the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine can get a third shot. And it recommended that people over the age of 50 or in long-term care settings make sure they do so. The long-awaited decision comes after months in which the boundaries of who can get a booster have been widening. The Biden administration first announced its plans to make boosters widely available in August. Since then, weve seen the rollout of boosters to Pfizer and Moderna recipients over age 65, and those who are 18 or older who are immunocompromised or at high risk of infection. All adult Johnson & Johnson one-dose recipients have also been approved for booster shots, two months after their first.The fact is, the federal government has been lagging on this front. Several states have already gotten ahead of the federal government by approving boosters for adults: Colorado, California, New Mexico, and Arkansas, among others, have all moved in the last few weeks to declare nearly all adults eligible. And based on anecdotal accounts, even adults not eligible yet have been able to get a booster shot.That has left people anticipating official federal guidance that anyone who wants a booster can get one  and it has also fostered confusion over what exactly the USs public health game plan is, and whether getting the booster is the right personal choice for any given person.Those questions will only loom larger now, with the expanded booster eligibility. Heres how to help you think through the situation.Personally, this describes my situation  and Im getting one. If you got two shots of the Pfizer or Moderna vaccines, as I did, youre already fairly well-protected from severe Covid-19 outcomes. The main thing a booster does is make you less likely to get infected and (mildly) sick  but thats still good to have.We have a lot more data on these vaccines than we did when they were first approved. We know that they generally remain very effective against severe illness and death even a year after someone gets two shots. But they do wane in effectiveness against infection. Six months after your second dose, the vaccine is less protective against catching Covid-19 and, perhaps, virus spread.Thats because antibody levels in the blood decline over time. Experts disagree on how much people should worry about that. Dr. Paul Offit, director of the Vaccine Education Center at the Childrens Hospital of Philadelphia, told me that a healthy, functioning immune system gradually prunes blood antibodies for infections the body hasnt encountered, and it doesnt mean you wont fight off Covid-19 just fine (likely suffering only mild, maybe even unnoticeable illness, if you do catch it). Theres a fair debate to be had about whether preventing infection, if illness is likely to be mild, is all that important as a public health priority. But even though I wont get all that sick if I get Covid-19 because Im fully vaccinated, I prefer not to get it at all. The booster does reduce my risk of becoming infected with Covid-19  period. For me, thats sufficient to take a booster, especially given that I didnt have bothersome side effects from the first two shots. This lukewarm recommendation becomes a much stronger one for older adults and others at elevated risk from Covid-19 due to their health or setting. If your immune system functions less well, then at least one additional shot might be needed just to get your immune system to the level of readiness that other people were at after two shots. Thats well worth it.  And if you got Johnson & Johnson, you should definitely get a booster (which the CDC had already approved) to combat some waning in vaccine efficacy for the one-dose shot.A lot of Covid-19 questions are complicated, but heres one thing we can be fairly sure of: Your booster shot, if you choose to get one, is very likely not directly coming at the expense of other people, experts told me. The concern stems from the fact that many people in the US will be getting their third shot when about half of the world hasnt had even one shot. Thats not just an injustice and a humanitarian wrong, its also strategically foolish: Virus variants can develop more easily when Covid-19 cases are high, and vaccines are the most effective way to lower them. If skipping a booster would get that shot to someone in a poor country instead, Id prefer to do that. But thats not really how vaccine allocation works. Many months ago, the US placed orders with Moderna and Pfizer for millions of doses of their vaccines. Other countries and international organizations did the same. Those orders, experts told me, are being fulfilled in the order they were placed  so if Moderna is committed to delivering 20 million doses to the US first, then 10 million to France next, thats the order they will send them. And if the US orders additional doses now in response to increased demand from booster-getters like us, that request will be at the back of the queue.Not getting your booster wont get that shot to people in other countries who need them more. What might help, Amanda Glassman, senior fellow at the Center for Global Development, told me, is queue-swapping: the US formally ceding its place in line to other countries that need it more or to Covax, the international alliance to vaccinate the world. Unicef has called on the US and other rich countries to do just that. The US also could  and should  donate excess doses (it has donated roughly 200 million of them so far), but its unclear how demand for boosters this fall and winter will affect the odds of new donations of excess doses in the future; the US plans to fulfill its remaining unfulfilled pledges of donating more than a billion doses through purchase orders for Covax currently in the queue.If youre frustrated, like I am, that millions of vaccines are going unused in the US while theyre badly needed elsewhere, you should absolutely push for the US to give up its place in line. But skipping a booster shot wont change how many doses Moderna or Pfizer will deliver to the US before they move on to the next country on their list. And within the US, we have plenty of supply of mRNA vaccines at this point  so getting a booster isnt taking one from your neighbors either.The confusion surrounding boosters is in some ways an outgrowth of messy communications from the public health establishment. It likely explains the markedly different response to boosters than to the initial wave of vaccines. Conversations about boosters have been tinged with ambivalence and uncertainty. In the early days when the vaccines first started rolling out to the larger population, my family and friends drove for hours to land our Covid-19 vaccines. I hate long car rides, but I spent the whole time actively excited. Theres a bit less of that feeling this time (but dont tell that to our 5-year-old, who was so inspired she declared shell invent an immortality shot when she grows up). Weve miscommunicated this, Offit told me. He argues that the adults dying of Covid-19 are almost all people who are unvaccinated or those at much-elevated risk, and the back-and-forth on boosters for healthy people has ended up leaving people confused. Many people who are already very safe from serious infection or death have ended up with the impression theyre at risk, while people who actually are at risk  largely those who are unvaccinated  have ended up with the impression the vaccines dont really help.And after a year in which much messaging emphasized resource scarcity  that we shouldnt wear N-95 masks lest we take them from doctors and nurses, that we shouldnt skip our place in the initial vaccine line lest we get a vaccine someone else needed more  theres been little effort to answer people who wonder, reasonably, if getting a booster takes one from someone who needs it more. The FDA and CDC announcements on expanding booster eligibility should hopefully clarify some of the confusion out there. And the science on booster shots will continue to evolve  as we learn more, it should inform our public policies and individual decision-making. In the meantime, its okay to go ahead and grab a booster to increase your protection. The earlier doses of the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines are still protective against severe disease and hospitalization, but an added coat of armor  especially since there is little vaccine scarcity in the US  can only help. Update, November 19, 6:15 pm: This story was updated to reflect news of the CDC approving expanded booster shot eligibility, after FDA approval earlier in the day.
King Richard and reclaiming Richard Williamss legacy . If youve been watching Serena and Venus Williams since the beginning, youve watched them play for almost 30 years. Their tennis careers are old enough to be millennials, with  over 1,600 singles wins, 122 singles titles, and 30 Grand Slam singles wins combined. They will go down in history as two of the greatest female tennis players of all time, with Serena arguably being the greatest player in history.But their dazzling on-court accomplishments only tell one piece of the story, often leaving out how much their parents  Richard and Oracene  sacrificed, studied, and worked to make their daughters the best tennis players in the world. The glow from those wins can also obscure how the family endured racist attacks, hostile treatment from other players, unfounded allegations of match-fixing, and skewed media coverage.The new movie King Richard, directed by Reinaldo Marcus Green and starring Will Smith, aims to tell a previously unheard story of the Williams family triumph, through the lens of their father, the eponymous Richard. Its less about the sisters accomplishments than how Richard planned to give them a better life through tennis. Its also an often clear-eyed look at how poorly Richard and his family were treated.As the US undergoes a larger cultural reckoning on race, King Richard coincides with a cultural reexamination of Richards life and his legacy. In the early days of the Williams sisters pro careers, Richard was largely portrayed by journalists, players, coaches, and the tennis establishment as bombastic and rude, and later, a bad influence on his girls. The media was unforgiving, and the sport itself could be incredibly cruel to outsiders. Thanks to their ultra-successful careers, slowly and surely, a growing chorus of fans, experts, and insiders now acknowledges what a difficult role he was forced into  sometimes by the very people who were guilty of portraying him as a nuisance. Its now clear to many that Richard was protecting his girls from a sport that was eager to see them disappear, but its all too easy to forget how much the narrative has changed. To understand the animosity and media pressure the Williams family experienced, you have to understand how insular tennis is and how that environment magnified the classist and racist attacks thrown their way. Traditionally, tennis is a sport that wealthy, predominantly white people play  professional lessons are expensive, court time isnt necessarily easy to come by, and you cant play by yourself, which may mean joining group lessons or academies. Kids who are good enough enter high-profile tournaments that are affiliated with the United States Tennis Association (USTA), and really good ones go on to elite junior international tournaments before turning pro. All the while, theres a system of tennis clubs, coaches, sponsors, former players, tennis organizations, and everyone in between.The Williams family absolutely did not fit in this mold. Richard grew up poor in Shreveport, Louisiana, and didnt know a lick about tennis. He saw to it that his daughters played selectively in junior tournaments and focused on their schoolwork first. Aside from a brief stint with legendary coach Rick Macci, Richard took over and was their primary coach when they made their professional debuts.The media never gave him the time of day because Richard didnt come from a tennis background, Katrina Adams, a former top 10 doubles player and top 100 singles player, told me. Adams is the first Black woman to serve as the president, chair, and CEO of the USTA. As a Black player on the tour, she saw the media coverage focus on the Williams sisters. She knows intimately what the sport was offering or not offering to them.It was very difficult for the media to think anything different than existing stigmas and stereotypes, Adams told me. As Black people, we couldnt possibly be that smart to have the plan that Mr. Williams had in place. Our girls couldnt possibly be that disciplined. Thats what the media assumed, and that they wanted to portray, and thats what they did portray.Despite not following tradition, Richard promised, quite vocally, that his daughters would be the best players in the world, a plan that he hatched, he says, before they were born.My plan was simple: to bring two children out of the ghetto to the forefront of a white-dominated game. Could it be done? I hoped so. In fact, I was beyond hope. I was certain, Richard Williams wrote in his 2014 memoir, Black and White. Eliminating the last doubts from my mind, I wrote a final seventy-five-page tennis-training plan for myself, Oracene, and my daughters-to-be, detailing every step of the road we would travel, more than two and a half years before they were both born.When Venus and Serena started winning, Williams never stopped reminding anyone watching. He famously held up a whiteboard sign during the 1999 Lipton Championships, Serena and Venuss first big tournament final, with messages like Welcome to the Williams Show and I Told You So.Serena and Venus carried the same confidence Richard Williams instilled in them.Right now Im Number 5. Soon Ill be Number 4, and thats great. One day Ill win the French Open, and thatll be great. Then Ill have to move on and win Wimbledon, Venus told Sports Illustrated in 1999.In that same interview, Serena vowed to win a Grand Slam too. I can see myself lifting that [Wimbledon] plate for sure. I just cant see it not happening, Serena said.Caitlin Thompson, publisher of Racquet Magazine, explained to me that tennis has an inherent level of racism and classism due to the sports history and barriers to entry. To her,  it wasnt a surprise that the Williams family had to battle through this. The coverage of the family and Richard being portrayed as angry, bombastic, abrasive, overly confident, was the product of a predominantly white media covering a predominantly white sport with one Black family audacious enough to say they were going to be the best.Thompson also points out that Richard would say outrageous things like how he and his family were going to buy Rockefeller Center or that he was going to outsell Michael Jackson. That didnt win him fans among journalists and tennis pundits who already saw his antics as outrageous.The real trigger though, she theorizes, is that the Williams sisters were so good. It wasnt just that the sisters said that they would beat everyone, its that they made good on that promise. And Richard was seen as the mastermind behind it, the person who taught his daughters to behave like this.So much of the early coverage was focused on how the Williams family is too loud, how theyre fixing matches against each other, how its brute athleticism  and you know a lot of that is racially coded. They [the tour and the media] basically treated them like they were invasive species on the tennis court, Thompson added.This animus was clear during the semifinals of the 1997 US Open. Irina Spirlea, a Romanian player with a monster forehand, had defeated American Monica Seles in the quarterfinal. Venus, making her US Open debut, looked like a threat to win against Spirlea. During a changeover (where players switch sides and take a break between games) in the second set, Spirlea bumped into Williams.Later, after losing their match, Spirlea hinted that she bumped Venus on purpose. She thinks shes the fucking Venus Williams. I was like, I want to see if shes turning, Spirlea said, describing her approach to Williams. She didnt.Richard responded, calling Spirlea a big, tall, white turkey (Spirlea is 59 and not a bird). He also said that the bump was perhaps racially motivated. Ive seen a lot of racial things happen to my baby, Richard Williams told the AP at the time. I think what happened to Venus yesterday was a racial thing.He added, She ought to be glad it wasnt Serena she bumped into. She would have been decked.Even though Spirlea told reporters she deliberately bumped Venus, and even though Spirlea has the distinction of being the first female player disqualified after verbally abusing officials, some outlets portrayed Richard as the aggressor for his comments. The Los Angeles Times inexplicably ran a column from a probation officer that scolded Richard for being a bad father, writing that Venus needs to learn how to interact with all people and to differentiate between healthy competition and true racism. Adams points out that instead of questioning Spirlea, tennis commentators and journalists wondered if Richard would stand by his comments, and speculated that it was Venuss fault.Oh, she did something. Venus must have said something to her. She must have this. She must have that, Adams said. You know what Venus was doing? She was kicking her ass.A year after the bump, in 1998, Williams apologized for calling Spirlea a large festive poultry and his allegation that she was racist.At the 2001 Indian Wells Masters, themes of Williams being the problem in the face of racism popped up again.After losing to Venus in the quarterfinals, a player named Elena Dementieva threw out the baseless accusation that Richard Williams would decide which sister won matches against each other. She said she had this feeling. The Womens Tennis Association did not comment about Dementieva and did not defend the sisters.The next day, four minutes prior to a scheduled match against Serena, Venus pulled out of the tournament citing tendinitis. The crowd, upset that they werent going to see a match, lashed out. The family said in interviews that some audience members called them slurs. Serena and Venus would go on to boycott the tournament for over a decade because of these racist displays.Instead of giving Venus the benefit of the doubt about her injury and instead of questioning Dementievas motives, critics of the Williams family called their integrity into doubt. Both Thompson and Adams cite that incident as troubling, saying that journalists at the time did not believe the Williamss family account of the attacks against them. This time, the problem was that they werent angry enough, with LA Times columnist Bill Dwyre writing, They deny, but with less than the normal conviction, even anger, one would expect in the face of such serious issues. How about pounding on the table and saying it aint so? How about some tears, some anger?That same year, Hall of Famer Martina Navratilova told reporters that there wasnt any racism in tennis. In fact, she claimed that Venus and Serena enjoyed privilege because they were Black. Theres no racism as far as I know, said Navratilova. I think that people have been treating them with kid gloves because they are African-Americans, and if they were white they would have been told off before and more.She also implied that Richard was a bad influence and that they would be better off without him. The girls are great. Theyre great athletes, nice women. I like them a lot and their father seems to be getting in the way. Thats what I have to say about that, and hes probably going to yell at me next time he sees me. she said.The idea that Richard is some kind of puppet master or a bad influence that his daughters needed to be separated from became an underlying theme. As Venus and Serena kept winning, pundits, players, and legends like Navratilova seemed to pin their grievances on Richard while simultaneously lauding his daughters achievements. Essentially, the narrative was that they were winning in spite of him. In a sport thats seen fathers punished for violent behavior, banned for abusing their daughters, and jailed for tax evasion on their daughters income, somehow Richard became the biggest villain.That wasnt lost on him.Would another family have been treated as mine was? Richard wrote in his book. The harsh reality is that [America] has not eradicated prejudice. Racial barriers have fallen in record numbers throughout the years. Blacks not only ride in the front of the bus, some of us own the bus company. The events at Indian Wells were a reminder of how much farther we had to go.Theres an exquisite example of Richard Williamss behavior caught on tape, a clip that has gone viral a few times since. Its an interview for ABC News from 1995, with correspondent John McKenzie. McKenzie is interviewing a 14-year-old Venus about her tennis dreams and he asks her why shes so confident.Did you think you could beat her? McKenzie questions Venus. You say it so easily. Why?Each time, Venus responds with a smile, telling him shes very confident. But after prodding her confidence one more time, Richard interrupts. He tells McKenzie not to undermine her. He says:Youve got to understand that youre dealing with the image of a 14-year-old child. And this child gonna be out there playing when your old ass and me gonna be in the grave. When she say something, we done told you whats happening. Youre dealing with a little black kid, and let her be a kid. She done answered it with a lot of confidence, leave that alone.Richards interruption, at the time, could be seen as bombastic or out of line. Through todays lens, though  and for some at the time  its evident that Richard was trying to  protect his daughter. He understood then that Venus and Serena needed to be confident in themselves because they were going to be constantly surrounded by people who told them otherwise.We in the Black community, we knew that, we understood it. We knew exactly where he was coming from. We knew exactly what he was doing, Adams told me. I already know how much he protected them.Its only fairly recently, as Serena is in the twilight of her career, chasing history, that the sport at large has truly begun to appreciate what she and her sister have accomplished.I remember, there was a point, and it was later than youd think  it was somewhere around her having 16 or 17 Grand Slams  when tennis commentators kind of decided to start talking about Serena specifically as a legend and not so much the open criticism they had of her, Thompson recalls. Prior to that, she says, pundits would talk about Serena being lazy, out of shape, or distracted.Theres now this sort of retroactive narrative, she said, explaining how tennis insiders are effectively ret-conning how they treated the Williams family. Like theyll say, Ive always thought of Venus and Serena as being elegant, transcendent champions. And its like, really? Did you? It didnt sound like that at the time.Adams echoed this idea, telling me that watching commentators negatively portray the sisters is what spurred her to become a commentator herself. I wanted to help tell their story better. I understood the pressures that they were under. I understood the targets that were on their backs. Adams points out that white players who have gone through very public struggles have rarely been subject to the same kind of scrutiny. In a sense, Serena and Venuss Hall of Fame careers and their stewardship of the sport have made it impossible to dismiss Richard Williams. Squaring away their success means at the very least some admission that he was right. He protected them and guided them through turmoil like what happened at Indian Wells, a racist incident that no player should have to endure. And when you reexamine what Williams senior said, that his kids were going to be the very best, it isnt all that different from what coaches at prestigious tennis academies have said about their brightest proteges.The reconsideration of Mr. Williamss career is for the people that never believed in him in the first place, Adams told me. I always knew he was a legend. And Ive always considered him and the girls to be legends. Theres no one else like them.A reexamination of Richard Williamss legacy also comes as the US culturally has had a reckoning on race and gender in the realms of theater, movies, music, and of course sports. Conversations about the hurdles and systemic bias that Black athletes experience, including Black female tennis players, are being had on a national stage. Richard, Venus, and Serena, by way of their success and their openness about their experiences, are part of that reckoning.In a way, it feels as though Richard himself wouldnt really care about King Richard or how history will remember his legacy. Hes always been steps ahead, as he was when he decided that his girls would be the most dominant female tennis players that history has ever seen. And hes always been devoted to his daughters, even if there were people  and there were plenty  who werent able to see it at the time.Choosing between having a child whom you love and who loves you, and money, was easy. I found it even made it easier for me to accept my kids on the court, Richard wrote in his memoir, asserting that his daughters welfare was always more important than their success. I never was a super coach, but I sure have been, I hope, a super parent.
Thanksgiving air travel will suck this year. The airlines have spent 2021 gearing up for the holidays. It is the travel industrys season finale, an end-of-year opportunity to significantly recover from the pandemic-induced travel slump. Millions of Americans are expected to fly at near pre-pandemic rates this Thanksgiving, and international travel restrictions have been lifted.But recovery, unfortunately, is not as simple as flipping a switch. Its a rocky, turbulent phase for an industry scrambling to hire workers to handle the holiday travel surge after a year of reduced flights and limited operations.The staffing shortages plaguing airlines and airports arent exactly new. It was a problem set into motion by industry-wide layoffs in the early months of the Covid-19 pandemic. Airlines, desperate to cut overhead expenses, urged employees to voluntarily quit their jobs, offering early retirement deals and cash severance. Since June, though, airports have struggled to staff back up on all kinds of workers, from TSA agents to concession-stand workers. Airlines, too, are operating with a shortage of pilots, flight attendants, and ground crew members. In the weeks leading up to the Thanksgiving holiday, American and Southwest Airlines had to cancel and delay hundreds of flights across the country, due in part to inclement weather events. These operational meltdowns were triggered by storms but exacerbated by the lack of available pilots and flight attendants.The dearth of airline and airport workers has had a domino effect on the industry. And its effects will likely culminate during the busiest travel time of the year. The airlines have no choice but to recruit more workers to keep up with demand.No one expected travel to rebound as quickly as it did, said Henry Harteveldt, a travel industry analyst and the president of Atmosphere Research Group. That rebound was a double-edged sword. Its great that people are traveling again, but the airlines were caught with their pants down. They had to bring grounded planes back into service. They had to bring back employees.The nightmarish turn of events is bad news for eager travelers. Fares are up (the cost of jet fuel has increased), middle seats are full again, and airlines are no longer as flexible with their booking policies. Holiday fliers should expect the short end of the travel stick: crowds, long security lines, packed planes, poor customer service, and an overall meh flying experience, unless they can afford first-class treatment. Travel experts suggest booking trips with few to no connecting flights if possible, and to select airlines with a larger flight network, in case of cancellations.Airline bookings for the week of Thanksgiving have exceeded pre-pandemic levels, according to data from the Adobe Digital Economy Index, which is a good sign for the industry. Yet its possible airlines may be adding more flights than they can handle to keep up with demand, especially when winter weather is notoriously unpredictable.Its one thing to have a meltdown at the end of October, FlightAwares Kathleen Bangs told NPR. But its another thing completely if you ruin somebodys Thanksgiving or Christmas or make them miss it altogether. That is on a whole other level.In September, when the Biden administration announced its workplace vaccine mandate for federal contractors (which includes airlines), some carriers were at risk of laying off unvaccinated workers in early December, decimating their already-limited staff before the end-of-year travel rush. The mandate, however, was pushed back until January 18, which means airlines and airports wont have to worry about getting all their workers vaccinated until after the new year.We basically kicked the can down the road, Harteveldt said. Just about every airline in the country is a federal contractor. This might not be so much of an issue for Delta and United, whose workers are, for the most part, vaccinated. Its more of a concern for Southwest and American.In recent months, it seems that among the major carriers, Delta and United have experienced fewer unexpected slowdowns compared to American and Southwest. Those two carriers have received fire for canceling and delaying hundreds of flights on holiday weekends  Southwest on Indigenous Peoples Day, American on Halloween. The federal workplace vaccine requirement has further sent them scrambling: CNBC reported in October that executives of both carriers are trying to assure employees of their job security while also urging them to apply for vaccine exemptions if they qualify.The reason for all these operational struggles? Depending on whether you ask the carriers or the workers themselves, it varies from staffing shortages to overall mismanagement. The solution is not as simple as hiring more people, which workers argue is only a stopgap for industry-wide issues. Like the restaurant and retail industries, airlines are grappling with the fallout from the great resignation, and they have a history of offering low starting wages and few bonuses compared to other jobs. (In August, for example, Southwest Airlines raised its minimum wage to $15 an hour, which will boost the salaries of about 7,000 existing employees. This wage floor, however, does not apply to contracted airline workers.)Plus, potential workers have to undergo background checks and various layers of screenings and trainings before they can start on the job. Some workers believe that its not about the number of staff available, according to the New York Times, but how they are deployed by the airlines.It hasnt helped that passengers are acting up at significantly higher rates than before; in some cases, theyve verbally or physically abused flight attendants. Since January, the Federal Aviation Administration has received more than 5,000 reports of unruly passengers; 991 of those cases are currently under investigation. The frequency of these incidents has skyrocketed compared to pre-pandemic years: In 2019, the FAA investigated only 146 reports.The specifics of the staffing issues vary from airline to airline and from city to city. On-the-ground airport workers, for example, are often hired by private contractors and arent characterized as airline employees, so theyre exempt from the hourly wage increases airlines have publicized. These contracted workers have spent months protesting for better wages and benefits.Meanwhile, American is in the middle of contract negotiations with its pilot union. In an effort to avoid widespread delays and cancellations going into the holiday season, American offered to pay pilots as much as double their wages for holiday trips. The union declined, and instead pushed the carrier to implement more permanent changes to its schedules. According to the Dallas Morning Newss Kyle Arnold, both the pilots and flight attendants unions have complained of difficulties securing lodging, food, and transportation during summer trips. Theyve also claimed that Americans scheduling strategy puts too many pilots on standby, nearly double the industry average, Arnold reported.Southwests pilots union released a similar statement after the airlines operational meltdown in October. What was a minor temporary event for other carriers devastated Southwest Airlines because our operation has become brittle and subject to massive failures under the slightest pressure, wrote Casey Murray, the unions president. Our operation and our frontline employees have endured continuous and unending disruptions since the first time our airline made headlines in early June due to widespread IT failures.Its likely that some airlines have bitten off more than they can chew over the past year. Texas Monthlys Joe Pappalardo reported that Southwest undertook the most aggressive single-year expansion in its fifty-year history by adding 17 new destinations in 2020. American similarly broadened its domestic network to make up for revenue losses from grounded international flights. As a result, these carriers now cover more ground but have fewer pilots and crew members to fly the added routes.As Ive previously reported, it isnt quite accurate to claim that these issues  which undoubtedly affect passengers  are a result of a labor shortage without contextualizing the airline industrys working conditions and standards:A shortage does little to acknowledge the fluctuations in work consistency and lack of financial security that many have contended with. The industry has long relied on an understaffed and underpaid workforce, with many clocking in on the front lines (which, again, are unusually stressful these days).These managerial and operational problems, when combined with unexpected weather events or other crises, can trigger a logistical domino effect of flight cancellations and delays across the country. The influx of travelers during the holiday season could spell trouble for the carriers, especially if winter storms are on the horizon. Still, experts think travel across the board will be chaotic in the coming months.If youre driving, roads and highways will be packed. So will hotels, said Harteveldt, the travel analyst. At least one thing is for certain: Travel is back, and it probably wont taper off anytime soon.
Indias farmers confronted Modi and won. What happens now?. In a surprise reversal that follows more than a year of nonstop protests, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has agreed to repeal three controversial laws affecting the countrys agricultural industry.The laws, which sparked a massive protest movement after they were passed in September 2020, were designed to modernize Indias agriculture industry  but Indias farmers and other critics said they would advantage corporations at farmers expense.Modis decision to back down is a key victory for farmers, whose protests have centered on the Indian capital of New Delhi, and a sign of growing dissatisfaction with the increasingly Hindu-nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party, which Modi leads.Today, I beg the forgiveness of my countrymen and say with a pure heart and honest mind that perhaps there was some shortcoming, Modi said in a television address to the nation on Friday announcing the decision.It was an unusual show of contrition for Modi, under whose leadership India has become increasingly authoritarian in than the more than seven years since he took office  and a neat bit of political theater, according to Angana Chatterji, an anthropologist at the University of California Berkeley.While promising to repeal three laws, Mr. Modi has not apologized for his structurally and socially flawed policies, Chatterji said. Backing down in the face of prolific and sustained dissent mounted by farmers, Modi admitted only to neglect and oversight in how the policies were messaged.Modis government has previously shrugged off criticism of some of his most alarming policies. The international community condemned his 2019 annexation of Kashmir  a contested, majority-Muslim region divided between India, Pakistan, and China  which nonetheless was led by its own state government until Modi changed Indias constitution, abolishing Kashmirs long-held autonomy and forcing the citizens of the Indian territory into a months-long communications and information blackout.Yet the farm laws  three separate pieces of legislation collectively designed to modernize Indias agricultural sector  proved to be deeply contentious, and Modi, already facing criticism for Indias catastrophic response to the Covid-19 pandemic, ultimately backed down.The laws promised to open the agriculture market to commercial buyers, as opposed to the current system of government markets purchasing farmers goods and effectively guaranteeing them a minimum income. But as Voxs Jariel Arvin explained in December 2020, farmers feared this would subject them to the whims of the market and massive corporations and make it harder to make a living.According to Arvin: Although the government has said it will not drop minimum support prices for essential crops like grain, which the Indian government has set and guaranteed for decades, the farmers are concerned they will disappear. Without them, the farmers believe they will be at the mercy of large corporations that will pay extremely low prices for essential crops, plunging them into debt and financial ruin. As year-long protests and Modis retreat from the issue demonstrate, government promises of continued stability and new market opportunities ultimately couldnt sway Indias farmers, who are often already burdened with debt and lacking alternative sources of income. According to the Brand India Equity Foundation, 58 percent of Indias population depends on the agriculture industry for its livelihood  and as Arvin explains, India has struggled to provide reasonable jobs in alternative sectors, despite the fact that agriculture brings in only about 18 percent of Indias GDP.Beyond just being a victory for Indias disadvantaged farmers, however, Modis contrition tells a bigger story about his government, its recent failings, and the state of Indias flagging democracy.Indias agriculture system has for decades operated under a subsidy system  farmers grow food and other agricultural products and the government purchases them at a specific price from the farmers to sell internally or export, providing them with a guaranteed income. Since most farmers in India  82 percent in 2018, according to the UNs Food and Agriculture Organization  are small family farmers, not large corporate farms, their incomes are extremely precarious and contingent on the ability of the government to provide a minimum basic income for their crops. Prior to the controversy over the farm laws, farmers in India already struggled with suicides  sometimes due to insurmountable debt, crop failure, and the volatility of food prices. That kind of despair, combined with few alternatives for careers that can adequately support a family, particularly in rural areas of the country, put farmers in an untenable position exacerbated by last years attempted farm reforms.As Sadanand Dhume, a resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and an expert on South Asia, explained to Vox late last year, Indias agricultural system  and its economy more generally  requires significant change in order to keep up with global markets and provide an adequate standard of living for Indias population. If the economy were creating jobs, then there wouldnt be as much anxiety, Dhume said. However, because job creation [in India] has been so weak, the thought of losing the guarantee is unsettling for farmers.Massive protests started soon after laws were passed, with farmers from all around the country  including Punjab, one of the countrys major grain suppliers, and Uttar Pradesh, the most populous state  congregating outside New Delhi.International media coverage of the protests brought attention to the farmers cause, as did comments by Western celebrities like Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg, and protesters built encampments that remained through the winter, despite occasional violence and a deadly wave of Covid-19 cases.According to Harinder Happy, a spokesperson for Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the United Front of Farmers Unions, at least 670 protesters have died over the duration of the protests from a number of causes, including exposure, Covid-19, and suicide.In October this year, four protesters also died when a car registered to a government minister plowed into a protesting crowd in Uttar Pradesh; previously, farmers had begun following BJP politicians as they campaigned in Uttar Pradesh in an extension of the protest movement centered on New Delhi.Modis reversal on the farm laws is unusual for a strongman who has rammed through legislation that violates human rights and has previously faced international condemnation. Under Modi, India has experienced a surge in Hindu nationalism, with deadly consequences for the countrys religious minorities. That nationalism has translated into political success for Modi  he won reelection in 2019 by a landslide on an overtly Hindu-first platform, as the AP described at the time. But his governments response to the Covid-19 crisis  first shutting down much of Indias economy, then downplaying widespread suffering as crematoriums and hospitals overflowed during the nations deadly second wave  have weakened his standing nationally.That weakness was underscored earlier this year in the Indian state of West Bengal, where Modis BJP lost decisively in local elections that saw Covid-19 become a major issue, and worries about the farm laws becoming an additional political vulnerability may have driven Modis decision to back down now.The repeal, which if enacted will partially reframe his damaging economic policy, comes in the face of the forthcoming Uttar Pradesh elections of 2022, Chatterji told Vox over email. Winning [Uttar Pradesh] is hyper critical for the Hindu nationalist BJP to continue their experiment in absolute nationalism in India.Protesters in both Uttar Pradesh and Punjab have already shown forceful opposition to BJP policy and an ability to organize a credible offense against them  and some experts say Modis decision to change course now may not be enough to repair the damage already done.The government is likely to spin this as the PM listening to the people, but after a year of hard protest, acrimony and violence, its going to be difficult to make that notion adhere, Gilles Verniers, a political science professor at Ashoka University in India, told the AP this week.Despite his missteps, however, Modi appears likely to remain in office for the time being. While this presents an opening for the political opposition, it remains to be seen if the flailing Congress Party and its allies can galvanize a comeback, Chatterji said.The success of the farm law protests could mark a shift, though: Given the large proportion of Indias nearly 1.4 billion people who are engaged in the agriculture industry, the movement certainly had the numbers to mount a serious challenge, and Happy, the farmers union spokesperson, says the protesters have built a sustained movement to meet the demands of the agricultural sector.Indian agriculture sector and farmers and farm laborers are going through a deep crisis, Happy said. So our priority is to work intensively for farmers and farm laborers cause.The protest was not just about [repealing] the laws, we had other demands as well, he told Vox, including legislation to enshrine a minimum support price for agricultural goods. Those demands are still pending.Currently, Indias parliament is set to convene later this month, at which point Modi said Friday that legislators will begin the procedure of repealing the laws.In his Friday speech announcing the end of the new farm laws, Modi also told the protesters that they could go home and urged them to start afresh; as Happy told Vox, however, thats not happening any time soon.We had a meeting of core committee today and have prepared some resolutions, Happy said, and another meeting of the General Body of the United Farmers Front on the groups next steps is scheduled for Sunday  all while protesters remain on the outskirts of Delhi, intending to agitate until the laws are repealed and the rest of their demands are met. We will keep fighting until then, Happy told Vox.
Voxs audience support program, explained. Vox has launched a program to help keep our explainers and every facet of our journalism free during a time when everyone needs and deserves access to the most important information of the day. Thank you to those of you who have asked for a way to financially support Voxs journalism. Our mission  to empower our audience through understanding  has never been more clear, and we are so honored that you want to play an important role in it.Of course, we couldnt launch this initiative without first  explaining it. So heres everything you need to know about Voxs new contribution program.Vox began reporting on this pandemic on January 6, 2020, and since then, the demand for our explanatory journalism has grown. Audiences are finding our style of breaking down complicated information into clear, concise explainers essential to understanding this evolving story.On March 10, before social distancing was as widely enforced across the US, Vox published a piece that exemplifies our expertise in taking scientific information and formatting it in a way that is accessible and clear. How canceled events and self-quarantines save lives, in one chart has been viewed more than 9.4 million times (two posts from former President Barack Obama didnt hurt). Our subsequent video on the same topic has been viewed more than 6.2 million times on YouTube and translated by our audience into more than 75 languages; both the Italian state police and the Department of Health in the Philippines made their own version of the video to inform their public.Its clear to us, and millions of you, that this work is important. We want to keep providing you with free articles, videos, and podcasts at the quality and volume that this moment requires. Its true, after the pandemic hit, more people turned to Vox than at any other time in our six-year existence. Vox provides all of its content free  and we are committed to keeping it that way. Vox Media has a very diversified business, but without a subscription product or a paywall at Vox, advertising is still a major revenue source for our network.But we cant rely on advertising dollars alone as the public need for our service grows. Thats why we are turning to you, our loyal audience, for support.Your support will enable our staff to offer free articles, videos, and podcasts where well continue to cover the ins and outs of this crisis. Here are a few examples of what your contribution could help us do:Your financial contribution will support all of our work across our website, YouTube, and podcasts.No, your contribution is not tax-deductible. This is not a charitable donation. Even though there is no tax break, there is the benefit of knowing youre stepping up to do your part to make sure the public is informed. Thank you. Glad you asked. Click here to contribute. And thank you so much.
The smart political argument behind the satire Such a Fun Age . The Vox Book Club is linking to Bookshop.org to support local and independent booksellers.Kiley Reids Such a Fun Age, the Vox Book Clubs pick for November, takes place in a very specific age indeed. Its 2015, the lead-up to the 2016 election. President Barack Obama is in office, Hillary Clinton is expected to be the next president, and pundits are given to smugly declaring America to be post-racist and post-sexist.As Such a Fun Age shows, that was never truly the case. This novel is a satire of polite liberal prejudices, and how they flourish beneath a veneer of colorblind civility. Such a Fun Age concerns 25-year-old Emira. Shes Black, a recent college grad, and struggling to figure out what she wants to do with the rest of her life. Her 26th birthday is approaching, which means shes about to get kicked off her parents health insurance, so shes got a ticking clock on this problem.But all Emira really likes doing is hanging out with Briar, her 3-year-old white babysitting charge. Emira has tried to imagine getting a permanent nannying position with another family so she can get her own health care, but its not children in the abstract she likes: its Briar specifically, who is smart and deadpan funny and never stops asking questions.What Emira likes less is Briars mother, Alix. And its with Alix that Reids satire gets most pointed.Alix exists as an all-too realistic parody of Lean In white feminism. Shes a sort of proto-influencer who built her brand in the 00s by writing handwritten letters to companies asking for free products, receiving them, and then blogging about the result. Now, shes an Instagrammer who runs a coaching business teaching women how to ask for what they want  so long as they are nice, upper-middle-class women who ask politely, respectfully, and on expensive stationery. Her signature hashtag is #LetHerSpeak.The tell that Alixs interest in letting women speak is phony comes early on, when we enter her point of view and learn what she thinks of Briar. Alix is viscerally annoyed by Briars voice, which is loud and hoarse and consumed everything in its path. Briar seems more unruly to Alix than other children her age, less respectable in her curiosity and desires. So though Alix is happy to use Briar as a prop  breastfeeding her from the stage during an event in order to leverage a viral moment, positioning herself as the icon of the modern mom who has it all  she prefers not to pay too much attention to Briar on a day-to-day basis. Thats why she hires Emira.And Alix finds herself fascinated by Emira, much more than she is fascinated by Briar. She wants Emira to use her youth and Blackness and beauty to validate Alix, to affirm that since Alix has a close Black friend and her favorite shoes are from Payless, shes still cool. She wants, also, to save Emira from herself, to teach her how to polish her self-presentation and redo her rsum and start writing handwritten cover letters on beautiful creamy stationery. Emira isnt particularly interested in any of that, though. She mostly just wants health care, and she wants to be thought of as a human rather than as a prop in white peoples performances of progressivism. Thats why her closest relationship is with Briar, who loves her with a deep and specific gravity. Its also why she doesnt care for Alix, who treats her as a trophy  and why shes more than a little wary of her own white boyfriend, Kelley.While Alix is an obvious villain, a cringey tryhard who might as well be the living embodiment of A White Womans Instagram, Kelley is a more ambiguous character. We never get inside his head, as we do with Alix, but we can see from the outside that hes self-confident and genuinely pretty cool, someone easy to like. But Kelley also, Emira notes with some surprise, seems to only date Black women and have Black friends. He drops the n-word in casual conversation, hard r and all. When Emira talks about racism, he seems very eager to prove that he gets it, but she isnt at all sure that he does. He seems to savor his outrage over her situation in a way she keeps thinking is maybe a little off-putting.Kelley and Alix, we eventually learn, have a history. Its left them resentful of each other  and also eager to use Emira as a pawn in the contest Alix mentally labels Which One of Us Is Actually More Racist?And so Such a Fine Age winds up with Emira, now extricated from both Alix and Kelley, thinking not of them but of Briar. Briar was the only person Emira could be sure genuinely loved her in her whole time as a babysitter  but Emira fears that stuck alone with her neglectful mother and all the privileges of whiteness, Briar, too, will come to outsource her emotional labor to someone she can hire. In the world of liberal racism, the problem isnt hate so much as it is unthinking and callous fetishism.Share your thoughts on Such a Fun Age in the comments section below, and be sure to RSVP for our upcoming live discussion event with Kiley Reid herself. In the meantime, subscribe to the Vox Book Club newsletter to make sure you dont miss anything.
House Democrats finally pass a massive social spending bill . The House of Representatives on Friday passed Democrats sweeping $1.85 trillion climate and social spending bill, a huge and historic investment in early childhood education, clean energy, and other measures.The legislation, dubbed the Build Back Better Act (BBB), would dedicate substantial funding to universal pre-K, provide child care subsidies covering roughly 20 million children, and extend an expanded child tax credit for one more year. Additionally, it includes the largest investment in clean energy  predominately in the form of tax credits  that the federal government has ever made.The bill is a key part of President Joe Bidens first-year agenda, and it now heads to the Senate, where its expected to get pared back due to the opposition moderates like Sen. Joe Manchin (D-WV) have expressed to provisions including paid leave. Its passage in the House, however, is a notable step and an important sign of progress given how long lawmakers have been at an impasse over the legislation. Fridays vote follows months of Democratic disagreements over what to include in the bill and what to cut. Most recently, five House moderates refused to vote on the legislation until it received a score from the Congressional Budget Office estimating its impact on spending and revenue. They signaled, too, that they might not vote for the bill as written if that score failed to align with the White Houses own analysis. After receiving an estimate on Thursday, which found that the bill would add roughly $160 billion to the debt over 10 years, several of these lawmakers wound up supporting the legislation. The $160 billion estimate factors in $207 billion in funding that the CBO thinks the government will bring in from additional IRS enforcement. Without this revenue, the CBO estimates that the bill would add $367 billion to the debt over a decade. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen, citing analyses by the Treasury Department and the Joint Committee for Taxation, said this week that the bill would be fully paid for, and actually reduce the debt over time. There are some discrepancies between the CBO and White House numbers, however, one of the largest being estimates for IRS enforcement revenue  which the administration put at $480 billion instead of $207 billion.House moderates backing is vital due to Democrats narrow majority in the House, which means the party can lose only three votes in the passage of this bill. With moderate support, the legislation got the simple majority it ultimately needed to pass 220-213 along party lines, though Rep. Jared Golden (D-ME) still defected. No Republicans, whove broadly criticized the bill for its expansive size, supported the vote, which took place following a lengthy speech made by House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy.  Despite this movement in the House, however, there are no guarantees about the bills future in the Senate. Because moderate senators including Manchin and Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ) havent explicitly said theyre backing the legislation yet, its possible the bill could see significant changes before becoming law. As it stands, the roughly $1.85 trillion legislation (one estimate put the House bill spending total as high as $2.4 trillion) concentrates most of its funding on early childhood care and education as well as climate spending. Major provisions of the House package  and spending estimates calculated by the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget  currently include:Along with major investments in the social safety net and clean energy, Democrats have used the bill to address their long-held policy goal of enabling Medicare to negotiate drug prices. The legislation would allow the federal government to renegotiate how much Medicare pays for 10 drugs in the near term, a change thats expected to help lower costs significantly  not just for the government, but for all of those who need those medicines  given the leverage that Medicare has. To raise revenue to cover the new spending, the legislation contains a slew of changes to the tax code targeting corporations and wealthier individuals. These provisions include a new 15 percent minimum tax rate for corporations, a 1 percent surcharge on corporate stock buybacks, and an additional 8 percent surtax for those making more than $25 million in income. Another more contentious tax update  a change to the SALT provision  adds about $275 billion in spending to the bill, and would mostly benefit wealthier individuals. The change was demanded by certain Democratic leaders who argued for it because they feel their constituents face significant tax burdens, which are higher in some left-leaning states. The update, which would alter the amount of state and local tax deductions (SALT) individuals could take, would raise the cap of that deduction from $10,000 to $80,000 for the next few years.Overall, this legislation is still quite expansive, but pretty different from the $3.5 trillion social and climate spending proposal Democrats introduced earlier this year. Because of moderate pushback, programs including free two-year community college education and the expansion of Medicare coverage for dental and vision services, along with increases to the top corporate tax rate, have been stripped out completely. And immigration reform measures and other provisions in the House bill may not make it through the Senate.The Congressional Budget Offices estimates suggest the bill would add roughly $160 billion to the national debt between 2022-2031, if IRS enforcement revenue was factored in. Its an analysis that differs from the estimates made by the White House, though a key discrepancy is due to divergent estimates about the IRS enforcement figures, which was anticipated. The CBOs report indicates that the measures revenue raisers, including a new tax on stock buybacks and savings from prescription drug negotiations, would be enough to cover most if not all of the bills costs. Overall, the CBO estimates that the bill includes about $1.63 trillion in spending and $1.47 trillion in revenue (including the IRS enforcement money), meaning about $160 billion isnt covered by the pay-fors.Though the CBOs data showed that the legislations spending isnt fully addressed by new revenue, its analysis gave some moderate hold-outs in the House the assurances they need to move forward on the bill since most of its figures were in line with the White Houses. Previously, analyses from the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation and the White House indicated that the revenue the legislation generated would largely match its spending. An estimate from the Joint Committee on Taxation suggested the measure would bring in about $1.5 trillion in revenue over a decade. That calculation did not include more recently added provisions, like policies to cut prescription drug costs, that are expected to bring in further revenue. Another estimate from the Treasury Department concluded that the full suite of pay-fors including tax increases and drug cost savings would bring in up to $2.2 trillion in 10 years, fully covering the entirety of the bill. Following the CBO report, the White House has emphasized that its even more confident about the legislations revenue raisers. The combination of CBO & JCTs scores over the last week and Treasury analysis make it clear that Build Back Better is fully paid for, and in fact will reduce our nations debt over time through $2 trillion+ in revenue raisers and other savings, Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen posted in a tweet on Thursday. The CBOs estimate of the costs of the bill wound up being lower than what the White House projected, while the revenue that it estimated from prescription drug cost savings was actually higher. Since the White House also expects revenue from IRS enforcement to be more than the CBOs estimates, its told House members it doesnt expect the bill to add to the debt. Earlier this month, a White House review found that the bill would reduce the deficit by $36 billion in the first 10 years, and roughly $2 trillion in the second 10 years. The CBO scoring mostly affirms these analyses with some discrepancies including the amount of money that increased IRS enforcement will bring in. According to the Treasury Department, more aggressive enforcement of tax policies could significantly help the government recoup taxes that wealthy people have failed to pay. The Treasury calculations show that enforcement could add $480 billion in revenue. The CBO, meanwhile, estimates that such enforcement would only bring in $207 billion because of how it measures the effects of these policies. Other economic experts, including former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers, have echoed the White Houses claims and emphasized that the legislation is fully paid for. Together, they are smaller over 10 years than this past years stimulus was over a single year, and in addition, they are substantially paid for, Summers has said about both a recently passed bipartisan infrastructure bill and the social spending legislation. House passage of the social spending bill doesnt mean that it will pass as-is in the Senate.Manchin has already indicated that he has outstanding concerns, particularly regarding the four-week paid leave program the House bill includes. In the past, hes argued that the proposal could be overly burdensome for businesses and that reconciliation isnt the right process for passing it. Ive been very clear where I stand on that, Manchin said earlier this week. Manchin has also long been concerned about the cost of the bill and potential additions to the national debt, an issue hes continued to raise, along with worries about inflation. I will not support a bill that is this consequential without thoroughly understanding the impact that it will have on our national debt, our economy and, most importantly, all of our American people, hes said. Democratic leaders, meanwhile, emphasize that this bills spending is spread out over 10 years and could actually counter inflation because it would reduce the costs that families face on expenses like child care and prescription drugs. Because the bill is being considered via reconciliation, it cant pass the Senate without the support of every member of the Democratic caucus. And that means, given Manchins positions, its likely that the legislation will be tweaked further in the upper chamber.This debate comes as Congress faces a daunting year-end to-do list. In addition to passing the reconciliation bill, Congress also needs to address the debt ceiling and fund the government in order to prevent a potential global economic calamity and another government shutdown. Lawmakers have until December 3 to accomplish both tasks. Getting all of these things done before the end of the year would be no small feat: After Congress returns from its Thanksgiving recess, it has about 10 working legislative days before lawmakers are scheduled to leave for another winter break. In that time frame, lawmakers could pass a short-term spending bill to keep the government open, known as a continuing resolution, in order to focus their energies more heavily on reconciliation. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, for his part, has said the Senate will pass the social spending bill before leaving for a holiday break, though Manchin has seemed more skeptical about this timing. His potential pushback, along with that of other moderates, cast doubt on whether the bill will be able to make it through the Senate anytime soon. 
The intertwined legacies of Jonathan Larson and Lin-Manuel Miranda. Before press screenings of Tick, Tick ... Boom!, the new movie based on an autobiographical musical by Rent composer Jonathan Larson, a message played. It was from Lin-Manuel Miranda, the films director as well as the creator and star of Hamilton.When I was making this film, Miranda said, I just kept thinking, What would Jonathan Larson want? That was my first goal. Mirandas desire to stay true to Larsons vision breathes through Tick, Tick  Boom! The film, which stars Andrew Garfield as Larson, is suffused with an affectionate protectiveness: protectiveness toward Larson, who died at age 35 in 1996, and toward Larsons musical legacy. Tick, Tick  Boom!, out on Netflix this Friday, tells the story of a musical theater composer named Jonathan Larson as he approaches his 30th birthday. Hes landed a workshop for the big ambitious musical hes working on, and hes pinned all his hopes for the future on it: After the workshop, he wont have to work as a waiter anymore; after the workshop, hell be a success. Larson wrote Tick, Tick  Boom! before he actually did become a success, so he doesnt know, as we do, that neither this show nor the show within the show will make his legacy. Rent, which won him a posthumous Pulitzer and reshaped Broadway forever, will.This movie is not a hagiography, and it stops short of treating Larson like a genius. Miranda keeps a sort of tender distance away from Larsons perspective, so that we have room to critique both his egotism and his music, which is juvenile, frequently mediocre, and only occasionally brilliant. Whats most compelling is not the actual music Larson is writing in this movie so much as it is his terrible, endearing commitment to his music above everything else in his life. He wants to be great, and hes committed to putting in the work to become great, but hes not there yet.But Tick, Tick  Boom! does operate with the understanding that Larson was a shockingly talented young composer, and that he was maybe on the verge of becoming great just before he died. Watching it, you cant help but mourn the loss of Jonathan Larson all over again  and think that at least hes got an apt guardian in Lin-Manuel Miranda.Mirandas career has paralleled Larsons for a long time now. Both wrote generation-defining, Pulitzer-prize winning musicals; both pushed Broadways musical vocabulary forward toward the present. And both wrote musicals that are obsessed with the problem of mortality and ambition, and how to accomplish great works in a life cut short. With Mirandas Tick, Tick  Boom!, the story of these two composers is coming full circle.Jonathan Larson started writing Tick, Tick  Boom! in 1989. He was about to turn 30, and he had just failed to land any producers for his ambitious space-age musical Superbia, which meant he was stuck at his weekend job as a waiter. Meanwhile, his close friend Matt OGrady had just tested positive for HIV. Larson had already lost several friends to the AIDS epidemic. He was feeling very aware of his mortality. He was also feeling bitter that every producer who came to his Superbia workshop had told him that it was both too expensive to mount off-Broadway and too weird to mount on Broadway. So he channeled his frustrations and his grief into a musical he could put on just by himself with a small band. It would be a rock monologue about the twin ticking clocks of his potential and his friends life, both of which he feared might be about to run out. The show made the rounds at various small off-Broadway theaters, going through a few different titles  30/90, Boho Days  before settling on Tick, Tick  Boom! It was a modest success, and it won Larson the attention of theater producer Jeffrey Seller. Here was a man telling his life story that I felt was my life story, and telling it in a musical vernacular that was giving me goosebumps, Seller recalled in Michael Riedels 2020 book Singular Sensation: The Triumph of Broadway.Broadways musical vernacular at the time was the sound of Cats, Les Miserables, and Phantom of the Opera: big, bombastic pop musicals that didnt sound like anything on the radio. The literati of New Yorks theater scene were forever griping over how far away American musical theater had gotten from any sort of sound that felt fresh and modern and rooted in the music that the rest of the country was listening to. But no one seemed to have a clear idea of how to bring Broadways sound into the present. Seller had a hunch that Larson would be the guy to pull it off. Larson agreed. Im going to bring rock n roll back to Broadway, he used to tell people.For that reason, Seller would become an early supporter of Larsons next project: a reimagining of Puccinis La Boheme as a rock opera set in New Yorks gritty Alphabet City, about impoverished artists like Larson and his friends. It was called Rent, and when it premiered on Broadway in 1996, it was an instant smash hit, earning Larson three posthumous Tonys and a posthumous Pulitzer. And it did indeed change the sound of Broadway permanently. It took until the 1990s, decades after the birth of rock, but Rent made American musical theater finally and at last embrace the rock musical with open arms.Larson didnt live to see it. He died in his apartment of an aortic aneurysm the night before Rents off-Broadway premiere. He was just weeks shy of his 36th birthday.After Larsons death, producers returned to Tick, Tick  Boom! to see if they could find a way to restage it without him. Playwright David Auburn came on board to reshape Larsons existing material, turning it from a monologue into a three-person chamber musical. After Auburns revisions, the new show was no longer a one-man experience. Instead, it featured characters based on Matt OGrady and on the dancer Larson was dating while he tried to stage Superbia alongside Jonathan as our central character.The three-person Tick, Tick  Boom! never became the smash Rent did, but it did develop a cult following. It premiered off-Broadway in 2001, and various revivals of the project toured frequently over the next decade.And in 2014, New York City Centers Encores! Off-Center series produced a revival of Tick, Tick  Boom! In the role of Jonathan Larson, it starred the hot young composer/actor Lin-Manuel Miranda.Miranda first saw Rent when he was either 16 or 17 years old (he tells this story a lot, but his accounts vary). It was the first truly contemporary musical I had ever seen, he told the New Yorker in November. I remember thinking, This takes place now? In New York? Downtown? He credits Rent with being the show that made him want to write his own. I went from someone who likes musicals, and if he saves enough money buys TKTS tickets on his birthday, to thinking, Oh, the truth can come out in a musical. Youre allowed to write musicals, Miranda said in June, at a speech presented by global storytelling organization The Moth in partnership with Northern Manhattan Arts Alliance. And thats when I went from being a fan of musicals, from being a theater kid to trying to write musicals.Four years later, Miranda saw Tick, Tick  Boom! off Broadway and had a similar experience. It felt like a message in a bottle just for me, he said in that New Yorker interview. He was 21, a senior in college, and he could see already that his future was going to look a lot like Larsons looked in the world of the show: working a crappy day job to get by, writing musicals in his off hours, watching as all his talented friends decided to give up the dream of making art and get real jobs.Youre going to be the only idiot smashing your head against their childhood dream, he imagined the show saying to him. And, if its worth it to you, its worth it. But its really fucking hard. I went back and saw it three times, Miranda said.Miranda spent the next few years as he had foreseen, taking jobs with flexible hours (substitute teacher, jingle writer) and plugging away at the score for a musical. This musical was heavily influenced by Rent: set in the neighborhood where Miranda spent his days, and blending Broadway balladry with the kind of music he could hear on the radio. In Mirandas case, that meant the musical was set in Washington Heights, and the music was Latin pop and hip-hop. The show was called In the Heights, and as Miranda developed it, he leaned repeatedly on Larsons legacy for inspiration and resources. Rent producer Jeffrey Seller, who had continued to look for musical theater composers who might be able to drag Broadways sound into the present, signed on to produce In the Heights in 2004. And as Miranda continued workshopping the show, he applied for the Jonathan Larson Grant for early-career musical theater writers. (He didnt get it.)By writing about his friends with the problems and anxieties he felt, Jonathan Larson gave me permission to write about my life, hopes and fears, Miranda wrote in his 2004 application. He added a line that echoed Larsons old boast: Quite frankly, I want to change the landscape of American musical theatre. Miranda, like Larson before him, succeeded at his ambition. In the Heights hit Broadway in 2008 to critical acclaim, moderate commercial success, four Tonys (including Best Musical), and a Grammy. It proved that Latin music and hip-hop could flourish on Broadway and that the Great White Way didnt need to depend on sounds that had been thoroughly whitewashed.Miranda kept working after the success of In the Heights. He continued writing musicals (Bring It On: The Musical hit Broadway in 2012), and he also picked up occasional acting gigs, like that 2014 Tick, Tick  Boom! He was already becoming a brand name by that point, but he still seemed to think of himself as a Larson-like figure, a striver who hasnt quite hit it big yet. His performance in that revival, said the New York Times review, throbs with a sense of bone-deep identification. After all, the review went on, not too many years ago, Mr. Miranda was himself a struggling young musical-theater composer living hand-to-mouth in New York, teaching high school English while scribbling songs on the side.In 2015, Mirandas third musical, Hamilton, hit Broadway and was a runaway success. It won 11 Tonys (including Best Musical), a Grammy, and a Pulitzer. It landed Miranda a MacArthur genius grant. It made Broadway suddenly and stunningly relevant to mainstream popular culture. It was the biggest thing anyone could remember since, well  Rent.Unlike Larson, Miranda lived to see his success.Its the idea of living to see your success that really connects Miranda and Larson. Beyond their shared ambitions and their biographical parallels, the connective tissue between their work is, fundamentally, a shared obsession with mortality and with what we leave behind.Larson, mused Ben Brantley in the New York Times in 2001, seems to have lived his life and composed his music to the rhythm of some cosmic metronome, noisily decapitating the seconds. Rent is haunted by the impending death of one of its central characters, and its most celebrated song, Seasons of Love, counts out the days left in the last year of her life. In Tick, Tick  Boom!, Larsons character Jon is obsessed with the idea that his time is running out, that he has a limited window left to produce a great musical and he still hasnt done it. Meanwhile, Mirandas Hamilton is built around the problem of Hamiltons forthcoming death: You know through the whole show that hes going to die in a duel, and youre just waiting to see how it happens. Hamilton himself keeps fantasizing about his own death; hes fixated on the question of how hell be remembered after he dies, and on whether the work hes doing is enough to build a legacy on. How do you write like youre running out of time? Burr demands of Hamilton, and we in the audience know its because Hamilton believes that he is running out.See, I never thought Id live past 20, admits Mirandas Hamilton.Will I make it to 40? Jon asks in Tick, Tick  Boom!Larson was explicit about why his work is so focused on death and dying. He was an artist in the late 80s with a lot of friends who were HIV positive, and many of them died of AIDS. He was surrounded by death very young, and that shaped the way he thought about his life and his work.Miranda, meanwhile, says he became fixated on death after experiencing a childhood tragedy: His best friend died in an accident when he was 4 years old, he said in that speech for The Moth, and what he remembers of his grief at that age is just a year of gray.When I was writing Hamilton and the line, I imagine death so much it feels more like a memory popped out  that is not in Ron Chernows book. That is not in any history book, he said. Thats something coming out of me that makes me understand this person. He felt the same way, he added, writing Burrs line, If theres a reason that Im still alive when everyone who loves me has died, Im willing to wait for it. He had found the thing that helped him lock into the character, and that was their shared grief, loss, and heightened awareness of mortality. Im naturally drawn to people who feel that urgency, Miranda explained to the New Yorker in November, because I felt that urgency very acutely when I was younger. Larson was one of those people who felt the urgency of the ticking clock.It seems to be that shared sense of determination between Miranda and Larson that makes Mirandas Tick, Tick  Boom! feel so tender, so affectionate: Youre able to empathize utterly with Larsons fears of running out of time because Miranda understands them so well. Under Mirandas direction, the film becomes a tribute to ambition itself, to the panic of being young and talented and striving but not quite getting there yet. It becomes a paean to writing like youre running out of time and living like theres no day but today.
Joaquin Phoenix and a young kid transcend cliche in Cmon Cmon. My TikTok timeline keeps serving me a certain kind of video, probably because it knows I was born in 1983. It goes something like this: The onscreen text says, getting ready for your friends garage party in 2001; behind the text, a woman my age puts on an American Eagle tank top, then another tank top on top of that, followed by low-rise jeans, Ugg boots, and basically just everything we wore back then. Some song by Nelly or Avril Lavigne plays in the background.Each video triggers a sensory flood and a visceral question: Were we ever so young? Yeah, we sure were. (I was 17.) We lived in a micro-age of Xangas and LiveJournals and AOL Instant Messenger. Back then, 2021 seemed like far-off fantasy, straight out of some work of science fiction.TikToks teens, on the other hand, werent even born back then, and so the 2001 video feels like goofy, ancient history. Twenty years from now theyll be in my seat, and the next generation will be chuckling at their own videos. And so the cycle goes.Every generation is living in the previous ones science-fiction future, and as the pace of technological development speeds up, so does that cycle. Thats something Cmon Cmon  Mike Millss beautiful, decidedly non-sci-fi new drama  understands and celebrates and finds ever so slightly melancholy.The first clue is its images. Cmon Cmon is shot (by the legendary Robbie Ryan) in black and white, a choice with two effects that hook into the story. It recalls a past era, when more films were presented in grayscale  though films like this may be evidence its coming back, its a generation of filmmaking thats gone. Theres a feeling of matching plaintiveness in this movie, too.But its also oddly futuristic. The film is full of vast cityscapes, the kind you see when flying into town, all rendered in black and white. Denver, Los Angeles, New York, New Orleans  each gets its moment, and we linger, seeing the shapes of the buildings against the horizons, the cars moving neatly along the roadways. Theyre testaments to boundless American optimism, the desire to build higher and stronger and bigger, the better to house everyones dreams. But in the hazy strangeness that accompanies a world seeped of color, they appear otherworldly, like something weve imagined but havent yet accomplished.All of this fits the movie well. Cmon Cmon is about time passing, so slowly you cant perceive it but so quickly that we often simply forget the details of our lives. This is familiar territory for Mills, particularly in his marvelous, colorful 2016 film 20th Century Women, which captures an entire century of American women by zooming in on one makeshift family. The new film, too, captures a brief moment in one familys life but somehow, a little magically, stretches to past and future.The vaguely futuristic city landscapes show up in Cmon Cmon because Johnny (Joaquin Phoenix), a radio journalist, is interested in the dreams of a younger generation and traveling across the country to talk to them. After a bad breakup, the loss of his mother, and a strained relationship with his sister Viv (Gaby Hoffman), hes closed himself down to most everything except his work. And right now, his work is interviewing kids about the future.Soon enough, hell acquire his own kid  a precocious nephew named Jesse, marvelously played by newcomer Woody Norman  and talk to him plenty, and thats most of the movie. Johnny agrees to take care of Jesse because Viv needs to help her estranged partner, Jesses father Paul (Scoot McNairy), through a personal crisis. As Jesse and Johnny grow closer, their bond reveals to both of them something about themselves.Its a cliche of a tale  wise kid teaches lessons to grown man  but Mills sells it, largely thanks to Phoenixs expertly calibrated performance as a capable, thoughtful, and vulnerable man who needs to be poked and prodded a little. I was moved, even a little verklempt.I found myself preoccupied by the segments where Johnny interviews children and teens, as well as how he captures his own thoughts about the day: He talks into the same microphone he points at the kids. He asks them questions, such as When you think about the future, what do you think it will be like? and What makes you angry? and In the future, do you think families will be the same? They tell him their answers, very seriously and thoughtfully. Then he goes back to his hotel and talks to himself about them through his recorder, preserving not just their voices but his own.When you point a microphone or a camera at someone, you are implicitly telling them that they are important, at least in that moment. (One night, Johnny reads an excerpt from an essay by Cameraperson director Kirsten Johnson exploring just this point.) The kids he talks to are real kids  the DNA of a documentary floats around in this movie  and the answers they give are important. Documentarians frequently consult young people about the future or capture them in the act of celebrating the present, lending their perspectives the kind of weight most often afforded to talking heads on TV. What you hear in their conversations is not only their hopes for the future but also the future itself, when they may look back at themselves and wince or nod or wonder what happened to make them lose their idealism.Recording someone is a way to stop time, capture a moment, and give it importance for a future generation. In the context of a relationship, that can be an act of affection. Johnny teaches Jesse how to use a microphone and a recorder, and tells him why he loves recording things  because youre saving the minutiae of the present for the future. Later, both Jesse and Johnny record themselves for one another, and its a little bit of love  a way to say that the memories we made together matter, and we dont want them to just slip away.Because who knows whats in Jesses future? Hes a kid in the age of the smartphone, where you can, if you have enough battery power, literally record everything you experience or see or hear in a day. If, when hes Johnnys age, he wants to be a radio journalist too, who knows what the contours of that work will be? Or what hell hear? Or what hell remember from watching his uncle work?Theres a lot of wistful heart in Cmon Cmon, which ultimately aims to remind us that were only here on this earth a little while. We record ourselves as a bulwark against that recognition, while also knowing that its incumbent upon us to find a way to tell future generations what it was like to be us. TikTok videos of Ugg boots are one way to do it, and one that can prompt a cringe and a chuckle. But films like Cmon Cmon take the project a step further, an expression of the fact that no matter how shiny and sci-fi inflected the future seems, it will be here before we know it.Cmon Cmon opens in theaters on November 19.
Oklahoma will not execute Julius Jones, but the outcome should still trouble you. In a dramatic, eleventh-hour move, Oklahoma Gov. Kevin Stitt (R) on Thursday granted clemency to Julius Jones mere hours before Jones was scheduled to be executed for the 1999 murder and carjacking of businessman Paul Howell. Jones, 41, had spent nearly 20 years on death row professing his innocence. Following a crush of national attention as athletes, activists, celebrities, and even fellow Republican lawmakers appealed loudly on Joness behalf, Stitt reduced Joness sentence to life in prison with no possibility of parole.After prayerful consideration and reviewing materials presented by all sides of this case, I have determined to commute Julius Jones sentence to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole, the governor said in a statement released by his office.In short: Stitt spared Joness life, but wants him incarcerated for the duration of it. That represents a different sort of death sentence. It also signals an incomplete victory for both sides of this case: Joness advocates are happy hes alive, but lament his inability to now argue for release; Oklahoma Attorney General John OConnor condemned the decision, saying in a statement that he is greatly disappointed that after 22 years, four appeals, including the review of 13 appellate judges, the work of the investigators, prosecutors, jurors, and the trial judge have been set aside. The commutation was also only a partial acceptance of the recommendation earlier this month from the states Pardon and Parole Board that Jones be granted clemency and have the chance to be eligible for immediate parole. Members of the board cited doubts about the evidence in the case, which has been controversial from the start. Jones has always maintained his innocence, arguing that he was not even present at the scene of the killing and that his defense made a number of mistakes. The late Oklahoma County prosecutor Cowboy Bob Macy, who first brought the case against Jones, had a sordid record thats been the subject of much scrutiny from academics, the press, and a 2018 ABC documentary about the Jones case, The Last Defense. Alarm over Joness planned execution had been mounting in part because officials on the states parole board have publicly questioned the states lethal injection process. One official said Wednesday about another case, I dont think that any humane society ought to be executing people that way until we figure out how to do it right. Stitts statement did not mention the controversies surrounding Oklahomas lethal injections or the fate of a slate of incarcerated individuals who remain scheduled to be executed. Oklahoma, one of 27 states with the death penalty, has been among those with the highest number of executions since the US Supreme Court reaffirmed the legality of capital punishment in Gregg v. Georgia in 1976. After Oklahomas lethal injection drug protocols caused two grisly deaths and a last-minute pharmaceutical error was found before the execution of a man whose guilt was in doubt, a six-year moratorium on executions in the state was instated in 2015. State prosecutors had pledged to continue the moratorium at least until a federal trial next year examined the constitutionality of Oklahomas execution practices. But the state recently began plowing ahead with the planned executions of several people in coming months, including Jones. The last man who died by lethal injection in Oklahoma, John Marion Grant, convulsed and vomited for several minutes following the administration of a sedative on October 28  only heightening concerns about lethal injection practices. No matter where the governor or anyone else stands on the question of capital punishment as a practice, questions about the drugs the state is continuing to use should have us asking: Does Oklahoma have any business executing people right now?On July 28, 1999, businessman Paul Howell was shot to death outside his parents home in the predominantly white city of Edmond, Oklahoma, in front of his two young children. Howells GMC Suburban then went missing.Julius Jones, a 19-year-old engineering student at the University of Oklahoma at the time of the killing, has maintained he is innocent since his arrest three days after the shooting. As God is my witness, I was not involved in any way in the crimes that led to Howell being shot and killed, Jones wrote in his clemency report. I have spent the past 20 years on death row for a crime I did not commit, did not witness and was not at.Outspoken celebrity advocates for Jones over the years have included Cleveland Browns quarterback Baker Mayfield, who has advocated for Jones for years. He choked back tears this week when speaking about the case. Mayfield, who won a Heisman Trophy at the University of Oklahoma, told the press hes been trying to get the facts stated and the truth to be told for a while.  Calls for mercy for Jones this week came from millions of online petitioners. Joining Mayfield in his advocacy for Jones were NBA players Trae Young, Blake Griffin, Russell Westbrook, and Buddy Hield, all of whom have Oklahoma ties. Along with Dallas Cowboys quarterback Dak Prescott, they wrote letters to Stitt pleading for commutation. Other celebrities such as reality star and legal-system reform advocate Kim Kardashian used their platforms to bring attention to Joness plight.So did five Republicans in the Oklahoma House of Representatives. Those lawmakers  Kevin McDugle, Garry Mize, Logan Phillips, Preston Stinson, and John Talley  released a joint statement last week asking Stitt to accept the parole boards recommendation. The Black Wall Street Times reported that former Trump White House communications official Mercedes Schlapp, along with her husband Matt, had been advocating for the same. We are pleading, praying for the governor of Oklahoma to make the right decision,  Schlapp said last week.There are many reasons Jones should be spared, his advocates have argued. Jones and his family have said that Jones was home that night, playing Monopoly with them and eating spaghetti and cornbread. That alibi wasnt presented in court by his defense, which the family claims was incompetent. Prosecutors have said this is a blatant falsehood, and that Joness trial attorney never called the family to the witness stand because Jones repeatedly told his attorneys that he was not at home on the night of the murder. The Innocence Project has called for Jones to be completely exonerated, arguing that there is little doubt that racism was at play in Mr. Joness case. Represent Justice, the nonprofit organization operating the site Justice For Julius, says the Jones family has claimed there was racial bias within the courtroom and racist intimidation from law enforcement  including an arresting officer and a juror who both allegedly directed the n-word at Jones.The most significant allegation from the Jones camp is that they believe someone else committed the murder  someone who may have already admitted to it. Trial transcripts show that witnesses identified Jones as the shooter and placed him within Howells stolen SUV. Howells daughter, Rachel  a young child sitting in the car when her father was shot  has also continued to insist that Jones was the killer. Jones, however, has said that Christopher Jordan, his former associate and co-defendant, committed the killing and later set him up by planting the murder weapon and a red bandana seen at the crime scene in the attic space above Joness bedroom. Thats where investigators found them both, and the bandana had Joness DNA on it. It may also be incumbent upon the state to reexamine the evidence in Joness case solely because of the record of Cowboy Bob Macy, who first charged Jones with the crime in 1999. He secured at least 54 death sentences  more than any other individual prosecutor in the United States. However, courts have reversed nearly half of those sentences, and at least three of the people Macy sent to death row were later exonerated. Macy claimed he was protecting the innocent. In 2001, he told the New York Times of the death penalty, I feel like it makes my city, county and state a safer place for innocent people to live. And thats why I embrace it, not because I get any enjoyment out of it. According to a 2016 study by Harvards Fair Punishment Project, Macy once told a jury that sentencing a defendant to death was a patriotic duty.That same Harvard study concluded that Macy engaged in extreme prosecutorial misconduct, including findings of inappropriate behavior in 18 of his cases. At least three of his capital convictions have been overturned. Many of his convictions relied on the testimony of police forensic scientist Joyce Gilchrist, who the FBI and Oklahoma Attorney Generals office later discovered had falsified evidence. Even with the governors granting of clemency to Jones on Thursday, an urgent question remaining concerns the exceptional brutality of Oklahomas lethal injection protocols.Before Clayton Lockett was executed by the state in 2014 for a murder conviction, his stepmother, LaDonna Hollins, wanted to know how it was going to happen. She said to reporters at the time, I want to know, what mixture of drugs are you going to use now? Is this instant? Is this going to cause horrible pain? The sedative midazolam was administered to Lockett first, followed by a paralytic called vecuronium bromide. Then came potassium chloride, which was supposed to stop Locketts heart. His death, however, was not instantaneous. It took 40 agonizing minutes for Lockett to die.Lockett woke up and tried to rise from his chair, even after he was declared unconscious with all three drugs in his system. Oklahoma Department of Corrections Director Robert Patton said at the time that Locketts vein failed, allowing the drugs to leak out into his system. The lethal injections hadnt brought about the relatively silent death expected from such procedures. Locketts botched execution resulted in him dying of a heart attack.Charles Warner, sentenced to death after he was convicted of killing an infant, stayed still in his seat after he received his injections in 2015, but his last words were My body is on fire. That same year, the state came within moments of killing Richard Glossip before prison officials discovered they had received the wrong injections from their supplier. The state knew this before the execution, yet the governors general counsel still said that stopping Glossips execution would look bad for the state of Oklahoma. Then all executions halted in the state for six years, until John Marion Grant was put to death in October. The 60-year-old, sentenced in 1999 for the murder of prison cafeteria worker Gay Carter, began convulsing and vomiting following the midazolam injection, per the Associated Press, something observers said was unusual. One doctor characterized the dose Grant was given as insane. The state insisted that it carried out the execution in accordance with Oklahoma Department of Corrections protocols and without complication. The latter part of that sentence  without complication  is surely in doubt. Oklahomas track record is giving authorities in the state, including some on the state parole board, pause as they consider the states unchanged drug protocol. Its constitutionality is still in question.In a statement, Gov. Stitts office said that a 2016 election referendum had the effect of constitutionalizing the states death penalty. The governors office, citing the nonpartisan Death Penalty Information Center, argued that the referendum prevents state courts from declaring the death penalty cruel and unusual punishment or a violation of any provision of the state constitution. Oklahoma moved forward last month with executing Grant, the first to die by lethal injection in the state since 2015, after the US Supreme Court voted 5-3 to lift temporary stays on his execution and that of another man: Julius Jones.Even with Stitts announcement Thursday that he had granted Jones clemency, there is another thing to reevaluate: Oklahomas methods for killing its incarcerated defendants on death row. Including Thursdays proclamation, Stitt has not given any recent public statements indicating hell do so.The sparing of Joness life brings relief to his supporters, but not satisfaction. For every other person who remains on Oklahomas death row, the same specter still looms: the violent, potentially unconstitutional manner in which the state intends to bring about their deaths.
Improving public transit makes it easier for people to stay healthy. We dont commonly think of public transportation as part of health care policy, though the people who work in public health know its important. But maybe we should, according to a new study focused on the opening of a light-rail line in the Twin Cities.A group of researchers from the Urban Institute, Harvard Medical School, Mass General, and the University of Minnesota studied what happened to no-show outpatient appointments at a major health system when the Green Line opened in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area in 2014, connecting those two cities downtowns. The new Metro line was more reliable  less susceptible to traffic jams or bad weather  and ran more frequently than the buses that had previously covered the same route.By looking at data from before the rail lines opening and differentiating between patients who lived near the new transportation service versus those who did not in order to establish a baseline, the authors were able to isolate the effect of the Metro line. The impact they found was significant, much more than previous studies that had attempted to measure the effects of transportation on patients behavior.They found a meaningful reduction in the number of no-show appointments among patients who lived near the Green Line, with the no-show rate dropping by 4.5 percent compared to the baseline. The effect was particularly profound for Medicaid patients, who saw their no-show rate decline by 9.5 percent compared to the baseline. The researchers also found an increase in same-day appointments for patients and clinics located near the new rail line, indicating the expanded transportation options also made it easier for people to get urgent or otherwise unplanned medical care.Why does this improvement in attendance matter? Patients get more reliable care, which can help head off bigger health problems down the road, and providers dont end up with a bunch of empty slots that could have been filled by other patients.Here is how the researchers explained the significance of their findings, published in the journal Health Services Research:Even a small decrease in no-shows benefits both patients and providers. For patients, completing appointments improves care continuity and avoids potentially harmful lapses in screening and treatment. This may be especially true for patients with chronic illness, who are also more likely to experience transportation barriers. Outpatient care can help chronically ill patients access appropriate medications, achieve better disease control, and avoid future emergency department use or hospitalizations associated with their conditions. For providers, fewer no-shows increases revenue and reduces scheduling inefficiencies.Their study also serves as a corrective to some of the prior research on this subject. Previous studies had tried to detect any effect resulting from a mass transportation strike or the offer of ride-sharing services specifically to patients. Neither had found much of an impact. But the first was more than 20 years old and the second dealt with a sample size of fewer than 2,000 patients. The data set analyzed in this new study covered more than 3.5 million appointments and 370,000 unique patients. The effect they found was meaningful, especially for low-income patients (disproportionately people of color) for whom structural obstacles to health care, including transportation options, have been profound.By documenting a decrease in no-show appointments and an increase in same-day appointments following a public transportation expansion  especially for low-income individuals  we provide important new evidence on the importance of adequate public transportation to achieve equity in access to care, the authors state in their conclusion.The bipartisan infrastructure bill, now signed into law by President Joe Biden, will pump nearly $40 billion into local public transit  a nice down payment, but not enough to fundamentally change the trajectory of the USs ailing public transit system, according to experts. The Build Back Better Act being debated in Congress right now would provide some additional funding for public transit. But it wont be nearly enough to address the estimated $176 billion backlog of repairs and improvements that civil engineers believe currently exists in the United States.There are lots of reasons to invest more money in public transit. But here is one more: It makes it easier for people, particularly those living in marginalized communities, to get to their doctor. Look at what happened in Minnesota.
What Beto ORourke has to overcome in Texas. Beto ORourke, the former Democratic Congress member from El Paso and 2020 presidential candidate, is officially running for governor in Texas. But while his statewide performance stunned during his 2018 Senate campaign, when he nearly unseated Republican Ted Cruz, his record and Texass current political climate make him a long-shot candidate.ORourke is perhaps the most well-known Texas Democrat, having built up a local and national profile over the course of two campaigns in three years. But Texas is tough for any Democrat to crack. There have been three decades of Republican hegemony in the state, and even the most ideal Democratic candidate would be seen as an underdog.ORourkes strong performance against Cruz is proof of his talent as a politician, but he faces an even harder race than he did in 2018 when he was a little-known congressman introducing himself to voters by driving to all 254 Texas counties. This time, ORourkes past positions, particularly his stance on guns, may prove a burden as he tries to persuade voters on the margins that he is a good alternative to incumbent Gov. Greg Abbott. And Abbott might prove to be a more formidable opponent than ORourke has faced in the past. Abbott is not beyond reproach given his divisive response to several statewide crises, including the pandemic and a catastrophic winter storm that left millions in the cold and hundreds dead. But Abbott is the favorite to win in recent polls, has a robust fundraising machine, and has higher approval numbers than Cruz did in 2018.Whats more, there is no blue wave for ORourke to ride this time. Republicans have made gains in Texas since 2018, President Joe Biden is historically unpopular, and Democrats appear to be facing a challenging midterm election season nationally. ORourke might be the strongest challenger Texas Democrats have put forth in decades. But to win, hell need to overcome long odds, due to his reputation and Abbotts advantages among the voters that need the most convincing. The governors race isnt going to be about convincing partisans already entrenched in their views to switch sides. Itll be about turning out each partys base while wooing moderates and independents, said James Henson, director of the Texas Politics Project at the University of Texas at Austin.Unsurprisingly, ORourke appears to have a lock on Democrats, though their positive feelings toward him are not as fervent as Republicans negative views of him. Among the 78 percent  of Democrats who view him favorably, 47 percent view him very favorably and 31 percent somewhat favorably, according to the Texas Politics Project. Those numbers, though, are likely to improve for ORourke as Democrats begin to view him as a candidate and their standard-bearer again, Henson said. Notably, ORourke hasnt had trouble inspiring voters to show up for him; he helped fuel an 18 percent increase in turnout in 2018. This time, he has the opportunity to mobilize an estimated 7 million Texans who didnt vote in 2020. Registering and turning out new voters may be more difficult than in the past; Texas now has one of the most restrictive voting laws in the country passed by state Republicans earlier this year. The bill imposes a slew of new restrictions on 24-hour polling locations, drive-thru voting, voting by mail, and sending voters mail-in ballot applications. Opponents of the law have argued that it will disproportionately impact voters of color, who helped fuel ORourkes 2018 campaign and who hed again need to win the governors race.A University of Texas-Texas Tribune poll found that, in a head-to-head matchup, voters preferred Abbott to ORourke 46 percent to 37 percent. Neither candidate is particularly popular with independents, who make up roughly 11 percent of the electorate, but Abbott has a 5 percentage point edge with them and 27 percent support him. ORourkes record may prove to be a double-edged sword in persuading voters on the margins: He has also already turned people off. I think the presidential campaign ultimately was a net negative, mostly because of the way that it sharpened his negatives among Republicans and independents in Texas, Henson said. It gave his ideological opponents more ammunition for defining him. One issue that has emerged as an early flashpoint is ORourkes comments on guns during a Democratic presidential debate in 2019. Hell, yes, were going to take your AR-15, your AK-47, he said when asked about his position on mandatory buybacks of assault-style weapons in the wake of a deadly mass shooting in El Paso. Its a statement that Abbott, who signed a bill earlier this year allowing most Texans to carry a handgun without a license, has already sought to use against him in courting Texass many gun owners. ORourke told the Texas Tribune that he isnt backing down from his position, arguing that responsible gun owners can vigorously protect that Second Amendment right and also protect the lives of those around us. That seems to be in line with public opinion: A 2019 UT Tyler poll found that more Texans  about 49 percent  supported mandatory buybacks of military-style assault weapons than the roughly 29 percent who opposed it. But troubling for ORourke is the fact that independents were less favorable toward buybacks, with just 39 percent supporting them and roughly a third opposing them. Thats just one of the ways in which he might be forced to relitigate his positions in order to persuade voters in the middle. Texas independents have largely disapproved of Bidens handling of the economy and the border, and may see ORourke as sharing the presidents approach. Still, there are areas ORourke could capitalize on. For instance, Abbotts response to Covid-19 and last years winter storm have been particularly polarizing: As of March, Texans were nearly evenly divided over whether they trusted Abbott to keep their community safe from the pandemic and whether he did well in responding to the power and water outages during the storm. ORourke is already starting to emphasize those issues in his campaign, claiming that Texans were abandoned by those elected to serve them. But its not yet clear whether those attacks will mobilize voters in the middle.Overall, however, Abbott is a stronger opponent than any ORourke has faced before in the state.Particularly in a state as large as Texas, money matters, and Abbott had amassed a whopping $55.1 million in his campaign war chest as of June. That number will have likely significantly increased by the time his next campaign finance reports are released. By comparison, ORourke, also a skilled fundraiser, ended up raising $80 million for his 2018 Senate bid, outpacing Cruz by nearly $35 million (and still ultimately losing the race by 2 percentage points). In his first 24 hours after announcing his candidacy for governor, ORourke had raised more than $2 million, but Abbott has a sizeable head start. Abbott also has a passionate base. He embraced the policies and rhetoric of former President Donald Trump, becoming a prominent national right-wing figure who has waded into battles with the Biden administration over issues ranging from immigration to vaccine mandates. These are issues that many Texas Republicans prioritize. For instance, Abbott set off on a misleading quest to construct a border wall on his own (the taxpayer funds hell use for the effort are enough for only a few miles of wall, at most) and has falsely claimed that migrants are behind Covid-19 surges. On Monday, he went to court to challenge the Biden administrations requirement that all companies with at least 100 employees ensure their workers are vaccinated or undergo weekly testing. Those kinds of policies have built loyalty among Republicans, but there are also cracks starting to show in Abbotts candidacy. A September 28 Quinnipiac poll found that his job approval rating had fallen to 44 percent, its lowest since 2018, and 51 percent said he did not deserve reelection, up from 48 percent in June. Thats largely due to overwhelmingly negative perceptions among Democrats and divisions among independents, with 43 percent approving and 47 percent disapproving. Still, Abbott remains more popular than Cruz was during his race against ORourke  in 2018, the senator had a 39 percent approval rating. Those numbers, however, may mean Abbott will have a tougher primary than ORourke. Hes already facing challenges from high-profile candidates, including former Texas Republican Party chair Allen West, with his most important challengers coming from his right. If he wins the Republican nomination  as he is expected to  he would be a formidable but not unassailable opponent.The current political context is very different from when ORourke last ran statewide in Texas. In 2018, he was able to capitalize on what turned out to be a blue wave nationally with Democrats harnessing public outrage against the Trump presidency to their advantage. In Texas alone, Democrats picked up 12 seats in the state house, flipped two congressional seats, and narrowed the margins in difficult districts. In 2021, there is no Trump to rally Democrats against. Nor is there a popular president: Bidens approval ratings have been underwater for months, slipping to 41 percent as of October. That rising concerns about inflation and supply chain disruptions have come at a moment when Democrats are in power doesnt help the partys position. And polling has shown that a slight majority of voters plan to vote for Republican candidates in the midterms. The Texas Republican Party also emerged from the 2020 election even stronger than it was before. Democrats didnt take the state house as they had hoped, giving Republicans the opportunity to redraw the state electoral maps in their favor for the next decade. Trump made significant inroads in heavily Latino border districts, throwing doubt on Democrats theory that the states changing demography will bring about an inevitable blue wave. And Republicans felt the results gave them a clear mandate, marking the return of culture war-type issues that most energize their base in the Texas legislature. Texas Democrats plan to fight those forces includes highlighting Bidens key legislative initiatives: the bipartisan $550 billion infrastructure bill signed earlier this week and the upcoming reconciliation bill that is still being negotiated. Its going to change and affect so many lives in Texas, said Angelica Luna Kaufman, the senior communications director for the Texas Democratic Party. Its something that resonates with working families in Texas. Its something that our candidates feel very strongly about. But they are also planning to point out the ways in which they believe Abbott has failed Texans, including his efforts to fight health and safety measures amid the pandemic. Still, ORourke and his party are facing significant headwinds. They are going to need something to shake this race up from the fundamentals and from the national structural environment, which is obviously, as of now, heavily favoring Republicans, Henson said. Its gonna be hard for him to overcome that, despite what talents and relative advantages he does bring to the table.
Cowboy Bebop, explained. Halfway through the fifth episode of Cowboy Bebop, the seminal late 90s anime series about a roguish bounty hunter fighting crime and traveling through space, the show explains itself. A title card briefly appears on screen, and we see what looks like a pitch for the very show were in the middle of watching.This is not a kind of Space Opera, the card reads, referring to the by-then-well-trodden genre of epic spaceship flyovers and majestic, exotic fantasy worlds in the far reaches of the galaxy. It is a sort of Space Jazz which is filled with street sense and life. The card acknowledges past media portrayals of space exploration such as Star Wars and Apollo 13 (along with esoterica and cheeky metaphors) but stresses this story is different: We show you a completely new visual world, it promises.In 1998, with Japanese animation enjoying a golden age and sci-fi moving toward a resurgence, Cowboy Bebop wasnt completely new, either aesthetically or narratively, but it was close enough to capture the hearts of legions of fans and become widely acknowledged as one of the most important anime series ever created. If youre an anime fan, even if youve never watched the show, you definitely know its main character, well-dressed bounty hunter Spike Spiegel; its famous opening-theme music; and its tagline  See you, space cowboy. And, crucially, whether youre an anime fan or not, you likely know its influence.On November 19, Netflix debuts a new, live-action reboot of Cowboy Bebop starring John Cho that looks a lot like some cultural touchstones: Firefly, Kill Bill, Guardians of the Galaxy. Some of these well-loved properties may well have been influenced by the original anime series, both visually and in plotting. But while many stories have followed in Bebops wake, few have done it better. Cowboy Bebop was one of the first anime series to not only prove there was an adult audience for mature anime stories, but also to break through to mainstream adult audiences in the US.That loyal fanbase means theres a lot riding on Netflixs new adaptation: pressure to maintain the spirit of the original show while paving the way for more live-action anime adaptations to come.How well does it compare to the original, and why does it all matter? Read on to find out. Okay, 321, lets jam!Cowboy Bebop was the brainchild of director Shinichir Watanabe, who created the original series in the 90s on behalf of the Japanese toy and entertainment company Bandai. At the time, despite serious genre-elevating films like Akira (1988) and the works of Studio Ghibli, anime was still very much a medium for childrens storytelling, and Bandai wanted Watanabe to create a show that would popularize spaceship toys. The show Watanabe came up with was hardly the fun childrens spaceship series Bandai expected. Sure, the animation was engaging and often beautiful, and the characters  a gang of bounty hunters with spurious pasts, led by Spike and his partner Jet Black, pitted against a criminal mastermind called Vicious  had plenty of universal appeal. But the story was violent, veering from comedic to existential, and each character had depth that was rare for anime of the period. Though the show was episodic, the main storyline was dark, with themes of sexuality and death and a resolution that left little room for a second season. The toy division pulled out, and the project languished in production limbo for a few years until Bandais animation vertical, Bandai Entertainment, took it over. It gave free reign to Watanabe and the shows animation studio, Sunrise. The result was a show unlike most anime of the time. Mainstream anime series of the era tended toward sprightly adaptations of shounen manga starring preteen boys  sports and adventure fantasies such as Gundam Wing  and Dragon Ball Z, all aimed squarely at children and teen viewers. The most popular series were long-running and episodic. Bebop, by contrast, was a self-contained single season focused on adult characters, with sophisticated themes and a strong emphasis on aesthetic alongside plot.Music was front and center. Episodes were called sessions (after recording sessions), with each ones title and musical cues referencing a different jazz or rock icon  everyone from Herbie Hancock to Aerosmith. Musician Yoko Kanno created the shows soundscape by pairing jazz and rock music with familiar visual action tropes; the improvisational style of 50s-era bebop serves as a sonic analogue for our heroes rough-and-tumble lifestyle. Bebop even doubles as the name of Spikes spaceship.Though Bebops highly stylized, jazzy fight scenes might seem routine to viewers, thanks to the countless works that have imitated them since, they were new and innovative at the time. The self-aware, genre-melding tone was also refreshing: The series was a hybrid of influences from film noir to spaghetti Westerns to grindhouse movies, and continually dropped in explicit references to other pop culture, from geek favorites like Star Trek and Flash Gordon to Beverly Hills, 90210. Character designer Toshihiro Kawamoto modeled the characters styles after 70s action icons such as Japanese actor Ysaku Matsuda and Pam Grier.With its bounty hunters dubbed cowboys, the show presented a modern-day example of the space western, a sci-fi subgenre combining the aesthetics and tropes of spaceship adventures and Wild West frontiers. But it also drew heavy inspiration from popular anime franchise Lupin III, which features a similar ensemble of rogues and misfits wreaking havoc in a seedy underworld setting. Essentially, by combining one subgenre with many other genres, putting a self-referential spin on it, and adding in deep character building and storytelling, Bebop became something new.Cowboy Bebop seemed unlikely to find an audience at first. Again, most televised anime of the late 90s, in both Japan and the US, was designed for children to consume. Originally, a highly censored and incoherent version of the series aired on anime network TV Tokyo in 1998, with only 12 of 26 episodes making it to broadcast. A few months later, a late-night cable channel finally began airing the series in full, where it caught the attention of not only adult Japanese fans but also US anime distributors. With its target audience acquired, Cowboy Bebop became primed to reach US anime fans at a crucial moment for the medium.In the early 2000s, anime exploded in popularity, all thanks to the internet. For the first time in history, instead of having to wait months and years for Japanese manga and anime to be licensed and sold overseas, where it was often heavily edited and badly dubbed, international fans independently distributed, translated, and subbed works on their own. However, as controversial as anime bootlegging was and still is (as pirated content is never uncomplicated for the creators), the rise of fansubbing was a watershed moment for the spread of Japanese pop culture around the globe, and it played a major role in getting US distributors to take anime seriously. Among them was Cartoon Network, which had begun championing anime in the US in the late 90s with its daily Toonami programming block. At the turn of the new century, however, the network wanted to launch something new.September 2001 may not have been the best month in history to launch a daring new animated-content vertical aimed entirely at adults, but thats just what Cartoon Network did with its iconic Adult Swim block of programming. Alongside edgy comedies such as Aqua Teen Hunger Force, Cowboy Bebop was the first Japanese series chosen for the lineup. An edited, TV-14 version of the series premiered on September 2, 2001  and then immediately had to be censored following the 9/11 attacks, thanks to episodes that included scenes of hijacking, civilian deaths, and even a skyscraper collapsing due to a bomb.Still, Cartoon Network had chosen Bebop to appeal to adult fans of animation and anime, and the gambit worked. Not only did Adult Swim become a cultural cornerstone  hardly a guarantee for a programming block aimed at a historically mocked demographic  but Cowboy Bebop became one of its signature shows. It eventually aired in full and, despite being only one season, has run near-continuously since 2001. The original series is currently available for streaming on the Adult Swim website.Both Adult Swim and Cowboy Bebop played huge roles in mainstreaming anime in the US.   Cowboy Bebops many pop and genre references cemented it within geek culture, and as anime conventions really began to take off in the early 2000s, the show was dominant, with characters from Bebop becoming cosplay mainstays. In 2002, when Joss Whedons Firefly  a live-action series about spaceship-flying bounty hunters called cowboys  began airing on Sci-Fi, it drew immediate comparisons to Bebop and helped spread the earlier shows influence even further.The Firefly versus Bebop debate  were the two shows actually in conversation, or were the similarities just a coincidence?  inadvertently placed Bebop within a larger ongoing debate about the tendency of US media to crib from anime and other East Asian media. At best, this cultural osmosis has led to a few wins  consider Martin Scorseses The Departed, based on the superb Chinese action trilogy Infernal Affairs, or Quentin Tarantinos pattern of pastiche/homage to Asian cinema and anime. But more frequently, it seems to result in live-action adaptations of Asian stories that appear to have little respect for the original and often seem unrecognizable to fans.Enter Netflix  which has a lot riding on changing the state of live-action anime adaptations.Since the series was announced, the producers of Netflixs live-action Bebop have been promising fans that it would be a faithful and loving homage to the original. Its likely, however, that such vows wouldnt convince long-time anime lovers; theyve heard that before, only to be met with notoriously awful adaptations in the past. There was the unspeakably bad Dragonball: Evolution (2009), or the 2017 film Ghost in the Shell, which has heavily criticized for changing the race of its Japanese main character in order to cast Scarlett Johansson. Even relatively faithful adaptations, like the 2018 Bleach reboot, have been mostly forgettable and bland.And then there are the adaptations Netflix has overseen, which have met with mixed success. At the extreme no end of the scale, we have Netflixs Death Note (2017), another controversial flop. The film both whitewashed one main character and wasted LaKeith Stanfield as the other, all while jettisoning the plot of the source material and perhaps torpedoing the career of respected director Adam Wingard.Netflixs failure with Death Note was so harped-on among fans that it overshadows some of the more recent successful live-action anime adaptation efforts. Among them are two 2021 films that bookend a spectacular adaptation of the landmark samurai anime Rurouni Kenshin, and which Netflix distributed earlier this year to raves from critics and fans. Much like Cowboy Bebop, Kenshin, which debuted in 1996, was a major influence over the genre, and the adaptations retain the look of the original historical fantasy while pairing it with slick, mesmerizing fight sequences: think John Wick meeting Shogun-era Japan.Theres a bit of a similar sensibility in the new Bebop, which faithfully follows the plot of the original while deepening its world-building and characterizations and delivering fun, raucous action sequences. Fans have been simultaneously worried the live-action version would be too much like the original Bebop  based on the title credits, which are almost identical to the original  and not enough like the original Bebop. Daniella Pineda, who stars as amnesiac bounty hunter Faye Valentine, garnered praise and criticism after dismissing fans who were unhappy her costume wasnt as sexy as that of the original (quelle surprise). One fan described the trailer for the original as a fan film by somebody who watched a best of moments clip on YouTube and then had somebody explain the rest of the plot to them.Thats a heady brew of expectations to work with. The new series clearly demonstrates that Netflix learned several major lessons from its Death Note failure, beginning with not whitewashing the main character and not straying too far from the vision of the original series. The acting is top-notch and the set design and visual palate of the new series are just as sumptuous as the original series, with a colorful aesthetic and, yes, plenty of jazz. There are countless details recreated from the original anime, as well as several shot-for-shot scenes.Still, critics have largely panned the new series, arguing that what changes it did make were much for the worse, drastically weakening the shows sophisticated center by losing itself in its self-aware glitz  simultaneously a paint-by-numbers copy of the original and not faithful enough.Getting this formula right is a huge deal for Netflix  not just because of its investment in Cowboy Bebop but because of what comes next: One Piece. The franchise includes perhaps the bestselling manga ever, with sales in league with much older comic book greats like Batman. Its long-running anime spinoff is wildly popular and may finally be winding down after nearly two decades on the air in Japan. Meanwhile, Netflix has been increasingly investing in its Asian marketing, targeting viewers in regions like Japan, India, and South Korea as its Asian audience balloons.All of this makes Netflixs upcoming live-action One Piece adaptation one of its most potentially lucrative series yet  if it can convince anime fans that it wont do a hack job. In this light, the relative success or failure of Bebop is crucial. Its probably no coincidence that the platform recently announced the casting for One Piece, right as buzz for Bebop is peaking.Whats less certain is whether audiences will flock to the new Bebop or whether the mix of fan adaptations for the show will prove too much to overcome. But whatever happens, the fact that Netflix is rolling out the red carpet for Spike Spiegel and his friends proves that the original series is alive and well. See you, space cowboy.
Yes, plant-based meat is better for the planet. Plant-based meat has gone mainstream. The Impossible Burger, which debuted at a single restaurant five years ago, is now on Burger Kings permanent menu. And McDonalds is testing its McPlant burger, featuring a Beyond Meat patty, in select US locations. Both plant-based startups are now veterans in a product category that did $1.4 billion in sales and grew 27 percent in 2020. Under the tagline Eat Meat. Save the Planet, Impossible Foods claims its soy-based burger uses 87 percent less water, takes 96 percent less land, and has 89 percent lower greenhouse gas emissions than a beef burger. Beyond Meat makes similar claims about its pea-based burgers. This matters because animal agriculture contributes around 15 percent of global greenhouse emissions, and experts agree that without a major shift away from meat in our diets, we wont be able to meet the global communitys climate targets. The promise of plant-based faux meats is that consumers will be able to keep enjoying the foods they love, but with a far lower climate footprint. Twice a week, well send you a roundup of the best ideas and solutions for tackling the worlds biggest challenges  and how to get better at doing good. Sign up here.But an increasing number of researchers, food critics, and environmental groups are casting doubt on these types of claims, warning that faux meat production still relies on industrial farming practices. They claim that we dont know enough about these relatively new products to say for certain if theyre better for the environment than the meat they are trying to replace. One recent whitepaper from an environmental NGO states that the above claims from faux meat companies are unproven, and some clearly untrue. A sustainability analyst quoted in the New York Times goes further, claiming that the companies secrecy about their production methods means that We dont feel we have sufficient information to say Beyond Meat is fundamentally different from JBS. (JBS is the worlds largest meat producer).But years of research on the environmental impact of food make one thing clear: Plant proteins, even if processed into imitation burgers, have smaller climate, water, and land impacts than conventional meats. Apart from environmental impact, reducing meat production would also reduce animal suffering and the risk of both animal-borne disease and antibiotic resistance. The criticisms against the new wave of meatless meat appear to be more rooted in broad opposition to food technology rather than a true environmental accounting  and they muddy the waters in the search for climate solutions at a time when clarity is sorely needed. Americans eat well over 200 pounds of meat each per year, and its accelerating us along a collision course with climate catastrophe. While many other countries eat far less meat, global appetites are catching up quickly, spurred especially by the growing affluence of the rising middle class in Asia and Latin America. Fossil fuels do make up a far greater proportion of emissions in the US and globally, but even if we reduced energy emissions down to zero, demand for meat and dairy alone could make us exceed critical levels of global warming. That makes shifting diets away from meat a critical tool in preventing global temperatures from rising above 1.5C or 2C by 2100. There are a number of reasons for meats outsized ecological footprint. The first is that cows belch out methane created from fermenting grassy food in their multi-chambered stomachs. With a billion and a half cows on the planet  raised for both beef and dairy  that adds up to about 9 percent of all global greenhouse gas emissions alone.Although pigs and chickens, the two most farmed species on the planet, dont belch methane, they still produce lots of manure  and that generates nitrous oxide, another potent greenhouse gas. They also need to eat fertilized crops, like corn and soy, which generate more emissions. And while all cattle graze on grass, most in the United States are eventually fattened for slaughter on feedlots where they too eat corn and soy.Feeding all of these crops to animals is far less efficient than feeding them more directly to humans. For example, every 12 calories from corn and soy fed to a pig provides just one calorie of meat back. The proposition of plant-based meats is that they cut out the animal, allowing more efficient use of land and resources.Different animal products have vastly different emissions. For instance, pigs and chickens emit far less than cows and sheep. But according to recent peer-reviewed research from the University of Oxford and Johns Hopkins University, which compiled several estimates, all of these animal foods (except some chicken) generate more emissions than plant-based meats. (Editors note: Jan Dutkiewicz, one of the authors of this article, was a co-author on the Johns Hopkins paper.)This research consisted of meta-analyses of multiple life-cycle assessments, or LCAs, which measure the total environmental impact of a product. While some of the plant-based meat estimates were commissioned by the faux meat companies themselves, including Beyond and Impossible, others were not, and all used internationally agreed-upon LCA standards for accounting of every emission source throughout processing. Even the lowest-emitting beef from dedicated beef herds (34 kg carbon dioxide equivalent, or CO2e) and lower-emitting beef from dairy cow herds (15 kg CO2e) came in far above the highest-emitting tofu (4 kg CO2e) and plant-based meat (7 kg). Chicken and pork production emit far less CO2 equivalent than beef. And while there is some overlap (the lowest-emitting chicken [3.2 kg CO2e] and pork [6 kg CO2e] rival the emissions of the highest-emitting plant-based meat), the average emissions of tofu and plant-based meats are still lower than the average emissions of both chicken and pork. Of course, climate emissions arent the only environmental impacts from food. Producing animal-based food also requires large quantities of fresh water. For instance, one kilogram of pork requires 442 liters of water, versus 84 liters for one kilogram of plant-based meat. Similarly, producing beef, pork, and chicken requires far more land and causes much more pollution to waterways than plant-based alternatives. Despite the clear evidence that plant-based meats are generally better for the environment, criticism persists, and some of it is rooted in techno-skepticism  the attitude that because most plant-based meat is made using similar industrial farming and food-processing techniques as animal meat, it too is highly problematic. Its true that just like feed crops for farm animals, most faux meats are made with soy or wheat (or peas, in the case of Beyond Meat), and are grown as monoculture crops, meaning theyre grown in large fields that consist of just one mechanically farmed plant. Monoculture farming has long been criticized by environmental advocates for causing soil degradation and requiring a lot of pesticides, among other problems. A further extension of the criticism is that monocultured crops are usually the product of genetic modification, or GMOs.While the safety of genetic modification itself has been well established, some of the intensive farming practices associated with growing certain GMO crops have come under fire from environmental NGOs and champions of organic farming. Plant-based meat companies take very different stances on using GMOs, with Impossible Foods embracing the technology and Beyond Meat going GMO-free. However, the vast majority of chicken and pork requires more crops in the form of animal feed than what is contained in an equivalent serving of plant-based meat  and thats almost always more monoculture GMO crops. Paradoxically, if you want to eat something meaty, a great way to reduce your monoculture (and GMO) intake is to eat faux meats.To be sure, exclusively grass-fed beef doesnt use any monocultured feed. But its sold at a premium price, and scaling up its production to meet current demand for beef would require multiple times more land than is already used, making this a dead-end proposition (unless we also drastically reduce consumption).Critics of plant-based meat have also pointed out that it tends to be highly processed. No doubt, most plant-based meats are not health foods, due to their high saturated fat and salt (though beef and pork, too, are high in saturated fat). But processed foods is a vague and often ill-defined term that encompasses everything from high-fructose corn syrup to whole-grain pasta to yogurt, and has little bearing on foods environmental impact. As Voxs Kelsey Piper has written, the term processed food can obscure more than it clarifies when it comes to the debate over plant-based meat. The final major critique of plant-based meat revolves around transparency. This critique is raised both by some food NGOs and by a niche group of professional ESG (environmental, social, governance) corporate analysts. These analysts are paid by conscientious investors to rank companies by the riskiness of their supply chains. This is an important and growing space, but corporate ESG analysis still has major problems and limitations.Some corporate sustainability analysts have criticized plant-based companies like Impossible Foods and Beyond Meat for not precisely and continuously reporting climate impacts across their supply chains, like packaging, transporting, and processing. As noted earlier, when speaking to the New York Times for a recent article, one ESG analyst said that Beyond Meat and JBS are not fundamentally different. One academic researcher called these products a black box, claiming that much of what is in these products is undisclosed. These kinds of statements are hyperbolic, akin to saying a gas-guzzling SUV and an electric car are similar because the companies that make them dont reveal the emissions that come from producing the specific microchips they use.Its true that ingredient labels cant tell us precisely where and under what conditions a given ingredient, like soybeans or coconut oil, was grown, and most meat and faux-meat companies dont disclose emissions throughout their entire supply chain and manufacturing. These details arent trivial, and emissions across manufactured food production can likely stand to be improved. But because corporate ESG is a niche space, its demands for transparency often revolve around details that investors want to see, including small tweaks and changes in production processes, while potentially missing the lions share of the real environmental impacts. When it comes to plant-based burgers, we already know most of the impacts and where they are coming from. According to FDA regulations, food companies must list all ingredients on product labels, meaning that much of the black box of plant-based protein can be unlocked simply by looking at the back of a package. Labels on conventional meat also do not disclose all the inputs and processes that went into producing it. If youre eating a Beyond Burger, you might not know exactly where its peas come from or how it was packaged, but you would know that peas were the most-used crop ingredient. If youre eating canned pork from Hormel, the maker of Spam  which one sustainability analysis firm rated as much lower-risk than Beyond Meat when it comes to their reputational risks like harming workers or the environment  you nonetheless wouldnt know what their pigs ate or, for that matter, how those pigs were treated.The fact is that the overwhelming majority of the environmental impacts of our food are a result of what happens on farms, not in manufacturing or shipping. For example, a local, grass-fed burger is going to cause more emissions than, say, a pea-based burger or manufactured block of tofu trucked in from 1,000 miles away. With meat, most of the impact is from the cow belches, the feed crop production, the polluting manure, and the deforestation required to make way for ever-increasing production. As seen in the chart above, packaging and transport emissions across different kinds of meats and plant foods are pretty consistent, never going above 2 kg CO2e per kg of product. However, the emissions for land use, farming, and feed range greatly among foods, from 0.7 kg CO2e for peas to more than 57 kg CO2e for beef. Put differently, packaging, transport, and processing make up a large percentage of tofus emissions only because soys overall production emissions are already very low. In order for plant-based meats to even approach beefs environmental impact, they would need to have a manufacturing footprint at least 10 times higher than that of tofu. All of these criticisms may have more to do with techno-skepticism than scientific rigor. The discourse against technological frankenfoods is a longstanding one that contrasts bucolic images of real food and real farms with labs, factories, and smog. The real story isnt so simple. And while many of the harms from food production are industrial in origin, we can also thank technology for major advances in food safety like pasteurization  and for the creation of faux meats that, while imperfect, give people a more sustainable alternative to animal-based meat. None of this is to say that makers of plant-based meat alternatives can shirk transparency. Companies that are serious about making big sustainability claims should strive to win the publics trust through greater transparency of their entire production chains, including not simply emissions but other impacts like labor practices and manufacturing waste. Nonetheless, we currently know enough to conclude that plant-based meats climate impacts are smaller than those of conventional meat, even if the precision of their monitoring could be improved. Beyond climate and pollution, there are a host of other impacts corporate sustainability evaluators and public interest groups should consider in their assessments, including animal-borne disease and animal welfare.Most meat eaten by Americans comes from concentrated animal feeding operations (CAFOs) where animals have scant legal protections. This barren legal landscape has led to a race to the bottom on animal welfare, resulting in animals bred to grow so fast that their vital organs can painfully lose function, or they can barely walk without pain. Animals natural behaviors are restricted by confining them in cages too small to turn around or spread their wings. Its unsurprising, then, that footage depicting neglect and mistreatment of pigs, chickens, and cows on industrial farms has caused reputational damage to the food companies that were unaware of or unconcerned about practices on the farms from which they source. For instance, the dairy company Fairlife faced protests and lawsuits after undercover footage apparently showed abuse at a farm from which it sourced milk.Because of this reputational risk, the meat lobby has pushed states to pass ag-gag laws criminalizing private investigations and whistleblowing on animal farms, which have only worsened the pressing transparency issue across North American animal farms. Another risk in factory farming (for which theres no equivalent in plant-based food manufacturing) is pandemic risk. The confined conditions that create animal welfare problems on intensive farms also increase the risk of animal-borne diseases. Thousands of animals are kept in quarters close to each other and their waste, allowing pathogens ample opportunity to propagate and undergo mutations that can jump to workers and communities near production facilities.Spillover of avian flu strains from chickens to humans is an ever-present possibility, which has seen sporadic outbreaks around the world, exacerbated by the closely confined and often unsanitary conditions in which billions of chickens live on meat and egg farms.And diseases that dont spread to humans are also a near-constant risk to the business of industrial farming and our food supply. The ongoing African Swine Fever pandemic alone has claimed the lives of hundreds of millions of pigs, with preventative pig culling the only existing measure to control disease spread, causing tens of billions of dollars in losses in Asia alone.Antibiotic resistance is another potentially existential threat that can emerge on industrial animal farms. Antibiotics are a basic and critical tool in modern medicine and also our last line of defense against many diseases. However, the majority of antibiotics produced globally are used on farmed animals to prevent bacterial outbreaks and boost animal growth, and their chronic use creates new antibiotic-resistant strains of harmful and potentially deadly bacteria. Already, 700,000 people die each year of antibiotic-resistant bacteria, including 35,000 in the United States. The World Health Organization has specifically called for the phaseout of farms unnecessary antibiotic use to reduce this risk because we dont have an alternative  an antibiotics 2.0  if antibiotic resistance keeps increasing as it has.Disease and animal mistreatment are directly relevant to sustainability and to companies material and reputational risks, but meat companies have generally sought to avoid addressing them as they would make their operations more costly and less efficient.Sustainability firms and other industry watchdogs, meanwhile, have not quantified these impacts, with some exceptions. There are a few reasons for this, including that its difficult to put concrete numbers on risks of zoonotic disease outbreaks (which are sporadic and hard to predict), as well as animal welfare. If sustainability firms could track companies non-climate risks better, we may have very different conceptions regarding which have riskier production processes and which are more sustainable.More broadly, there is a pressing need to widen the debate over food sustainability. Fish, for instance, may have lower greenhouse gas emissions, but overfishing is harming fragile ocean ecosystems. Replacing beef with chicken might reduce climate emissions, but chickens are raised in worse conditions, have more viral outbreaks, and are given more than three times the antibiotics that cattle are  and far more chickens would have to be killed to create the same amount of meat. If emissions, animal welfare, and disease risks were all considered, neither chicken nor beef looks all that good. Narrow sustainability measurements and techno-skepticism have clouded the public conversation about plant-based meats. Claims that these products might not be much better for the environment than meat goes against extensive, peer-reviewed research.This is not to say that Beyond and Impossible burgers are the optimal choice. Taking a broad view of sustainability that includes emissions, environmental impacts, animal welfare, and animal-borne disease risk mitigation, the clear winner is a diet based on whole plant foods  just vegetables, grains, fruits, and legumes. Such a diet, widely recommended by environmental groups like the World Wildlife Fund, is likely best for individual and planetary health. But plant-based meats are designed to fill a role that just plants often cant: easily appealing to meat-loving taste buds and dietary habits with little culinary finessing required. The additional environmental price paid for this convenience and pleasure still leaves faux meats far better for the planet (and animals) than conventional meats. The science there is clear.Matthew Hayek is an assistant professor of environmental science in the department of Environmental Studies at New York University and Affiliated Faculty at the NYU Center for Data Science.Jan Dutkiewicz is a policy fellow at the Animal Law and Policy Program at Harvard Law School and a postdoctoral researcher with the Swiss National Science Foundation.
The Federalist Societys newest enemy: Corporate America. Massive corporations are pursuing a common and mutually agreed upon agenda to destroy American freedom, attorney Ashley Keller told a gathering of the most powerful legal organization in America last Saturday. This conspiracy, Keller claimed, includes companies as varied as Facebook, Google, Amazon, Coca-Cola, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan, Twitter, and Walmart, all of which have joined forces with the swelling ranks of so-called woke people, who are completely and unabashedly opposed to individual rights.Defenders of freedom must face reality, Keller insisted, before adding the nations top advocacy group for big business to his list of enemies. The Chamber of Commerce is not our friend. The C-suite grandees who finance it are not our friends either. They were erstwhile allies of convenience  and they are now the enemies of a freedom-loving people.Its the sort of conspiratorial thinking one might expect to hear on the Alex Jones Show, or perhaps from disciples of QAnon. But Mr. Kellers audience was not an ordinary online crowd.Keller is a Harvard graduate who clerked on the Supreme Court of the United States, and his audience was the Federalist Society, an organization whose members dominate the federal judiciary and especially the nations highest court. He spoke to a conference packed with some of the most influential lawyers and judges in the country  the conferences speaker list includes more than two dozen sitting federal appellate judges, and I spotted numerous other judges just wandering the conventions halls.When someone speaks at the Federalist Societys annual gathering, they speak directly to many of the most powerful people in the country, some of whom literally have the power to order the Societys enemies to comply with its wishes. And while those wishes arent clearly defined yet, the enemy increasingly is. Over the three-day span of the Federalist Societys annual convention, attendees were warned of unprecedented threats to human flourishing, all driven by cultural leftists who have taken over public and private schools, universities, and even big business in order to impose their woke agenda on an unwilling public. Even the theme of the conference  Public and Private Power: Preserving Freedom or Preventing Harm?  hinted that something has gone horribly wrong in the private sector.Never before in nearly half a century, have we seen all levels of government so blatantly disregarding the Constitution and our civil rights laws, and at such a furious pace, said Kimberly Hermann, a lawyer who sues public schools on behalf of conservative causes, at a panel denouncing diversity, equity, and inclusion-based curricula.Vivek Ramaswamy, a young biotech executive and author of Woke, Inc.: Inside Corporate Americas Social Justice Scam, claimed that the woke movement in the United States, and corporations that appeal to it, undermine Americas geopolitical standing against China. Adam Candeub, a professor at Michigan State University College of Law, complained about Facebook and Twitters controversial decision to suppress content about a dubiously sourced story about President Joe Bidens son Hunter. Less convincingly, he complained about several big tech companies decision to temporarily block the conservative social media site Parler after January 6. As Amazon explained after it removed Parler from its web hosting service, it did so because the conservative social media site refused to pull down content that threatens the public safety, such as by inciting and planning the rape, torture, and assassination of named public officials and private citizens. And yet, for Candeub, these incidents were proof that all conservatives are threatened and something needed to be done to rein in tech companies. If trends continue, Candeub told the Federalist Society audience, youll be de-platformed.Its a stunning rhetorical shift from a fanatically pro-free market organization thats traditionally pushed a hands-off approach to business. Historically, the society has sought to undermine corporate regulation, and that has lionized decisions like Citizens United v. FEC (2010), which permits corporations to spend unlimited sums of money to influence elections. The Federalist Societys conference typically features panels warning about systematic regulatory overreach against regulated industries. But now the society appears to have lost confidence in the very free market system it spent decades celebrating. In a market society, economists Milton and Rose Friedman wrote in 1979, the consumer is protected from being exploited by one seller by the existence of another seller from whom he can buy and who is eager to sell to him. In theory, if one company adopts woke branding that offends its customers, then the market will deliver those customers into the waiting arms of a competitor.Yet, rather than waiting for the hand of the market to deliver an invisible spanking to woke corporations, speaker after speaker at the Federalist Societys convention called for a central planner to intervene. As it turns out, the societys commitment to something as foundational as free market capitalism may be secondary to its desire to own the libs.The conference featured an array of angry speakers raging against private sector leftism, but it was often hard to figure out what, exactly, they were so mad about. Though a mix of panels on woke corporations, universities, and secondary schools warned of a multi-institutional effort to impose this ideology on the nation, many speakers never explained what they think this ideology entails. Those that did often described a woke person in caricatured terms.Newsweek opinion editor Josh Hammer defined the enemy  and he very pointedly used the word enemy  as the Ibram X. Kendi woke ideology extremists who are trying to poison and rot the minds of our children into hating themselves and hating their country to boot. Keller claimed that woketarians dont just oppose individual rights, they also believe that Americas founding was an immoral act and that the Bill of Rights is racist.Numerous speakers deployed the most potent weapon in the anti-woke advocates toolbox: the unrepresentative anecdote. Three speakers pointed to the same two incidents  the Hunter Biden article and the moves against Parler  as evidence that big tech is out of control. Speakers on three different panels complained about an incident where a Yale Law School student and Federalist Society member felt intimidated after a mid-level administrator pressured him to apologize for an email advertising a Trap House party where Popeyes chicken and basic bitch American-themed snacks would be served. Even when a speaker pointed to a specific incident that involved neither Yale nor Hunter Biden, moreover, they gave little reason to believe that any systemic problems exist.Hermann, for example, alleged that a school district in Illinois separated white and non-white teachers and gave them different teacher trainings. She also complained about a childrens book likening white privilege to a deal with the Devil  a book that has allegedly been taught in maybe a dozen classrooms and recommended to students in a few more. Yet, when she tried to show that these incidents were part of a broader pattern, her best evidence was that every single school district throughout this country is requiring teachers to take some sort of equity training. Ramaswamy, the Woke, Inc. author, even implied that laws banning discrimination on the basis of race, sex, religion, and national origin should be repealed. Not many people are willing to revisit the question of whether the law should protect classes such as these, Ramaswamy said, but I am.The conference, in other words, featured an array of speakers who created a general sense that values like diversity and inclusion have gone too far  including several who seemed to reject the very idea that these values are worth championing at all. But it was often hard to pin down exactly what wokism is, or what the Federalist Society plans to do about it.That said, many speakers brought up Milton Friedman, and specifically his views about the role of a corporation. Under the Friedman Doctrine, a corporate manager is the agent of the individuals who own the corporation, and thus must act in their interests  a duty that many speakers claimed was inconsistent with corporations playing politics. Ramaswamy, for example, warned against the woke executive who uses his or her seat of corporate power, and the shareholder resources associated with it, to advance a particular agenda.Its doubtful that the Federalist Society really wants to follow this argument to its logical conclusion. No speaker that I witnessed argued that corporations should be barred from lobbying law and policymakers. And the few speakers who mentioned Citizens United appeared to believe that it was correctly decided. For years, the Federalist Society elevated voices who believe that corporations should be free to spend money to elect Republicans or to lobby Congress to diminish the power of the EPA. And there is no reason to think that it will reverse course on these issues.But so many speakers at this years conference appeared convinced that certain choices corporations have made present such a unique threat that the ordinary rules of free speech should not apply. The undergirding principle behind so many of these speeches was that corporate free speech  and corporations ability to shape their own companies values  does not extend to actions that promote whatever the Federalist Society means when it uses the word woke.But even if we grant the premise that a corporation that promotes values like diversity is different in kind from a corporation that gives a million dollars to a Republican super PAC, its not even clear why corporate diversity initiatives and the like run counter to Friedmans theory of the corporation. Theres a perfectly plausible argument that when corporate executives make a woke comment, decline to provide services to a website that promotes political violence, or run an ad campaign featuring BLM supporters, theyre just exercising good business judgment.The Societys rage against woke corporations only makes sense if you imagine wokeism to exclude any real concept of social and economic justice. Amazons decision to block a single extremist website does nothing to allay the harsh working conditions in its warehouses. Corporate America is replete with companies that denounce a regressive bill in public then donate to conservative groups that help reelect these lawmakers in private. As the Roosevelt Institutes Kitty Richards told my colleague Emily Stewart, We should be skeptical of individual companies and their CEOs and shareholders talking about corporate tax rates or specific provisions that seem benevolent, because they are often trying to shape policy in a way that will affect their bottom lines positively.But lets take the arguments against woke capital offered by people like Keller and Ramaswamy at face value. Yes, corporations have always advocated for their own interests in the political arena, and this corporate speech often promotes the laissez-faire values that used to animate the Federalist Society. But there are, at the very least, anecdotal examples of big companies taking actions that enrage conservatives and delight liberals and Democrats.The assumption underlying so many of the Federalist Society speakers remarks is that, when companies hold diversity trainings or deny server space to websites like Parler, they are advancing the political views of corporate executives at the expense of the company itself. In Kellers words, woke capitalism is driven by CEOs who like the psychic income they get from virtue signaling, and who think that appealing to cultural leftists will appeal to all of the people who go to cocktail parties that New York Times folks like to go to.Perhaps. But if companies as diverse as Google, Coca-Cola, JPMorgan, and Walmart are all engaged in the kind of wokism Keller despises, he should at least consider the possibility that they are doing so because it is good business.The business case for wokism starts by looking at the political divide between younger and older voters.  According to the Pew Research Center, President Joe Biden beat former President Donald Trump by 30 points among voters between the ages of 18 and 29. He won voters aged 30 to 49 by 11 points. Trump, meanwhile, won voters aged 50 and older.This divide matters to corporate executives because young people wield a disproportionate influence over the market. As Ezra Klein has noted, advertisers are particularly interested in reaching the younger, Biden-supporting cohort of consumers because those younger consumers tend to have unsettled brand preferences. If you convince a young 30-something to buy a Ford truck, theres a good chance they will drive Ford trucks for the rest of their lives.This focus on young consumers has several implications. For one thing, it means that television studios will tend to produce content that appeals to the younger, more liberal audience that advertisers want to reach  thus causing Americas pop culture to embrace young peoples values. It also means that companies will try to market their products to people who share these values, even if such a campaign might alienate older consumers.Consider, for example, Nikes decision to make Colin Kaepernick, the former NFL player and racial justice activist, the centerpiece of a 2018 ad campaign. This campaign mystified many older consumers  an SSRS poll from that year found that just 26 percent of adults over 65 agreed with Nikes decision to feature Kaepernick. But Nike also knew that two-thirds of the companys customers are under 35, according to a report by CNN, and a plurality of this age cohort supported Nikes decision to feature Kaepernick. The views of older voters didnt matter to Nike. From a purely capitalist perspective, woke branding helped Nike sell shoes.Young people also care a great deal about diverse workplaces. A 2018 survey by the consulting firm Deloitte, for example, found that millennial and Gen Z employees working for employers perceived to have a diverse workforce are more likely to want to stay five or more years than those who say their companies are not diverse (69 percent to 27 percent). The same survey found that younger workers are more likely to remain at a company with a diverse management team.So companies that want to attract new consumers and recruit a talented workforce must appeal to younger individuals who largely reject the Federalist Societys values. That may lead to a number of corporate policies that offend people like Keller or Ramaswamy. And it may mean that companies like Google or Amazon risk an uprising among their software engineers if those companies get in bed with a site like Parler. But its hardly evidence that corporate executives are engaged in a conspiracy to promote wokism at the expense of their shareholders.Even if business leaders are wrong that appealing to young, left-leaning consumers is a good business plan, moreover, sanctioning these companies for doing so could require upending one of the most foundational principles of corporate law. Although corporate law typically does allow shareholders to sue the directors of a corporation if the shareholder believes that they are behaving counter to the corporations interests, corporate leaders benefit from something known as the business judgment rule, which ordinarily protects business-related decisions that are made in good faith.The law, in other words, is built on the premise that companies should be free to experiment with business tactics that may annoy some individuals, and the proper remedy if a company makes bad business decisions is that it will lose consumers to its competitors. Let the market work, rather than turning businesses over to a central planner.Although conservative rage against corporate wokeness was a centerpiece of the Federalist Societys gathering, its unclear what exactly the various speakers plan to do about it. Several speakers offered policy proposals, but there was no consensus around a single idea.Although several speakers expressed skepticism about efforts to foster racial diversity, some of them supported policies to promote what Northwestern law professor John McGinnis referred to as intellectual diversity  that is, policies encouraging institutions to hire political conservatives. That could mean affirmative action programs for conservatives, or something more akin to an anti-discrimination law protecting people with conservative views.Several speakers at a panel on Private Control Over Public Discussion pointed to an opinion last April by Justice Clarence Thomas, which argued that social media websites should be treated as common carriers and subjected to special regulations, including a general requirement to serve all comers  a standard that would require Twitter and Facebook to restore former President Donald Trumps accounts and that could potentially prevent these sites from refusing to link to disinformation or hate speech.Randy Barnett, a Georgetown law professor, offered a slightly different solution: Strip many social media companies of their ability to curate most of their own content, and require them to adhere to the same rules that apply to government censorship. Under this approach, Twitter or Facebook could still remove fraud, incitement to imminent lawlessness, personal threats of violence, or other unlawful harassment, obscenity, or child pornography, but would be unable to remove hate speech. Or speech that induces people to commit a crime such as invading the United States Capitol, so long as the crime is not imminent.At least one speaker suggested that lawmakers should rely on sanctions and menace to cow woke institutions into compliance. Hammer, the Newsweek editor, insisted that conservatives need to wield in state legislative chambers some degree of power to punish our enemies within the confines of the rule of law. In any event, the Societys members appear to be in an early stage of brainstorming how to target woke institutions and remake them in a more conservative image. Its not yet clear which specific policies will emerge from this process  or which ones will become law.But thats no reason for anyone who fears such an agenda to remain complacent. At the Federalist Societys 2015 convention, the speakers offered a similarly disjointed array of proposals to limit the power of federal agencies such as the Department of Labor or the Environmental Protection Agency. Though none of these proposals emerged as the Societys consensus view in 2015, the Federalist Societys views on agency power shaped the Trump White Houses decisions regarding who to appoint to the federal bench. By 2019, five members of the Supreme Court  a majority  had signed onto a doctrine known as nondelegation which could give the conservative Court a veto power over any regulation handed down by a federal agency.And then, just this month, the Supreme Court announced it would hear a case that is likely to implement this nondelegation doctrine  and that could gut the EPAs authority in the process.When the Federalist Society identifies an enemy, in other words, it is very good at convincing its judges to target that same enemy. And those judges now control the Supreme Court. 
Is therapy the best way to make the world happier?. When people think of ways to help the worlds poor, a few obvious ideas come to mind: giving them cash; preventing diseases like malaria through the distribution of bed nets and pills; treating HIV/AIDS in areas ravaged by those conditions; and other tactics that take aim at economic privation and infectious diseases.That focus is understandable and necessary  but what if it elides a different way of thinking about easing suffering in the world? What if there was a real opportunity to improve the lives of low-income people by devoting resources toward their mental well-being, too? A new report raises that intriguing prospect. Written by Michael Plant, Joel McGuire, and Barry Grimes of the Happier Lives Institute, a research center that aims to find evidence-based ways to improve happiness worldwide, the study looks at the role therapy can play in improving lives in the developing world.Twice a week, well send you a roundup of the best ideas and solutions for tackling the worlds biggest challenges  and how to get better at doing good. Sign up here.To date, global health efforts have mostly focused on illnesses of the body: malaria, vitamin deficiency, HIV/AIDS prevention, tuberculosis. Obviously, such diseases can affect the mind, and canonically mental illnesses like depression can take a physical toll. But historically, mental well-being has simply never gotten equal billing. Until 2015, the UNs Sustainable Development Goals didnt even include benchmarks for mental health, even as they focused heavily on infectious diseases and markers of physical health.Through the increased use of tools like randomized controlled trials, policymakers have gotten better at understanding what really works in raising incomes and treating diseases among the worlds poorest people, and what doesnt. Thats great, but it also may have led to some complacency  the idea that we already know what works.The world is a vast place, and there are surely dozens or hundreds of other interventions that could work and arent being adequately funded. Organizations that focus on mental health could be among them.You might not have gone to therapy, but you probably have heard variations on the following:This litany of advice and others like it are the bread and butter of cognitive behavioral therapy, one of the dominant therapy approaches these days.Among the reasons CBT has become so dominant is that a formidable evidence base has been amassed attesting to its effectiveness  not just in combating depression and anxiety, but also certain other goals, such as preventing violence among at-risk teens. The evidence base is so large, a recent paper by Oxford researchers reviewing it states that the majority of psychological treatment research is dedicated to investigating the effectiveness of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) across different conditions, population and contexts. (Emphasis mine.) That is, most research on psychological treatments is about this one technique, hammering out how well it works, to treat what, among whom. Interpersonal therapy, or IPT, is another time-limited therapy that draws on CBT and is focused on changing patterns (in relationships as opposed to thoughts), and has also garnered a significant evidence base behind it.The basic idea of teaching people to observe their thoughts and relationships at a distance, and learn to recognize and respond when the thoughts they think automatically or their relationship patterns are hurting them, is powerful and effective. I think of [CBT] as one of the greatest inventions of the 20th century, Chris Blattman, a professor of economics and political science at the University of Chicago whos tested CBT as a therapy for young men in Liberia with criminal backgrounds, told me. A lot of CBT is just habits for overcoming automatic thoughts and behaviors that we all would love to avoid, everyday anxiety or anger or stress. We can all learn something from that.But CBT might be especially useful in a developing country context. Angela Ofori-Atta, a professor of psychiatry at the University of Ghana and founder of Psych Corps, a CBT program based in Ghana, said in an email, Our goal was to build resilience among people who were at risk for more knocks from life than usual. We reckoned that people who were poor and had few buffers would need extra skills to deal with unfortunate events such as poor harvests, loss of jobs, death in the family and so on.The takeaway of the new Happier Lives Institute report is simple: It makes the case that charities and foreign aid agencies, especially those concerned with maximizing their impact per dollar, should consider prioritizing expanded access to psychotherapy.The study focused on StrongMinds, which works on improving mental health care in low-income countries in sub-Saharan Africa, specifically among women. Its existed since 2013, and was inspired by a promising randomized controlled trial from about a decade earlier evaluating a group therapy program in Uganda. StrongMinds uses an approach called group interpersonal therapy (IPT-G), which draws on IPT.That study had participants meet for 90 minutes each week, for 16 weeks, in groups of 8 to 10 people to talk about their depressive symptoms, and then to recount the past weeks events and try to see how their symptoms related to those events and their thought patterns. Researchers found a substantial reduction in severe depression among the people treated, and a follow-up analysis found that the benefits persisted six months later.The Happier Lives Institute report compares the effectiveness of Strong Minds to a foreign aid intervention with lots of evidence behind it: just giving out cash. In global development, cash transfers have emerged as something of a yardstick for evaluating many other interventions. Cash seems to help, at least a little bit, with just about everything, whether its promoting healthy behaviors, or reducing hunger and malnutrition, or building up assets like homes and livestock. So increasingly, development economists have adopted an approach called cash benchmarking. To test how good an intervention is, they compare it to just giving out the equivalent amount in cash.The report specifically compares cash versus therapy when it comes to subjective well-being. It measures that in several subtly different ways. The studies of GiveDirectlys and similar cash programs, for instance, often include survey questions that measure both happiness in the moment  how do you feel right now/today?  and studies of what psychologists call life satisfaction, or how well the respondent thinks their life is going all-told, apart from their moment-to-moment feelings. In the studies of StrongMinds, by contrast, subjective well-being was measured through the prevalence of symptoms of happiness-related disorders like depression.The Happier Life Institute researchers attempt to aggregate and compare the effects of cash and therapy across these different measures, to get an estimate of their effect on subjective well-being in general. There is quite a bit of precedent for aggregating various psychological measures, including by some Nobel prize winners, Plant, cofounder of the Happier Lives Institute and a co-author of the analysis, told me in an email. This seems reasonable to us: mental health measures tend to have lots of questions about psychological states, so are picking up the same sorts of things.To compare apples to apples, the Happier Life Institute researchers estimated changes in well-being in terms of standard deviations (SDs), which is common in evidence reviews like this one. This can get wonky, so let me break this down: How to interpret the size of the effect of a given intervention is a huge and contentious question, but a common, very rough rule of thumb devised by the late statistician Jacob Cohen is that an effect size of 0.2 is small, 0.5 is medium, and 0.8 is large.A lump-sum cash transfer from GiveDirectly of $1,000, the analysis concludes, increases well-being by about one standard deviation  0.92  which is a large effect. That makes sense: An extra $1,000 in cash in a rural village in the Lakes region of Africa might double your income, so it would be surprising if it didnt tend to make you happier. A monthly cash transfer of a smaller amount has a smaller effect on happiness: about 0.4 SDs per $1,000 spent.In its direct comparison between the GiveDirectly and StrongMinds programs, the HLI report estimates that a StrongMinds intervention costs about $128 per person, and increases subjective well-being by about 1.7 SDs. So its effect size, per $1,000, is an astonishing 11.8 SDs, because $1,000 can fund therapy for about seven people, each of whom gets a positive effect of 1.7 SDs.That figure  11.8 SDs per $1,000, compared to 0.92 for cash transfers  is a massive effect, if it holds up. The report does the division and concludes that therapy is likely around 12 times more effective, in terms of improving human subjective well-being, than cash transfers.I reached out to Joe Huston, managing director of GiveDirectly, for a friendly skeptics view on these results. He was mostly pleased that Happier Lives Institute did cash benchmarking: Getting other groups to compare programs to cash is a key goal of GiveDirectly. But he worried that the analysis undercounted the effect of cash on happiness by ignoring how cash can make not just its recipient, but the recipients family and the broader community happier. In most cases I think you should also expect to see large, positive intra-community spillovers, Huston said in an email.The bigger, more philosophical question the research raises is: How important is subjective well-being relative to everything else that development agencies and global health charities want to promote?Charities like GiveDirectly, StrongMinds, and larger institutions like Doctors Without Borders and UNICEF target a variety of different metrics in their work. They try to reduce deaths among children under the age of 5. They try to reduce rates of infection from specific diseases like HIV or malaria. They target economic outcomes, like income or consumption.Making comparisons across these different goals is incredibly hard. How much better is it to save a childs life than to double their parents income? How valuable is preventing a lifelong worm infection, compared to reducing vitamin A deficiency? GiveWell, the charity evaluator that attempts to find the most effective per-dollar global charities, has spreadsheets where staff spell out different views on these trade-offs, and see how different ways of comparing causes affect their judgment on what charities to recommend. (Disclosure: I donate to GiveWells top charities.)Part of what the Happier Lives team is trying to do is submit subjective well-being as a common currency in comparing development programs. And theres a long philosophical tradition, going back at least to Jeremy Bentham and the early English utilitarians, arguing that happiness or some other measure of well-being should be our common currency in settling moral questions. It provides a way to compare between money and years of life, between preventing sickness and enjoying better health, between all manner of usually incomparable goods.HLI is quite explicit that this is their goal. In order to do as much good as possible, we need to compare how much good different things do in a single currency, they write in their report. [W]e believe the best approach is to measure the effects of different interventions in terms of units of subjective well-being.I find much of this view attractive, personally  but its profoundly arguable. Plato famously wrote in Philebus that if you lived life merely to maximize pleasure, your life would be the life, not of a man, but of an oyster.And even if one did think the life of an oyster is a fine life, questions would remain about how well humans are currently able to measure subjective well-being. The proper way to ask about happiness or life satisfaction remains profoundly controversial within psychology and economics, as does the relative importance of those two things if they differ from each other. Is it more important to ask about peoples mood in the moment or over the past week, compared to asking how well they think their life is going overall? How meaningful are answers to these questions? How do they compare to measures of illnesses like depression, which HLI includes in its analysis as another measure of well-being? These may seem like nitpicks, but when youre allocating scarce dollars among charities, getting these details right can be crucial.Whether or not therapy is the best health program to fund in poor countries, or even better than giving out cash, there seems to be a strong case that it should be on the menu. Plant estimates that StrongMinds has the capacity to spend about $6.6 million more next year, if enough people donate, and more like $30 million over the next three years; that seems like a reasonable amount to complement the billions spent on the tried-and-true targets of development spending every year.Ive certainly benefited from therapy. People around the world could benefit, too. Correction, November 18, 4 pm: Language in several places in this article has been changed to reflect that StrongMinds uses an approach called group interpersonal therapy (IPT-G), which draws on but is distinct from traditional cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT). The article has also been updated to include more background on IPT-G.
How HBO could have become  or bought  Netflix. The goal is to become HBO faster than HBO can become us.Thats Netflix executive Ted Sarandos in 2013, shortly before his company made its jump into original content with House of Cards. And not just original content  glossy big-budget content made by a famous director, featuring (at the time) a famous actor. HBO-style content.Even if you dont follow the media business closely, you probably know what happened after that: With House of Cards, Netflix proved, quite quickly, that it could make shows as good as the stuff the fabled pay TV network makes. And then Netflix started making a lot more stuff, and consumers liked that, too.  And now Netflix is the company that every other media company wants to emulate  and its the chief reason every big media company is trying to decide whether it needs to buy or sell to every other big media company.But it didnt have to go that way. In 2005, two years before Netflix got into the streaming business, some HBO executives were pushing the company to do the same thing. They wanted HBO to use the internet to sell subscriptions directly to consumers instead of wholesaling their product to the big cable TV distributors.A year later, after passing on that idea, HBO considered another move that would have rewritten media history: Some of its executives wanted HBO to buy Netflix, which at the time was a DVD rent-by-mail business worth around $1 billion. Netflix is now worth some $300 billion. And HBO, which didnt start selling its own Netflix-like service until 2015, is under pressure to keep up with not only Netflix but a host of streaming competitors, like Disney+, Peacock, and Amazon Prime Video. Meanwhile, HBOs parent company has changed three times in the last three years.Both of those stories about HBOs non-decisions, which Ive never seen reported before, appear in Tinderbox: HBOs Ruthless Pursuit of New Frontiers, a new oral history book by journalist James Andrew Miller, who has previously tackled big media institutions like ESPN and Saturday Night Live. The book is a 50-year tale thats partly a behind-the-scenes look at game-changing shows made by HBO like Game of Thrones, and partly a behind-the-scenes history of HBO, which has plenty of GOT-like plot twists. I talked to Miller about all of it in this weeks Recode Media episode, which you can listen to at the bottom of this post or on the podcast platform of your choice.But as eyebrow-raising as Millers stories are, you dont want to overweight the alternative histories they can generate.Even if HBO and Time Warner, its parent company in 2005, had decided to start selling HBOs programming directly to consumers back then, it may not have been successful. At the time, most US homes still didnt have broadband internet. More importantly, the cable TV industry HBO relied on for its distribution back then would have fought hard to make sure it didnt get displaced. And buying Netflix in 2006 wouldnt have guaranteed that HBO would have ended up owning the company Netflix is today. If anything, once Netflix was part of a large entertainment conglomerate, it would certainly have made different decisions than it did when it was a small player trying to figure out how to compete with entertainment conglomerates.Still, the stories Miller uncovers in his book are useful reminders that narratives we often hear about media history  or any history  are just that: narratives, which tend to get cleaned up and simplified, depending on whos telling them. In this case, HBO and Time Warner often get painted as lumbering Big Media Dinosaurs who got blindsided by the future. And the fact that former Time Warner CEO Jeff Bewkes went out of his way to talk down both Netflix and the rise of cable cord-cutting, when both were on the rise, helps strengthen the argument. But the fact that at least some HBO executives could see what was going to happen to their industry does complicate things: Should they get credit for their insight, even if they couldnt act on it?Speaking of Bewkes, who gets treated quite well in Millers book: He says that by 2014, he also understood what Netflix and the rest of the technology business were doing to his company, even if he wasnt saying it publicly: We would either have to acquire or merge with somebody to get what we needed to compete with the digital giants, or, failing that, sell Time Warner. ... I told the board that longer term, Google, Facebook, Netflix, Amazon and maybe Apple are going to hollow out all the media companies. Bewkes even discussed combining his company with Apple, but in his telling, Apple wasnt up for it: I wish wed been able to do that.
A guide to the must-read 2021 National Book Award winners and finalists . Every year, the National Book Foundation nominates 25 books for the National Book Award. A celebration of the best of American literature, the nominations span fiction, nonfiction, poetry, translated literature, and young adult books. And every year since 2014, we at Vox read them all to help our readers figure out which ones they might want to check out. Here are our thoughts on the 2021 nominees and winners.Cloud Cuckoo Land is so skillfully crafted that reading it feels a little like prying open a watch to admire the clockwork. Its not always clear what youre looking at, but its undeniably impressive that someone was able to put all those cogs and gears together.There are five main characters in this book, and they exist on four different timelines. We start on a spaceship in the 22nd century. Flip the page, and youre in the Midwest in 2019. Flip the page again, and youre in 15th-century Istanbul. Flip the page again, and youre in Korea during the war.Doerrs clever plot eventually brings these characters and timelines together. But even before the satisfying conclusion, theyre united by a single theme. Each of our protagonists lives at what they understand to be the end of the world. They each seek refuge in the same book: a lost comedy from ancient Greece that keeps emerging into history through luck and happenstance.Doerrs built an elegant structure. Its also much too long: In the time it takes for all five plotlines to cohere, a lot of urgency has drained out of the book, leaving the books long middle feeling circuitous, rambling, and badly in need of a point. The author moreover seems palpably uncomfortable when it comes to writing women, even when they are minor characters. Still, Doerrs tribute to the perseverance of life and books in the face of apocalypse is moving  and no matter what, its quite a sight to open the covers of Cloud Cuckoo Land and watch that clockwork tick. Constance Grady, book criticLauren Groffs Matrix, about a group of nuns who build a utopian community in 12th-century England, is the most purely sensual book Ive read all year. Every line is rich with physical details, precise and exquisite: apricot flesh with a little give to it like the firm thigh of a girl; the voices of nuns as they read aloud mixing so beautifully that the impression is not a tapestry of individual threads but a solid sheet like pounded gold. Matrix, which takes its title from the Latin word for mother, is built around the real-life French poet Marie de France. Groffs Marie is a painfully awkward girl of 17 when the novel begins, ugly and ill-mannered but possessing both great strength and great ambition. Shes shipped off to an impoverished abbey in middle-of-nowhere England on the grounds that shes too ugly to marry but decent at managing an estate. Out of sheer force of will, she transforms the abbey from hovel into an Eden of sorts: a safe haven for women, replete with art and sheltered from violence, but always troubled by both the demands of encroaching men and Maries relentless plans for more, more, more.Maries ferocious, boundless ambition is the force that powers Matrix forward and keeps you turning the pages. But its her insistence on experiencing life through her body that truly makes this novel special: The way Marie revels in her physical strength, in good food, in sex, in cool water after a hot flash. Shes an unforgettable character, and Groff evokes her point of view so strongly that it takes over your whole body. You dont read this novel so much as immerse yourself in it, as though youre being baptized. Constance Grady, book criticCan you capture a whole life in a slim little book? Hunt has tried  and succeeded, beautifully  in Zorrie, a deceptively simple book about the curious forces that shape a life. The title character, Zorrie Underwood, lives nearly her whole life in a farming community in  Indiana, first as an orphan raised by an uncaring aunt, then as a drifter during the Depression, a wife, and finally a young widow living next door to her neighbor Noah, who harbors a tragedy in his heart. Hard work is all shes ever known, but its far from the sum of who she is. Zorrie takes pleasure in the home she crafts in Indiana: the dirt she had bloomed up out of, it was who she was, what she felt, how she thought, what she knew. A key, brief moment in Zorries life  the one that comes back to both bless and haunt her  is two months she spends in Illinois as a young woman, working for the Radium Dial Company painting clocks with glow-in-the-dark numbers. She and the other young women there, especially her friends Jane and Marie, often lick their paintbrushes, coated with a substance not yet known to be a potent carcinogen. The glowing of that powder follows Zorrie through her life, marking her hopes, her fears, and ultimately her sense of meaning. Hunts novel reads like poetry, evoking writers like Paul Harding and Marilynne Robinson, and radiates the heat of a beating heart. Alissa Wilkinson, film criticRobert Jones Jr.s debut novel The Prophets is a powerful story of forbidden love between Isaiah and Samuel, two enslaved men in the antebellum South. The two of them can exist in the world they create for themselves in the barn at the edge of the plantation until they are ultimately betrayed. Jones Jr.s work has garnered considerable praise for revealing what queer love may have been like for enslaved people. But its the gravitational force of his prose  lyrical, alarmingly clear, with the ability to evoke moments intimate or grand in scale  that sets his work apart. Its evident in the way Jones Jr. describes Isaiah and Samuel when they are alone together: every separate motion building upon the other to form something that seemed to sway to its own music, back and forth, like the sea.Nearly every review of The Prophets mentions the late James Baldwin  and for good reason. Baldwins last wish was that someone might be able to find something in the wreckage he left behind, in other words, that other authors could find inspiration in his work. In the acknowledgments for The Prophets, Jones Jr. thanks Baldwin and writes: We did that. Baldwin was nominated four times for a National Book Award but never won. It would be inspiring to see Robert Jones Jr., who stands squarely on Baldwins shoulders, take home the prize. Jariel Arvin, former Vox foreign fellowHell of a Book is a hellish journey, dark and rife with unease. Half of the book is stream-of-consciousness narration by an unnamed bestselling author who tells the reader hes been haunted by hallucinations since childhood. The other half tells the story of a dark-skinned boy (who may, or may not, be dead) referred to only by the name given to him by bullies: Soot.The unnamed authors tenuous grasp on reality gives the book a dreamlike quality: Its unclear if what youre reading is actually happening, an ambiguity heightened by the fact that many of the authors encounters seem too fantastic to be real. Chief among these are his regular visits from Soot, who becomes the authors connection to the horrors of police brutality, something he would prefer to ignore. Police brutality becomes a recurring theme in the book, as do other elements of the Black American experience. Among other things, Jason Mott touches on loss, memory, race, colorism, family, love, and the United States. In taking such a wide aim, he isnt really able to explore any of these subjects in depth. Ideas blur into one another, the way the real and unreal merge for the author narrator. The result is a strange, sad story, one both stylish and meandering. Sean Collins, news editorHanif Abdurraqibs prose is always breathtaking, but A Little Devil in America: Notes in Praise of Black Performance shines in particular. Divided not into sections or chapters but movements, each part of this collection explores Black joy and pain while weaving in his own personal memories and musings of his life, and the lives of other Black people that thread through American culture. In a section about jazz star Josephine Baker, Abdurraqib writes: There are streets named after Black people situated throughout Americas cities. Most of the times, the Black people are dead. Sometimes the street bearing the dead Black persons name doesnt have many living Black people on it. Abdurraqib thrives when coupling simple fact with significance, and throughout this book he paints larger-than-life pictures of memory and history.Black performance presents itself in many ways  not just through music or dance or living life, but in the attempts white folks make at emulating it. A section that discusses the story of William Henry Lane, a minstrel performer that Charles Dickens wrote about, soon gives way to a parallel: how Black people are imitated on the internet, and how this social creepiness has become normal because, well, its been normalized since the beginning of time. The collection speaks to the way Blackness is performed, born, killed, warped, loathed, and loved, with beauty and thoughtfulness. Anyone who speaks a language inside a language can see when that dialect is presenting a challenge for someone ... or when it is coming from someone who watched a movie with a Black person in it once and then never saw a Black person again, he writes. It would be humorous or fascinating if it wasnt so suffocating. I would laugh if I was not being smothered by the violence of imagination. Melinda Fakuade, associate editor, culture and featuresThe depletion of the Ogallala aquifer, a vast expanse of groundwater lying under the Plains states, is the subject of Lucas Bessires Running Out; In Search of Water in the High Plains. But its also the device for Bessires reconnection to his family roots in western Kansas and his definition of depletion in all its forms. Bessire is an anthropologist and a filmmaker, which is evident in his fieldwork approach and his scenic portrayal of the Plains. The Ogallala aquifer was once an ancient sea, buried millions of years ago by the formation of the Rocky Mountains. Today, it supports a sixth of the worlds grain output, but maybe not for long: In just 80 years, farmers have been sucking the aquifer dry. Bessire takes us along on an investigation of the short-sighted water management policies that govern industrial-scale agriculture. This pursuit is with the help of his formerly estranged father who serves as his local fixer, bringing him to water board meetings and introducing him to local stakeholders. Bessire also has a reckoning with his familys role in the aquifers depletion: His great grandfather RW was one of the first farmers to tap the Ogallala aquifer. What struck me was the way Bessire connects the Ogallala with other forms of natural resource depletion: A childhood memory of finding a buffalo bone on his familys property introduces a devastating historical account of how buffalo herds once roamed the region, before early Plains settlers hunted them to the point of annihilation. This book left me heartbroken with the knowledge of more ways that human nature, politics, or profit motives have caused a failure in our stewardship of Earths irreplaceable resources. Laura Bult, video producerFood and memory are inextricably linked in Grace Chos gut-wrenching memoir, Tastes like War, which explores how different dishes and items embody history and trauma. Named after a comment her mother previously made about powdered milk  a food she avoided and despised because it reminded her of what American soldiers distributed to Korean people during their military occupation  the book examines the pain and struggle that food can carry. I cant stand the taste of it, [Chos mother] said of the powdered milk. Tastes like war.Throughout the book, food  including kimchi, apple pie, and cheeseburgers  are markers of Chos personal memories and symbols of everything from the tragedies that people endured during the Korean War to the push to assimilate that many immigrants encounter in the US. A fixation on apple pie, for instance, is representative of how fiercely Chos mother attempts to blend in, in her fathers exceedingly homogenous hometown. Baking, for my mother, was a way to become American, Cho writes. Baking was a way to forget.Powered by sharp, unflinching prose, Chos book is as much about her personal history as it is about the history of American hegemony in Asia  and the many scars it has left on the millions of people who have experienced it. By chronicling her own relationship with her mother, who struggled with schizophrenia, and many of the foods they shared, Cho offers an incisive portrait of how haunting these conflicts continue to be. Li Zhou, politics reporterIn 1722, in the Pennsylvania woods, an Indigenous man named Sawantaeney is murdered by two English fur traders. Its a business deal gone wrong. Covered With Night tells the story of the thwarted negotiation that follows: The colonial government offers capital punishment as justice but ignores Native pleas for restoration, communion, and reparations. The colonists just dont get that their neighbors arent placated by the idea of an eye for an eye. What else, they wonder, could these people possibly want?A gripping narrative takes us through the tension between punitive proto-American concepts of law and order and the community-focused beliefs of the Haudenosaunee, through Indigenous attempts to see their traditions and ethics honored. While the English of the time didnt deign to write down  or even, it seems, comprehend the existence of  Native philosophies of fairness, NYU professor Nicole Eustace reads the original documents closely and finds their accidental inclusion. This book is a feat of primary source gathering and close reading. While we havent learned exactly the right lessons in the intervening 300 years, Covered With Night explains a horrible lot about our past, and offers something of a vision for a brighter future. Meredith Haggerty, senior editor, cultureAt a moment when conservative lawmakers want teachers to dial back their instruction on slavery and its lasting impact, author and Harvard historian Tiya Miles gives readers many reasons to keep unearthing and sharing the truth about the cruel institution that shaped America. In All That She Carried: The Journey of Ashleys Sack, a Black Family Keepsake, Miles tells the story of survival in the face of unspeakable hardship. Rose, an enslaved Black woman in coastal South Carolina in the early 1850s, learns that she or her daughter Ashley will be sold on the auction block. Roses lineage, which lived on through her only child, was in danger, and the love that she and her daughter shared would forever be damaged. Nonetheless, with what little she had in the way of possessions, Rose mustered the will to be creative, thoughtful, and resourceful. She gave her daughter, only 9 years old, a sack of items: a tattered dress, three handfuls of pecans, and a braid of her own hair. She told her daughter, It be filled with my Love always, and never saw her again. The act of filling a sack with meager possessions might seem inconsequential, but it spoke to the love, resilience, and hope that Black women summoned for survival through generations. Decades later, Ashleys granddaughter learned of her great-grandmothers act and embroidered the story on the sack, further preserving the story for her progeny. What makes this historical account so impressive is how Miles expands the story beyond this one family to show how it stands in the greater historical record of the lengths African American families went to preserve themselves and their memories through crafting and working with fabric. Miles pulls in her own family history to talk about the importance of textiles like quilts. Miles goes to great lengths to extract histories that the archives did not care to preserve, a brave endeavor that continues the very practice that Rose started almost two centuries ago. Fabiola Cineas, race and policy reporterThe poetry of What Noise Against the Cane interlaces Black and political resistance, Afro-Caribbean customs, liberation, the body and nature, sense-making, and freedom, to name a few, across the Black Diaspora and Black America. The book begins with its long poem, Chant for the Waters and Dirt and Blade. Bailey charts the spiritual turmoil and complex wavering of an enslaved womans journey through the transatlantic slave trade to the brink of the Haitian Revolution  a turmoil beyond injury, beyond reconfiguration, and beyond placemaking.As I navigated this poem, I found myself taking pause; digesting each stanza. Aside from Baileys play on words and diction, the magnitude of lines like melody of home: a ruthless drift / a song that doesnt return and praise our mothers fading homes / which we may only see in dreams made me sit for a moment. The books spirit spoke directly to me through its woman-led perspective, perhaps, but most certainly through the characters negotiations with memory. words I cant speak cause I dont want / my flesh to remember but the stink / collects there mapping / a route to my head / I want my memory to fail I want / to drive it out with the scent of psil. I was moved to ask myself: What are the ways our bodies remember? How were our ancestors bodies tethered to nature? How do our bodies store trauma across generations?Here I found explorations of contemporary Black America and the Diaspora, negotiations of identity, and themes of home, nature and body, womanhood, and reckoning of self and lineage. I encourage readers to remember Haiti as the first Black republic and to think through the books and poems titles, the bodys relation to nature (which can seem quite the opposite at times), and what freedom looks and feels like in the quest for liberation. Sierra Enea, video clearance producerMartin Espada invites the reader to understand the lives of different Latinx people using personal memories, lyrical fiction, and historical and current events. The title Floaters introduces the story of a Salvadoran father and daughter who drowned in an attempt to cross the Ro Grande in search of a better life. From the unity of Puerto Ricans after Hurricane Maria to being called a Jos in a New York taxi, Martin Espada covers an unjust and bigoted United States that persists today.Espada recalls his time working in Brooklyn as a tenant lawyer, only to be seen as a robber because he is Puerto Rican. He accurately depicts the ridiculous slurs, physical and mental abuse towards Latinos, that have been reignited and made even more visible than before through the Trump era. In opposition to the hate, he brings poems that carry a universal truth to all Latinos, to have pride in your identity, resilience in your work, and untiring care for your community. This diverse collection of poems uses Spanish words to create a personal and emotional attachment to the characters (some fictitious, others not). Some words simply do not have a great translation to English, and the author embraces it. One learns and identifies with the stanzas of what it was, and still is, to be a Latino, migrant, or Puerto Rican in the US. The last poem, dedicated to his passed father, brings up childhood memories and thoughts of seeing parents as gods, only to learn they are mortals that have made incredible sacrifices, like leaving a paradise of a home, for a better chance at life for the next generation. A Latinx person who reads this will feel this book hitting home, and those who are not Latinx are invited to learn and understand. Natalie Ruiz-Prez, video clearance producerKearneys poetry sings and crackles, loud and clear  no small feat for poetry that begs to be seen on a page. Kearney, whos described his visually experimental of previous works of poetry as performative typography, sticks mostly to more traditional text and line structures in Sho. The breaks and indents and whitespaces breathe and ebb and flow, giving the sense of life pulsing all around his poems.Thats necessary for these poems, which are often rendered in vernacular and thus seem like voices leaping off the page. Fire marries the physicality and soul-blazing music of a church service (That GOD  / Good Spirit flow pierced run swayed bowed / what we owed the body / I see / we sang / a sweet body of / the sweet bodyWe give). Negroes are a Fatsuit, Hollywood, USA is like a quick prose poem of frustration and grimace, all set in italics, that you might utter in your heart while scrolling through a TV (zooms inflate their wideness in whatever rerun Ive them. I glut the frame with their material: a too muchness.) Close is dedicated to Kearneys family (Our Black asses / been hunkered in / this house, this now / transitional hood, / we steal away where / some call White Cliffs / Fool!) Sho reads like testimony, a chorus of voices that tell a story of Black communities, a nation, and a very singular poet at the center of it all. Alissa Wilkinson, film criticSome mothers choose to shelve away their past lives. They keep their personal histories separate, untouched and indiscernible from the knowledge of their adult children. Not the mother of the poet Hoa Nguyen, Linda Dip Anh Nguyn, who is the centrifugal force of her fifth poetry collection.Nguyen is a mystical myth-writer, and the book is a tender attempt at guiding readers through the non-chronological corridors of her mothers life, first as a flying motorist in an all-women circus troupe, and later as an elderly homesick figure. Speckled throughout the collection are also her observant, insular intimacies of the Vietnamese diaspora: who wants to hear / about your Asian North American experience anyway, look ma / no accent, people will ask about bar girls / and Saigon tea  will ask about about my language / with me being a bastard.Nguyens references to the Vietnam War are akin to surrealist word-paintings. She describes the absurd and senseless violence wrought by the United States with minimally abstract, almost-clinical language in Napalm Notes and Notes on Operation Hades. Yet, the book doesnt linger on war-torn Vietnam. It is one of the poems many narrative backdrops, next to the washed out washington dc stars, an oxbow lake, and a fruit stand called Mexico in Vinh Long province. Nguyens work spans across time, continent, trauma, and language, but the books opening and closing images are that of Hoas mother, frozen in her youth. They are an ode to Dips adrenaline-packed memories and her past life, one stuffed with secrets, tangled love affairs, and rapturous adventures that the writer outlines in words [that] hang in sinew and care. Terry Nguyen, reporter, The GoodsOther peoples dreams are boring. Theyre a conversation killer. The only person they appeal to is the dream-haver, who finds them innately interesting, even though they know that if someone else were relaying these same dreams, their eyes would glaze over.Jackie Wangs collection The Sunflower Cast a Spell to Save Us From the Void relays dream after dream, demonstrating poetry is perhaps the only medium suited to dream-telling. Wang elegantly weaves in and out of the realistic and the fantastical, often poking at longing and loneliness. As in dreams, there is an undercurrent of distress and confusion, though the tenor never tips into nightmare.Wangs work shines brightest when her dreams lead to the casually sharp profundity we all believe our own dreams achieve, as in Panic at the Disco: Im not with everyone around me. But where am I? / Maybe Im trying to find you, then forget you, by jumping into the pool. / Yes, we are living by three tempos: party, catastrophe, and limerence.Dreams sound better when rendered in verse. Julia Rubin, editorial director, features and cultureThe threat of some dire happening ebbs and flows in Winter in Sokcho. Its set in a sleepy seaside resort town near the demilitarized zone between North and South Korea. So when a more-or-less-clueless Frenchman asks a bored hotel clerk to take him there, you might hear narrative alarm bells in your head.But this isnt that kind of book. The discomfort is more about the cultural exchange and power dynamics between the clerk (the delightfully apathetic protagonist) and the Frenchman (an older comic book artist looking for a muse). The clerk is not as knowing as she thinks; the Frenchman is not as naive as he seems. Still, they awkwardly navigate something less than a romance and more than a distraction from their existential doubts.In between are spare details that bring the town to life: The woman waiting behind bandages to reveal her newly redone face, a car ride past ocean waves spiking in the rain like the spines of a sea urchin. Always, the cold, a reason not to go out and instead dream about lives redrawn on the other side of a paper wall.The ending may be a bit of an anticlimax, but such is the way of the novella. Just enjoy your stay in Sokcho while it lasts. Tim Williams, deputy style and standards editorIn Peach Blossom Paradise, Ge Fei focuses much of the book on his main character Xiumi and the constellation of people who make up her life. Xiumi comes of age in a transformative time in Chinese history as the 20th century is just dawning in the waning years of the Qing dynasty. But in Feis telling, revolutionaries are not heroes, but deluded  deluded that they can change the world, deluded about the harm they can cause, and even deluded about their own motives. You go on and on about revolution and unification, your worry for the world and the heat of your ambition, but all you really want is a piece of ass, Xiumi says at one point, gesturing at one of the larger themes in Feis book: the subjugation of women. Throughout the book, women are forced to reckon with their lack of autonomy. Foot-binding, rape, and murder are companions to the women in Feis writing. The book opens with Xiumi, unaware of what a period is, finding that she is bleeding. Terrified, she believes she is dying and seeks to conceal the evidence. Throughout the book, she will fight for control of her body and she will lose.Near the end of the book, Fei gives his main character a moment of clarity  as character after character attempts to understand and re-make the world, Xiumi finds a moment of peace in her memories: These past events, which Xiumi had not consciously brought forth, or even thought she had experienced, now tumbled one after another in her mind. She saw how poignant and incontrovertible even the most mundane details could be as constituents of her memory. Each one summoned another in an endless and unpredictable sequence. And what was more, she could never tell which memory particle would sting the soft places in her heart, make her cheeks scald and her eyes brim with tears, just as the gray embers of the winter hearth do not announce which one of them can still burn your fingers. Jerusalem Demsas, policy writerThe Twilight Zone delivers to its readers a sort of twisted familiarity, revealing a destination that will likely read as either too-possible or too-familiar depending on where or when in the world youre living. As you read Nona Fernndezs tale of 1980s Chile under the Pinochet dictatorship, which she deftly juxtaposes with the near-mundanity of life lived in between, around, and on top of the horrors of secret tortures and suddenly revealed betrayals, what resonates deeply is how tragically and incomprehensibly different life under authoritarian rule can be, even between the same houses on the same block.  The book makes for a fast-paced, clever, and powerful read. You could absolutely read this book simply for the clever storytelling, for the story of a modern documentarian obsessed with a member of the Chilean secret service, or even for a quick political and cultural history lesson, but what you will inevitably walk away with is a reminder that what you see in front of you is rarely the whole story of a person, a time, or a place. The Twilight Zone is inevitably a reminder to look for the seams separating the reality were comfortable with from the surreal nightmare of authoritarianism whose victims deserve to be remembered. Ashley Sather, production manager, Vox videoWhen We Cease to Understand the World is extraordinary. It took over my mind when I read it. For days, I couldnt think of anything else.Benjamn Labatut, a Chilean author born in Rotterdam, has described his book as a work of fiction based on real events, adding, tantalizingly, that the quantity of fiction grows throughout the book. His subject is scientific discovery, which he renders in five meditative essayistic chapters as a sort of pure philosophical ecstasy. And that ecstasy can shiver over the boundary into existential horror in a whisper, an eyeblink. The more we discover about the inner workings of the universe, Labatut fears, the more we can see how little it corresponds to the reality in which we live our small human lives.Take, Labatut suggests, Karl Schwarzschild. He was a German philosopher and astronomer fighting during World War I, and the first to solve the equations of Einsteins theory of general relativity. Schwarzschild found hidden at the center of those equations something abhorrent to imagine: a point in space in which the equations of general relativity went mad: time froze, space coiled around itself like a serpent. The point is the center of a star that has gone nova, where mass collapses in on itself into a single point of infinite density. It came to be called the Schwarzschild singularity, and in Benjamns telling, simply contemplating the full monstrousness of the idea of the singularity breaks Schwarzschilds mind and body. By the time Einstein receives a letter from Schwarzschild solving the equations of general relativity, Schwarzschild himself is already dead in a military hospital.This book is haunting, uncompromising, filled with sentences of clear and limpid beauty. Read it and feel your mind expand as it tries to take in all that Labatut has to offer. Constance Grady, book criticPlanet of Clay documents the Syrian war from the perspective of one girl caught up in its devastation. Rima, the narrator, is mute, and, though its never fully explained why, is constantly driven to walk. My head is my feet, she writes. For this reason, her mother and brother keep her tied closely to them, and attach her wrist with rope so she can move about a room, but never leave on her own. This makes Rima a witness, but also leaves her without control of her own fate  not unlike civilians caught in the middle of conflict.The books narrative mirrors the trajectory of conflict. Early on in the book, Rimas mother is killed at a checkpoint, and Rima herself is shot and wounded. From there, the horrors only escalate. Rima is brought by her brother to a hideout that is eventually bombed. She experiences a chemical attack, and sees women and children disappear, as she calls it. The account Rima tells is deeply personal, but also refracted: She does not fully grasp the politics of the conflict or why this is happening, but she feels and experiences the tragedy. The writing takes on this quality, too. It is poetic and spare, but sometimes lacking in specific detail to ground the narrative. But that is also what gives the book a lot of its power. When the politics fall away, you more sharply feel the cruelty and almost sick routine of war: the indignities, the death, the torture, and the planes dropping bombs overhead night after night after night. Jen Kirby, foreign writerEvery night, my father and I feed a hundred lumberjacks, Shing Yin Khor writes in the opening to her endearing, vibrant graphic novel The Legend of Auntie Po. We also feed forty Chinese workers who do not receive board. With this, were ushered into the bustling life of a Sierra Nevada logging camp in 1885, as seen through the eyes of Mei, a teenager who lives and works on the camp with her father. Around the campfire, Mei tells stories, transforming Paul Bunyan into a super-strength Chinese auntie, Po Pan Yin. Although the logging camp is a loving place, the shadow of sinophobia cast by the recently passed Chinese Exclusion Act falls across Mei and her future. As she struggles with the prospect of a life lived on the margins of society despite all her intellect and talent, hate crimes and racism remain a looming background threat. As tensions worsen, Mei begins to wield Auntie Po and her big blue ox Pei Pei as protective totems for her and her community  a giant strongwoman to deal with the oversized dangers of her world.The Legend of Auntie Po stays profoundly hopeful, despite grappling with complex issues  everything from Meis disconnection from her own culture (Im angry that I have to make my own gods, she reflects at one point), her queer identity, and religious faith, to the disenfranchisement of laborers and the way the lens of privilege can trouble even the most intimate found families. Yin Khor has a gift for capturing all these tensions through vivid imagery rather than words. Her characters body language and silences often speak for them. An entire commentary on labor rights, the environment, and capitalism gets condensed into an image of a double-handed logging saw aptly called the misery whip. Its all rendered in vivid, warm colors alongside the postcard-ready scenery of the mountains  a poignant story, one that chooses optimism over fatalism, much like the fables Mei creates around Auntie Po. Aja Romano, web culture reporterMalinda Los Last Night at the Telegraph Club is a story of sapphic self-discovery. Over the course of one year in San Franciscos Chinatown in the 1950s, 17-year-old Lily Hu grows into herself. She says no to friends shed only ever said yes to, nourishes her interest in rockets and space, ventures to the titular Telegraph Club to see male impersonator Tommy Andrews, and all along the way realizes, yes, she loves other women, and one in particular: her new white friend Kath. In brief chapters interspersed throughout the novel that contribute little to the narrative but significantly to the world-building, Lo flits into other characters viewpoints, layering the experiences of the mother, aunt, and father into her exploration of this place and moment. In the midst of it all, Lily must navigate thorny adult issues: duty to ones family, Red Scare-fueled racism, homophobia. Its a beautifully done intersectional story, but the novel is still at its best in the small moments of discovery that embody any love, but particularly a first queer one. The moment Lily notices a group of young women walking in the park who share shockingly bold flirtatious grins, and wonders if theres something significant in Kaths silence as she watches too. Theres another moment when Lily recognizes Kath across the crowded Telegraph Club by her body movement alone. And the moment she discovers something shed never known, never imagined, how a first kiss could turn so swiftly into a second, and a third, and then a continual opening and pressing and touching, the tip of her tongue against Kaths, the warmth of her mouth. Caroline Houck, senior deputy editor, policy and politicsThe worst part of growing up is being 11. Its that terrible pocket of time when you realize that you wont ever instantly turn into the person you daydreamed about becoming, and how what youre feeling rarely matches up with what you see in the mirror. Everyone tells you what to be, but theres no guidebook on how to get there. Kyle Lukoff hammers home this uneasy time in Too Bright to See, a kind and caring coming-of-age novel. Its the summer before middle school and Bug, an 11-year-old living with her mom in Vermont, is going through that aforementioned awful time where nothing quite fits. Shes also dealing with the loss of her uncle Roderick, who was an effervescent presence in her familys life. His death and absence haunt her familys home. The grief and new start coincide with Bugs journey of self-discovery; what she wants to look like, what she fantasizes about the person she wants to be, and the realization of her own gender identity. The book never strays into saccharine nor does it ever wander off into pointless cruelty. Bugs story, as uncertain as she can be, is honest and clear. Too Bright to See is a journey thats somehow both gentle and brave, and in Lukoffs caring hands is a spirited success. Alexander Abad-Santos, senior correspondent The Panthers fought a revolution in their time, just as we are fighting one in ours, Kekla Magoon writes in her refreshingly blunt new history of the Black Panthers. Tackling the Panthers notoriety head-on, she outlines their goals, controversies, and continued relevance. Revolution frames the Panthers movement and the unprecedented suppression effort against them within the ongoing fallout of slavery, the disenfranchisement of Jim Crow, the long history of police brutality and racist violence, and the turbulent civil rights struggle out of which the Panthers emerged. Magoon traces the Panthers path to prominence alongside dozens of individual narratives of Black civilians whose lives intersected with the fight for civil rights.Magoon is especially blunt about the connection between state-sanctioned violence against Black communities and the Panthers decision to be armed in public  a decision that exacerbated the chaos and fear, fueled both by racism and irresponsible media, that seemed to greet the Panthers every move. In a vacuum, it is easy to default to saying, Violence is never the answer, Magoon writes. But when it comes to Black history, we mustnt forget that violence is also the question. Magoon highlights the many men and women who died in the struggle for civil rights at the hands of police brutality, hate crimes, and other suppression efforts. She connects the Panthers socialist practices to the broader struggles of the poor and working class. And she depicts vividly the incremental fights for equality, won and lost, in which the Black Panthers had a hand  from voting rights to education, to holding police accountable for brutality, and many more ripples in a sea of change. And although Magoon covers decades, even centuries, of history, she does so with a straightforwardness and detail that makes this book a helpful resource for readers of every age. Aja Romano, web culture reporterHow you feel about Me (Moth), a debut novel written in verse, will largely depend on how you feel about its ending, which takes an enormous swing. For me, author Amber McBride mostly pulled it off, but the ending is still the sort of thing that tends to crowd out the rest of the book in the memory. Relegating the rest of the novel to an afterthought, however, would be too bad. McBride has a clear voice and a lyrical notion of how to tell a story across several poems. The plot is simple: A girl named Moth has lost her family in a car accident and now lives with her aunt out in suburban Virginia, where she is one of just a handful of Black students. One day, a new boy enters her classroom, and they form an instant connection. His name is Sani, and hes of Navajo descent. After a series of events leaves Moth feeling more abandoned than ever, she and Sani embark on a voyage west to visit Sanis dad in New Mexico. McBride structures most of the book as one long conversation between Moth and Sani. They tell stories to each other, and they joke back and forth, and they work together on a song about their road trip. (Sani is a wannabe musician; Moth gave up a promising dance career after the accident.) Of particular note are several chapters in which McBride captures the way text communication can feel a little like poetry. But, again, that ending  its good, but it leaves you wondering just how much of the book was meant as a setup for a twist. Less of it than youd expect but more of it than youd think, I guess, and some part of me wishes McBride hadnt felt the need to drop a major reveal. Theres more than enough story in the unlikely connection between Moth and Sani. Emily VanDerWerff, critic at large
Why Rep. Paul Gosars censure matters. The House on Wednesday voted 223-207 to censure Rep. Paul Gosar (R-AZ), more than a week after he posted an animated video edited to depict him killing Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY) and brandishing weapons at President Joe Biden. Following the censure, Gosar will be forced to stand in the middle of the House chamber as a statement condemning his actions is read to him in front of all the members. Additionally, hell lose his committee assignments, including seats on the Oversight Committee and the Natural Resources Committee, a penalty Democrats also included in this resolution. Gosars censure  the second most severe punishment a House member can receive, after expulsion  is significant for several reasons. In addition to doling out a public rebuke, it sends an important message against violent rhetoric, which in politics is often disproportionately targeted toward women of color. The loss of committee seats in particular is notable: Its through them that lawmakers are able to weigh in on policy and conduct government oversight  and without them, they have little power. We cannot have members joking about murdering each other, as well as threatening the president of the United States, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said earlier this week. While Democrats have broadly condemned Gosars actions, Republican leadership has shied away from issuing any outright criticism. I called him when I heard about the video, and he made a statement that he doesnt support violence, and he took the video down, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy said in a CNN interview. Gosar has removed the video following significant backlash, and issued a statement saying he does not espouse violence or harm towards any Member of Congress or Mr. Biden, but he hasnt apologized. Democrats hope the censure vote on Wednesday serves as an explicit condemnation of Gosars post, and draws a line regarding the type of behavior lawmakers are willing to accept. Violent language by members has become an especially sensitive issue after the January 6 insurrection highlighted how speeches encouraging violence could translate to real-world deaths. When Republicans dont condemn death threats against their colleagues ... it sends a message to the public that these threats are condoned, said Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA) in a Wednesday floor speech. This resolution reinforces that this behavior will not be tolerated.The censure vote sets an important precedent for how Congress responds to the sorts of statements about violence some Republican lawmakers have become increasingly comfortable making. Its quite rare for the House to actually censure a member: The lower chamber has only done it 23 times before, the last time being in 2010 when then-Rep. Charlie Rangel was censured for ethics violations related to financial misconduct. More recently, the House has voted to strip Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-GA) of her committee assignments after she supported comments calling for violence toward Democrats. Censure, reprimand, and expulsion are different ways the House can penalize members. Censure and reprimand only require a simple majority in the House, which Democrats possess, while expulsion requires a two-thirds majority. If a member is censured or reprimanded, theyre able to retain their seat. Unlike a censure, reprimand does not include whats effectively a public admonishing. In the past, lawmakers have sometimes been subject to reviews by an ethics committee before a censure vote  something that Democrats have bypassed in Gosars case because of how clear-cut his actions have been, according to Rep. Ted Deutch (D-FL). There are no open factual questions here for the Ethics Committee to resolve, nor any unresolved questions of intent, Deutch, the chair of the Ethics Committee, said in floor remarks. Its clear from the video, and from Representative Gosars public comments minimizing it, that censure is appropriate.Democrats emphasize that this censure vote is necessary to underscore their condemnation of violence in politics, especially after the insurrection at the Capitol on January 6. Additionally, they note that its vital to highlight that violence toward women, including lawmakers of color who are often the targets of extreme abuse, is unacceptable. As the events of January 6th have shown, such vicious and vulgar messaging can and does foment actual violence, a group of Democratic lawmakers who introduced the censure resolution said in a statement. Violence against women in politics is a global phenomenon meant to silence women and discourage them from seeking positions of authority and participating in public life, with women of color disproportionately impacted. Minority Leader McCarthys silence is tacit approval and just as dangerous.The censure resolution  specifically provisions that will remove Gosar from his committee assignments  will have concrete effects, including limiting his impact on hearings and policy those panels work on. In the past, lawmakers whove lost these assignments have been left scrambling to figure out other ways they can influence legislation and advance positions they hold. Now-former Rep. Chris Collins, who lost his committee assignments in 2018, told Politico that he would focus his energies on more constituent engagement and participation in different caucuses. They basically have nothing to do, Rep. Jamie Raskin (D-MD) told the publication when he was asked about lawmakers who were booted from committees. If youre cast out of the organized bodies and committees of Congress, and youre kind of just a hitchhiker on the floor, theres very little influence you can have in the House of Representatives.Multiple Democrats have also argued that Gosars actions are grounds for expulsion given the depictions of violence the video contains. When someone sends out a tweet or any other illustration of him or her murdering somebody on the House floor ... that person should not even be a member of this body, Rep. Jim Clyburn (D-SC) told CNN.Reaching the two-thirds vote threshold for expulsion, however, would likely be tough given Democrats narrow majority. Advancing a vote like that would take around 290 votes in the House, meaning dozens of Republicans would have to join the 221-member Democratic caucus to pass it. That would probably be a long shot since Reps. Liz Cheney and Adam Kinzinger are the only two Republicans who backed the censure resolution. (Previously, 11 Republicans voted to strip Greene of her committee assignments.)Many Republicans unwillingness to condemn one of their own members suggests that censure is likely the most severe consequence Gosar will face for now. Threatening the life of a colleague is grounds for expulsion, Ocasio-Cortez told reporters on Tuesday. But given the Republican Party  especially the leader  is too cowardly to really enforce any standard of conduct ... censure and committee removal is the next most appropriate step.
Apple will finally let you fix your own devices  sort of. Apple announced on Wednesday that it will start letting people repair their own products. The announcement marks a change in Apples repair policies and a big step forward for the right-to-repair movement. At the same time, the new program shows how Apple still wants these self-service repairs to happen on its own terms.The iPhone makers new approach is relatively simple. Apple will soon make repair manuals available for certain devices, and after reviewing them, customers will be able to order the tools and components they need to make those repairs from a new section of Apples website. At the beginning of the program, Apple will sell more than 200 different parts or tools for fixing its iPhone 12 and 13 lineups. Apple says the program will eventually include Mac computers that have M1 chips.Wednesdays announcement is a major shift for Apple. Historically, the company has typically only offered repair tools and replacement parts to its 5,000 Apple-authorized service providers and another 2,800 independent repair shops that have Apple-certified technicians. Apple has long faced criticism from right-to-repair advocates, who want manufacturers to give customers the ability to fix their own devices, for this policy as well as for its practice of designing hardware that cant be easily upgraded or incorporating certain components that only Apple has access to. Dozens of states have proposed right-to-repair legislation in recent years, bills that Apple has fought. For instance, the company successfully convinced California lawmakers in 2019 that customers might set off a fire if they accidentally damage the lithium-ion batteries in iPhones while trying to repair them. Apple has also suggested that the security and privacy of its devices could be compromised by non-authorized repairs. Despite Apples best efforts, this right-to-repair movement has recently won support in the White House. In July, President Joe Biden passed an executive order that, among other things, directs the Federal Trade Commission to create new right-to-repair regulations. Later that month, the agency also declared that it would ramp up enforcement against illegal restrictions on repairs, after an investigation documented different strategies technology makers used to make products harder to fix. Apples decision was announced on the same day as a key deadline related to a right-to-repair resolution filed by activist Apple shareholders back in September, a connection first reported by The Verge. Green Century  the sustainability-focused mutual fund that led that effort  has now rescinded its resolution, which would have pushed Apple to study the environmental impact of its strict repair policies.  We felt it was a big enough step forward, Annalisa Tarizzo, a shareholder advocate at Green Century, told Recode. We hope to continue engaging companies that we invest in on this topic because we think it is really important and there are real risks to investors related to this issue. New guidance from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) may have influenced Apples timing, Tarizzo added. About two weeks ago, the agency rescinded a Trump-era rule that had made it easier for companies to dismiss socially conscious shareholder resolutions. Wednesday was also Green Centurys deadline to defend its proposal to the SEC, which Apple had requested the agency to block. So Apples concessions to some demands from right-to-repair activists seem to be an attempt to preempt any new regulations with its new repair program. But the companys steps forward have some limitations. It isnt exactly encouraging all users to start rooting around in their iPhones and MacBooks. In the press release announcing the Self Service Repair, Apple says the program is intended for individual technicians with the knowledge and experience to repair electronic devices and that the vast majority of customers should visit an authorized repair shop. Meanwhile, customers who decide to repair their devices themselves under the new program will still need to buy parts directly from Apple, which also sets the price of those components.This isnt the open-source repair revolution weve sought through our fight for the right to repair, Elizabeth Chamberlain, the director of sustainability at iFixit, said in a Wednesday blog post. If theres now an official way to avoid warning messages and a loss of features when you need to replace a battery, camera, or display, theres less incentive for Apple to help those using third-party parts, or even those salvaged from other iPhones. By controlling the parts marketplace, Apple can also decide when devices go obsolete. This is not the first time Apple has adjusted its strategy to get ahead of potential regulations or legal action. In a proposed settlement with a class action lawsuit representing software developers this summer, Apple said it would let companies tell iPhone and iPad users about ways to pay for purchases like subscriptions outside of the App Store ecosystem. In September, the company also tweaked its rules for in-app purchases while the company was locked in a contentious lawsuit with Epic Games. Neither of these app-related updates involved Apple changing its policy of charging sizable fees to third parties operating in Apples ecosystem, while Apples own apps get a free ride. Apple seems to be taking a similar approach with its new repair system. But even though the companys new program comes with plenty of caveats, the move is still a big win for customers who dont want to send their devices to Apple or hunt down an authorized repair shop. Soon, theyll be able to swap out an iPhone screen or battery in the comfort of their own homes. Update, November 17, 4:20 ET: This piece has been updated to report that Green Century Capital Management rescinded its right-to-repair shareholder proposal following Apples announcement. 
Why Biden is struggling to revive the US refugee program. After the US refugee program hit historic lows during Donald Trumps administration, President Joe Biden attempted to revive the program by raising the annual cap on admissions to 125,000. Despite these efforts, the US is still not taking in more refugees.Tens of thousands of Afghans have arrived in the US since the American withdrawal from Afghanistan in August. The urgent need  and the lasting damage done by the Trump administration  has overtaxed a refugee program that has slowed to a crawl in recent months.In fiscal year 2021, which ended in September, the US resettled the lowest number of refugees in the history of its refugee program. Recently, the State Department reported the US resettled just 401 refugees in October, down from 3,774 the month before, one month after Bidens new cap went into effect. A State Department spokesperson told Vox that the agency had temporarily halted refugee admissions as of October 29 through January 11, 2022, with some exceptions. At the current pace, the US wont come within striking distance of the 125,000 cap by the end of the fiscal year  and, given the State Departments new refugee guidance, its unlikely that refugee agencies will be able to expand capacity to ramp up that pace soon. There are legitimate reasons why the recent resettlement numbers are so low. The US government and refugee agencies have been primarily focused on resettling Afghans who fled their home country amid the US withdrawal. And the entire refugee apparatus  from the federal officials who assess refugee claims to the agencies that help with resettlement  shrank significantly during the Trump administration due to severe funding cuts.About 70,000 Afghans have been admitted to the US on parole, a temporary form of humanitarian relief that allows them to apply for work permits and shields them from deportation for a period of two years. Though technically refugees, these Afghan parolees dont count towards the refugee cap. They still have many of the same needs as refugees  including financial assistance, job placement, and temporary housing  and refugee agencies have had to step in to provide for them. The State Department spokesperson said that the agency was temporarily prioritizing resettling Afghans  in addition to refugees who have already made travel arrangements, who are seeking to reunite with family, and who have otherwise urgent cases  in an effort to ensure that refugee agencies have the capacity to provide those services.It has fallen to refugee agencies to facilitate the resettlement process. That has consumed refugee agencies still in the process of rebuilding after being was gutted by the Trump administration, which set a cap of 15,000 refugee admissions in 2020, a record low. Both the international and domestic infrastructure has suffered as a result, with refugee agencies forced to close many of their offices amid funding cuts, and fewer refugees being interviewed and vetted by federal officials abroad. But with the right support from the federal government, refugee agencies might be able to increase their capacity, and eventually help resettle the highest number of refugees in a single year since 1993. Facilitating that would help the US make up for the past few years in which it abdicated its role as a global leader on refugees. Given that there is no guarantee that the next administration will prioritize the US refugee program in the same way, the Biden administration cant afford to squander that chance. The Biden administration has made efforts to ease the burden on refugee agencies by streamlining the resettlement of Afghan parolees. It has waived costly application fees for work permits and green cards that can total over $10,000 per family. It has also piloted a program allowing private individuals and organizations to apply to sponsor Afghans, covering their resettlement costs and helping them secure housing, basic necessities, legal and medical services for at least 90 days.And Congress has allocated $6.3 billion to help resettle a projected 95,000 Afghans through 2022, giving them access to much-needed social services (a sweeping measure that still falls short of advocates calls to provide Afghan parolees with an expedited path to permanent residence.) Refugee agencies are nevertheless torn between competing obligations to Afghan parolees and other refugees.Its been such an unusual process with the Afghans and a lot of new adjustments. Were, of course, very eager to welcome them, Matthew Soerens, US Director of Church Mobilization for the refugee resettlement agency World Relief, said. We are also, of course, concerned about Congolese refugees whove been in camps for literally a generation or more, who want to be reunited with families, who had hoped that would be possible under the new administration and who might be waiting longer than they had anticipated. So its a difficult issue.Looking back, Soerens said that refugee agencies might have been better prepared to manage the influx of Afghans if the federal government had acted sooner to coordinate an evacuation of Afghan allies and at-risk Afghans prior to the US withdrawal. But the fall of the Afghan government happened more quickly than the Biden administration anticipated, and more than 124,000 people were airlifted out of the country over the course of two chaotic weeks in August, leaving refugee agencies in a lurch.  Were doing the very best we can but its a stress on our capacity, for sure, Soerens said. I dont want to sound ungrateful because weve been critical for years of the very low numbers. But it would be nice if this could have been coordinated in a more orderly fashion.Refugee agencies are under immense pressure to resettle Afghans while rapidly rebuilding in the wake of the Trump era. Since agencies federal funding is tied to the refugee cap, many saw their budgets decrease significantly under Trump, forcing them to dramatically scale back their operations. Soerens said that World Relief closed eight of its offices over the past five years, some of which had been operating since the 1970s. That involved laying off personnel, many of whom had decades in institutional knowledge. Amassing that expertise and capacity again will not happen overnight, nor will reestablishing relationships with landlords and employers agencies once relied upon to provide refugees with housing and work. But agencies are working quickly to meet the sudden crush of demand. Krish OMara Vignarajah, the president and CEO of Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, said that her agency has been able to bring 10 new sites online in recent months, with several more in the works, and has nearly doubled the workforce at its national headquarters since last year.Aside from those challenges stateside, refugee agencies depend on the federal government to interview and process refugees abroad, ensuring that there is a pipeline of refugees ready to be resettled. Once referred to US authorities by the United Nations, refugees are pre-screened at one of the State Departments Refugee Support Centers abroad. Then, US Citizenship and Immigration Services conducts in-person interviews with refugee applicants to ensure that they are eligible for refugee status. But those interviews arent occurring at the pace necessary to ensure that the US can meet its resettlement goals. The number of refugee applicants interviewed annually dropped from 125,000 to just 44,000 between fiscal years 2016 and 2019, OMara Vignarajah said.This is the governments responsibility, she said. We need to increase the efficiency of vetting and application processing, without comprising stringent security integrity standards.That requires staffing up in the USCIS refugee corps, which decreased in size by roughly a third between 2017 and 2020. But it also involves getting rid of overly repetitive or burdensome aspects of refugee processing. There are, for example, multiple and likely duplicative biographical and biometric checks for refugee applicants conducted by different US government agencies that could be consolidated, OMara Vignarajah said.Every administration has added layers and hurdles to clear. Meanwhile, nothing is ever taken away as overly repetitive or burdensome, she said. I think that there is an opportunity to improve the system.To meet Bidens refugee cap, immigration officials and refugee agency staff need stability. Refugee agencies have had to gauge what future demand for their services might be as part of their calculations of how much to scale up. They need assurance that they wont have to close the same offices theyre reopening now in a few years. And their employees want job security  without it, its difficult to hire (or rehire) top talent.The White House currently sets the annual refugee admissions cap, with no congressionally mandated ceiling or floor. But the Guaranteed Refugee Ceiling Enhancement Act, or GRACE Act  reintroduced in March by Sen. Ed Markey (D-MA) and Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Joe Neguse (D-CA)  would set a floor of 125,000 in line with Bidens current cap, giving refugee agencies a more permanent commitment from the federal government and allowing them to plan without inhibition. The way the refugee program is set up with a lot of authority given to the executive branch has proven in the last few years to be very unstable for refugee resettlement organizations, Soerens said. The more confidence we can have in what the future of the program is going to look like, the more we can expand with confidence.
How technology has inspired neuroscientists to reimagine the brain. Its difficult to talk about the human brain without inadvertently talking about computers. Im still processing, you might say, or Could we do a quick download about your findings? Then theres the favorite phrase of office workers who are stretched too thin: I dont have the bandwidth.Theres a reason computer metaphors are peppered across academic papers and lectures about the brain, according to Matthew Cobb, a zoologist and the author of The Idea of the Brain, a deep dive into the history of neuroscience. As he looked back centuries at early research into the brain, he kept running into older and older mechanical metaphors.I realized that at different times, one of the ways that people have conceived of the brain has been to draw a metaphor between what they think the brain does and the highest technology of their time, he explains. Different generations of researchers drew connections between the brain and automata, electrical circuits, and the telegraph. These technological metaphors didnt just serve as illustrations for existing conceptions of the brain. Instead, Cobb says comparisons to inventions like the telegraph wire  which could transmit information from a central node to distant points in the countryside  actually helped researchers reimagine the brain, spurring leaps in their understanding of the structure and function of the brain. Once Id realized that scientists were using these metaphors or these analogies, that actually enabled me to understand for myself why there have been changes and shifts in our understanding, Cobb says.The latest episode of Unexplainable, Voxs podcast about unsolved mysteries in science, traces the impact of new tools like fMRI that probe the brains many secrets. But tools are not enough, Cobb argues: Researchers also need concepts or frameworks in order to interpret the data they gather from their tools. And technologies that have little to do with brain research have often inspired and influenced studies of the mind. A transcript of our conversation, edited for clarity and length, is below. So whats the timeline here? When did we first start doing this?Well, the first thing to realize is that even an interest in the brain [came] pretty late. For most of human history, the brain hasnt been the focus of attention in thinking about perception, emotion, spirit, mind  whatever you might want to call it. Its been some organ in the body like the liver or the kidneys or the heart. You mention in your book that phrases like heartache or pulling at heart strings date back to this idea that thought was occurring in the heart. So when do researchers in Europe start saying, Oh, maybe its the brain after all?Not in one moment. You mustnt get the idea that somebody suddenly did an experiment and said, Aha! Instead, theres this slow accumulation of certainty. First, theres anatomical demonstration that the viscera like the heart have other functions. The heart is a pump, which was demonstrated at the beginning of the 17th century  so it doesnt have the wherewithal to do the mysterious business associated with perception and thinking and so on. On the other hand, the brain, as anatomical studies showed, has got all these neurons, and its connected by the neurons to all the sense organs and everything else. So gradually, in the course of the 17th century in particular, people became increasingly confident that it was the brain that was doing thinking. How it did it, they werent quite sure. Descartes, the French philosopher, looked at mechanical, water-powered, animatronic statues, and he thought, maybe weve got some kind of hydraulic system inside us.We dont, and it was very soon demonstrated that theres no kind of water power inside our neurons. But thats an example of people trying to use technology to explain and understand brain function. [Researchers were later inspired by clockwork automata, like the one below.]I think the telegraph was the example that best helped me understand how having a technological metaphor really helped researchers understand the brain. Can you tell me what happened there?The telegraph is finally mastered in the middle of the 1830s and 40s, and incredibly rapidly, it spreads over whole continents. And virtually immediately, scientists drew a parallel between those telegraph networks and the nervous system and the brain.This metaphor of communication, of wires, and above all, there being information in those wires  news, facts, and orders  going from the center out to the periphery to make things happen. That changed very much how we see the brain.How did thinking of the brain like a telegraph, sending signals out electrically from one point to another, how did that help researchers? They looked, for example, at the structure of undersea cables that were carrying telegraph messages across the Atlantic, and they could see that there was a central core of copper and then around it was insulation. And then they looked at neurons, at nerves, and they said, Well, this is exactly the same. Theres this outer sheath which seems to be insulating it. So even our understanding of the most very basic units of the nervous system began to be completely fused with our understanding of technology.When did they get to a point where they realized that maybe this telegraph metaphor had its limits, or wasnt a perfect analogy for the brain?Well, the key problem with the telegraph system is that its fixed and the wiring is static. It doesnt change. You send a message from headquarters down to your branch office in some suburban place, and thats it. You cant decide to reroute that message instead to the head office, to the branch office, or to somewhere next door. So what happened was that a new technology came along and people start to think, Well, actually, the brain is much more like a telephone exchange. Because that was the next big development. A telephone exchange  is that like the switchboard operators plugging cables in and out?A telephone exchange in the late 19th century consisted of a grid of slots with wires going into it. And if you wanted to telephone somebody, youd pick up your receiver at home, and a light would come on in the local exchange.  And one of the telephone operators, who would normally be a woman, would then plug a lead into your slot.She would then say, What number do you want? And she would then connect that wire to the number you wanted to talk to. So the key point here is that messages can change their destination. The wiring is flexible, in that it alters depending on what youre doing, and this coincided with a realization of the structure of the nervous system. Some astonishingly beautiful neuroanatomy, with new stains that people were developing, meant they could see these structures under the microscope in particular. These structures and their interconnections, they changed with time, and they grew, and our nervous systems arent fixed. And that is much more like a telephone exchange than it is like a telegraph system. You still got the idea of messages going down the wires, but now it can change  it can alter and its plastic.And whats after the telephone? Well, the dominant metaphor is that the brain is something like a computer. Its carrying out some kind of calculations. And that idea, which came into being in the 1940s and early 1950s, still dominates over 70 years on. There are distinct limits to this metaphor. There arent many scientists who would say, Literally, the brain is like a computer with a central processing unit, with a graphics board. If I take out my graphics unit from my computer, its not going to have any image, whereas if I damage a particular part of my brain, if Im lucky, there may be sufficient plasticity from the other parts of my brain to recover some aspects of those function. Brains are alive.If were seeing the limits of this metaphor that weve been working with for 70 years, is that because the computer metaphor has sort of outlived its usefulness? Is there a better metaphor out there?  Well, if I knew that, Id be very rich. Im not sure that simply saying, Yeah, we need a new metaphor, is going to help us. When I was an undergraduate, holograms were the big deal, but people abandoned it. More recently, with the advent of cloud computing, people started to say, Well, the brain may be a bit more like a cloud computing system. But theres not really been experiments that have emerged from the use of the metaphor.Brains have evolved over maybe 600 million years. Each animal lineage has got a different kind of brain that responds and processes the world in different ways because of its evolutionary past. So maybe our brains dont have a single explanation. Maybe thats a mistake. Maybe were just going to have to be content with lots of little explanations. 
Procession is a doc about the Catholic sex abuse scandal. Its approach is wholly unexpected.. The purpose of a religious community  not just the religion itself, but the group that practices it  is fairly simple, no matter the actual tenets of belief. Broken people gather, and together, they enact some rituals. They remind one another of what they believe is true. They become just a tiny bit more whole, regain just a bit of power that lifes trauma strips away. And then they go back into the world; a healthy religious community exists to bring grace to those who arent part of the group.How rare it is to see that in action. Too often, in religious communities, rituals withhold healing instead of offering it. Those with power grasp for more rather than giving it away. Claims to perfect truth are bent to serve lies. People are hurt in unimaginable ways.Examples abound, but the one that structures Procession, Robert Greenes extraordinary new documentary, is the profound, ravaging toll on untold thousands of children molested by sexually predatory Roman Catholic priests. The sheer, staggering magnitude of that abuse, when you read it in the news or think about it for a moment, can cause your brain to simply switch off.This, you can only think, is what evil looks like.Cinema has broached the topic before, perhaps most memorably in the 2015 Best Picture-winning film Spotlight, but never like this. In the middle of all this darkness, Procession finds a still, small light. Its not a documentary about the abuse scandal; its not an expos or investigative journalism. Its a collaboration made with six men who work together to find the truth and healing they ought to have been afforded by the church. They venture down a scary path: reentering their trauma to help themselves, one another, and a bigger world. As the title suggests, Procession is about the messy, sidewinding process of healing, and what it looks like to form a new kind of community out of that mess.It started a few years ago, in August 2018, when attorney Rebecca Randles held a press conference in Kansas City with a few men who accused local Catholic priests of sexually assaulting them when they were boys. Greene contacted Randles, asking if there might be some interest among the group in collaborating on a film. The goal: to work through their trauma through scripted scenes theyd write themselves. To relive those memories, but this time in the drivers seat.It was a wild idea, but makes plenty of sense in the context of Greenes oeuvre. One of Americas most innovative filmmakers, over the years hes consistently prodded the edges of what we expect from documentary, in ways that tend to startle even the jaded. Hes laser-focused on making us vibrantly aware, in our seats, of what were actually doing when we make and watch a movie  how performance can be more real than reality. He offers us new ways of thinking about how we perform in communities and around one another.Actress (2014), for instance, explored the performance of identity in societally dictated roles by following an actress whos been on full-time parent duty for years as she considers reentering the business and who she really is. In similar territory, Kate Plays Christine (2016) centers on actress Kate Lyn Sheil as she prepares, sort of, to play the role of Christine Chubbuck, a Florida news anchor who shot herself on air in the 1970s. And Bisbee 17 (2018) follows a Southwestern town with buried trauma as its residents work to reenact century-old events together. The film I thought about most while watching Procession was Greenes Fake It So Real (2012), made nearly a decade ago, which focuses on a group of independent pro wrestlers as they find community and shape their identities in the ring and outside of it.Performance pervades our lives, from the way we behave on social media to the way we behave in our most intimate relationships. Its also a key part of religious practice. In Catholic worship, everyone has a part to play and a script to follow, from the parishioners in the seats to the choir to the readers. Leading the whole thing, at the center, is the priest, who fulfills for many there the role of father.Thats what makes abuse by priests so particularly egregious  to the parish, theyre standing in for God, and so its God whos hurt you. Furthermore, youre not just experiencing spiritual abuse; your body is being harmed, which in turn harms your spirit. Its a whole-being offense. So for men like the participants in Procession, it makes sense that reentering into a dramatic space like the one many of them occupied as altar boys, and enacting a new script that theyve written while playing roles theyve designed, might be a step toward breaking the old power.Six men eventually signed on to the project: Tom Viviano, Joe Eldred, Ed Gavagan, Michael Sandridge, Dan Laurine, and Mike Foreman. All were assaulted as children. Some were still devout; most were not. Each has coped in his own way with his unspeakable trauma and, for some, with the unwillingness of church authorities to acknowledge what happened or make it right. All approached Greenes project with some degree of skepticism coupled with a willingness to give it a try.And Procession chronicles their experiences. Greene mostly stays out of the way, but doesnt really know what will happen, and sometimes the process is a stumbling one. The scenes each man writes and directs (with a young actor often acting as their younger selves) are powerful to watch, but you come to realize, watching, that its the community they form during the process as much as the act itself that is the medicine.That community has all of the hallmarks of a healthy religious community, even if it is not technically religious. The men and the crew and their on-set therapist enact rituals together; they care for one another; they check in on one another, work with one another, and walk alongside one another as memories and anger surface. And they frequently speak of why theyre doing it: Not just for themselves, but so that other people might be helped as well.Im not Catholic, but some of my family is, and I attend a church with a similar worship style, one where you go through a script every week. Having been raised in an evangelical context, Im richly aware of sexual abuse and assault scandals perpetrated by religious leaders to whom people look for guidance, wisdom, and moral clarity.Watching Procession, I was, of course, gutted. Pain like that is hard to watch. But I also thought a lot about what it would look like  what it does look like  for people to form this kind of community with one another. What I realized is that Procession is that portrait, one lushly shot and lovingly nurtured in the filmmaking process. Its a nonfiction film, and thus captures the many pauses, gasps, chuckles, jokes, hugs, tears, and moments of stillness around the edges of that community.And, because its nonfiction, it asks us to be part of it. Ive met Tom and Joe and Ed and Michael and Dan and Mike at a screening of the film, but even if I hadnt, I know they are real, that they exist in the world somewhere, breathing the same air as me, living in the same time. Procession reminds me that the world is full of people whove had those same experiences  probably people I interact with every day.Now, having been called to literally hear their testimony and their experiences  just as I might in a church  I have been made a witness. I cant turn away or pretend the statistics are faceless, even if I want to. I know too well thats exactly what happened to them in a church that was supposed to be a spiritual home; the people who ought to have protected them instead made them prey.In letting them retell those stories their way, and asking us to watch, Procession dares its audience to not look away. It calls us, in other words, to join the healing community, not just with vague aspirations but with our actual eyes. To play our roles as audience members and then take what we learn and bring it to others.None of this is very easy. But if evil only dissipates when light hits it, then the first step is letting light in.Procession opened in limited theaters on November 12 and premieres on Netflix on November 19.
Prestige book season has arrived. Here are 11 titles not to miss.. Fall is for books what December is for movies: prestige season. As soon as the air gets crisp, out come all the National Book Award hopefuls, the big history doorstoppers, and the buzzy new YA epics. Publishers are hoping these books will make the cutoff for the major literary awards this fall; more urgently, theyre hoping theyll pick up enough buzz to become staples of the holiday book-buying season.This year, after the pandemic saw a number of last years major releases get pushed back into 2021, fall book season is more packed than ever. To help you make your way through it, heres a list of 11 of the best books of this fall. Making no claims as to comprehensiveness, this list is a window into some of the weirdest, funniest, and most beautiful new writing Ive found among this crowded book season. Use it to guide your gift-buying, your supply-chain navigating, and most of all, your the pandemic is in a weird place right now and I need to clear my head somehow reading. Shortage or no shortage, books endure.Say what you will about Jonathan Franzen (and people have said it), but the man can write a damn family saga. Crossroads, the first volume in a planned trilogy, follows the Hildebrandts, the family of a midwestern pastor in 1971. The father believes himself emasculated; the children feel rudderless and abandoned; the mother is thrillingly, viciously furious. Sex, drugs, and rock n roll are creeping their way into this shuttered world. Or, as we gradually learn, they were always there, in wood-paneled basement rec rooms and disused church storage spaces. Now, on the brink of enormous social change, they have become unignorable. Crossroads is working with a very old set of archetypes, but Franzen hasnt lost his gift for finding the specific within the universal. The Hildebrandtss subliminal power dynamics, with each child lining up behind their preferred parent, shift with the familiar dysfunctional rhythms of a thousand unhappy families before them. But the rage pushing them forward  particularly Marion, our spectacularly angry matriarch  doesnt look quite like anything weve seen before.When I think of Lauren Groffs Matrix, about a 12th-century English poet and nun named Marie, I keep coming back to the books overwhelming sensuality. Marie, who is based on the real-life poet Marie de France, lives a life that she thinks at first will be one of overwhelming drudgery and boredom. She is confined to an impoverished convent in the middle of nowhere, surrounded by old women who are slowly starving to death. She finds herself expected to spend her days at prayer and dull household chores, flagellating herself every time she dares to rebel.Instead Marie, possessed of both great ambition and great physical vigor, sets about turning the abbey into a center of art and wealth and power, with herself at the head. She refuses utterly to let her life pass in a blur of boredom and pious chastisement of the flesh. We go along with Marie as she savors the strain of physical exercise, the pleasure of clean cloth on clean flesh, the coolness of lake water during a hot flash. Most startling is Groffs insistence on not only Maries muscularity but on the strength of the nuns who work under her command. By the time Matrix ends, physical strength has come to take the place that beauty often plays at the center of other womens narratives: This novel is a study of living in a body that acts rather than living in a body that is acted upon.Three Rooms takes its title from Virginia Woolfs A Room of Ones Own, but its premise is thoroughly millennial. Hamyas unnamed narrator longs not for her own room in a busy family house, as Woolfs women do, but for her own apartment: three rooms all to herself, the pinnacle of millennial luxury in an increasingly precarious economy. But as she travels from Oxford fellowship to London media temp job, she finds herself making do in one cramped rented room after another, fending off intrusive neighbors and hostile landlords. (When youre renting someone elses living room couch, their hostility is not a small problem.) The possibility of finding an apartment of her own seems ever farther away.Hamyas language is precise and restrained, which makes the crushing indignity of her protagonists life all the more haunting. She evokes the claustrophobic grind of the smart-kid-to-subsistence-worker pipeline with bruising relentlessness, and when she finally lets her narrators clipped interiority spiral out into something a little more hallucinatory, a little angrier  well, the moment is more than earned.When We Cease to Understand the World is one of the most beautiful books Ive read all year, and one of the weirdest, too. Its subject seems to be scientific awe: the cosmic horror of seeing what lies at the center of the universe, and how very far such realities are from our small human ways of perceiving the world.In five self-contained chapters that mix fact with fiction, Chilean author Benjamn Labatut explores the discoveries that changed the way we think about the universe, and the minds that broke when they tried to contain them. Poor Karl Schwarzschild, toiling in the trenches of World War I, is tortured by the concept he found hiding in the center of Einsteins equations for general relativity. There must be such a thing, Schwarzschild has found, as a singularity at the center of a black hole: a point at the center of a collapsed star at which time froze, space coiled around itself like a serpent. This point, moreover, is unending, so that one could flee from it into the remotest past or escape to the furthest future only to encounter it once more. Horrified by his own discovery, Schwarzschild finds himself forgetting to duck under enemy fire; he lies awake in army infirmaries going over and over the monstrosity he has revealed.Similarly vexed are Alexander Grothendieck, who invents a pure form of mathematics that implies the existence of an entity he calls the heart of the heart at its center; Louis de Broglie, who finds that light behaves as both particle and wave at once; Werner Karl Heisenberg, who finds that electrons behave as neither waves nor particles. These are heady concepts, but Labatut writes about them with a deceptive simplicity. He doesnt ask you to follow the math, just to let him show you how bizarre these ideas you might half-recall from high school science classes really are, and how destabilizing they should be to the ways we think about the world. (Translator Adrian Nathan West, who has previously translated Lacan, has an elegant way with Labatuts many-claused sentences.) At the center of this book are the ways in which we both enrich and deform our own understandings of the universe by cutting it open to look at its inner workings, and how the ideas we find there seem to shiver away from us, to resist being drawn into the light. If we cannot truly understand the universe, Labatut asks, can we truly understand what it means to be human beings? This book is serving me extremely good gay Harry Potter AU fanfic.Robin Blyth is a nice normal Edwardian himbo, minding his own business in London as he works his nice normal civil service job. Hes struggling to support himself and his sister after the death of their financially irresponsible aristocratic parents, but he also likes to find time to get in a spot of wrestling and gay erotica-reading on a regular basis. When hes transferred to a dull-sounding new government job, Robin expects nothing but more bureaucratic busywork. Hes shocked to realize that instead, hes been made the prime ministers liaison with a hidden magical society he never knew existed. Now, Robin finds himself in the middle of an ongoing magical mystery that has left his predecessor vanished and Robin himself cursed. Moreover, Robin must struggle to forge a working relationship with the saturnine Edwin Courcey, the prickly and taciturn intellectual who is his magical counterpart in the liaison office. As Robin and Edwin work together to solve the mystery and break Robins curse, we realize that these are two opposites who just might, well, you know.Imagine Neil Gaimans Neverwhere but with more kissing, or Rainbow Rowells Carry On but with more elegant prose. Marskes sentences are clear and lovely, and if the plot and the world-building are more than a little derivative (youll spot the villains from several miles away), thats part of the pleasure of this sweetly crafted novel. What an odd and tender and lovely novel this is. The Book of Form and Emptiness is a book narrated by a Book, describing a world where there is no such thing as an inanimate object: snowglobes mourn a past world, scissors leap menacingly about of their own accord, and books go out looking for the people they need to save.The Book talking to us is not just any book. It belongs to one Benny Oh, a 14-year-old boy struggling to deal with the death of his father, his mothers increasing tendencies toward hoarding, and his own newfound abilities to hear voices in the objects all around him. Benny periodically takes over narration from the Book, taking issue with the Books interpretation of events or requesting that we not look too closely at particularly painful ideas. But the Book, which knows what its about, advances inexorably on.Ruth Ozeki is a Zen Buddhist priest in addition to being an accomplished author, and this rambling, shaggy narrative has a number of Zen ideas to play with. Its fundamentally a book about ideas: theres also a lot of thoughts about Borgess library, and Benjamins Angel of History turns literal here with the appearance of Bennys mother Annabel, who is surrounded by piles of newspaper. At least shes got the help of a tidying book by a Marie Kondo-like Zen priestess to work with. In Ozekis world, books are urgent and powerful regardless of genre.Beautiful young intellectuals in Dublin having depressed sex with one another, Marxist email chains, light angst about the moral and aesthetic value of the bourgeois marriage novel  did someone say Sally Rooney? The author of Normal People and Conversations with Friends returns to her usual set of concerns in Beautiful World, Where Are You, and she does it with all the cut-glass polish weve come to expect from her.Beautiful World revolves around two best friends and their love lives. Alice is a successful novelist, recovering from a nervous breakdown brought on by said success, and caught up in a love affair with a man she met on Tinder who works in a warehouse. Eileen is a poorly paid editorial assistant at a literary magazine, struggling to get over a recent breakup and pining away after her Mr. Knightley-like childhood friend. In between their romantic travails, Alice and Eileen exchange emails about the Bronze Age systems collapse and whether or not its morally acceptable to spend so much time on their books and love lives as their civilization seems to be breaking down.I dont know of any novelist of very charming love stories who seems as conflicted about writing very charming love stories as Sally Rooney. Theres something endearing about it: She seems to spend half of each book berating herself for writing it instead of personally solving climate change, and then in the end she winds herself up to a stirring defense of the marriage plot novel. Beautiful World hits this dilemma head-on, which makes it both tough going in certain passages  I know more than one person who got bogged down during that long systems collapse sequence  and, ultimately, Rooneys most powerful ode to the novel yet.Kelefa Sanneh, a long-time staff writer for the New Yorker and before that a pop music critic for the New York Times, is one of the most essential writers of music criticism working today. In Major Labels, he tracks the history of American popular music and its genres from roughly the 1950s on: how country became white and R&B became Black; how rock started at the intersection of country, pop, and R&B, then slowly peeled itself away from all of them; how the poptimists rewrote the music criticism book in the 21st century, and what they got wrong in the process.Sanneh is an ideal guide for this journey, with a purists depth of knowledge and a gourmands indiscriminate love of the medium. He is capable of deep and geeky enthusiasm for every genre and subgenre he invites his readers to delve into: no one needs to pick between disco and punk as long as Sannehs around, but hes happy to tell you exactly why so many people wanted to make that choice in the 1980s. He is, moreover, perfectly willing to let you know when he himself got it wrong in the past. You know that old Beyonc: Shes No Ashanti headline that goes around social media every so often? Perhaps I was guided too much by the desire to say something interesting, Sanneh admits. Major Labels proves he doesnt have to stretch. This whole book is perfectly fascinating on its own.We never find out exactly what year it is in LaserWriter II, but it doesnt really matter. Tamara Shopsins debut novel exists less in one particular moment of time than it does in an era. Its the end of gritty New York, the end of weirdo Apple: a time when rent is cheap, tech is tactile, and a computer repair shop in midtown Manhattan could be, briefly, one of the coolest places on earth.LaserWriter II is built around the real-life Tekserve, an indie Mac repair shop where the New York literati flocked around the dawn of the internet. It has a porch swing in the waiting room and a glass bottle Coke machine. Twice a week, the founders treat their employees to lavish meals of smoked fish, bagels, fruits, and chocolates. They specialize in Apples, because Apple computers arent just soulless machines like PCs are. Apples are for underdogs; Apples are for artists.Claire, our protagonist, is 19 years old when she gets a job at Tekserve, and she sets to work repairing Apple printers with a true gearheads glee at the job: peeling the skin of the printer back to peer in at roller, spring, fan, and mirror. Printer repair is, she decides, her calling. A noble calling that helps people make poetry and do their taxes. But Claire cant stay in her engineers utopia forever. Neither can Tekserve. Apple develops past its old underdog status, discontinues its printers, develops its own repair shops, and, eventually, crushes little shops like Tekserve. Nothing gold can stay  still, Tamara Shopsin knows how to write a love letter to the past. Over the past decade, feminism has reached a level of cultural saturation and sway that it has not enjoyed in a very long time. Its been mainstreamed in a way that allows pop stars and corporations alike to profess themselves feminist allies. In the process, feminism has developed a kind of pat political shorthand, a series of mottoes that are easy to post to Instagram or turn into a hashtag: #girlboss, #BelieveWomen, #itsonus. In The Right to Sex, Oxford professor Amia Srinivasans project is to deconstruct the hashtags behind pop feminism, to excavate the ideas lying beneath them. This has always been the way of feminism, she reasons: women working collectively to articulate the unsaid, the formerly unsayable. In this book, the unsayable that Srinivasan is trying to say is mostly about the politics of desire: how its constructed, how it expresses itself, how we shape and reshape it. She analyzes the manifesto of incel mass murder Elliot Rodger, her students ambivalence toward omnipresent online porn, the convergence between economic liberalism and sex-positive feminism.The question, she writes, is how to dwell in the ambivalent space where we acknowledge that no one is obliged to desire anyone else, that no one has a right to be desired, but also that who is desired and who isnt is a political question, a question often answered by more general patterns of domination and exclusion. These are dense, difficult questions, with rhetorical dragons on all sides. Srinivasan handles them with the nuance and care they deserve.Harlem Shuffle is Whiteheads first novel after the one-two punch of 2016s Underground Railroad and 2020s Nickel Boys, both of which won the Pulitzer. It doesnt disappoint. Harlem Shuffle is a fiendishly clever romp, a heist novel thats also a morality play about respectability politics, a family comedy disguised as a noir.Harlem Shuffle concerns Ray Carney, a man whose gifts for salesmanship are exceeded only by his gifts for self-deception. Ray runs a mostly successful furniture shop in Harlem in the 1960s, but he seethes inwardly at the knowledge that its not quite successful enough for him to get a house on Strivers Row, where his snooty light-skinned in-laws live. So Ray maybe fences a bit of jewelry or stolen electronics on the side to get some extra cash on the side. Hell be the first to tell you, though, that hes not really crooked. Hes only slightly bent.Now, Rays cousin Freddie, on the other hand? Freddies actually crooked. And hes somehow got a way of getting Ray involved in all his biggest and most dangerous plans  including the scheme to rob Harlems glamorous Hotel Theresa. Harlem Shuffle reads like a book whose author had enormous fun writing it. The dialogue crackles and sparks; the zippy heist plot twists itself in one showy misdirection after another. Most impressive of all is lovable family-man Ray, whose relentless ambition drives the plot forward while his glib salesmans patter keeps you guessing about his true intentions. This book is a blast that will make you think, and what could be better than that?
Netflix is finally going to reveal how much time people spend watching its shows and movies. When Netflix ushered in the streaming video era, it helped kill off traditional TV ratings. Now, the company says it wants to bring them back, sort of: The streaming giant is going to start publishing lists of its most popular TV shows and movies, which it will update weekly.Netflixs data will show up on its own website, where it will offer multiple top 10 lists that rank titles by the number of hours the companys subscribers have spent watching them. The company will have global rankings for TV shows and movies, as well as top 10 lists for 90 different countries. Netflix also says it will bring in accounting firm Ernst & Young to audit its numbers, and will publish a report from that company next year.This will have almost zero impact on the way you watch Netflix  unless you are into tracking data about the way other people watch Netflix. Which, to be fair, some people are.Heres a sample of what Netflixs ratings will look like  these charts rank Netflixs global viewing for the second week of November, and include stuff Netflix owns as well as stuff it licenses from other companies:One streaming company publishing its own viewing data on a regular basis isnt the same as the old TV world, when Nielsen regularly tracked viewing consumption for all TV networks and made that data widely available. But were not living in that world anymore. Instead, video viewing is increasingly fragmented into different streaming services owned by different companies, which cherry-pick audience data to share when they think they have something to boast about.Netflix isnt any different from its competitors in that respect: Its putting these new numbers out because they think they reflect well on Netflix. And while those numbers may be interesting for you, A Person Who Watches Netflix, the numbers are really aimed at a professional audience. That includes investors, who want to see if the billions of dollars Netflix spends on content are being turned into Things People Watch (note that the two Top 10 lists above are dominated by stuff Netflix made instead of rented). It also means Hollywood talent, who want to be reassured that things they make for Netflix are being watched by lots of people. The numbers also represent an unspoken challenge to rival streaming services like Disney+, Hulu, and Peacock: We dare you to publish your numbers using the same methodology because we bet theyre much smaller than ours. Its also worth noting that the main audience for traditional TV ratings numbers  advertisers who wanted to know where to spend their money  isnt material here, since Netflix doesnt run ads.Netflix used to keep all of its viewing data to itself, and initially bristled when outsiders tried to measure shows on their own. But two years ago, it started to selectively and periodically release some of its own numbers  always ones that flattered the company. The numbers also drew derision from competitors and critics. Thats in part because there was no real transparency to the reporting, and in part because of Netflixs odd and changing definition of what a view is. At first Netflix said a view happened if someone watched 70 percent of a TV show; then the company revised that and said anyone who watched at least two minutes of a show counted as a viewer. Now, Netflix is simply tracking how much time its viewers spend, in aggregate, with a show or movie. That means, in theory, that two people watching Red Notice, its lousy but popular action movie starring Dwayne The Rock Johnson, Ryan Reynolds, and Gal Gadot, would count the same as a single person watching the movie twice.So lets say Netflix makes a Red Notice sequel. (Pro: The movie, which reportedly had a $200 million budget, is supposed to be Netflixs attempt to make its own action franchise; Con: It looks and feels like it was made for a lot less than $200 million.) But with the new numbers Netflix is releasing, you wont have to rely on context-free boasts like this one to gauge whether thats a good idea:On the other hand, consumer fetishization of behind-the-scenes info about the entertainment they consume doesnt necessarily make for a better experience. We used to watch TV shows and movies with almost no idea how many other people were watching, and that was just fine. Feel free to ignore all of this.
The space debris problem is getting dangerous . Russia shot down one of its Soviet-era satellites in a weapons test on Monday, sending more than 1,500 pieces of trackable debris into space. This forced astronauts on the International Space Station to shelter for about two hours in two spacecraft that could return them to Earth in the event of an imminent collision. While the ISS appears to be in the clear for now, experts say the situation is still dangerous. Satellite operators will likely need to navigate around this new cloud of space junk for several years and possibly decades. In fact, Russias latest missile test may have increased the total amount of space junk, including discarded pieces of rockets and satellites in Earths orbit, by as much as 10 percent. These shards are spinning at incredibly fast speeds and risk hitting active satellites that power critical technologies, like GPS navigation and weather forecasting. Space debris like this is actually so dangerous that national security officials are worried it could be used as a weapon in a future space war. In fact, the State Department has already said the Monday missile test is evidence that Russia is more than willing to create debris that jeopardizes the safety of all countries operating in low-Earth orbit, and even risks disrupting the peace in space. These risks have only heightened concerns that were far from solving the space junk problem, especially as private companies and foreign governments launch thousands of new satellites into orbit  inevitably creating even more space junk.Mondays events, however, were more politically fraught than your average space debris incident. The Russian government launched a so-called antisatellite test (ASAT), which, as the name implies, is designed to destroy satellites in orbit. Launched from a site a few hundred miles north of Moscow, the missile struck a non-operational Russian spy satellite called Kosmos-1408 that had been orbiting the Earth since 1982. The satellite has now been broken into thousands of pieces that are currently whizzing around Earth at about 17,000 miles an hour, passing the International Space Station approximately every 90 minutes. While astronauts no longer need to shelter, the threat to the ISS or other satellites has not gone away. Im outraged by this irresponsible and destabilizing action, NASA administrator Bill Nelson said in a statement. With its long and storied history in human spaceflight, it is unthinkable that Russia would endanger not only the American and international partner astronauts on the ISS, but also their own cosmonauts. Nelson added that Russias actions were reckless and dangerous and also imperiled those aboard Chinas Tiangong space station.While Russia admitted to destroying a satellite in the recent test, its defense ministry insisted the event did not put the ISS at risk.Russia is one of four countries, including India, the US, and China, to blow up its own satellite using an antisatellite missile. This trend is alarming because governments with ASAT systems could use the tech to attack other countries satellites, turning space into a battlefield. But even if countries only target their own space objects, Russias missile test shows how governments can also use antisatellite missiles to create debris that endangers every country, company, or person operating in orbit. And again, once this debris is created, it can remain a threat for years. Just last week, the ISS had to adjust its altitude by about a mile to avoid hitting space debris from a satellite that China shot down in 2007. The space junk problem is only getting bigger, too. Right now, there are more than 100 million pieces of space trash larger than a millimeter orbiting Earth, according to NASA. And as of May, the Department of Defense tracked more than 27,000 larger pieces of orbital debris, but even smaller pieces can still pose a massive danger to other satellites and space stations because of the incredibly high velocity at which they travel. I dont think you can overstate the danger of space debris at this point, Wendy Whitman Cobb, a professor at the US Air Force School of Air and Space Studies, told Recode. As you create more debris, the chances of that debris hitting other things and creating more debris kind of just grows.What makes the space junk problem especially difficult is that no one has taken responsibility for it. According to the Outer Space Treaty, the foundation of international space law, countries remain the proprietors of whatever objects they send into space, so Russia still technically owns all the satellite fragments created by its Monday missile test. There isnt a global consensus on what the penalties for creating space junk should be, and tracking and attributing different pieces of debris to different countries space operations is still difficult. Government agencies and private space companies are developing technology to remove space junk, like nets that could catch debris in orbit and devices that would push satellites into the atmosphere to disintegrate. But theres concern that governments could use the very same tools to take down another countrys satellites. At the same time, the cost of creating space junk  and removing it  is rarely factored into the decision to launch a vehicle or satellite into space. In a lot of ways, this is the same type of problem, an environmental issue that weve been dealing with on Earth in many, many forms, Akhil Rao, an economist at Middlebury who has studied space debris, told Recode. Weve struggled with fisheries collapse, weve struggled with atmospheric pollution, [and] weve struggled with ozone depletion. Right now, the best way we have right now to ameliorate the many risks of orbital debris is to not create space junk in the first place. That might happen through better international cooperation or creating new economic incentives for private companies, but the sooner it happens, the better. While were generally able to navigate around the space junk that already exists, that will get more and more difficult as more debris builds up. And if we dont figure out a solution in time, we could end up in a situation where low-Earth orbit is so packed with space trash that its unnavigable. 
One Good Thing: The 1970s childrens book that envisions an America overrun by trash. What if everything you thought you knew about the past was completely wrong? Thats the idea that blew my mind as a 10-year-old in suburban Houston, when I gleaned it from the pages of an oversized blue paperback book. In just 95 black-and-white illustrated pages, that book imprinted itself on my brain and instilled in me a fleeting desire to become an archeologist.It was read to us by a teacher who was definitely rebelling against the Texas public school systems required reading list. Instead of launching me into a downward existential spiral, the idea of being wrong about history, whether it be the symbolism of the pyramids or the color of triceratops, thrilled me. That book and that thought haunted me throughout my 20s and 30s, but there was one problem: Id completely forgotten the title and the name of the author. What I remembered about the plot sounded so bizarre, I had a tough time articulating it beyond, Its about being wrong about everything! And archeology. And maybe climate change?Every few years, a fuzzy memory of the crosshatched illustrations would pop into my head, and I would think, I need to find that book. This went on for two decades. Finally, I got fed up and embarked on a quest. After Google searches like book with picture of woman with toilet seat on her head yielded nothing, I turned to the real literary sleuths. I emailed librarians, at random: Im trying to find a book about an archeologist from the future who thinks a Do Not Disturb Sign at a motel is some kind of sacred seal.At last, one librarian in Iowa emailed back, Sounds like Motel of the Mysteries by David Macaulay. I immediately looked it up, and there it was: the unmistakable lapis lazuli-hued cover, the crosshatched illustrations, and the gold lettering of the title. I ordered two copies and dove back into Macaulays story of Howard Carson, a dilettante trust funder from the 41st century with a passion for archeology who spends his time collecting antique spaceships and attempting to discover ways for camels to grow a third hump.When the story begins, its the year 4022, and Carson has traveled to the desolate country of Usa (haha!), whose entire population was buried under an avalanche of excess mail way back in 1985. Carson is in Usa to run a marathon (stay with me here). Ever the bumbling archeologist, he falls down a shaft and discovers a mysterious door. What Carson and his loyal assistant Harriet believe to be an ancient burial ground, the reader knows to be a standard roadside Motel 6. Their sacred Tomb 26 is, to us, simply the entrance to a crappy motel room. Dramatic irony drives the humor, but its the characters awe and wonder about things we tend to dismiss that endeared me to this book as a kid. Reading it years later, I still love their blissfully ignorant joy because, no, Howard, a sanitized for your protection band is not a Sacred Headband and the toilet seat that Harriet wears around her neck is not a Sacred Headdress. When Howard Carson first opens the door to Tomb 26, he observes that everywhere there was the glint of plastic. He discovers plasticus petrificus (a.k.a. Formica), The Plant That Would Not Die (a cheap plastic plant), and The Great Altar (a 1970s television set). Carson becomes obsessed with cataloging his discoveries.Driven by an overwhelming sense of responsibility to the past along with a burning desire to contribute significantly to the future, Carson soon lost control of the present, Macaulay writes, which is now my favorite sentence in the book. That line captures the tone and humor of the book perfectly, and its even funnier when you learn that to Carson, losing control means actually having to work an eight-hour day. In the prologue, Macaulay writes that Usa was destroyed because impurities that had apparently hung in the air for centuries finally succumbed to the force of gravity and collapsed on what was left of an already stunned population.  In less than a day, the most advanced civilization of the ancient world had perished. In 2021, we worry about the world ending because of wildfires and freezes and murder hornets and plagues, but in Howard Carsons reality, America/Usa was destroyed by air pollution and gravity issues (pollutantus literati and pollutantus gravitas). I highly doubt that sustainability was on my mind back in fifth grade, but now it feels like a gentle warning to the human race to not be so wasteful. The things that remain in Usa are what we recognize as McDonalds signs and gas station logos, but which Carson and Harriet interpret as spiritual altars along Monument Row. Its far-fetched, but thats the point. Besides, it probably will be the fast food signs and Big Gulp cups that remain long after were gone.My obsession with the book eventually inspired me to track down, or more like lightly stalk, David Macaulay himself. I found out he was teaching at the Rhode Island School of Design, and I had a Twitter acquaintance who also taught there. Via DM, I asked if maybe he could connect us. He did, and Macaulay and I have been in contact since 2013. During a recent conversation, I asked Macaulay, who now teaches at Dartmouth, if climate change was on his mind when he was writing and illustrating the book back in the late 1970s. He said, Climate change didnt occur to me. Air pollution? Yes.Macaulay, a Macarthur fellow who has won numerous awards, including a Caldecott Medal, told me that Motel of the Mysteries was the most fun hes ever had writing a book, and it happened the quickest, mainly because he was just playing the whole time. His books  like The Way Things Work and Castle  have gotten more attention and awards, but Motel of the Mysteries is the one thats stayed with me, and Im not alone in loving it the way I do.A quick Twitter search for the book yields a stream of tweets from people who are equally enamored with Howard and Harriet and that toilet seat headdress. Attempts to describe the book range from a great comedy archeology picture book to Its a kids book. About a archaeological dig of a cheap motel. It was actually written for adults, and Macaulay said that instead of being offended by the fact that his main character misinterprets everything, archeologists are some of his biggest fans. I dont think anyone takes their work as seriously or has as much fun, he says of the profession.For me, it has stayed relevant all these years because it captures ideas that are eternal: What will happen to our world when its wiped out by climate change or excess mail or whatever it may be? Are we closer to winding up like those unfortunate inhabitants of Usa? How do we know everything we think we know is right? And what if being right isnt all its cracked up to be? What if being wrong is actually more fun? I expected it to disappear long ago given how much work I didnt put into it, Macaulay told me recently. Perhaps it will be unearthed at some future time by a real archaeologist. Now wouldnt that be fun? Would they know to laugh?I hope theyll know to laugh, and I hope theyll find as much joy in this book about a bowtie-wearing, 41st-century amateur archeologist as I do. If thats not enough for future generations, Macaulay also threw in some romance. Amid the ruins, Carson and Harriet, two misguided amateurs who have no clue just how wrong they are, fall in love.Motel of the Mysteries is available everywhere books are sold. For more recommendations from the world of culture, check out the One Good Thing archives.
Anatomy of a TikTok hunk. I dont remember the first time I saw a video of Ben Awad, 24-year-old bespectacled software engineer, on TikTok. All I remember is pulling up the comments and almost choking on my coffee. Im leaking all over the floors Ben, is but one example of the lewd comments left by hundreds of users, whose responses to Bens videos range from the goofily longing (I would literally morph into a keyboard for you ben) to the absolutely feral (Ben its been 48 hours since my wax. Im allowed friction now ben; Ben please just a quick guzzle of your brogurt.)Each week well send you the very best from The Goods, plus a special internet culture edition by Rebecca Jennings on Tuesdays. Sign up here.What shocked me about these comments was not their content, exactly  wanting to, say, get run over with a truck by a celebrity crush is a longtime pillar of the stan internet  but rather the object of their affection. Awad is certainly cute, in the way the sort of nerdy kid in your math lecture is cute, but he doesnt preen and pout in front of the camera the way so many others do online, people who clearly know that the crux of their content is Look at me, I am hot. Hes been making popular coding tutorials on YouTube since he was 19 and only seriously started making TikToks last year as part of a stunt to see if he could go viral by hacking into the algorithm (it worked, kinda!). Since then, hes been explaining programming memes and stitching girls videos while making dry, niche coding jokes that act as punchlines.TikTok did not invent the concept of the thirst trap, but it has democratized it enough that even the most average-looking people, many of them men, are becoming recipients of mass, pulsating, and often quite gross desire. There are many names for these sorts of videos  Boyfriend POVs, ThirstTok, Acting POVs, wherein people do whatever facial expression or hand moment is trendy at the time (currently its smiling while talking) to a popular audio. Its a time-honored tradition pioneered before TikTok was TikTok, back when it was Musical.ly, where teens shared videos of dizzying transitions and staccato motions. There, the winners of the algorithm were mostly clean-cut preteen boys and girls who conformed to mid-2010s beauty standards. On TikTok in 2021, its much more varied. Sure, there are the expected genres of hunks baldly catering to the female gaze: Theres one absolutely jacked and tatted-up man who chops wood on camera; theres a 21-year-old with a mullet who lip-syncs to 80s hits, much to the delight of his largely Gen X female fans; there are many who cook really, really good-looking food while also being hot. The most famous examples are the ones that end up in cringe compilations and mocking duets  Devin Caherly, who pretends as if, say, hes your husband seeing you for the first time on your wedding day and falls to tears, has been a longtime target, as have the e-boys whose attempts at coolness so often land as creepy. March of 2021 was when the thirst comments started coming in on Awads page. I was very much used to mean people on the internet, and it doesnt bother me, he says. But I am not used to these types of comments whatsoever. They began relatively chaste: hi im literally in love with u, r u free Feb 14?. Within just a day, though, they leveled up: im down bad omg, hello im a CS major who could use your tip, my ring finger looking rlly empty rn, he literally could do whatever he wants with me. Now, of course, they are beyond parody (Im just a hole ben; clawing at the walls and frothing profusely), and have mostly turned into a competition to see who can write the most shocking observation. He has received so many DMs that he has stopped reading them completely, and says that if hes in New York City or any situation with a lot of college-aged students, theres a 50 percent chance hell get recognized.Awad has his theories as to the reason for all this, er, fervor. I think its a couple of things: One is that my content is the opposite of feral, Im very stoic. Im not desperate for this type of attention, so its a yin and yang. The dissonance between a video shared to elicit a specific reaction versus the actual reaction it gets is a tentpole of TikTok comedy: You can think you want to lead people a certain way, but a lot of times, the [commenters] will be like, I noticed that small detail in the corner of your video, and thats what were talking about, he explains. I have a friend, who well call Katie, who is extremely active on alternative-thirst trap TikTok and is also a big fan of Awads. Shes conflicted, though, on how she should feel about it. I hate that my stupid little hormones and stupid little heart do a stupid little flip when I see a hot guy on TikTok, she says. I open up the comments to these girls or guys going absolutely feral for this person and all of a sudden it feels silly to throw my comment into the pile. Like, what do I think will happen, theyll notice me?There is also the question of consent, and whether it is ethical to publicly thirst after someone who may or may not be asking for it. If we saw these kinds of comments from men on a girls video, the reaction would be far more negative, says Katie. But because now men are receiving just a fraction of the thirst comments we receive for just existing online, does that make it okay? I dont know. Awad hasnt had anyone cross the line, per se, but he does feel weird about certain types of comments. The ones that go a little bit too far is when they get possessive or protective, like, Are you talking to another girl? The rules of thirst trap TikTok are different from that of Instagram or Twitter, and they certainly apply differently to people across the gender spectrum. As the popular TikToker Brittany Tomlinson put it to me last year, Theres this hyperfixation on being a cute little baby. Like, why? I dont get it. Its like, maam, you have taxes to pay. These conventions are much more fraught for women, who are encouraged to look as young as possible until it becomes creepy. Meanwhile, men are touted as heroic heartthrobs for being what some would argue is the privilege of being average-looking and putting little effort into their videos. Theres a part of me thats almost angry that its so easy for these men to get this kind of attention by literally just posting a video of them sitting at a desk and smiling at the camera, adds Katie. If they know theyre hot, I dont want to fuel their ego further!Awads commenters, for instance, love to debate whether hes in on the joke, whether he knows exactly what hes doing. I am not unaware of it, he tells me, adding that he prefers to be coy when responding to the two most popular questions his followers ask: his height and relationship status (to the fans: I tried, but he declined to answer either, my sincerest apologies). Being a TikTok hunk, he says, has made dating both easier and more complicated: While he has a much bigger pool to draw from, it takes a specific kind of person to be okay with the content he makes. He has yet to experience, however, the kind of world-shattering attention that has haunted accidental hunks of the past: In 2014, when a 16-year-old boy became Alex from Target after someone snuck a photo of him while he was working as a cashier, he and his family were subject to defamatory lies, rumors, and death threats, and hes no longer publicly online. Nor has Awad been offered any modeling roles, unlike Jeremy Prison Bae Meeks, whose handsome mugshot went viral the same year. What Awad and others with similar fanbases on TikTok  @bradleywebber20, @steezynoodles, @thecodyfromtotaldrama, @archiedonohoe  are experiencing are the effects of going viral in a relatively niche corner of the internet; perhaps not as viral as similarly nerdy-cute news anchor Steve Kornacki during the 2020 election, but maybe more attainable than, say, the Planet Money TikTok guy, who sort of looks like Awad but doesnt acknowledge his league of thirsty fans. Its a common subject on TikTok to discuss whether someone is designed for the female gaze, or to use common parlance, girl hot, which is to say not necessarily the portrait of ultra-aggressive masculinity that many men view as the male beauty standard. TikTok hunks belong in Lisa Simpsons Non-Threatening Boys magazine, but far more attainable than someone like, say, a Timothe Chalamet or a Harry Styles, and therefore more rewarding to thirst after.An example: Awad, who currently has more than 650,000 followers, expects hell reach a million sometime in January or February. As a gift to his fans, once he hits the mark, he promised to make a video in a maid outfit. Timothe Chalamet could never.This column was first published in The Goods newsletter. Sign up here so you dont miss the next one, plus get newsletter exclusives.
The architecture trend dividing Londons elites. One of Londons most unusual and extravagant luxury trends might be its gigantic basements.Newcastle University professor Roger Burrows and his co-authors collected data on every London basement construction project from 2008 to 2019 and mapped it. They found that more than 7,000 basement additions had been built in an 11-year span. These basements were classified in the research as standard, large, and mega-basements  the latter containing multiple levels and extending beyond the footprint of the house. A combination of historic preservation laws, rapidly ballooning property values, and changing tastes has led to a boom in basement construction for the citys wealthiest homeowners.This construction hasnt been without complications. Many London residents see the constant construction as a plague that has hollowed out the city, contributed to air pollution, and even changed the acoustics of their homes. Prof. Burrows sees it as a symbol of increasing wealth inequality in the global city.You can find this video and the entire library of Voxs videos on YouTube.
States have the power to make or break the infrastructure law. Now that President Joe Biden has signed the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (also known as the bipartisan infrastructure framework, or BIF) into law, the federal government faces a new challenge: getting the funds out to states and cities.In the coming months  and years  federal agencies will distribute billions of dollars for everything from bridge repairs to public transit expansions to bike paths. Most of this money will go directly to state governments, which will have significant discretion over which projects theyd like to fund. The state officials who oversee most civilian infrastructure projects will soon face tough decisions about which communities will get this money. Because the bill doesnt include enough funding to cover the entirety of the countrys infrastructure needs, states and other regional entities will have to decide which roads get repaired, which lead pipes get replaced, and which bridges get restored, a process that has in the past left certain low-income communities and communities of color with poor access to adequate infrastructure. Communities will begin receiving infrastructure funding in the course of the next year. Many programs that are being funded, like the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund or the Highway Safety Improvement Program, already exist, so officials can use established channels to distribute the money. Other initiatives, however, like a program to establish a national network of electric vehicle chargers, are newer and could take a year, or more, to set up. While much of the bills funding will be distributed to states, the legislation also includes a substantial amount of money (at least $120 billion, according to the Wall Street Journal) thats under the jurisdiction of the federal government, which doesnt typically have much authority over infrastructure projects. Part of this funding will be doled out through competitive grants, giving officials at federal agencies more of a voice in the decisions.So far, the Department of Transportation has estimated that states could receive funding in as soon as six months. This timing, though, will vary significantly depending on the program. Beyond the timing and logistics of distributing the money, federal and state officials are also expected to face a major challenge in making sure this new funding addresses racial inequities. Past infrastructure measures have failed to tackle this issue, and have, at times exacerbated existing problems. Because the states will control most of the funding, theyll be the ones largely determining how to acknowledge these disparities, if at all.  Not only will states have discretion over revolving funds and highway dollars, but theres a big question of what they choose to fund, says Adie Tomer, a senior metropolitan policy fellow at the Brookings Institution.The specifics of how any individual project is funded will vary significantly depending on the type of initiative  whether it is public transit or drinking water or roads  however, the distribution of money will broadly work in the same way. First, the money laid out in the legislation will be allocated to specific federal agencies that work on different policy areas, giving them the authority to distribute this money. The Department of Transportation has jurisdiction over the bulk of the funds and will oversee money for highways, public transit, and rail. The Environmental Protection Agency will oversee funding for drinking water and wastewater projects, including the replacement of lead pipes. The Department of Commerce will oversee funding for broadband deployment. The Department of Energy will oversee funding for the electric grid and clean energy investments. And the Department of Interior will oversee water management and natural disaster resilience. Then, these agencies will send most of this money to state governments in the form of grants or loans over the next five years. The funding distributed to states will be based predominately on formulas that the federal government has already calculated. These formulas attempt to take into account the individual needs and conditions in a given area in a standardized way. Each year, the federal government allocates money for things like road repairs, wastewater projects, and rail updates. That money is determined for each state based on different characteristics including the number of people who live there as well as the infrastructure thats present: If, say, a state has denser public transit networks already, it might get more funding on that front.  Take, for example, the funding for clean drinking water: How much money a given state gets for water infrastructure is determined using a formula with a few key variables including the results of a Drinking Water Infrastructure Needs Survey and Assessment conducted by the EPA. That survey synthesizes data from water utilities, state water employees, and EPA experts to put a dollar value on states water sourcing, treatment, storage, and distribution needs. Using formulas such as these, the federal government tries to send the bulk of its money to places where there are both a lot of people and a lot of need.In August, the White House estimated more populous states like California, Texas, and New York are expected to get the lions share of the new infrastructure funding given the way these formulas work. These states will respectively receive about $44.6 billion, $35.4 billion, and $26.9 billion each, according to a CNBC analysis.  To decide which cities and towns will receive the new federal money, states are expected to call on localities to compete for various grants and loans. To access drinking water funding, for example, cities and towns already apply to state agencies each year, and then officials decide what projects will get funding based on need. By and large, theres a lot of variability when it comes to how each state determines which communities do  and dont  get this money. And that variability is expected to be seen with the new infrastructure money as well.The bill doesnt overly dictate what projects to execute, Tomer said.  In making their decisions, the states will be forced to make real tradeoffs. While the infrastructure bill is a massive investment, its far from enough to address the entirety of the countrys needs. State officials will be forced to make tough choices about where limited investments should go. For example, the bill allocates $15 billion specifically for replacing the USs lead pipes. Its estimated that it would actually take at least $60 billion to actually fix all of the countrys lead pipe issues  and so communities will inevitably be left with lead in their water, despite the improvements the bill will deliver to others. Issues like broadband access and public transit repairs face similar funding shortfalls.Besides whether communities will be left behind due to a lack of available money, another major concern across these programs is whether infrastructure funding will be equitably distributed and targeted to communities that most need it. In the past, infrastructure funds  including everything from highway investments to drinking water support  havent reached communities of color at the same level as predominately white communities. A 2021 review of the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund, for instance, found that states were less likely to allocate this money to more diverse communities. As Angela Glover Blackwell and Anita Cozart wrote for the Urban Institute in 2018, past infrastructure legislation has shut out communities of color. They cite, for example, a 1956 bill that boosted funding for roads and highways focused on investments [that] prioritized white families and suburban communities rich with jobs, good schools, playgrounds, and other resources, while leaving black inner-city families mired in poverty and disconnected from opportunity.Beyond pouring money into certain communities and not others, previous infrastructure investments have also actively harmed many residents. The 1956 law, which helped establish the interstate highway system, displaced many Black Americans homes to make way for highway construction, and established roads that divided neighborhoods.  Because states still have so much discretion over significant swaths of this money, experts note racial disparities could again arise in how money is spent  and there are limited guardrails to prevent this from happening.  Do you think [Florida Republican Gov.] Ron DeSantis is going to prioritize racial equity in his distribution of federal infrastructure dollars? Kevin DeGood, the head of the Center for American Progresss infrastructure policy team, asked, in reference to comments DeSantis has made that questioned whether highways perpetuated racial disparities in the past. The estimated $120 billion in funding overseen by the federal government will operate slightly differently than the state funds. US Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg has already noted that equity  including a focus on historically underserved communities  will be a key factor in the distribution of this money. To access that funding, state and local governments will have to apply directly to federal agencies, which can then decide to prioritize projects that may be more in line with the Biden administrations #Justice40 commitment. This initiative hopes to send 40 percent of federal investments to disadvantaged communities. Broadly speaking, the increase in competitive grants is what gives the Biden administration the ability to functionally deliver on the promises of Build Back Better, Tomer said.In practice, that will mean at least $48 billion in investments for disadvantaged groups. Should the initiative succeed, it could become a model for future state and federal funding programs. Overall, however, equity and availability concerns mean that the infrastructure bill  though historic  will not be all things to all people, and will not solve every communitys challenges. And rather than usher in sweeping change, Americans will likely see incremental improvements in their roads, water, internet access, airports, and power grids over time, some of those changes beginning as soon as months from now, but others becoming reality toward the second half of the decade. 
The infrastructure law aims to clean up pollution in your community. President Joe Biden signed into law on Monday a bipartisan infrastructure bill that includes $350 billion to address long-ignored environmental threats. The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act is the largest sum in recent memory directed at cleaning up pollution, from replacing lead pipes to capping methane-spewing oil wells.The funding could make a serious dent in air and water pollution for certain communities by preventing runoff from abandoned mines and cleaning up old, toxic manufacturing sites. People who live near busy roadways, airports, and ports may benefit from the boost to electric vehicle charging stations, school buses, and cranes that will replace gas- and diesel-burning cars and equipment.Other investments will improve public health more indirectly: One of the laws major provisions includes expanding transmission that can move more clean energy across the grid. By increasing the mix of renewables, states and the utilities they regulate ultimately would need to burn fewer fossil fuels to power the economy. The biggest criticism of the new law is what it leaves out: Environmental advocates say the funding only meets a fraction of the nations needs for addressing water and air pollution, and falls far short of the transformative change Biden promised on the campaign trail.This is also not the transformative climate bill that climate activists had hoped for. And some of the investments will worsen carbon emissions  the funding for highway construction, for example, could increase pollution in the short term because of the heavy machinery and manufacturing involved. Racial justice advocates tell Vox they are also concerned that the law amends their key tool, the National Environmental Policy Act, in ways that will make it harder to protest future fossil fuel pipelines, highways, and petrochemical sites. Because of this mixed bag, an analysis by Princeton University finds that the new infrastructure law only reduces carbon emissions by 1 percent by 2030 compared to peak levels, an infinitesimal drop in the bucket compared to the cuts needed over the coming decade. The far more important investments for climate change remain in the Build Back Better reconciliation bill that still faces an uncertain fate in Congress.But while the country waits and sees if Democrats will pass the larger climate investments of the Build Back Better Act, its worth looking at the serious ways the infrastructure law can improve environmental health in certain communities. Its a down payment that can help, explained American Lung Associations senior vice president of advocacy Paul Billings. Cleaning up pollution can help to reduce at least part of the burden that these communities are facing, Billings said.Here are the major ways the bill can make a difference.Ever been hit by a blast of exhaust from a tailpipe when a bus passes by? That is diesel, a carcinogen, according to the World Health Organization. It contains hazardous air pollutants like nitrogen oxides, particulate matter, and benzene, which all contribute to unhealthy air that more than 41 percent of Americans breathe in.Heavy machinery and equipment  like big trucks, freight-carrying ferries, and cranes that keep the supply chain running smoothly  are among the most polluting parts of the transportation sector. People who live by highways, freight rail, and ports are the most exposed to higher levels of all kinds of toxic pollutants than the rest of the population because theyre so close to the source: the tailpipe.The infrastructure law makes the biggest federal investment yet in electrifying the transportation sector. By adding more electric-powered machinery fueled by an increasingly clean electricity sector, communities near ports and highways would face less smog and particulate matter. The $7.5 billion for electric vehicle chargers helps with one major obstacle to getting more electric cars on the road. Other investments modernize some public transit lines and add lower-emissions buses and rail to fleets. And $17 billion goes to curbing pollution near ports by electrifying more diesel-burning equipment like tug boats, cranes, and freight trucks. Ninety-five percent of the nations school buses run on diesel. That leaves more than 20 million kids exposed to pollutants from bus exhaust every school day, whether they are riding them, standing next to an idling bus, or walking to school. Adults living in nearby communities arent immune to the lung and brain damage caused by diesel either.The law devotes $2.5 billion to electrifying school buses, a sum that will only begin to transform the nations school fleets. Though experts dont have an exact number for how many buses this sum would replace, it will be far less than the 20 percent Biden originally hoped to electrify with $20 billion. Theres even more money, $5 billion, in the still-unfinished Build Back Better bill to electrify trucks and school buses.The United States needs to produce more clean energy, and find better ways to store solar and wind, to meet the nations energy demands while also meeting climate targets. It also needs more transmission lines to transport renewable power to businesses, homes, and all those charging stations powering those newly electrified cars and buses on the road. The infrastructure law devotes $65 billion to updating the electric grid, including building thousands of miles of new lines. Since bringing more renewables onto the power grid is key to cutting demand for and dependence on coal, oil, and gas, this funding will indirectly help clean up the air. Less coal burned, for instance, means less residual toxic waste, less mercury and sulfur in the air, and less ozone.There are three major ways the law cleans up drinking water: by addressing lead pipes, beginning to address PFAS contamination, and improving aging sewage systems that dump contaminants in waterways. The law includes $15 billion for replacing lead pipes used for drinking water (the Build Back Better Act has another nearly $10 billion). Flint, Michigans, lead pollution crisis has made national news since 2014, and its far from the only majority-Black city that has had undrinkable water. Theres a very long list of states and localities waiting for this funding, said Sierra Clubs senior federal climate policy director Liz Perera.The law also makes another $10 billion investment in cleaning up PFAS, a class of forever chemicals commonly found in drinking water. It increases the EPAs funds for state grants to test for and treat PFAS that ends up in drinking water and to prevent PFAS runoff in wastewater.Finally, the law spends $30 billion starting to revamp city sewage systems and wastewater management. Severe floods, worsened by climate change, keep overwhelming parts of the country with sewage systems not equipped to handle the deluge. For example, Louisiana officials in September dumped raw sewage into waterways during hurricanes to avoid inundating homes. This is one of the infrastructure laws most significant investments in preparing communities for worsening climate change.As my colleague Li Zhou reported, the effectiveness of these programs will come down to how the EPA distributes the funding to states for implementation. There are so many abandoned mines and old oil and gas wells in the country that have been ignored for so long that there is only a rough guess of how many exist. The true number is probably somewhere more than 3 million for a century of widespread fossil fuel production. At some of these sites, you can literally see the rusted pumpjacks and leaking tanks abandoned by now-defunct drillers. The more invisible menace is the emissions that escape from an uncapped well. These open sites leach the climate pollutant and smog-contributor methane, plus a host of other chemicals, into groundwater and the atmosphere. So $16 billion in the infrastructure bill is a major boost to the Abandoned Mine Land Program that has been running on just $8 billion in funding stretched over four decades. Congress has similarly neglected the EPAs trust fund that cleans up toxic former industrial and waste sites, and communities of color bear most of the burden of that neglect: As Brian Deese, the White House director of the National Economic Council, tweeted, 26 percent of Black Americans and 29 percent of Hispanic Americans live within three miles of a Superfund site. Biden inherited a list of 34 of these Superfund sites and a list of more than 1,000 backlogged projects. Congress will inject $3.5 billion into the EPAs bankrupt Superfund Clean-up fund and $1.5 billion into EPAs brownfields clean-up via the new infrastructure law. More importantly, an expired tax on chemical manufacturers that Congress let lapse 25 years ago will be revived. Ultimately, the infrastructure laws true impact will fall to how it is implemented by the Biden administration and future administrations. Enforcement of environmental laws will matter in many cases as much as the law itself. Though the infrastructure law does not single out communities most in need, federal agencies will likely need to comply with President Bidens executive order that at least 40 percent of the money would flow to communities that have faced systemic racism and pollution. Community environmental activists are eager to see what the new law finally means for their fight to clean up long-ignored toxic waste sites and hazardous sources of dirty air. For instance, Teri Blanton, a longtime grassroots organizer with Kentuckians for the Commonwealth and the Alliance for Appalachia, looks forward to the laws investment in clean drinking water and wastewater infrastructure. The abandoned and active coal mines that run through eastern Kentucky make it one of the areas that stands to benefit. But, she told Vox, I hope some of that comes back to the people of Appalachia.
The bipartisan infrastructure law is both historic and not nearly enough. President Joe Biden on Monday signed a historic $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill into law.The law, the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (also known as the bipartisan infrastructure framework, or BIF), is a massive investment in roads, bridges, and water pipes. But it still falls short of the funding that the country needs. About $550 billion of the $1.2 trillion law is new spending, which will be spread out over five years. The remaining $650 billion in the bill would have been allocated for existing transportation and highway programs under previously planned funding.The new money in the bill will go toward a wide range of projects, including road repairs, high-speed internet services, and investments in electric buses. Notably, the infrastructure bill was backed by both Democratic lawmakers and some Republicans, and was the culmination of years long attempts to advance infrastructure legislation thats spanned presidential administrations. While its a landmark investment, the legislation only authorizes a fraction of the funding required to tackle the entirety of the USs infrastructural challenges. Across specific categories of the bill, including lead water pipe replacement and broadband, its likely to take much more than whats already been allocated to fully solve issues of access, safety, and equity. The bill includes $15 billion specifically for addressing lead pipes, for instance, while experts believe it will take $60 billion to actually replace every lead pipe in America. Still, the passage of this bill  which contains critical funding that the country has needed for decades  is significant, and an important down payment for future investments. Finally, infrastructure week, President Joe Biden quipped earlier this month, referencing the fact that President Donald Trump often declared it infrastructure week, only for no progress to be made on related legislation. We did something thats long overdue, that long has been talked about in Washington, but never actually been done.The $550 billion in new spending includes big boosts in funding for transportation, internet access, and clean drinking water, much of which will be distributed to states that will then allocate the funds to regional projects. The bulk of the money focuses on transportation-related needs including roads, bridges, rail, public transit, airports and waterways. Broadly, the funding for various provisions is less than what Biden had originally requested in his American Jobs Plan, underscoring the compromises made between Democrats and Republicans to reach the final version of the bill. This past March, Biden had called for $100 billion for broadband, while the bill includes $65 billion; hed also requested $159 billion for roads and bridges and ended up with $110 billion. Below is a rundown of the legislation:These investments make significant inroads in confronting the countrys infrastructure issues, though they arent sufficient to address them completely. Across an array of provisions including drinking water, public transit, and broadband, experts believe much more funding is needed to fully tackle the problems cities and states are facing. The bill contains $39 billion for public transit, for example, but the American Society of Civil Engineers estimates that US public transit systems need about $176 billion in work right now, and will need almost $100 billion more in funding by the end of the decade. The success of the bill will also depend heavily on implementation, which will vary across states. For many programs, the federal government is expected to allocate a specific amount of funding to states, which will then dole out money to different localities. During this process, many cities and towns will be competing for a limited pool of funding, leaving prioritization of projects up to the states discretion. With drinking water funding, for example, each state will get a lump sum that it can then allocate to the places it determines are most in need, an approach that doesnt necessarily guarantee an equitable distribution of money.  As E&E News reported, an August review from the Environmental Policy Innovation Center found that states have historically been less likely to distribute funding from drinking water resources to smaller and more diverse communities. Overall, the bill is unlikely to revolutionize American infrastructure, or even bring its transportation systems on par with countries like Singapore and the Netherlands. But the legislation marks key progress on a relatively popular issue that has previously stymied Congress, and contains big investments that the country has needed for a long time. Although more action is required to fully confront the infrastructure problems the US faces, this bill is, importantly, a start. Update, November 15: This story has been updated to reflect news of President Joe Biden signing the infrastructure bill into law.
Were all famous now. Are we all famous now?I know thats a strange question. If everyone is famous, then no one is famous, right? Well, it depends on what exactly we mean by famous. Last month, I read a New Yorker essay by Chris Hayes, the host of All In on MSNBC, that sharpened the question. He asked, what happens when the experience of fame becomes a universal possibility?Anyone whos on a social media platform like TikTok or Twitter or Instagram is always one viral post away from instant fame  or what feels like fame, anyway. Most of us dont ever get it, but the specter of it is always there. For Hayes, this means a lot of us are chasing validation in a place that can never really give it to us, because we dont really know or care about the people on the other side of the virtual wall. Like a celebrity interacting with fans, its hollow and one-sided, and while the people liking and sharing our posts satisfy our desire for attention, they cant satisfy our desire for genuine recognition.I reached out to Hayes for this weeks episode of Vox Conversations to talk about why he thinks this is such a radical shift in human life, and one weve probably underappreciated. We also talk about his own uneasy relationship with fame and why, like the rest of us, he just cant back away from Twitter.Below is an excerpt from our conversation, edited for length and clarity. As always, theres much more in the full podcast, so subscribe to Vox Conversations on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, Stitcher, or wherever you listen to podcasts.There have been a lot of think pieces about the transformative effects of the internet, and most of them began with the assumption that the biggest change is the discourse is more open than its ever been, that more people have a seat at the table. And thats certainly true, but you turn this around and say that the most significant change isnt who gets to speak, but rather what we can hear. Why is our ability to hear more, to absorb more noise and information and content, the most radical shift in our social lives?I think for a few reasons. One is that, even though it is the case that more and more people can join the discourse, I think the people that make the argument about that being positive have a lot going for them, and a lot that Im sympathetic to. I mean, it really is the case that there has been a radical expansion of the voices that are in the media, and the kind of old gatekeeper universe has been torn down, largely, and theres a lot of good thats flowed from that.I mean, Vox is kind of an example of all kinds of stuff getting published that I dont think would have been published a generation ago, right? At the same time, most peoples experience of social media is consuming, and this is just an empirical fact about the distribution of users. A hilarious percentage of tweets are produced by a very small set of users. (I account for an embarrassing number of those personally. Half of all tweets come from Chris Hayes now.) The kind of modal experience of social media is consumption, is seeing stuff, is getting stimulus about the world. And youre just getting a lot. Michelle Goldberg made this point, she just wrote a column on this in the New York Times, sort of a related set of themes about the Facebook revelations, but she said, Maybe 15 years ago people were sending around Christmas cards with their whole family posing with guns. I just didnt know about it. Its possible that thats a new thing. Its also possible thats been happening all the time, and now I just see it, and Im like, Wow, thats weird. I dont like that.Youre constantly being exposed to some set of stimuli, knowledge about the world, that is often designed to inflame and rage, but also just means theres a creepy level of surveillance we all have into everyone elses lives. I say this in the piece, that a not particularly industrious 16-year-old possesses the power to surveil on a level formerly reserved for the KGB. I mean, you could just pick someone at random, and Ive done this, when sometimes someone will end up in the updraft of the news and youll go look at their social media. Before you know it, its like youve got this picture of this person, that is the kind of thing that an intelligence agency would compile, or take a team to compile, a dossier of in a former life. So we are just constantly inundated with a sheer amount of information, particularly provocative information, about strangers. I basically think theres two kinds of internet. Theres good internet and bad internet. The good internet happens between people who have actual relationships, where the internet is the medium to stay in touch. Then theres the bad internet. Bad internet is all the stuff that happens between strangers. Some of those stranger interactions are great. Im very lucky that I learned things from the internet. But in the mean, I think that the proximity to strangers thats produced by the internet is rubbing up against something very deep in us as human beings, and producing some really combustible frictions. A key question, for me at least, is trying to figure out how this chaotic, overwhelming discourse isnt merely changing what we can hear, but also changing how we think. If you believe that the limits of our language are the limits of our thought, then the memefied discourse of social media has probably not been great for our brains or liberal democracy. But, as you point out, we heard the same arguments about TV not that long ago.Yeah. I think both are pretty true. I think that it is a perennial complaint of people who are encountering a new technology, particularly a new medium to communicate thought, to be wary of it or to focus on its downsides. But also, a lot of times theyre right and there is a profound effect that these various media have. Theres a riff in I forget which part of Plato, where Socrates is talking about writing as being the enemy of good thought, and hes got a whole thing about like, No ones going to remember anything anymore.The critique goes all the way back from an oral society to a written society. Neil Postman, in Amusing Ourselves to Death, writes about the features of thought that were prioritized by an oral society, which was memorization. Its modes of thought were very aphoristic and very mythos-based, because those are the things that you could recall from memory. I think it definitely changed human thought to go from an oral tradition to a writing tradition. For the better, for the worse, I dont know, but definitely changed it. Then I think Postmans argument about going from a kind of print society to one dominated by TV and the image, I think theres a lot to his critique about how it changes the way that we think, and shapes public discourse.The question of whats better, whats worse, whats reversible or not, Postman says this is a change for the worse, but to identify that mass modes of discourse produce changes at the very level of conceptualization in people doesnt strike me as far-fetched, and seems an idea very worth taking seriously.Lets zoom in on the particulars of the piece and then we can wind back towards the Postman stuff. You talk about how beings crave recognition above all else, but all the internet gives us, really, is attention. That might seem like a distinction without a difference to someone who hasnt read your piece yet, or hasnt thought much about this. So can you explain the difference between recognition and attention, and why one is worth pursuing and the other is hollow?I think the distinction between that actually is really important, and has clarified a lot for me about just the way I feel about things. The recognition riff is drawn from the lectures of a Russian expat who went to Paris after the Bolshevik revolution from a wealthy Russian family that fled the Bolsheviks, named Alexandre Kojve. He ran this seminar in Paris at a school where he basically did a kind of week by week exegesis on Hegels Phenomenology of Spirit, and it was attended by a whos who of French intellectuals, including Lacan, Ansart, and others. Lacan, by the way, once you read Kojves exegesis on Hegel, if you do read Lacan, you realize that like a lot of Lacan is just literally ripping off Kojve. He was a weird guy. He was a bureaucrat. He ended up a very high-ranking bureaucrat in the ministry of trade, and basically is there at the inception of the EU. Hes got a lot of different theories, but one of the things that he talks about in his uses of Hegel is, whats the constituent human desire? The thing that makes us human is a desire for recognition. His specificity on this is that recognition is to be seen as a human by a human. He says, man can only therefore be social.The reciprocity of the acknowledgement, the gaze, the investment of another human who looks at us and sees us as human is the thing that we crave above all else, that is actually what forms us as humans. I think theres a lot to that. Thats a very profound observation that is clarifying for me. He then goes on to talk about the master and the slave paradox of Hegel. Theres not a ton on it in The Phenomenology of Spirit. But Kojves take on this has to do with the fact that theres this paradox in the master and the slave, in that the slave, because hes brought low by the master, hes forced to submit. And theres this whole weird thing about like this fight to the death that I couldnt quite even crack intellectually, but basically, the takeaway I have is that the slave submits and recognizes the master.But fundamentally the paradox, and the kind of tragedy of the master, is that that recognition is meaningless  because the master doesnt recognize the slave as human. The master is on the receiving end of recognition from a person he himself does not recognize as human, ergo, that recognition itself cant matter for him. I think what ends up happening in the internet is that our profound desire for recognition to be seen as human by other humans is the lure that we chase, like the cartoon donkey with the carrot in front of us, to go out into the world and say, Look at me, here, I am human. This is my humanity. Recognize me.And what we get, in a somewhat similar situation to the master and the slave, is we get these inputs and likes from people, that because they arent real to us as humans, cant actually feed that desire for recognition. Because we dont see them as humans. Because theyre strangers. Theyre just people out there in the ether. Were sort of compulsively chasing this desire for recognition and instead getting attention. Attention is a broader category than recognition. Recognition is a specific and rarefied form of attention. I actually tend to think of it, as Ive been constructing this in my head, theres attention at the lowest level, then theres recognition, and theres love, as the three ascending forms of human engagement.Attention is just someone notices you. Recognition is someone sees you, recognizes you as a person, and love is someone feels for you. We want to be recognized, we want to be loved, and were on the internet getting nothing but attention all the time, because thats kind of all the medium can produce.You talk about how weve built this technology that creates a synthetic version of this most fundamental desire, but really, it almost seems like the web creates a synthetic version of human life as such, which is why most of what we do on there feels like this kind of pantomime, but a pantomime that mimics real life just enough to keep us coming back for more and more.I think thats part of what is so tricky about it, because there are people that Ive interacted with online for literally decades. Jamelle Bouie, the New York Times columnist, and I have met in real life maybe a dozen times. Ran into him once on Marthas Vineyard. I remember once he did a book event with me. I used to see him around DC, but Jamelle is someone that Ive read for over a decade, who Ive interacted with, who Ive corresponded with about the things that hes writing or the things that Im writing or working on.Hes someone that I feel quite close to, in a certain way, because of the internet. I mean, I imagine some earlier iteration, maybe it would have been that I wrote letters to him, he wrote letters to me, or something like that. And I dont want to overstate our closeness. Were not. I know him and respect him and feel quite warmly and fondly towards him. But what Im saying is that theres a kind of relationship there that I have with a bunch of people that, again, is in that good space that does feel both human, but also mostly enabled by the medium, but thats us, and its a narrow slice in there.My point is that the genuineness of that, the genuineness that you can feel, where sometimes this will happen, someone will announce a child is born to them or some tragedy, and again, you will feel a genuine feeling of human tug, about a person whos fundamentally, IRL, a stranger, that you nonetheless feel approximate to, close to, invested in. Again, theres something so profound in that. Its more than, to me, a facsimile. Its actually like playing the same strings that are like the deepest chords of our soul, basically.I think youre right. We want to be seen by other people with whom were interacting online. We want to be recognized. We demand it, but we cant really get it because its, by and large, an unequal relationship; we can only recognize the other, we cant be fully recognized by them. Its almost like you have this kind of virtual wall between people online. It collapses everyone on the other side into almost an abstraction, a non-person, or some kind of avatar onto which we project whatever we want. Thats enough to satisfy or engage our attention. Its not enough to satisfy our soul, and I love that youre teasing that out here.Correct. That point about attention to me, and heres where Ive been trying to give a lot of sustained thought to attention, because the writing project Im working on now really focuses on this, is that theres also something really profound about how attention works. This is, again, is an area that is very well trod. Tim Wus book, called The Attention Merchants, gets into some of this. So, theres a very powerful market for our attention. But the thing thats really interesting about attention is our ability to control it is essentially constitutive of our consciousness as humans.So the thing that actually makes us human beings is that we can, at will, shine the flashlight of mental focus on what we want to. If I say to you right now, to the listener, I say right now, conjure the image and the sound of a sprinkler on a lawn on a warm summer day. You can do that. Well, as far as we know, were the only species that can do that. Its possible, again, this is a long philosophical literature that maybe dogs are running around doing this or dolphins or whatever, but as best we can tell, this ability to at will, to take the flashlight of thought, shine it on the thing, conjure things, bring them forward, this is essentially constitutive of what it means to be conscious.And yet, theres another part of our attention, what psychologists call preconscious attention, that we cant control. When a siren comes wailing down the street, the siren takes your attention against your will, involuntarily. Its designed to do so. Our lives online are this existential battle, like Odysseus tied to the mast as he passes the sirens, to wrest control back of the very thing that defines us as humans, which is the volitional control over our own mental focus, as it is constantly being battled for by enormously powerful supercomputers and corporations attempting to involuntarily extract it.To hear the rest of the conversation, click here, and be sure to subscribe to Vox Conversations on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, Stitcher, or wherever you listen to podcasts.
Democrats are set to leave immigrants in the lurch again. The House may soon vote on Democrats $1.75 trillion budget reconciliation bill, with provisions to shield undocumented immigrants living in the US from deportation and relieve long visa backlogs. But like many of the immigration proposals from the last few decades, these new, critical immigration fixes appear unlikely to actually become law. So why is this latest round of immigration reform proposals probably doomed? Two reasons: because of the structure of the Senate and because, on immigration, identity issues have replaced policy.The American public has never been more supportive of immigration, with a third saying that it should be increased. In 1986, the last time Congress passed a major immigration reform bill, only 7 percent of Americans supported increasing immigration levels. And narrower reforms, such as expanded protections for undocumented people already in the US, have been found to have majority support. But despite that growth in public support, the House and Senate havent been able to reach bipartisan agreement on immigration in decades. Though comprehensive immigration reform bills passed one chamber in 2007 and 2013, they ultimately failed in the other. And while the House has passed bipartisan legislation addressing narrower immigration issues over the last couple of years, those bills have yet to gain traction in the Senate. This has led to a Democratic insistence on trying to use the budget reconciliation process to address immigration, which would bypass the need for Republican support. So far, those efforts have failed. But Democrats havent given up on it yet.Voxs German Lopez is here to guide you through the Biden administrations burst of policymaking. Sign up to receive our newsletter each Friday.As part of their social and climate spending package, known as the Build Back Better Act (BBB), Democrats initially sought to create a path to citizenship for millions of undocumented immigrants living in the US. That plan was rejected by the Senate parliamentarian Elizabeth MacDonough, who is tasked with determining what can and cannot be passed via budget reconciliation. Reconciliation allows bills to pass the Senate with a simple majority  which Democrats have by one vote  but for a provision to be included in a reconciliation package, it must have a more than incidental impact on the budget. A pathway to citizenship, MacDonough said, would be a tremendous and enduring policy change that dwarfs its budgetary impact. Democrats then proposed giving people who entered the US illegally prior to 2010 a pathway to green cards. MacDonough also nixed this plan.This has led to Democrats plan C. Under the latest draft of the bill, undocumented immigrants would be given temporary protection from deportation through what is called parole for a period of five years. Those who arrived in the US prior to 2011  numbering an estimated 7 million  could apply for five-year, renewable employment authorization. The bill would also recover millions of green cards that went unused in the years since 1992. Under current law, any allotted green cards not issued by the end of the year become unavailable for the following year. In 2021, the US failed to issue some 80,000 green cards due to processing delays, and those cards have now gone to waste. The bill also allows some people who have been waiting to be issued a green card for at least two years to pay additional fees to bypass certain annual and per-country limitations and become permanent residents years, if not decades, sooner than they would have otherwise. And the bill preserves green cards for Diversity Visa winners from countries with low levels of immigration to the US who were prevented from entering the country on account of Trump-era travel bans and the pandemic. Those provisions, though short of desperately needed structural reform to the immigration system, would provide long-awaited assurance for many undocumented immigrants who have put down roots in the US and more opportunities for legal immigration at a time when the country could use more foreign workers. The provisions are also broadly popular: A recent poll from Data for Progress found that 75 percent of voters, including a majority of Republicans, back them.Nevertheless, they may be on the chopping block.In the House, Reps. Jesus Chuy Garcia, Adriano Espaillat, and Lou Correa have pushed for immigration reforms to be included in the reconciliation package. But even if they are ultimately successful, the provisions face two significant obstacles in the Senate: key moderates and the parliamentarian. Moderate Sen. Kyrsten Sinema announced last week that she supported the current provisions, but there is no word yet from Sen. Joe Manchin, who has expressed skepticism about addressing immigration in the bill. As Senate Democrats need every vote in their caucus, should Manchin refuse to back the provisions, theyd be effectively dead.MacDonough has also yet to weigh in on the latest plan. But given that she twice rejected Democrats previous immigration proposals, she may do so again. Explaining why she rejected Democrats path to citizenship proposal in September, MacDonough wrote that the impact of the legislation far outweighed its budgetary consequences, making it inappropriate to include in a reconciliation bill.It is by any standard a broad, new immigration policy, she said. The reasons that people risk their lives to come to this country  to escape religious and political persecution, famine, war, unspeakable violence, and lack of opportunity in their home countries  cannot be measured in federal dollars.She also asserted that, if she were to allow Democrats to pass the measure through reconciliation, that might be used as a precedent to justify revoking any immigrants legal status in future reconciliation bills.Proponents of including immigration in reconciliation have asserted that MacDonough might take a different tack when it comes to plan C, in part because it doesnt create any new, permanent legal protections that werent previously authorized by Congress. But her September opinion suggests that she opposes any use of reconciliation that has far-reaching consequences for immigrants. No one can be categorically sure about what shes going to do. But theres enough in her opinion to suggest that she will think this was too big a reach in reconciliation, said Muzaffar Chishti, a senior fellow at the Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan think tank.Despite calls to overrule  or even fire  the parliamentarian, Democrats have made it clear they plan to abide by her ruling. As Democratic Sen. Bob Menendez said in a September press call, The parliamentarian is the final word of what is and not permitted under the rules. These barriers mean immigration reform seems to be proving elusive once again. Experts say thats because immigration has shifted from a matter of policy to a matter of identity, and that as this shift was happening, the way Congress functions changed drastically. Chishti said that the immigration debate previously used to be principally focused on ideas: Is immigration good for the country or not? What kind of immigration is good for the country  high-skilled, low-skilled? Do we need more finance people or more nurses?And there used to be immigration proponents  and skeptics  in both parties. For instance, labor unions used to advocate for restrictionist immigration policies, though that shifted in the 2000s. Business-minded Republicans recognized the economic benefits of immigration. Now, the debate is more tied up in identity. It has also grown in electoral importance, with voters ranking it the third most important issue facing the country after the coronavirus and the economy in a Harvard CAPS-Harris poll earlier this year. Immigration is all about culture and race. It is about peoples perception of how immigration is changing our country, Chishti said. Its much more emotional.What has also changed is Congresss reliance on the filibuster. During the era in which the 1986 bill was passed, you could count on one hand the number of times the filibuster was invoked, Chishti said. Now, if a majority in the Senate doesnt support legislation, it doesnt even get considered. That makes it hard, but perhaps not impossible, to build consensus around immigration.Should their efforts to include immigration in the reconciliation bill fail, Democrats might not have another chance to pursue their policy priorities until after next years midterms  and thats assuming they maintain control of both chambers of Congress, a scenario thats very much in doubt. A Republican Congress may not be interested in immigration reform at all, especially if they intend to use immigration as an electoral weapon against the Biden administration and the Democratic party. Regardless of who controls Congress in 2023, there might be room for compromise on narrower reforms to the legal immigration system that relate to the economy, according to Theresa Cardinal Brown, managing director of immigration and cross-border policy at the Bipartisan Policy Center.A Bipartisan Policy Center-Morning Consult poll conducted in May found that, across the political spectrum, people were more likely to be willing to compromise on the issues of providing visas for immigrants supporting the US economy where companies cannot find US workers and providing visas for immigrants investing in research and innovation for future growth of the US economy. While those issues dont represent the top priorities of either party on immigration, addressing them might have important corollary impacts. Creating new legal pathways for foreign workers might mitigate unauthorized immigration at the southern border and also open opportunities for undocumented immigrants already living in the US to get legal status. If we legalize everybody in the country tomorrow, we still have the same system in place that made them become undocumented, Cardinal Brown said. What do we do with the next person? Unless we fix our legal immigration system, well continue to be in that position. 
The four Fs of trauma response and the four Roy kids of Succession. Pay attention to who says uh-huh on Succession. Those are the weightiest two syllables in the entire show. That might sound a bit silly, but uh-huh functions as a kind of stealth reflection of Successions power dynamics. Logan Roy (Brian Cox) says those two syllables all the time as a way to fill space in conversations where literally anything more loquacious might go, and Coxs very specific cadence in how he says uh-huh ripples throughout the rest of the cast. The more loyal a character is to Logan Roy, the more likely they are to say uh-huh in that specific cadence as a conversation stopgap. Successions third season has been particularly illustrative in terms of how the show deploys uh-huh. The more Kendall (Jeremy Strong) has fallen out of his fathers orbit, the less hes said uh-huh. And the more Shiv (Sarah Snook), Roman (Kieran Culkin), and Gerri (J. Smith-Cameron) vie for Logans attention, the more they say uh-huh. The more someone has Logan on their mind, the more they speak like him. Uh-huh is also notable as a way to give a response without actually saying anything. Taken as a unit, uh-huh can mean sure or okay or yes, but it doesnt carry much weight beyond that. It allows someone to speak without speaking, to smooth over what might be difficult but necessary to say. The more the Roy family doesnt talk about its demons  many of them propagated by Logan  the more it falls back on uh-huh. Logan Roy exerts a gravitational pull on all of the characters in Succession. Ive argued in the past that this pull is rooted in the shows portrayal of abusive family dynamics, with Logan as the baddest dad of them all. And in season three, the show is finding new, more potent territory to explore within those abusive dynamics. The result can be as simple as a character saying uh-huh, or it can be as fascinating and as savvy as the way Retired Janitors of Idaho, the fifth episode of season three, portrays extremely common responses to abuse.You have surely heard of the fight or flight instinct. The idea is that humans are the same as any other animal and will either lash out or take off if we find ourselves in a situation where we feel threatened. For people who struggle with PTSD, these fight or flight instincts can sometimes become essentially hard-coded as responses to the world at large, triggered by seemingly mundane events. (A famous example: the war veteran who curls into a defensive crouch when they hear fireworks.) But beyond fight and flight, two other major responses to triggering events exist: freeze and fawn. Freeze is hopefully self-explanatory  someone encounters a perceived threat, and instead of fighting back or running away, they simply freeze up, as if hoping they wont be noticed. Fawn is harder to immediately understand, but once you learn that it typically emerges as a response to childhood trauma, usually abuse, it makes more sense. The fawn response manifests in an attempt by someone who feels threatened to placate the threat in question; this response often arises in situations with abusive parents. Fight, flight, freeze, and fawn are sometimes called the four Fs of trauma or stress responses. Whats fascinating about this breakdown in Succession terms is that there are also four Roy siblings, and each one of them corresponds to a different F almost exactly. You can trace the siblings individual F responses across the run of the show, but theyre especially visible in Retired Janitors of Idaho.Succession is fond of using wide shots to focus on a couple of characters exchanging dialogue in the foreground, while other characters are doing something else in the background.For instance, heres a blurry Roman Roy, hanging out in the background of a scene that is focused on something else:Why is Roman there? Well, when Logan yells at Shiv, who just closed a deal to keep Waystar-Royco in the Roy familys clutches but had to go over the head of her ill and incapacitated father to do so, we can see Roman do this:Then theres Roman. Again, hes out of focus in the background, so it might be easy to miss, but you can see him freezing up, looking anywhere but at the action, hoping not to draw any attention to himself, even though hes standing some distance from his father and sister. And if you go looking for Roman freezing up, deer in the headlights, when somebody else is bearing the brunt of Logans ire, youll find plenty of other examples throughout the run of the show  including in this very episode:There he is, in the foreground, looking like hes trying to be as inconspicuous as possible, after one of Logans outbursts. The more you notice Roman freezing up in the face of his fathers temper, the more youll start to notice his siblings exemplifying the other Fs. The eldest Roy sibling Connor (Alan Ruck) is not a character we know very well, but that might be because hes always got some reason or another (a presidential campaign, a Broadway show, etc.) to just not be around, as if hes in flight. Even when he advocates for himself to become the head of Waystars European cable division  a role he then lands because Logan mostly wants him out of the way  that promotion acts as an example of Connor leaving the scene.Kendall, meanwhile, takes and takes and takes his fathers abuse, but eventually, he gets frustrated and fights back, as hes been doing all season. Hes the most ineffectual of his siblings in this episode, but there are still a few moments where his fight impulse engages: when he enters the familys suite and tries to bully them into holding everything together, for example, or when he gets onstage to read the names of the victims of the cruise line scandal thats plaguing the company. Kendall likes to make himself the biggest, easiest target  a fairly classic fight response that can also be attuned to protecting younger siblings.That leaves Shiv, who spends all of Retired Janitors of Idaho working her own angles but also trying to reassure her dad that hes just the best. Shes fawning, in other words. The outburst that provokes Romans out-of-focus background freeze-up is directed at Shiv, when shes trying to tell Logan that her successful negotiations count as a win for him. (He refuses to let his children have a win, ever.) When he blows up at her, she immediately tries to play everything off as no big deal. Shes trying to deflect conflict, to placate his ego, to stay alive.But Shiv is stuck in her fathers orbit all the same. Even as she tries to chart her own course within it, well ... its his orbit. After all, look at what Shiv says earlier in the episode, when she is talking to her semi-estranged brother Kendall:No one person always relies on one of the four Fs to the exclusion of all others. You might fight back in one scenario and freeze up in another. Roman, for instance, tends to freeze up when Logan gets angry and fawn over him much of the rest of the time. But its not uncommon for anyone to lean on one of these responses more frequently, and the more we look at the four Roy siblings, the more it seems like the show has tied each of them to a very specific F response to trauma.Succession tends to pepper its episodes with more wide shots than youd typically see on even the most prestigious TV dramas. Wide shots take time to set up, which means they can be expensive, and its rare for a series to use them for much more than establishing where everyone is in physical proximity to each other. As such, most TV shows find ways to use other shots that are more actor-friendly, such as close-ups and mid-shots. To point to the example above, Kieran Culkin is one of the stars of Succession and a terrific actor, yet you can only just make out his emotional reactions in the background of those scenes. A close-up would make those reactions more prominent, more immediate. So why the wide shot?Succession loves to pull back the camera whenever it can. It tends to alternate between wide shots and close-ups. (This is not to say that mid-shots are nonexistent on the show, but even in a medium shot, it crams as many actors into the frame as it can.) And its use of wide shots is crucial to its storytelling about abuse. Abuse within a family never just involves any one relationship, even if it is only occurring between two family members. The emotional ramifications, the secrets, and the guilt spread outward to everybody else in the family and often others who are in close proximity to the family. So when Succession uses wide shots as it does in Retired Janitors of Idaho, its finding a way to show that toxicity spreading outward from its source. Similar wide shots are scattered throughout the shows run, and usually, when theres an abusive moment, its captured either in a wide shot or in a close-up that immediately cuts to a wide shot, so we can see everyones reactions in one go. Many other TV series would cut between the actors individually, so we could see, say, Roman tense up, and Shiv offer a sly smile, and Greg look away. Succession gives us all of those reactions at once because the shows point is that these moments arent discrete events, experienced in isolation. Theyre events that disperse through families. Watching Succession often brings to mind 1939s The Rules of the Game, the classic French film by director Jean Renoir. That movie, one of the most influential ever made, dissects the intricate relationships that unwind among a group of upper-class socialites and the servants who work at the country house theyve all gathered at. World War II is on the horizon, and none of the houses inhabitants are all that well prepared for the coming devastation. (Though the film was made before France fell to the Nazis in 1940, The Rules of the Game seems eerily prophetic about whats to come.) Renoir also uses a lot of wide shots. He pulls the camera back from his actors, moving it to follow them as they enter and exit the frame. The wide shots almost resemble a stage play, but because Renoir moves his camera so often, you never think of the action as being restricted to a stage. This technique is simply the best fit for the story: All of these characters are trapped together in a world thats going to hell, and The Rules of the Game is not about what happens to any one of them, but what happens to all of them collectively. You can hopefully see why I find The Rules of the Game to be a useful comparison point for Succession. I think its also worth noting that while I find myself tracing the way that Successions filmmaking techniques chart its storytelling around abuse, the wide shots in both Succession and The Rules of the Game are telling stories simultaneously about wealth inequality, class disparity, and unsustainable systems within our society. After all, Successions wide shots often capture the random other people who end up trapped in a room with the Roys, forced to watch them play out their elaborate psychodramas. And most of the time, those other people are nowhere near as rich as the Roys, because who possibly could be? Their reactions to what the Roys say and do serve to deepen our understanding of the familys many dysfunctions.But I think the most important effect of those wide shots is to convey the contagious toxicity of abuse, the way that one action will propagate others. Succession has dropped hints here and there that Logans childhood was terribly abusive (theres a shot of his back in season one, and its covered in scars), and it has shown Logan hit both his grandchild (in a season one episode) and Roman (in a season two episode). And what sets the show apart isnt the act of abuse itself, but the look at how this family reacts or doesnt. Abuse is never one thing, and Succession understands that.Every action in an ecosystem as self-contained as a family, or a major corporations C-suite, will ripple outward. Even positive actions will send waves sloshing back and forth. Whether those waves are as weighty as a legacy of abuse or as relatively simple as the phrase uh-huh, they can easily keep going until everything is flooded and theres no easy way to clean up the mess.
Why Belarus is using migrants as a political weapon. Belarus has sent thousands of desperate migrants to its border with Poland in a bid to antagonize the European Union over sanctions imposed last year, in the wake of Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenkos brutal crackdown on political opponents and protesters.The influx of migrants, which EU officials say Lukashenko has deliberately provoked as a hybrid attack on the EU, comes at a difficult moment for the EU as the bloc struggles with internal tensions of its own, but has so far resulted in an increasingly unified EU response.New sanctions, which could target Belarusian airlines and officials responsible for encouraging the influx of people into the country, are set to be imposed on Monday, according to EU officials, and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said last week, It is important that Lukashenko understands that [the regimes] behavior comes with a price.However, its unclear whether they will deter Belarus, which is not an EU member and is sometimes referred to as Europes last dictatorship, from adding fuel to the existing crisis along the Belarus-Poland border.Voxs German Lopez is here to guide you through the Biden administrations burst of policymaking. Sign up to receive our newsletter each Friday.The migrants  between 3,000 to 4,000 people according to Polish authorities, primarily from conflict-torn regions of the Middle East like Iraq, Syria, Yemen, and Afghanistan  have come to Belarus after the government relaxed visa rules in August, providing a safer, easier route to the EU border.People trying to leave places like Sulaimaniya, in Iraqi Kurdistan, have received Belarusian visas, bought a ticket on one of the many flights run by the state-operated airline, and headed to Minsk, Belaruss capital, where some have been housed in government-run hotels, according to the New York Times.But far from providing humanitarian aid and a safe haven for migrants, the Lukashenko regime is pushing them toward the borders of Poland, Latvia, and Lithuania in an attempt to put pressure on the EU to lift sanctions on the nation.Belarus has also taken direct action to make things harder for its EU neighbors: The New York Times reports that Belarusian security forces have provided migrants with instructions on crossing the borders and tools like wire cutters and axes to break down border fences. On Saturday, Belarusian journalist Tadeusz Giczan tweeted that Belarusian forces were attempting to destroy fencing at the Polish border and using lasers and flashing lights to temporarily blind and confuse Polish soldiers stationed there in an attempt to help migrants get across the border. Despite Belarusian efforts to force migrants into neighboring EU countries, however, the vast majority of those currently at the border are stuck there, with little protection from the elements. As winter sets in, migrants are sleeping in tents, often with inadequate clothing and supplies, and EU countries are thus far refusing them entry. Already, at least nine people have died; some estimates are even higher, and conditions could still worsen as winter sets in.Despite the severity of the humanitarian crisis unfolding at Belaruss borders, Lukashenkos aims appear to be primarily political. The strongman president desperately wants to bring the EU to the negotiating table over sanctions imposed after he was fraudulently reelected last year and force the bloc to again recognize him as the countrys legitimate leader.Despite his more recent grievances, though, Lukashenkos threats to open his countrys border go back even further, Artyom Shraibman, a political analyst based in Minsk and a nonresident scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peaces Moscow Center, told Vox this month.He actually threatened to do this for many years, long before the political crisis of 2020, Shraibman said via WhatsApp. Every time the EU criticized him, every time the West criticized him, he reiterated the same chain of argument  You dont appreciate me, that I am defending you from the illegal migrants, I am defending you from the drug trafficking, Im guarding your eastern border, and youre not grateful.But Lukashenko didnt make good on his threats until 2021, after the EU sanctioned Lukashenko, his son and national security adviser Viktor, and 179 other individuals and entities, due to Belaruss fraudulent presidential election and subsequent crackdown on pro-democracy protesters last year.Though he remains in office, last years election saw Lukashenkos 25-year grip on power begin to erode, when Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, the current Belarusian opposition leader who was a political newcomer at the time, mounted a serious  and probably successful  campaign to oust him. Tikhanovskaya, who only entered the race after her husband, Sergei, was arrested by the regime, managed to unite the Belarusian opposition behind a platform of democratic change and routing corruption and wealth inequality.Evidence suggests Tikhanovskayas strategy may have worked; some exit polls from the August 2020 election suggest she won as much as 80 percent of the vote. Lukashenko, however, declared victory, cracked down on protests erupting throughout the country, and forced Tikhanovskaya into exile in Lithuania while jailing other opposition leaders. The brutality of Lukashenkos reaction, plus the glaring falsehood of his latest victory, prompted the EU to take coercive action against his regime, applying increasingly restrictive measures starting in October of last year.Belaruss pariah status escalated even further this spring, after a Ryanair flight was forced down by a Belarusian fighter jet so that the regime could arrest two passengers: dissident journalist Roman Protasevich and his girlfriend, Sofia Sapega, who were detained by the regime. In response, the EU banned Belarusian air carriers from EU airports and airspace. With few tools at his disposal, and few friends except for a reluctant Russia, Lukashenko finally made good on his threat to open Belarus to the flow of migrants hoping to make a new life in the EU. The New York Timess Max Fisher points out that the flow of refugees from border countries isnt exactly a novel problem for the bloc, and it is one that the EU has created by incentivizing places like Libya, Turkey, and Sudan to keep migrants from its borders, despite the financial and human rights costs.As Fisher puts it, Belarus, in other words, is joining a practice that the European Union has long institutionalized: cutting deals with border countries to keep refugees and migrants away from the EU border.Still, Shraibman says, Belaruss latest pressure tactics likely wont get Lukashenko what he wants: Belarus, having forced the issue by essentially inviting migrants into the country, leading them to the EU border, and then refusing them asylum when they cant gain entry, is now facing even more sanctions.The EU will probably not cave, because the pressure, its not that significant, Shraibman said. Its not like the million refugees that came to the EU in 2015, its just thousands of people. Its digestible for the EU; its not something that will make them change their position.Shraibman told Vox its unlikely that Belaruss provocation will result in concessions from the EU. Lukashenko, however, couldnt have picked a better issue to put pressure on the bloc. Poland, where the border crisis has been most acute, is already on the outs with EU leadership over democracy issues, and immigration has long proved a particularly thorny issue for the bloc.During the 2015 refugee crisis, Poland was one of the most strident critics of the EUs migration policy; Jarosaw Kaczyski, leader of the ruling Law and Justice Party, falsely claimed in 2015 that Syrian refugees were diseased and they would use Polish churches as toilets, as Anne Applebaum writes for the Atlantic.Since then, the nation has drifted further from common EU policies and more toward the kind of right-wing, nationalist policies that have been creeping into the forefront of European politics over the past decade. The rift between Poland and the EU has lately intensified over a disciplinary process in the formers court system, which the EU charged had been used by the Polish government to pressure judges and bring them under political control. In October, the EU levied a 1 million euro per day fine against Poland for violating EU rules, and Poland has also enacted increasingly harsh restrictions against LGBTQ citizens and the media, distancing itself from the more progressive values the EU embraces. But if one of Lukashenkos goals in addition to obtaining sanctions relief was to further fracture the EU, as European Commissioner for Home Affairs Ylva Johansson claimed this past summer when the crisis started, it hasnt worked.Poland, which is facing a serious crisis, should enjoy solidarity and unity of the whole European Union, Charles Michel, president of the European Council, said on Wednesday during a visit to the Polish capital of Warsaw, emphasizing that the EU intends to deal with Lukashenkos aggression and the problems it poses for the EU separately from the EUs internal struggles with member countries. As Applebaum points out, however, Poland has been somewhat less quick to align itself with the EU. While the country is now relying on EU sanctions and calling upon NATO to deal with the issue of migrants on its border, Poland previously rebuffed assistance from Frontex, the EU border police, and declined to address the flow of migrants over the summer by accepting help from the European Asylum Support Office.Now, Poland and the EU both are facing a genuine humanitarian disaster at the Belarus-Poland border, where thousands of people are stuck in limbo between two nations that wont accept them, ill-equipped to survive a harsh winter, and unable to return to their own countries. Thousands more, who have been exploited by Lukashenkos government into buying travel packages to Minsk so he can use them as leverage against the EU, wait in the capital or near the border with Poland, according to the Moscow Times.Several nations, including Iraq and Turkey, have limited or canceled their flights to Belarus in order to stem the flow of people into the country, as has Dubai; however, there are still thousands of people who desperately need aid waiting at the border or stuck in Minsk.On Monday, the EU  with the support of the US, which has also sanctioned the Lukashenko regime  is set to impose further sanctions against Belarus, the opposite of Lukashenkos goal. However, if Lukashenko continues or escalates his tactics, Michel has floated the possibility of physical infrastructure like barriers, to keep migrants out.Whatever happens, Shraibman says the current crisis has put paid to the possibility of direct talks between Belarus and the EU.I can ... imagine a situation where Lukashenko backs down, if hes given some option to save face, Shraibman told Vox, suggesting that could happen by sending migrants back to their home countries with the help of the UN. But to imagine direct diplomatic negotiations between him and the EU, that is something that is not possible at the moment.
The best $15.79 I ever spent: My last terrible diet book . In the last diet book I ever bought, the author is pictured throughout at her kitchen island and in her garden. Shes following the template of many would-be diet and wellness gurus: a smiling and serene white woman, posing with artfully arranged food in a vast kitchen, inviting you into her perfect life. When I purchased the vegan keto book in the fall of 2018, I noticed the sharpness of the authors collarbone. Her skeletal sticks of arms. Her hair that hung limp and greasy. The smile that didnt reach her eyes. There was something disturbing there, a message trying to reach me. But I ignored it. She was promising me the fix for my fat. And that was all that mattered. Just weeks before, my doctor said it was time. Cant eat the same way you used to, she said, pointing to the extra fat around my middle. Thats just the awful fact of aging.  This was not news to me. Id been increasingly frenzied at the gym and increasingly brutal at home, cutting my calorie count to subsistence levels, to try and fight the fat back. It wasnt working; now that I was 41, my doctor said, my body wasnt listening to me. So I scoured the internet, just as Id done for decades. What would work this time? What would finally tame my body? I found keto, just as it was starting to become the current fad du jour. The idea of hacking my bodys fat-burning mechanisms, tricking it into burning away weight by cutting carbs down to nothing, was intoxicating. I found the book. I tried it. And after a few weeks, my body finally said no. I learned early: The worst thing to be is fat. My mother, looking in a mirror, crying as she pinched at her thin body, terrified at any new softness. Fat people were the butt of jokes in every family conversation. My mother, my father, pointing out fat women on the street, in stores, at work, disgust wrapped around pointer fingers. Fat people were the butt of our family jokes because they were also the targets of ridicule in every movie, show, news program, and school classroom around us. Everywhere. They were the butt of jokes because my family, my culture feared becoming them. My moms sister was a target of the jokes. She used to be skinny from a diet of cocaine and crystal meth. But over time, over her five husbands and divorces, she gained significant weight. Then she became the specter, the threat. The worst-case scenario. And she believed the bias and whispers; each Christmas, looking mournfully at her plate as she talked about her latest diet. If she could just lose this weight, shed say, maybe she could find love that lasts. Maybe this time. I stuck with the vegan keto plan for a few weeks. I ate tons of oils and nuts and avocados. I limited my vegetables, and I cut out nearly every grain and carb. There was a strict, short list of allowed foods, and a long book of every other food. As I ate this way, my head grew cloudy, my stomach knotted, my bones ached. I returned to the book again and again. Was I doing it right? Should I feel this way? Stick with it, the author said. Youll feel terrible. Thats just your body finally submitting. After a couple of weeks, sick and weak, ravenous, the inevitable happened: I broke down and ate everything in sight. And with my stomach full and my brain clear, I looked at the diet book again. The authors skin stretched to the point of breaking over protruding ribs. Her face, tentative, searching, pleading. Pale, wan, a waif who could barely lift her lips to smile. Do what I do, it said, so my sacrifice will be worth it. Was this the ideal? Was this what I sought for my future? The worst thing to be is fat: Thats what I internalized from my family and my culture. So I spent 40 years trying to control the uncontrollable. A young girl in elementary school, frantically doing sit-ups so my crush might like me. A teen girl watching others pour Slim-Fast into their milk cartons, watching after-school specials about bulimia with longing. A young adult starving myself as I ran and ran, at track meets, on treadmills, on city streets. An adult with a partner who called my body fat, the worst in a litany of things he called my failures. A past-her-prime woman offering her beat-down body to those who would take it, hoping to make it feel.  All the diets. The diets with names: Fat Flush and Low Carb and Whole Grain. The diets without names: Wellness and Mindfulness and Boot Camp. All of them designed to reinforce that the worst thing to be is fat. All of them designed to take my money and dignity. Then, when it failed, ensured I felt like the failure. There was a moment when I could have stopped. In my 30s, I met a woman with a big belly, one who seemed unashamed, who walked with her belly out. I was awed and shocked. Later, she and I had sex, and I marveled at the belly, its smoothness, its softness. All of her, worth adoration. A body and belly she delighted in and invited me to delight in. But still, I didnt learn. I was terrified of my own belly and body. So I ran and ran and ran, and didnt eat, and first my hip screamed its agony, and then my knee. I ignored the pain. Because we must do this. We must fight our bodies. What else is there?I consulted that diet book again. Looked at the author. Willed it all to make sense. And heres the thing. I was (and am) a radical in so many ways. A young woman who knew early she would not marry or have kids. An angry bisexual weirdo. A vegan, for gods sake, in the Midwest land of meat and potatoes. But I had massive blind spots. I didnt understand the extent of my privilege as a white, straight-size woman. I looked at the world so critically, yet I didnt think to challenge our ideas of body size. The morality, the goodness we assign to thinness; the supreme failure we associate with fat. The assumption that only thin, angular bodies are healthy, and that soft, round, warm bodies are at deaths door. I put down the book with the haunted, haunting author. And thats when, in some sort of afternoon fugue state, looking online for another way, I found a body trust questionnaire. The questions were things Id never asked myself before: A long list of questions like these, inviting me to think, to critique, to use those critical skills I was so proud of. To understand how Id been duped. After I finished that questionnaire, after I started to feel the edges of something like understanding and relief, I kept going. I found Yr Fat Friend (later identified as author and podcaster Aubrey Gordon), who described the realities of living in a fat body and the parameters of our cultures phobias. I found Health at Every Size, a paradigm for medical care that validates all bodies. I found Christy Harrison, a nutritionist, author, and podcaster exposing the limitations of our medical and health care approach to fat. I found Caroline Dooner and The Fuck It Diet. I found an entire world of fat liberationists on Instagram and body neutrality teachers across the podcast and internet space.   From these teachers, I learned the science that shows diets fail over 90 percent of the time. I learned diet and wellness organizations make billions a year based on that fact. I learned that there is little evidence that fat is actually the killer that health care and public policy has portrayed it to be, and anti-fat bias may have the most disastrous impact on health. I learned that our body size is as random and unique as our shoe size or height and equally as uncontrollable. And then, I remembered that my body was hungry because it was keeping me alive. So I let myself eat. I let my sore and broken body rest. I gained weight. But suddenly, that didnt seem like the worst thing. Because then I saw how much time and energy Id wasted. The worst thing. Especially for women, fat is the worst. Because we need to be small, to take up as little space as possible. We need to spend all our time and energy and creativity and love and intelligence toward making our bodies fuckable. Thats how our world works. And if we dont, if we take up space, if we critique that messaging and advocate for ourselves, if we use our voice, were feminazis and hags. If we let our bodies grow, were ugly and unlovable.We must be distracted by the quest to be small, so real power will elude us. If we dont? We become something different. Even dangerous. The worst thing happened: I got fat. I grew a big, round belly. My thighs rub together, and my hips are thick. Ive got back fat and armpit fat. I know that my family views my weight gain as a moral failing. Pitiable laziness. Im the fat aunt now. I know that my culture views my fatness as sad. A middle-aged woman who has let herself go. But now I dont think about calories and macros, and the hours I will need to torture my body at a gym. I eat anything, without restriction. Over time, the foods that I felt uncontrollable around have lost their thrall. I eat with more peace now, less frantic and anxious, an animal with eyes rolling in need and want. My body is bigger than its ever been. I have moments of sadness about that, vestiges of my upbringing and living in this world. But most of the time, I just feel ... neutral. My body keeps me here, alive, able to breathe and smile and fuck and pet animals and eat good food and laugh and fight. And in the years since I gave up dieting, I had time and energy for so much more. I write and create with a fever now, art sprouting forth from me after years of numbness. Im lit with incandescent rage at the way the world lies to us but also burning with fiery hope that we might all find our way to this new place.   The worst has happened. And Im free. Amy Lee Lillard is the author of the short story collection Dig Me Out. She is the co-creator of the podcast Broads and Books.
What one Americans case says about the future of the courts in Hong Kong. December 7, 2019, was near the end of a year of turmoil in Hong Kong. Since the spring, people had been protesting an extradition bill opponents saw as a threat to Hong Kongs autonomy. The unrest bifurcated the city: you were yellow, with the protesters; or blue, with the police. Those were the undercurrents in Hong Kong when, walking through the Causeway Bay Station on December 7, 2019, Samuel Bickett saw a man hitting a teen with a baton. Whether it was a protest day or not, you see a plainclothes guy beating people up, your first thought is this guy, cop or not? Bickett said in a recent interview from Hong Kong.A video of the encounter shows a bystander asking the man in English whether hes with the police. He first denies he is, until finally saying yes. At that point, Bickett had grabbed the baton to try to disarm him. The two tussled. Bickett was convicted of assaulting a police officer and sentenced to four months and two weeks in prison.Bickett, a 37-year-old American who then worked for Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Hong Kong, has been out of prison on bail since August as he appeals his conviction and sentence. A hearing is scheduled for Monday morning local time. Bickett wants justice for himself. But his case is not just his own  it intersects with Hong Kongs own turmoil, driven by Beijings ever-tightening crackdown on the citys democratic freedoms. It has become another marker of the lack of accountability for the police and of the deep concern around the deterioration of the rule of law. When Great Britain returned Hong Kong to Chinas control in 1997, it was with the understanding that the territory would be governed under the principle of one country, two systems. Hong Kong would maintain a separate economic and political structure from mainland China until 2047. That includes Hong Kongs tradition of common law, an independent judiciary, and protections for certain freedoms like speech.The Chinese Communist Party has sought to erode the separation between the two systems. In the aftermath of the 2019 protests, it intensified its efforts to dismantle it entirely. Covid-19 restrictions quelled Hong Kongs mass demonstrations, and in the summer of 2020, Beijing imposed a national security law targeting crimes, such as secession, subversion, colluding with foreign powers, and terrorism. It portended a dragnet on dissent in Hong Kong. This week, a 30-year-old man was sentenced to more than five years in prison for inciting secession. He yelled pro-Hong Kong independence slogans in public.Bicketts is not a national security law case. But the national security law is remaking Hong Kongs institutions and the broader legal system. The government has been manipulating the criminal justice systems to achieve political ends, said Eric Yan-ho Lai, a Hong Kong law fellow at the Center for Asian Law at Georgetown Law School. That manipulation  things like punishing political activists or pressuring businesses to turn over information under the national security law  is happening because Beijing has been using different techniques to warn the courts if they do not behave, Lai said.To behave is to embody Beijings interests, which, right now means eliminating any challenge to its authority. An independent judiciary cant function in this scheme. I dont think rule of law can be said to exist in Hong Kong in a meaningful way at this point, Bickett said this month. That, though, is something hes fighting for, even if one of the only ways he can do it is through a legal system that is being hollowed out. Bickett says he tried to intervene because he feared the man with the baton would attack other people. In a video of the incident, a bystander approaches the officer, later identified as Yu Shu-sang, and asks him in English, Are you popo? a slang term for cop. The officer responds no. And though the plainclothes officer later says yes, according to Bickett and his appeal documents, the officer also denied he was police multiple times before what was captured on the video. Bickett says he did not hear the yes, and even if he had, he would have doubted it because of the repeated denials. The two ended up in a struggle for the baton. Bickett says he hit the officer in self-defense, and that Yu Shu-sangs refusal to identify himself and his unreasonable use of force (the teen, it turns out, was suspected of fare jumping) violated the Hong Kong police forces own ethics code. (Hong Kongs Department of Justice declined to comment on individual cases.) Ultimately, the magistrate in Bicketts case decided that Yu Shu-sang was a reliable witness, and though he had denied being a police officer at first, popo was a disrespectful reference and had a degrading meaning and so the fact that he denied to be called as such does not cause me to think he was trying to conceal his identity.The magistrate concluded that, based on the evidence, I am satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt that [the police officer] was acting in the execution of his duty. As for Bickett, the magistrate wrote, his actions were a serious threat to public order.And thats one of the issues here: who, or what, is defining a threat to public order. During the 2019 protests, videos and testimonies documented the Hong Kong police using aggressive tactics against demonstrators, some of which violated their own rules. That coupled with the governments decision to call the protesters rioters and arrest some on rioting charges generated more fury at authorities and led to calls for an independent investigation into brutality. But the Hong Kong government largely defended the polices tactics during the protests, including things like officers posing undercover as protesters. Efforts to review or hold the force accountable failed. According to the South China Morning Post, more than 10,000 people were arrested in connection with the 2019 pro-democracy protests, with hundreds convicted. No police officers accused of using excessive force were among them.Bickett was not a protester, just a guy going holiday shopping with a friend. But the case has resonated because it may be less of an isolated incident than a glimpse into a police force able to operate with impunity. It seems this is another typical case of the court having tried to perform impartially, but is actually partially in favor of the law enforcement, Lai said. Bickett sees this deference as a sign of institutional erosion. You cannot have rule of law when you are selectively prosecuting only a portion of the population while at the same time signaling to another part of the population that theyre above the law.That question  of who is above the law  is not unique to Hong Kong. This debate also happens in places like the US, very much so in cases involving police officers.But Bicketts case and appeal have unfolded alongside Beijings campaign to undermine Hong Kongs autonomy and freedoms. A man shouting pro-independence slogans is convicted of inciting secession. The ex-CEO of Apple Daily, a now-shuttered media company, was denied bail, in part because the US government and other governments spoke out against his arrest. A university tried to remove a statue commemorating the Tiananmen Square massacre.If we can put this in a very honest way, Hong Kong is becoming just another city in China, said Dongsheng Zang, an expert in Chinese law and a professor at the University of Washington School of Law. And in China, the rule of law is largely decided by the Chinese Communist Party.My sense is that [Hong Kongs rule of law is] on life support  but the prognosis is not very good, said Martin Flaherty, a professor of international law at Fordham University. Part of the reason why, he said, was because all the trappings of Hong Kongs system  based on the British model  are still there. Judges are writing decisions. Appeals, like Bicketts, are happening. It shows how sinister and subtle the erosion of the rule of law is; it is impossible to pinpoint the breaking point with clarity.Bicketts case will be one of the many testing points along the way, but it also might not offer a clear-cut conclusion. If he is remanded to prison, will that be because the judge who hears his case fully believed he was in the wrong? Or because he embarrassed the police? If he is exonerated, maybe that will be a last gasp for Hong Kongs judicial system. Or maybe there are cynical reasons: Bickett has been outspoken, and he is an American; maybe it isnt worth it to send him back to prison. The fact that Bickett is an American is another reason why this case stands out. So far, China has tried to have it both ways: cracking down on dissent but still trying to preserve Hong Kong as an international business hub. Part of the reason Hong Kong achieved that status is because of the rule of law  if you have a business dispute, you need to know the courts will be a fair broker  and because its relative freedoms made it a cosmopolitan, vibrant city. Some of that is still be in place. But Flaherty said that Bicketts case was a shot across the bow  China still wants your business, but not if it comes at the cost of challenging the government. All of you foreign businessmen and lawyers, if you keep your nose to the ground and just make money, just do contracts, just go out to expat bars and get drunk and dont bother anybody, youll be fine, he said. But the minute you come anywhere close to something that is political  which would include standing up to the police  youre going to be in trouble.And the fact that youre a foreigner is not going to help you, Flaherty added.Bickett, as an attorney, built his career on having faith in the law. He is not optimistic about the outcome of his appeal. The fact that I cant really control whether Im going to end up in prison or not, or whats going to happen to me in the courts, has made me accept that the most important thing to me is making sure that it counts for something, Bickett said. If Im going to go through this, I dont want to do it in silence.Bickett wants to make this ordeal count for something. Many Hongkongers do not have that option, or the privilege to do so. As an American in Hong Kong, Bickett has the ability to leave. Although, the way he sees it now, it may end up being his only choice. Its just not safe, for one thing, Bickett said. And then, for another, Im a lawyer, right? What is a lawyer going to do in a place where nobody cares about the law?
What Steve Bannons indictment means for Trumps stonewalling tactics. On Friday, Steve Bannon, a former top adviser to President Donald Trump, was indicted for contempt of Congress, signaling that Trumps ability to shield himself from potentially damning disclosures related to the January 6 attack on the capital may be waning. The indictment is the first of its kind in nearly 40 years, and it could be an important sign of things to come as Congress seeks testimony from the 35 people and groups, including Bannon, who have so far received a subpoena.Bannon, who was subpoenaed along with a number of other former Trump officials in September, left the administration in 2017, but reports about Bannons conversations with Trump in the lead-up to the January 6 attack, as well as remarks made on his podcast, War Room, indicate that his testimony would be of significant interest to the committee.On January 5, just one day before the attack, Bannon told listeners of his podcast that All hell is going to break loose tomorrow, according to CNN; in December, according to reporting by Bob Woodward and Robert Costa in their recent book Peril, Bannon told Trump, We are going to kill it in the crib. Kill the Biden presidency in the crib.Despite Fridays indictment, its unclear whether even the prospect of jail time will compel Bannon to testify; as the Washington Posts Philip Bump wrote on Friday, the indictment will likely be a point of pride [for Bannon], proof that hes a true soldier in this world-altering struggle that hes been hyping on his show.Regardless of Bannons own inclination to testify, however, it now appears substantially more likely that he will face some consequence for not doing so, unlike previous Trump officials who have flouted subpoenas; if found guilty, according to the DOJ, he will face a minimum of 30 days and a maximum of one year in jail, as well as a fine of $100 to $1,000 for each of the two charges of contempt.And with the DOJ backing up Congresss requests for information with real legal muscle, the threat of a subpoena could prove a powerful incentive to testify  and a key tool for Congress in the face of Trumps efforts to stonewall the investigation.The Bannon indictment is just one of two developments this week that suggests Trumps stonewalling tactics could be reaching their limit; the other came earlier in the week when a DC district court judge ruled the committee should receive documents from the Trump White House related to the attack.For the time being, a temporary administrative injunction means that the committee will have to wait at least a while longer to receive the documents  arguments before the DC Circuit Court of Appeals are set for November 30  but experts say the case is moving quickly by the standards of federal courts, a blow to Trumps efforts to run out the clock.Specifically, DC district court Judge Tanya Chutkans decision was delivered just 23 days after Trump filed suit, according to the New York Times; in contrast, it took a district court more than three months to rule on a 2019 effort to compel former White House counsel Don McGahn to testify regarding Trumps efforts to obstruct the Russia investigation. In her Tuesday ruling, Chutkan concluded that Trumps claims of executive privilege are not sufficient to withhold the documents from Congress, writing that the public interest lies in permittingnot enjoiningthe combined will of the legislative and executive branches to study the events that led to and occurred on January 6.Presidents are not kings, and Plaintiff [Trump] is not President, Chutkan said.Between that case and the threat of indictment now hovering over intransigent former Trump administration officials  and with Trump and the GOP removed from power at least until the 2022 midterm elections  theres a real possibility that Trumps favorite tactic, stonewalling, wont be as effective a shield for him as it has been previously.Trump has leaned heavily on delaying tactics throughout his presidency, and theres a good reason hes doing the same thing now: Its worked before. In the past, either as a candidate or in office with the levers of power at his disposal, Trump has successfully stalled, obstructed, or given the runaround to any number of efforts to uncover potentially embarrassing, or even incriminating, information about himself.Even before taking office, Trump successfully and repeatedly punted on the issue of releasing his tax returns, citing an audit by the IRS that the agency itself has said wouldnt prevent him from doing so, and ultimately managed to forestall their release until after he left office, when the US Supreme Court ruled that Trumps tax returns could be released to the New York City district attorneys office in a probe into Trumps personal and business finances.Similar tactics, including a flat refusal to comply with subpoenas, also worked while Trump was in office; though he was impeached for obstruction of Congress  in addition to abuse of power  in 2019 after directing government agencies and witnesses not to comply with congressional subpoenas, he was ultimately acquitted in the Senate.As CNNs Maegan Vazquez pointed out last year, Trumps habit of noncompliance is, in some ways, an effective strategy: Even prior to his first impeachment, Trumps strategy successfully hampered the Mueller investigation into alleged Russian interference in the 2016 US presidential elections. Under pressure to turn around a report quickly, Vazquez points out, special counsel Robert Mueller declined to interview Trump directly, knowing it would turn into a legal morass that would hold up the investigation as long as possible.But while Trumps tactics often succeeded when he was in office, with Republicans controlling at least one chamber of Congress, now that Trump and his party are out of power, theres only so much he can do to block the January 6 committees ongoing investigation into his conduct.Bannons indictment also signals the seriousness with which the January 6 committee is handling its investigation  and for good reason.Among other issues, the committee is potentially facing a time crunch: With the 2022 midterms coming up quickly and Republicans in prime position to win back control of the House, the committee could have only so much time to conduct its investigation before its in danger of being shuttered by a Republican House majority.That means Trumps stonewalling tactics could be all the more potent, if they succeed, and it raises the stakes of the committees work.Specifically, while much is already known about the actions of Trump and his allies following the 2020 presidential election and ahead of the January 6 insurrection, Trump advisers could still provide key firsthand details if compelled to testify.Bannon in particular, reporting suggests, was a major instigator in the events that led to the January 6 attack; attorney John Eastman, another key figure who wrote a memo outlining ways that Trump could attempt to overthrow the 2020 election results, was also subpoenaed by the committee this week.So far, many of Trumps inner circle have failed to comply with subpoenas; on Friday, his former chief of staff, Mark Meadows, blew past a deadline to testify and could now be facing a referral of his own for contempt of Congress.But as progress this week on several fronts demonstrates, Trumps best efforts to stonewall havent slowed the process as much as he might have hoped. By all indications, the January 6 committee is willing to use its power to pursue a thorough investigation, and if so, it might still have time enough to uncover new details of what happened on January 6  and how Trump, the clear favorite for the 2024 Republican presidential nomination, was involved.
What the world did and didnt accomplish at COP26 . GLASGOW, Scotland  The high-stakes COP26 climate change talks in Glasgow concluded on Saturday evening with the strongest government commitments to fighting climate change in history. Yet theyre still not enough to meet the ambitious targets of the Paris climate agreement and stave off some of the worst consequences of global warming. It was not the massive course correction for the climate that activists  some of whom staged a die-in outside the COP26 venue  were clamoring for. I hope you can appreciate that where I live, a 2 degree [Celsius warmer] world means that a billion people will be affected by extreme heat stress, Vanessa Nakate, a climate activist from Uganda, told attendees. I hope you can understand why many of the activists who are here in Glasgow and millions of activists who could not be here do not see the success that is being applauded in these halls.But unlike so many climate meetings in recent years, the negotiations in Glasgow did not collapse or produce only a tepid statement of consensus. After working through the night on Friday, past the scheduled close of 5 pm, negotiators made progress on some crucial unsolved problems, like how countries can trade emissions credits and pledging more money to deal with the staggering costs of climate change in developing countries. The final agreement, dubbed the Glasgow Climate Pact, was endorsed by nearly 200 countries, and presents a set of principles and goals for action on climate change. While there is no enforcement mechanism, the agreement serves as a lever for international political pressure. For the first time, UN climate negotiators specifically called to draw down use of fossil fuels, which scientists say is necessary to meet climate targets. Many countries and corporations have fiercely resisted ending their reliance on oil, gas, and coal  the dominant sources of greenhouse gases that trap heat in the atmosphere. More than 130 countries also said they will zero out their impact on the climate in the next half-century, and most countries strengthened their pledges to cut emissions. At the beginning of the two-week conference, India announced a target of net-zero emissions by 2070. That means the worlds three largest greenhouse-gas emitters  China, the US, and India, together accounting for nearly half of global emissions  are now aiming to stop contributing to climate change completely in the coming decades. India, however, weakened some of the language on ending coal power in the final hours of the meeting.This is the moment of truth for our planet and its the moment of truth for our children and our grandchildren, said COP26 president Alok Sharma. These decisions, I believe, set out tangible next steps and very clear milestones to get us on track to meet the goals of the Paris agreement.But other key topics like setting up a system to pay for damages wrought by climate change, a high priority for countries facing sea-level rise and more extreme disasters today, were still unsettled. It is not perfect, it is not without fault, but it does represent real progress, said Tina Stege, climate envoy for the Marshall Islands. There is work to do on loss and damage  and we know and we commit to focusing on this in the coming year to find actual solutions.Glasgow also showed how much UN climate events have evolved in line with the urgency of the issues. What were once sleepy affairs with hundreds of bureaucrats have become carefully stage-managed international festivals. The COP26 meeting, with 39,000 registered attendees across the sprawling Scottish Event Campus along the River Clyde, was the largest climate meeting in history.In addition to world leaders like President Joe Biden and former President Barack Obama, celebrities, artists, musicians, authors, and 3,700 reporters attended. The venue included massive meeting halls, a huge showroom where countries brought exhibits, and Instagram-ready art pieces. COP26 ads greeted travelers at every major airport in the United Kingdom proclaiming the world is looking to you, and banners hung in major cities across the country.However, the true test of the negotiations will be the actions countries take to make their pledges real  not just in terms of reducing emissions, but also restoring ecosystems, switching to clean energy, and addressing the historic injustices around climate change. Countries came to the table rattled by a year of disasters worsened by climate change  like flooding in China, flooding in India, flooding in Germany, heat waves in the US, wildfires in Russia  illustrating just how much is at stake. A major new scientific report also came out this summer, finding that rising temperatures are causing irreversible widespread and rapid changes in every inhabited part of the world. In stark white meeting rooms, island nations sat directly across from major polluters. Outside, environmental campaigners chanted and clapped, calling for climate justice and definitive actions to keep warming in check. By itself, COP26 was never likely to bring the world fully in line with the goals of the 2015 Paris climate agreement; limiting global warming to less than 2 degrees Celsius this century, with a second target of staying below 1.5C. The process is slow and tedious; the latest iteration did not deliver a decisive victory and left few happy. But its a small bit of progress.When 196 parties adopted the Paris climate agreement in 2015, their individual promises were far too modest to limit global warming in line with the goals they set. If those pledges were fulfilled, the world would be on course to warm by roughly 2.7C by 2100. And those pledges were not being fulfilled. In fact, greenhouse gas emissions continued to rise in the years since. But countries also agreed to ramp up their commitments, known as nationally determined contributions (NDCs), over time. So far, 150 countries have agreed to step up their goals. More than 130 have pledged to reach net-zero emissions by 2050. Estimates vary, but the sum of the new NDCs plus net-zero commitments  if they are met  would put the world on course to warm by roughly 1.8C, though there is a wide range of uncertainty around this number. Here are some of the most important elements of the agreement forged in Glasgow. The world has already warmed up by about 1.1C. Greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere are still rising, which will trap more heat for years to come. To stay below 1.5C, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change found in 2018 that the world would have to cut greenhouse gas emissions roughly in half by 2030, and the world is further off-course than ever. Still, for many negotiators at COP26, particularly representatives from countries most vulnerable to the effects of climate change, the slogan of the climate talks has been keep 1.5 alive.The difference between 1.5 and 2 degrees is a death sentence for us, said Aminath Shauna, environment, climate change, and technology minister for the Maldives. The more the planet warms, even incrementally, the worse the impacts of things like sea-level rise and extreme weather. Small changes in global average temperatures can fuel deadly heat waves and can make large storms even more severe. So everything done to avert fractions of a degree in global warming can save lives and livelihoods. But fossil fuel-producing countries like Saudi Arabia and Russia resisted making 1.5C the new de facto target since it implies a much more aggressive phaseout of coal, oil, and natural gas. The Glasgow pact resolves to pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5C and recognizes that limiting global warming to 1.5C requires rapid, deep and sustained reductions in global greenhouse gas emissions.Its still not an official target, but the greater emphasis on it means that NDCs and other climate goals put forward by countries will be evaluated based on how close they hew to this goal. As uncomfortable as we all are with the text, as imperfect as it is, it does bring sufficient enough balance for us to move forward, and it does provide us with the best chance at this time to keep 1.5 alive, said Grenadas minister for climate resilience, Simon Stiell. The Glasgow pact also calls for countries to come back to the table next year with stronger and more detailed plans for cutting their emissions by the end of the decade and by the middle of the century.The COP26 declaration for the first time calls for the end of fossil fuels, but some of the language was watered down at the last minute. Draft text called upon countries to accelerate efforts towards the phase-out of unabated coal power and inefficient fossil fuel subsidies. India, however, asked for phase-out to be changed to phase-down, implying reduction, but not elimination. Historically, major coal, oil, and natural gas producers have opposed any mention of fossil fuels at all. The word unabated in front of coal implies that there is wiggle room for countries to use technologies like carbon capture to keep coal-fired power plants running, and inefficient before subsidies may allow some subsidies for dirty fuels to persist. But its a shift from past COPs, where agreements focused solely on the goalposts and not on the tactics for reaching them. Under Article 6 of the Paris climate agreement, countries can work across borders to meet their climate goals. A country that has surpassed its climate target can tally up the emissions it has prevented, for example, and sell them to a country thats falling behind. It could also include carbon offsets like restoring forests to balance out greenhouse gases. But these tools are only as good as their accounting, and figuring out the right balance of transparency and flexibility has proven to be an immensely difficult task. Many vulnerable countries also argue such mechanisms end up being a way for polluters to stall instead of making emissions cuts. Debates over the arcane rules governing carbon markets drove past climate meetings into overtime, but they were finally settled at COP26. The agreement on Article 6 in Glasgow created rules to prevent double-counting of emissions credits, closed loopholes, and added stronger language to make credits being traded across borders represent real reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. Countries will also have to take a detailed inventory of their greenhouse gas emissions by 2024, which will be used as the basis for future emissions cuts.Climate change adds up over time, and the wealthiest countries in the world have spewed out the largest share of greenhouse gases that are heating up the planet. Yet the countries facing the worst effects of sea-level rise, more intense heat waves, and more destructive downpours  countries whose citizens often have the least resources to adapt  contributed the least to the problem.I think we say consistently that 20 countries equal 80 percent of all the emissions, and they do bear the greatest responsibility, US climate envoy John Kerry told delegates. President Biden from the moment he has come into office has been determined to live up to that responsibility. A key principle in international climate finance negotiations is the idea of common but differentiated responsibility. Every country has to contribute to solving climate change, but more developed countries have an obligation to help countries that have fewer resources pay for it. But some of the mechanisms for paying for these losses have been underfunded, and many wealthy countries, including the US, have pushed back on paying for the climate damages theyve already caused. One of the main shortfalls is a commitment made in 2009 to make $100 billion available for climate-related financing for developing countries by 2020. This money, via loans, grants, and investments, would go toward supporting a shift to clean energy and building resilience to climate change. That goal has still not been met and may not cross that threshold until 2023. For developing countries, this promise was a key test of how serious wealthy countries are in addressing the climate damages they caused, and they emphasize that this is an obligation, not charity.  The Glasgow pact [n]otes with deep regret that the goal of developed country Parties to mobilize jointly USD 100 billion per year by 2020 in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on implementation has not yet been met.Jan Kowalzig, a senior policy adviser for Oxfam, said not yet been met implies that getting to $100 billion at some point in the future would fulfill the pledge. However, developing countries say that since it was pegged to a specific point in time, the window has closed and that this climate finance package must have enough money to retroactively fill the shortfalls beginning in 2020. This $100 billion is a key ingredient to this carefully crafted balance between developing and developed countries, Kowalzig said. Not meeting it is eroding this trust.Wealthy countries are also failing in their promises to help the countries facing the worst effects of climate change to adapt to a warmer world. The pact [n]otes with concern that the current provision of climate finance for adaptation remains insufficient to respond to worsening climate change impacts in developing country Parties. There is no funding target mentioned, but developing countries said they want international climate adaptation finance to roughly double from 2019 levels, to about $40 billion by 2025. Another key issue is paying for the losses and damages from climate change that have already happened. The Glasgow agreement urges developed countries to provide enhanced and additional support for activities addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change.But there is no funding mechanism in place; contributions to loss and damage funds are voluntary, and so far only one country  Scotland, which contributed $2.68 million  has chipped in at all. The US, the European Union, and the UK opposed language that would have created a more rigorous funding stream. The reason is, they fear that once they start accepting that they are contributing to financial assistance to address loss and damage, this would open up the avenue towards compensation claims for harm done through causing the climate crisis, said Kowalzig. Taking advantage of the international spotlight on the proceedings, a number of countries at COP26 also signed on to other climate side deals and targets: Even as President Biden and former President Obama called out Chinese President Xi Jinping for not attending COP26, Chinese and US diplomats were hashing out a deal. The countries put out a surprise statement during the meeting that emphasized their willingness to do more to cut fossil fuel pollution over the next 10 years. The statement doesnt change either countrys goals and is light on details, but observers said it shows that the US and China are willing to separate their work on climate change from other diplomatic tensions.This agreement of the worlds two biggest emitters is a reassuring sign that the US and China can work together on the biggest crisis humanity is facing, said Byford Tsang, a senior policy adviser for climate diplomacy at think tank E3G, in a statement. Forests absorb and store carbon dioxide as they grow. When theyre cut down, much of that carbon ends up back in the atmosphere, heating up the planet. Deforestation accounts for about 10 percent of humanitys greenhouse gas emissions. More than 100 countries, including Russia, Brazil, and the US, pledged to end deforestation by 2030. Among them, they cover 85 percent of the worlds forests. These countries also committed almost $20 billion in public and private funding to back efforts to curb deforestation. However, Indonesia, home to one-third of the worlds rainforests, has already begun to walk back its commitment, and past promises to save the Amazon have failed to save millions of acres from fires, illegal logging, and agriculture in Brazil.Methane is a potent greenhouse gas that leaks out of natural gas pipes, belches out of cows, and seeps out from landfills, ultimately trapping about 30 times as much heat as carbon dioxide over 100 years. That means cutting methane has swift and sweeping climate benefits. More than 100 countries, responsible for half of global methane emissions, signed the Global Methane Pledge to cut their methane emissions by 30 percent by 2030. Signatories include the US, the European Union, and Japan.More than 40 countries have committed to ending their domestic use of coal for electricity, and 25 countries agreed to stop financing coal power in developing countries. Coal-fired power plants produce one-third of global greenhouse gas emissions. But China, India, the US, and Australia  comprising more than two-thirds of global coal consumption  did not agree to a domestic coal phase-out. Many discussions focus on the burning of fossil fuels, but a new program at COP26 targets their extraction in the first place. The Beyond Oil and Gas Alliance, launched by Costa Rica and Denmark, commits country members to phasing out new licenses for oil and gas production. Members, which currently include France, Greenland, Ireland, Quebec, Sweden, and Wales, must also set a date for ending oil and gas production in line with the Paris agreement. Fossil fuel demand is decreasing, and supply needs to adjust, said Christiana Figueres, one of the lead negotiators of the Paris agreement, in a statement. Thats why Im so pleased to see such a diverse group of governments launching the Beyond Oil & Gas Alliance to take decisive action to phase out oil and gas production.The foundations for zeroing out global greenhouse gas emissions and staying below 1.5C have to be laid now. But some countries are still moving in the wrong direction, even those that call climate change a crisis and an existential threat, and activists have decried the hypocrisy. At COP26, Obama scolded Russia and China for failing to send their top leaders to the meeting and criticized their commitments.Their national plans so far reflect what appears to be a dangerous lack of urgency, a willingness to maintain the status quo on the part of those governments, Obama said. However, Obama campaigned for president on boosting US fossil fuel production, presided over a massive increase in US fossil fuel extraction, lifted a ban on crude oil exports, and licensed the USs first natural gas exports shortly before leaving office. Ahead of COP26, Biden reached out to the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries to ask them to boost oil production.In fact, several countries that claim to have net-zero emissions targets are planning to invest in more fossil fuel production in the near future. A group of environmental groups and think tanks put out a report during COP26 highlighting how the US, Norway, Australia, Canada, and the UK are still subsidizing and expanding fossil fuel production.And net zero targets set for decades from now could end up allowing countries to continue emitting more greenhouse gas emissions in the meantime, with the expectation that those emissions will be soaked up somehow at a point in the future. Developed countries will continue using the carbon budget that belongs to the developing world, and this is not fair, said Diego Pacheco Balanza, leader of the Bolivian delegation. We need to really push developed countries not to get to net zero by 2050 but to achieve real reductions of emissions now.A big international meeting of 196 parties with their own prejudices, political constraints, rivalries, and economic interests is a terrible venue for tackling an urgent crisis like climate change.But the atmosphere doesnt care under whose flag greenhouse gases are being emitted  the whole planet will warm the same. So every country has to be at the table, every country has to have a say, and every country has to agree on what to do. More than two and a half decades into these COP meetings, its clear that this makes for an agonizingly slow process as delegates hang on every word in an agreement.At COP26, a simple change from urges to requests in a draft document left delegates, observers, and journalists scrambling to figure out which word was stronger as they parsed the language.Often, many of the same debates are relitigated over and over. Island countries want immediate cuts to emissions, developing countries want more financing, fossil fuel producers dont want to halt their exports, and wealthy countries dont want to pay for their damages. Meetings like COP26 are not the only venues for climate action, but theyre one of the few times where every country faces the spotlight and where negotiators can meet face to face and go head to head. The process is slow, but it still accounts for the biggest strides in mitigating climate change. The next challenge will be to strengthen the commitments that are now on paper. Glasgow has delivered a strong message of hope, a strong message of promise, said Tuvalus finance minister, Seve Paeniu. What is left now is for us to deliver on that promise.At next years COP27 meeting in Egypt, the process will repeat again  and possibly end with another step forward. But another year will be lost, the planet will get hotter, and the window for action will close even further. 
How a simple solution slashed child mortality in rural Kenyan villages. Even in dire years like 2020 and 2021, when the pall of the pandemic and economic uncertainty still shadows much of everyday life, there are areas where things are trending in a positive direction. Were making slow but steady progress toward ending global poverty, achieving carbon-neutral energy, and, most recently, vaccinating the world against Covid-19.But maybe the most hopeful news Ive read this year is a new white paper on water chlorination  a paper that suggests a simple water treatment solution could dramatically reduce child mortality in poor countries.The economists behind the paper  Johannes Haushofer (whos done some of my favorite randomized development studies), recent Nobel winner Michael Kremer, Ricardo Maertens, and Brandon Joel Tan  analyze a large-scale experiment called WASH Benefits, which randomly selected certain villages in rural Kenya to receive a variety of water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH) programs, while other villages served as a control group.The experiment tried a bunch of different WASH interventions, including more sanitary latrines, programs promoting hand-washing with soap, nutrition supplements for young children, and more. One tactic in particular jumped out: adding a simple chlorine solution to drinking water.This new paper focuses on the distribution of a chlorine solution placed in large dispensers (that look a bit like office water coolers) next to water sources like pumps and wells. Water chlorination is standard in developed countries these days; Americas experience began in Jersey City, New Jersey, in 1908, at the instigation of a doctor named John L. Leal. Chlorine is a powerful disinfectant, and in the US context, doses of chlorinated solution safe for human consumption proved particularly powerful at killing the bacteria that caused typhoid fever in the water supply. Other cities and states copied Leals advance, and typhoid deaths plummeted. In Massachusetts, for instance, a state for which good records exist, the death rate from typhoid fell by over 99 percent between 1905 and 1945, driven by cleaner water and increased vaccination.It wasnt just typhoid. Chlorination and other clean-water programs played a huge role in the fall in overall mortality and child mortality in the US over the 20th century. Economists David Cutler and Grant Miller estimate that the rollout of water filtration and chlorination systems throughout the US explains half the decline in overall mortality in major cities between 1900 and 1936, two-thirds of the decline in child mortality, and three-quarters of the decline in infant mortality.In many poor countries, waterborne diarrheal diseases like rotovirus, E. coli, or cholera are the biggest threat that better water quality is meant to target. As of 2016, diarrhea was the eighth leading cause of death in the world, killing some 1.6 million people of all ages that year, including 446,000 children. But better water quality can reduce rates of other illness too; reducing rates of diarrheal illnesses seems to reduce rates of respiratory illness, for instance.The new study on chlorination in Kenya used data collected in 2018 on the deaths of all children in the target villages born after January 2008, and compared death rates in villages that got these chlorine dispensers four to six years earlier to those in villages that didnt get them.The results were astonishing: Mortality for children under 5 fell by 63 percent. The baseline death rate for children under 5 in the control villages was a horrific 2.23 percent  more than one in 50 children died before their fifth birthdays. Providing chlorine cut that rate to 0.82 percent, or less than one in 100. To be sure, thats still far too high; in the US in 2019, the under-5 death rate was about 0.13 percent. But cutting child mortality by more than half is a huge achievement.The programs in the study were specifically targeted to pregnant women, which might help explain why they saw such large effects on small children; changes in water quality starting in the womb can ripple out over the first few years of a childs life, reducing rates of diarrhea and other conditions caused by waterborne illness that can prove life-threatening.Heres another important upshot from the study: The mortality reduction proved relatively cheap to achieve. Using data from Evidence Action, an aid group whose program Dispensers for Safe Water distributes these chlorine dispensers in Uganda, Kenya, and Malawi, the researchers estimate that the program saves a life for about $1,941. Thats an astonishingly low number, lower even than GiveWells estimates for some of its top charities, many of which it selects specifically because they can save lives at the lowest possible cost per life saved. I dont blame you if you think all this sounds a bit too good to be true. One of the authors, Haushofer, told me in an email he was very happy about (and mildly shocked by) those results. The paper cites an as-yet unpublished meta-analysis by some of its authors that found prior experiments on water chlorination found it could reduce mortality by 25.4 percent  a lot, but not nearly as big as the headline estimate in this paper.The authors speculate that the experiment in this paper may have been in an area with unusually high levels of water contamination and diarrhea, allowing chlorination to have a bigger effect.More optimistically, its possible this experiment showed bigger effects because it tested this specific dispenser design, where chlorine is placed next to water sources, with an easy-to-use dispenser that releases a pre-measured dose. That might make villages more likely to use the chlorine, leading to bigger health improvements. If thats true, then these results could scale.As it stands, its just one study, and Im eager to see more experimental work on this intervention. But its an important study, and one that makes Evidence Actions Dispensers for Safe Water, and similar programs, seem like highly effective solutions worthy of support from both government aid groups and private donors.A version of this story was initially published in the Future Perfect newsletter. Sign up here to subscribe!
Britney Spears is finally free. Britney Spears is finally free.At a court hearing on Friday, Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Brenda Penny ruled that the conservatorship that has run Spearss life since 2008 should end, effective today. The news comes after two years of increasing controversy about Spearss conservatorship  and after an explosive six months of revelations about just what was happening inside the conservatorship and what Spears thought of it.For a long time, it was possible for many people to imagine that Spears more or less liked the conservatorship. Or at least that she didnt mind it. Theres a moment toward the end of Framing Britney Spears, the New York Times and Hulu documentary that launched an avalanche of conversation about Spears earlier this year, in which the camera focuses on enigmatic footage of Spears swimming silently through a turquoise pool. Underwater, Spears dives, touches the bottom of the pool, and spins. Her face is obscured in a cloud of bubbles.Its impossible to know her, muses former MTV VJ Dave Holmes in voiceover. We never knew her. We know her even less now. She is unknowable.For the past 13 years, the fact that we dont know Britney Spears has been one of her defining traits. We dont know what she wants. We dont know how she feels. We havent been able to know, because our access to her and hers to us has been so curtailed.From the time that the conservatorship began in 2008 until November 12, 2021, Spears has had no control over her financial life or her personal life. All the shots were called by a team led primarily by her father, Jamie Spears. Until very recently, few details about how the conservatorship operated or how Spears felt about it had made it into the public view. Before this year, Spears almost never discussed the conservatorship publicly, and the interviews her team granted came under tightly controlled circumstances. Few reputable news outlets investigated the conservatorship, so worried fans had to scavenge for scraps from unverified gossip posts on the far corners of the internet. Britney isnt allowed to have a phone or access the internet, some claimed. Britney wants to get married and have another baby and shes not allowed to, others said. Britney is being held captive by her family against her will, said another.None of those rumors were officially confirmed by reputable sources. So when news outlets discussed Britney Spears, everything had to come with caveats. The only person who knows the truth of all of this for sure is Britney, we said, and she isnt talking. Maybe she likes the conservatorship! Maybe its helpful for her. Maybe she feels safer that way. We just dont know. We cant know.Now, we do know.Theres been a series of revelations in the Britney Spears saga over the past few months. A June 22 article in the New York Times revealed damning new evidence of how controlling the conservatorship has been, and showed that Spears has been actively trying to get out of it since 2014. A July 3 article in the New Yorker painted a picture of Jamie Spears as an emotional abuser obsessed with the control he has over his daughters life, with Britney a hapless victim forced to play out spy-movie-style heists just to gain access to an unmonitored cellphone from time to time.Most explosively, on June 23, Britney Spears spoke before the court in public for the first time. Spears made shocking claims about her conservatorship: She has an IUD shes not allowed to take out, she said; shes been put on lithium against her will; shes been forced to perform against her will.She made it very clear, once and for all, that she is not happy living in her conservatorship.Im so angry its insane, Spears told the judge.The world appears to have taken notice. For most of the conservatorship, Spears has worked with a court-appointed lawyer. But on July 14, the court ruled that she would finally be allowed to retain her own. Spears hired former federal prosecutor Mathew Rosengart, who called on Jamie Spears to voluntarily step down from the conservatorship in accordance with his daughters wishes. On August 12, Jamie complied, filing papers announcing his intent to work with the court to prepare for an orderly transition to a new conservator. Then, on September 7, Jamie filed a petition to permanently end the conservatorship, citing recent events that have called into question whether grounds for the conservatorship still exist.As Mr. Spears has said again and again, all he wants is what is best for his daughter. If Ms. Spears wants to terminate the conservatorship and believes that she can handle her own life, Mr. Spears believes that she should get that chance, the filing said.On November 12, it all finally ended. Britney Spearss conservatorship has finally terminated.Like Jamie, the rest of us no longer have the excuse or the luxury of ignorance when it comes to Britney Spears and what she wants. We have a clearer idea of what happened to her and how she feels about it, and the way we talk about her can never be the same.Heres what we used to know, what weve recently learned, and how it changes everything.Britney Spears was not always a mystery. At the beginning of her career, she tended to be candid with the public to a fault. Part of the Britney narrative and part of the persona that seems to be authentic  and you always have to be careful about this, media studies professor Moya Luckett told me in 2020, is that she seems to want to speak directly to her public because she thinks theyll understand what shes going through.Luckett pointed to Spearss infamous 2006 interview with Matt Lauer, for which Spears did her own makeup and during which she broke down in tears, as well as her 2008 documentary and her short-lived reality TV show with then-husband Kevin Federline. In those moments, Spears appeared confessional, authentic. She wept when she told Lauer she wanted the paparazzi to leave her alone. One critic called her reality show disturbingly intimate. She appeared to be an open book.After the conservatorship was established, when Spears no longer did interviews or reality shows, she still seemed to be, more or less, candid on her social media. She filled her Instagram with selfies and videos of herself dancing and joyous, emoji-laden captions. And all those posts were, depending on whom you asked, either very obviously blandly happy or riddled with hidden darkness.Because the videos are a kind of art brut expressionism, empty of context, they fill viewers with questions, wrote Caity Weaver of Spearss Instagram videos for the New York Times in 2019. What does she want us to feel when we watch? Is she to be viewed as an innocent girl playing dress-up? An empowered stylish woman stomping across marble floors she bought herself? A sexy human Barbie with an infinite closet? Regardless of intention, the clips are illegible, generating primarily a voyeurs guilty, mystified confusion.We either can never think what shes thinking, or we know exactly what shes thinking, said the hosts of the Britney-centric podcast Britneys Gram in their inaugural episode. Thats the enigma of Britney. The confusion over Britney, and the question of what, exactly, was going through this girls head, began in 2004 when she married her backup dancer, Kevin Federline, to widespread mystification from her fans. The pair divorced in 2007, following the birth of their two children, and Spears began to act erratically. And because she was constantly tailed by paparazzi, most of her erratic behavior was made very public immediately.The paparazzi followed her around for upskirt shots. She started yelling at them in a British accent. She shaved her own head, allegedly telling a nearby tattoo artist that she was sick of people touching her hair, while paparazzi photographed every angle through the windows of the hair salon. She attacked a paparazzos car with an umbrella. She went in and out of rehab. She sleepwalked through her performance at the 2007 VMAs so badly that Perez Hilton lectured her for being disrespectful to her fans.Gossip coverage of Spears became even more pantingly furious as her appearance changed. She went brunette, and then lost her hair entirely and turned to wigs. After injuring her knee, giving birth to two children, and taking a multi-year break from live performances, shed gained weight, which the press treated as a salacious betrayal: ABC Newss postmortem of those 2007 VMAs quoted a celebrity publicist describing Spears as heavy before bracingly noting that an anonymous internet commenter had said of the starlet, Id hit it.It was a collapse on a scale that wed really never seen, Luckett says. And it was clearly abetted by the fact that gossip blogs had established themselves as very popular. With cameraphones, there was more access to this kind of information than wed ever had before  both in terms of receiving the information and in terms of how many people could get on their phones and sell their pictures to the likes of TMZ.In January 2008, Spears was twice placed under a psychiatric hold. A month later, her father petitioned the courts for emergency temporary conservatorship over his daughter. The order was granted.More than a decade later, Spears is still under conservatorship. And that is about all the public officially knew about how she got there, up until the summer of 2021.If youre an adult, there is a legal presumption that you are competent to make decisions about a range of things, good, bad, or indifferent, says Josephine Gittler, a law professor and the author of Reforming the Guardianship and Conservatorship System: An Introduction. Your decisions can be good or bad, but you are entitled as an adult to make decisions about your finances and your property and your medical care. But all states have laws that recognize that some people have diminished decision-making capacity.Conservatorship is designed to be the solution to the problem of a legal adult who has a brain injury or mental health condition that renders them unable to properly care for their lives  so the courts assign someone else to do so for them. (Some states distinguish between conservatorship as covering financial matters and guardianship as covering personal matters, but California, where Spears lives, calls both conservatorships. Spearss conservatorship covers both her finances and her day-to-day life.)Proving that an adult is no longer competent to run their own life is a long and drawn-out process. Someone has to file a petition with the court, often Adult Protective Services or its equivalent. (In Spearss case, it was her father who filed.) The courts will send an investigator to observe the subjects life and to see whether theres really enough evidence to warrant a conservatorship, and the judge assigned to the case will hear testimony from experts to see if the subjects behavior meets the criteria for that states statutes. In California, in cases where the stated reason for the petition is mental health concerns, as it was for Spears, a psychiatrist would have to testify that the subject has a DSM-recognized diagnosis.Once the conservatorship is in place, the conservator assumes final control over the subjects decisions, which is where Spears is now.Anything she wants to do, she has to ask permission, as if she were a child, says Elaine Renoire, president of the National Association to Stop Guardian Abuse. She doesnt have the legal right to engage in a contract. That has to be done through a conservator.The exact details of Spearss conservatorship were private for a very long time. It was hard to know how far, exactly, her conservators were pushing their control. Most of what we knew was that the New York Times reported in 2016 that her financial conservators  at the time, her father Jamie and lawyer Andrew M. Wallet  kept track of her most mundane purchases, from a drink at Starbucks to a song on iTunes. Putting someone under conservatorship means giving someone else enormous power over them. So the potential for abuse can be high. The check on that can and should be court monitoring of the conservatorship, says Gittler. Routine monitoring occurs through reports that the conservator has to make to the court, which the court has a very high responsibility of reviewing in detail. Not all courts always do what they should do, and thats been a concern thats led to reform of guardianship.Theres another aspect that makes court monitoring of the conservatorship vexed, which is that in many states, people under conservatorship arent guaranteed the right to hire their own lawyers. Under California conservator law, conservatees have the right to be represented by an attorney, but not necessarily the right to choose that attorney. And although Spears tried to select her own, until recently the court ruled that she did not have the capacity to do so. So for most of her conservatorship, Spears has worked with the lawyer Sam Ingham, who was appointed for her by the court. Although she was not allowed to choose Ingham, Spears was required by the terms of her conservatorship to pay him an annual salary of $520,000. Ingham resigned from the role on July 6, shortly after Spearss explosive testimony.Her lawyer wasnt the only person on her payroll. Spears is also required to pay her conservators. According to the 2016 New York Times report, Jamie makes an annual salary of $130,000 and took home 1.5 percent of the gross revenues from the Las Vegas residency that Spears held from 2013 through 2017.Under her fathers supervision, the Britney Spears financial empire flourished. After releasing four studio albums, doing a stint as a judge on the The X Factor, and playing nearly 250 performances during her Vegas residency since her father took over running her life in 2008, plus establishing multiple lucrative merchandise deals, Spears is now worth $59 million  and none of the money she has earned, or the life that it funds, is under her control.For much of the past 13 years, that fact has not seemed to particularly trouble the world. On the contrary: Spears appeared to be a success story. After publicly and dramatically spiraling, she now seemed stable and healthy. Up until 2019, she was producing so much music, performing so constantly, making so much money. Didnt that obviously mean the conservatorship was a good thing?The world is full of former child stars who ran wild as adults and ended up living brief and tragic lives: the Judy Garlands, the Michael Jacksons. Shouldnt someone have done something to help them? And wasnt Spearss family, whatever their personal shortcomings might be, stepping up and actually doing the work that the Garlands and the Jacksons failed to do, and taking responsibility for their kid? Typically when a pop star as big as Spears sinks as low as she did, theres little that can be done to rescue them, opined Elle in 2013. But Britney Spears is nothing if not a fighter: Only months after being slapped with the conservatorship, she was back looking healthy and vocally stronger than ever.  In the past few years, Britney Spears has slowly but surely regained her role as Americas pop-music sweetheart.This conservatorship could help Spears at last escape the inevitable doom of the child star! Didnt it seem like she was benefiting from having someone else control her life? Wasnt it just possible that she was glad the conservatorship was there?While the outside world remained largely indifferent, Spearss fans have been suspicious of her conservatorship for as long as it has existed. Many of them point accusingly to all the work Spears has done over the past 13 years: If she is so unstable that she cant be in control of her own life, they say, why was she guest-starring on How I Met Your Mother just two months after the emergency conservatorship was established? Doesnt that seem to suggest the conservatorship exists less to safeguard Spearss well-being than to maximize her income and, by extension, the income of those in control of her life?Conservatorship reform advocates, too, have eyed Spearss situation with a suspicious gaze. The public has the right to know that the state is taking care of the citizens that need help, says Renoire. Everythings so quiet with this case that its very disconcerting.Despite those conversations occurring in the fringes of the internet, however, the Free Britney movement did not take off in earnest until April 2019. Thats when comedians Tess Barker and Barbara Gray, hosts of Britneys Gram, received a voicemail from someone who said he used to be a paralegal at the law firm handling Spearss conservatorship.Earlier in the month, a post on Spearss Instagram had announced that the singer had checked herself into a mental health facility for a little me time. :) Months before that news broke, Spears had canceled her planned second Vegas residency, ostensibly to spend time with her gravely ill father.What is going on is disturbing, to say the least, the former paralegal said in the voicemail on Britneys Gram. He alleged that Spears had been committed to a mental health facility against her will and that there was no timeline for her release. The trigger, he claimed, was that Spears had been seen driving with her boyfriend to pick up some fast food, even though her conservatorship forbids driving. Moreover, he said that she had begun to refuse to take her medication. Jamie Spears had decided to take drastic action and blame his own illness for it.Barker and Gray have said they spoke to the paralegal separately and found him credible. It appears that no other outlet was able to verify his claims.Meanwhile, Spearss camp maintained that the conservatorship remained necessary to keep Spearss life on track. The conservatorship is not a jail, Spearss former manager Larry Rudolph told the Washington Post in 2019. It helps Britney make business decisions and manage her life in ways she cant do on her own right now. Those successful Vegas residencies, for instance, were courtesy of the conservatorship: Part of Spearss contract demanded that she remain under conservatorship for as long as she was in residency to ensure that she wasnt a flight risk. Without the security of the conservatorship in place, the thinking went, Spears would go off the rails again, and she would surely lose the business advantages and the stable, happy life she had worked so hard to build.In September 2019, Jamie temporarily stepped down as conservator of Spearss person, though not her finances, after a physical altercation with one of Spearss sons. Jodi Montgomery, Spearss longtime caregiver, assumed the role on a temporary basis. In August 2020, Spears asked that Montgomery become her permanent conservator. Jamie Spears had heretofore remained in control of Spearss financial affairs, but Spears also requested in August 2020 that he step down and be replaced by a qualified corporate fiduciary. The court declined to remove Jamie from either of his roles.Starting with that August 2020 hearing, things appeared to be changing rapidly in the world of Britney Spears, and the public was beginning to pay attention. The attention would come roaring into focus in February 2021 when the New York Times/Hulu documentary Framing Britney Spears made the case that the world owed Spears an apology for the way it treated her in 2008  and that it should also be looking into everything that had happened with her conservatorship since. The documentary was a sensation, and the public sat up and took notice. Months later, the New York Times and the New Yorker would publish their articles. And Spears would, at last, speak in public.The revelations came in rapid succession: First the New York Times report, the next day Spearss testimony, and a few weeks later the New Yorker article. Together they paint a disturbing portrait of Britney Spearss life. They rewrite it as a sort of gothic novel, with Spears trapped by her father in the mansion she paid for with her own money, unable to control anything, including her own body.In the New Yorker, Ronan Farrow and Jia Tolentino reported that as Spears appeared to spiral in 2007, she was apparently under severe stress because of her custody battle with Federline, and experiencing what her companions at the time now suspect was postpartum depression. The infamous time when she shaved off her hair and the time she beat a paparazzos car with an umbrella, they reported, were both preceded by incidents of Spears driving to Federlines house, tailed by paparazzi, and then being refused access to her kids. The kids were also apparently at the center of Spearss first involuntary commitment. At the end of one custody visit, Spears, in tears, took her youngest son into the bathroom with her and said she wouldnt come out. Federlines lawyer called the police, and Spears was placed under emergency psychiatric hold. Those who were close to Britney at the time have maintained to the New Yorker that the children were in no danger. Spears just wanted to spend more time with them.Jamie Spears, meanwhile, comes across in these new narratives not as his daughters savior but as an abuser. Liz Day, Samantha Stark, and Joe Coscarelli reported in the New York Times that Jamie went to rehab for alcoholism in 2004, and court documents reveal multiple sources who suspect that he has relapsed while serving as Britneys conservator. But when Britney shared similar suspicions with the court through her lawyer in 2014, and suggested that he take a series of random alcohol tests, Jamies lawyer condemned the request as inappropriate. Absolutely inappropriate, the judge agreed. And who is she to be demanding that of anybody?According to the New Yorker, Jamie seems to have understood his role as conservator to require prioritizing not his daughters mental health so much as her Barbie doll public image. In the article, family friend Jacqueline Butcher recalls witnessing an exchange between father and daughter in 2008, in the first days after Britney was released from the hospital into her fathers care. Jamie said, Baby, Butcher recalled, and I thought he was going to say, We love you, but you need help. But what he said was Youre fat. Daddys gonna get you on a diet and a trainer, and youre gonna get back in shape.Butcher added that Jamie repeatedly told Britney she was a whore and a terrible mother in the early days of the conservatorship as he pushed her to come to terms with the new shape of her life. He was adamant that it would be he who called the shots in the new world order, and whenever someone questioned his edicts, he took to shouting, I am Britney Spears! The control he had over someone as powerful as me  he loved the control to hurt his own daughter, 100,000 percent, Spears said in her testimony.Under Jamies regime, Spearss control of her cash was severely restricted. No matter how much she earned, she was limited to a weekly allowance of $2,000, which meant her annual living expenses were smaller than the stipend she paid Jamie or the salary she paid Ingham. She found herself at dinners with friends and unable to cover her share. When she asked for more money to refinish her kitchen cabinets, Jamie denied her request. While Spears wasnt allowed to spend her own money as she pleased, she was obliged to keep making it. The New York Times reports that according to court documents, she was forced to perform with a 104-degree fever, leaving her in fear for her life. In her court testimony, Spears compared her working conditions  performing seven days a week, with no passport and no way of escaping  to sex trafficking.At all turns, it seems Spears has been isolated from people she is close to and surrounded by those loyal to her father. Jamie fired her household staff and hired his own loyalists, who would alert him if Spears got hold of contraband, like a cellphone. He apparently orchestrated her breakup with one of her boyfriends after he purchased a video of the man kissing another woman and showed it to Spears. He forbade her from spending time with old friends unmonitored. In part two of Framing Britney Spears, released in September, a former employee for Spearss security team says that her father mirrored her phone to an iPad and tracked her activities that way. He added that he put surveillance cameras in Spearss bedroom. The New Yorker article also quotes figures whove found themselves wrapped up in extreme spy-movie-style heists to get Spears a cellphone: someone slipping one to her in the steam room of her gym, or letting her sneak in a call at a doctors office.The new reports have corroborated other rumors that have been floating around in Free Britney circles for years. Much of the infamous paralegals call to Britneys Gram has been vindicated: In her testimony, Spears said that she was committed against her will in January 2019. (She maintains, however, that she did not refuse her medication.)Most shockingly, Spears said that her control over her own body was severely, viciously limited. Although she would like to have more children, she said she has an IUD she is forbidden to remove. She said she was put on lithium against her will. Even that involuntary psychiatric hold, Spears said, was precipitated by a minor bodily rebellion: She said she didnt want to do a specific dance move during rehearsal, and thats why she was put away.But perhaps the most important thing to come out of all of these revelations is the sure knowledge that Britney Spears did not want to keep living under a conservatorship. The New York Times reports that she has been expressing opposition to the conservatorship in court since as early as 2014. According to the New Yorker, on the day before her 2021 testimony, she called 911 to report herself as a victim of conservatorship abuse. Im not lying. I just want my life back. Its been 13 years, Spears said in her testimony. And its enough. Its been a long time since Ive owned my money. And its my wish and my dream for all of this to end.It is impossible any longer to say we dont know what Britney thinks of her conservatorship, because she has made herself very clear.With the past few months of revelations, much that was mysterious about Britney Spears becomes clear. The reason she looked so lost and trapped in those Instagram videos is that she did feel trapped. The reason there were so many disturbing rumors about the conservatorship is that disturbing things really were happening within the conservatorship. In all of Spearss 23-minute testimony, one moment is exceptionally striking. After observing that the younger generation of pop stars faces much looser expectations than she herself did, she notes that Miley Cyrus is allowed to publicly smoke pot without getting stuck in a conservatorship. Then she turns back to herself, her voice goes viciously angry, and she seems to step outside of her own body for a moment.But my precious body, who has worked for my dad for the past fucking 13 years, trying to be so good and pretty. So perfect, she says. When he works me so hard.Spears does not seem to understand her body as belonging to herself. Which makes sense because under the terms of her conservatorship, it does not seem to have belonged to her. She was not allowed to control what medication her body took, or what birth control was inserted into it. She was not allowed to control how fat her body can get. She was not even, apparently, allowed to decide what dances her body did. The question of how much control Spears has over her body and her sexuality has been central to her image from the beginning of her career, when she danced down the corridors of a high school in her sexy schoolgirl outfit, age 16, and sang, Hit me, baby, one more time, in her signature sexy baby coo. The play of that moment depended on the idea that Spears didnt know, couldnt possibly know, how sexy she was. All I did was tie up my shirt! Spears told Rolling Stone of the video. She was incredibly hot, was the narrative Spears and her handlers were selling, and she was also unaware of her hotness because she was still a child. That meant her body was no threat to the presumed male viewer who watched her. She could not use it to manipulate them. It could be appreciated and desired without fear. In 1998, the idea that Spears was unaware of what she was selling was used to discount her as an artist. Seventeen-year-old actress Britney Spears couldnt land more than a role in an off-Broadway update of The Bad Seed until she scored a contract with the Backstreet Boys record company, begins a capsule review of Spearss debut album, ... Baby One More Time, in Rolling Stone that year. But then mega-producer Max Martin got his hands on Spears and transformed her into a growling jailbait dynamo. Over the past decade, theres been a growing attempt from other critics to reclaim Spearss narrative on her own behalf, and to make the case for her as a legitimate artist, rather than the product of her producers. That reclamation has often involved the argument that Spears was in full control over her displays of sexuality as a teen. Spears, those critics note, was the one who came up with the iconic Catholic schoolgirl and cheerleader motif in the ... Baby One More Time video. And she exuded such confidence and control when she danced. Part of the argument of Framing Britney Spears is that the teenage Spears was naturally expressing her vision of herself, and the vision she was expressing happened to be extremely sexy, and America responded with a puritanical backlash. For her part, Spears has suggested a certain ambivalence about her teen-sex-bomb image. In a GQ interview in 2003, she brought up a Rolling Stone photo shoot in 1998 that showed Spears, provocatively dressed in bra, shorts, and cardigan, standing next to a doll collection. I was back in my bedroom, and I had my little sweater on and he was like, Undo your sweater a little bit more, Spears said. The whole thing was about me being into dolls, and in my nave mind I was like, Here are my dolls! and now I look back and Im like, Oh my gosh, what the hell? But he did a very good job of portraying me in that way. It certainly wasnt peaches and cream.Even young women who are not megafamous have typically picked up on what makes them appear valuable by the age of 15, Tavi Gevinson wrote in an essay on Spears for The Cut shortly after the release of Framing Britney Spears. There is no need to believe its either Everything was Britneys choice, and therefore she was always a sex-positive feminist or Nothing was Britneys choice, and the evil adults made all her decisions. Both assertions sound desperate to protect her respectability  another version of her purity, in fact  as a prerequisite for compassion.We dont know how much control over her own body Spears felt she had as a teenager. That is, perhaps, one of the things about Spears that we still cant know. We know that Spears looked like a woman in complete control of herself as she danced. We also know that she was under immense pressure to embody a certain standard of sexuality that was designed to appeal to men first. We dont know which of those two things seemed more important to her.In her 2021 testimony, Spears seemed to still be stuck on those same two irreconcilable ideas. She described rehearsing for a new show, that second Vegas residency that would never happen, and assured the judge, I take everything I do very seriously. She taught her dancers all the new choreography. She led them through it. I wasnt good, she says fiercely. I was great. Spears knows that she is still a great performer, a star. Shes absolutely positive of that. She even allowed herself a touch of flair in her testimony, an echo of the sizzle that used to come out of Spears when she drawled, Its Britney, bitch, over a dance beat. But its hard to hold on to the idea of Britney, bitch, when you also have the knowledge that Jamie Spears was in the habit of yelling, I am Britney Spears, whenever anyone questions his decisions. How far did Spearss dancers acumen actually take her when she wasnt even allowed to choose her own dances? When her precious body has worked not for herself for the past 13 years, but for her dad? When it was trying to be so good and pretty, so perfect, with the full knowledge that the person defining perfect is Jamie Spears?For years, weve been using our collective, one-sided image of Britney Spears to work through questions about girls and sex and control and who is allowed to control the ways in which they think about sex. But the fact is, we dont know who was in control of Britney Spears when she first got famous. We do know whos been in control of Britney Spears for the past 13 years, and it wasnt her. As of November 12, that fact has finally changed. Britney Spears is walking free, in control of her own body at long last.Spears has scored a major victory in her fight to escape the conservatorship. She has gotten her father to step down from his role, and she has gotten him to join her in calling for the end of her conservatorship. Spears has also told us, very clearly, that what she wants is to leave the conservatorship entirely. We owe it to her to take that knowledge seriously.Update, November 12: This story was updated on November 12 to reflect the end of the conservatorship. It was previously updated on September 8 to reflect Jamie Spearss petition to end the conservatorship, and on August 12 to reflect Jamie Spearss announced intent to step down from the conservatorship.
