Brooks Koepka says he 'just wanted to spank' Bryson DeChambeau after soundly beating rival in 'The Match'.  (CNN)It proved less of a match, more a walk in the park for Brooks Koepka.So much so that the fifth edition of "The Match" in Las Vegas, which was scheduled to be over 12 holes, didn't go the distance.Bryson DeChambeau didn't win a single hole, before conceding on the ninth as Koepka won 4&3  at the Wynn Golf Course."Man, I haven't seen a beatdown like this since me and Phil put it on [Peyton Manning] and Steph [Curry]," quipped commentator Charles Barkley, referring to when he partnered with six-time major champion Phil Mickelson in the third edition of "The Match." READ: Pigs run amok on golf courseAlongside Barkley, Mickelson was also a TV commentator for the match between Koepka and DeChambeau.The rivalry between Koepka and DeChambeau has brewed for over two years. It's been played out on golf courses and social media and has encompassed plenty of jibes and memes.It all began with a dispute over slow play, and Koepka's criticism of DeChambeau's meticulous approach.But it was Koepka who won the bragging rights on Friday -- and then some."It was fun to come out here and settle this," said Koepka. "I'm not going to lie. I just wanted to spank him."DeChambeau handed out cupcakes to the gallery on the first tee -- a nod to how you pronounce Koepka's name -- but thereafter struggled to find the sweet spot in his game.With Koepka so dominant, DeChambeau's opportunities to trash talk his rival were limited, though he did his best."Where is this on the PGA Tour, man?" DeChambeau asked Koepka. "You play so good right now." That was a barbed reference to Koepka missing his last two cuts."It's kind of like my major right now, right?" responded Koepka."Does this want to make you play with [Bryson] more?" Koepka was then asked. "Nah, I'm good."The clash between the two US golfers helped raise money for Advocates Pro Golf Association Tour and Feeding America, as well as DeChambeau donating to Shriner's Hospital and Koepka to St. Jude Children's Research Hospital.Over the four previous installments of the series, more than $30 million has been raised for various charities and initiatives. Visit CNN.com/sport for more news, features, and videosTNT exclusively broadcasted the event, although its coverage simulcasted on TBS, truTV and HLN. CNN is a division of WarnerMedia, along with HBO, Warner Bros, TNT, TBS and other media assets.
The new Omicron variant is a pandemic gut check.  (CNN)The emergence of the newly identified Omicron coronavirus variant feels like a pandemic gut check.Scientists have long known that the world would see emerging coronavirus variants. Viruses mutate constantly.But when South Africa's health minister announced Thursday the discovery of the B.1.1.529 variant, which appears to be spreading rapidly in parts of the country, it was the strongest reminder yet that the pandemic is not over.In the hours following that Thursday announcement, several nations -- including the United States and the United Kingdom -- banned travel from South Africa and surrounding African countries.The new travel restrictions announced by President Joe Biden on Friday will buy the US federal government more time to investigate the new Omicron variant that has emerged in South Africa, officials say. But not much.Inside the government, it is seen as inevitable that the new variant will appear in the US at some point, but the new restrictions should give federal health agencies and their global counterparts more time to learn about the variant, including the severity of the disease it causes. Officials do not believe, based on current surveillance, that the variant is in the US yet.Officials acted quickly to implement new restrictions. While the emergence of the variant had been flagged in the last several weeks, it was only in recent days that they learned how serious it was.US officials are expected to speak to scientists in South Africa again potentially on Sunday.The growing concernThe World Health Organization quickly convened a group of advisers and designated the B.1.1.529 strain a "variant of concern," giving it the Greek name Omicron. WHO also called on countries to enhance their surveillance and sequencing efforts to better understand coronavirus variants.Vaccine makers were fast to identify the variant as a concern. Moderna said the Omicron variant represents a 'significant potential risk' to its Covid-19 vaccine."The recently described Omicron variant includes mutations seen in the Delta variant that are believed to increase transmissibility and mutations seen in the Beta and Delta variants that are believed to promote immune escape. The combination of mutations represents a significant potential risk to accelerate the waning of natural and vaccine-induced immunity," Moderna said Friday in a news release.Omicron was also quick to make an economic hit. The new Covid variant sent oil plummeting 13% on Friday as investors feared new government restrictions and slower economic growth. US crude finished the day at a two-month low of $68.15 a barrel, down 13.1% from Wednesday's close. It was the worst day for oil since April 27, 2020, when Covid was spreading rapidly in the United States.Now, as scientists work quickly to learn more about the variant, global health officials are urging people to wear masks, avoid crowded places and get vaccinated if they haven't already. Omicron is another example of how Covid-19 is here to stay.'Variants are going to continually be generated by this virus'"We understand that people are concerned. The good thing is that we have monitoring systems around the world to detect these variants very quickly. This variant was detected a few weeks ago, and already scientists are sharing research with us, information with us, so that we can take action," Maria Van Kerkhove, WHO's technical lead for Covid-19, said in a video statement Friday."What's really important as an individual is to lower your exposure," Van Kerkhove said. "These proven public health measures have never been more important: distancing, wearing of a mask, making sure that it's over your nose and mouth with clean hands, making sure you avoid crowded spaces, be in rooms where there's good ventilation, and when it's your turn, get vaccinated."And as the world learns more about the Omicron variant, current guidance on mitigation measures -- such as wearing masks -- could change.Even as the pandemic nears its end and the coronavirus becomes endemic -- meaning, it could have a constant presence but not affect an alarmingly large number of people -- it's still likely that new variants will continue to emerge."New variants are going to continually be generated by this virus, most of which will be inconsequential. It will remain an important task, however, to characterize and track new variants to determine their significance," Dr. Amesh Adalja, senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins University Center for Health Security, wrote in an email to CNN on Friday."There will never be a time when there is a zero COVID threat as the virus transitions to endemicity," Adalja wrote. "Once the virus is tamed — by losing the ability to threaten hospital capacity through high levels of population immunity and treatments — I think public health recommendations will be more relaxed, though some people may voluntarily choose to continue to use them in high risk contexts."Vaccine scientists are already testing OmicronAs we look to what the future might hold, Covid-19 vaccine makers have said that they are prepared to update their coronavirus shots to target newly emerging variants.Scientists at BioNTech have already started investigating the impact the Omicron variant has on its vaccine developed with Pfizer, with data expected within the next couple of weeks."We understand the concern of experts and have immediately initiated investigations on variant B.1.1.529," BioNTech said in a statement Friday. "We expect more data from the laboratory tests in two weeks at the latest."Moderna announced in a statement Friday that it is "working rapidly" to test the ability of its current vaccine dose against the Omicron variant and data is expected in the coming weeks.If the current vaccine and booster shot are insufficient against the variant, one possible solution is boosting people with a larger dose, which Moderna said it is testing.The company is also evaluating two multi-valent booster candidates to see if they provide superior protection against Omicron. Both candidates include some of the viral mutations present in the new variant.Moderna is also evaluating an Omicron-specific booster candidate."Since early 2021, Moderna has advanced a comprehensive strategy to anticipate new variants of concern," the company statement said, adding that "this strategy includes three levels of response" should the currently authorized booster dose of its vaccine is insufficient to boost waning immunity against the Omicron variant.In response to the emergence of the Omicron variant, Johnson & Johnson said in a company statement Friday: "We are closely monitoring newly emerging COVID-19 virus strains with variations in the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein and are already testing the effectiveness of our vaccine against the new and rapidly spreading variant first detected in southern Africa."Vaccine maker AstraZeneca is looking to understand the impact the Omicron variant has on its coronavirus vaccine, and it is also testing its antibody combination therapy against the new variant, a spokesperson for the company said on Friday.The spokesperson said that the platform used in the vaccine enables the company to respond quickly to new variants."AstraZeneca is also already conducting research in locations where the variant has been identified, namely in Botswana and Eswatini, that will enable us to collect real world data of Vaxzevria against this new virus variant," they said.The company's antibody treatment, AZD7442, is also being tested against the variant, and AstraZeneca says it is "hopeful AZD7442 will retain efficacy since it comprises two potent antibodies with different and complementary activities against the virus."CNN's Kaitlan Collins, Virginia Langmaid and Naomi Thomas contributed to this report.
Omicron concerns should spur millions of unvaccinated Americans to get their Covid shots, experts say.  (CNN)As the new Covid-19 Omicron variant spurs global travel bans, experts say concerns over its impact should prompt millions of unvaccinated Americans to get their shots -- and for those who are eligible, to get their boosters."I would hope that within the next week or two weeks, so many of those people will take advantage of the vaccine," Dr. William Schaffner, a professor at Vanderbilt University Medical Center, told CNN's Alisyn Camerota Friday. "That will help us in the immediate term. And I would anticipate that, as bad as Omicron might be, our vaccine still will be partially effective."Dr. Anthony Fauci echoed that, pointing to vaccinations and boosters as effective mitigation tools. "I'm saying this absolutely clearly, that if ever there was a reason for unvaccinated people to get vaccinated and for those who have been vaccinated when your time comes up to go and get a booster shot," Fauci told NBC News on Friday.  "The booster shots give you a very, very important edge," he said, noting boosters increase the level of antibodies that protect against the virus. Data from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention showed 196 million Americans, or 59% of the US population, was fully vaccinated as of Friday. An additional 37.5 million have received booster shots, the data shows.After a pandemic that has lasted nearly two years, experts and global leaders are anxious about the impact of the Omicron variant, and many nations have issued travel bans. Besides South Africa, the newly identified variant has been detected in Botswana, Hong Kong, Belgium, Germany, Italy and the Czech Republic.Two cases of the variant have also been detected in the UK, Secretary of State for Health Sajid Javid said Saturday, prompting British Prime Minister Boris Johnson to announce a series of "targeted" measures to combat the variant.On Friday, the US moved to restrict travel from eight mostly southern African countries starting Monday as the World Health Organization deemed Omicron, first detected in South Africa, a variant of concern. Travel into the US will be restricted for those entering from Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique, Malawi and South Africa. Fauci: 'Would not be surprised' if variant is already in USOmicron has raised concerns for health officials because there's a possibility it could be more contagious than the original novel coronavirus strain, the WHO said, and it also has a significant number of mutations.  No cases of the variant have been identified in the US, the CDC said in a statement Friday, adding the agency is working with health officials both in the US and across the globe to learn more. The CDC continues to monitor variants, the agency's statement Friday said. "We expect Omicron to be identified quickly, if it emerges in the U.S."On Saturday morning, however, Fauci told NBC he "would not be surprised" if the variant was already in the US. "We have not detected it yet," he said, "but when you have a virus that is showing this degree of transmissibility, and you're having travel-related cases they've noted in other places already, when you have a virus like this, it almost invariably is going to go all over."Dr. Peter Hotez, a professor and dean of tropical medicine at the Baylor College of Medicine, agreed, telling CNN's Jim Acosta in an interview Saturday, "Yeah, it's likely here." Hotez indicated more would be known in the next week or two. In the meantime, it was important to keep things in perspective, he said, including the fact "we've not seen any evidence that Omicron produces more severe disease than any of the other variants." "In terms of whether or not this variant is going to resist the immune response to our current vaccines: it's possible, but it's unlikely to be totally resistant," he said. It could be "partially resistant," he added, like other variants that "never really took off, even though they had a lot of concerning mutations in the spike protein.""The most important thing we really need to know right now is how transmissible is this variant," he said, and whether it is "sufficient to outcompete" the Delta variant. "A week from now, if we have this discussion, we'll have a lot more information," Hotez said.Vaccine makers are working to determine effectiveness against OmicronVaccine makers have said they are taking action to address the emergence of a new variant. Moderna is working quickly to test the ability of its vaccine to neutralize Omicron, the company said Friday, and data is expected in the coming weeks.The strain includes mutations "seen in the Delta variant that are believed to increase transmissibility and mutations seen in the Beta and Delta variants that are believed to promote immune escape," Moderna said in a news release. "The combination of mutations represents a significant potential risk to accelerate the waning of natural and vaccine-induced immunity."If its current vaccine and booster are insufficient against the variant, Moderna explained one possible solution is boosting people with a larger dose, which the company is testing. The company is also evaluating two multivalent booster candidates to see if they provide better protection against Omicron -- both of which include some of the viral mutations present in the variant. Moderna said it is also testing an Omicron-specific booster."For several days, we have been moving as fast as possible to execute our strategy to address this variant," Moderna CEO Stéphane Bancel said in the news release.Scientists at BioNTech, the German company that partnered with Pfizer to make its Covid-19 vaccine, are also investigating the impact of the variant on their shot, with data expected within the upcoming weeks.A Johnson & Johnson spokesperson told CNN in a statement the company was also testing the effectiveness of its vaccine against Omicron.Covid-19 travel restrictions aren't all that effective, experts say The Biden administration's decision to curtail travel from eight countries is a precautionary measure as the US government learns more about the Omicron variant of coronavirus.But some experts say travel restrictions aren't as effective as they may seem. "Travel bans are modestly effective. They can obviously influence travel directly from that country to the United States," said Schaffner, the doctor at Vanderbilt University Medical Center. "But obviously US citizens will be permitted to come back. They could bring the virus. And people could go from the country of interest, South Africa for example, and go to other countries that are not on the travel ban, and enter, if you will, by the side door. So travel bans are somewhat effective, but let's not expect a miracle," he said. US citizens, lawful permanent residents and noncitizens who are the spouses of citizens or permanent residents are exempted from the new restrictions. Dr. Megan Ranney, a professor of emergency medicine and Associate Dean of Public Health at Brown University, said universal vaccination requirements for all air travel would be more effective. "Or having quarantines when people arrive in the U.S. from other countries. Neither of those are particularly politically palatable right now, but they would make a much bigger difference in the spread of this variant," Ranney told CNN's Jim Acosta Friday.CNN's Jacqueline Howard, Virginia Langmaid, Michael Nedelman, Frederik Pleitgen and Kaitlan Collins contributed to this report. 
Omicron variant puts a chill on Thanksgiving weekend. Julian Zelizer, a CNN political analyst, is a professor of history and public affairs at Princeton University and author of the book, "Abraham Joshua Heschel: A life of Radical Amazement." Follow him on Twitter @julianzelizer. The views expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion on CNN. (CNN)After South Africa sounded the alarm on a new Covid-19 variant, the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 900 points on Black Friday, marking a dire start to what was forecast to be a record-shattering holiday spending season. News of the Omicron variant, which has an unusually high number of mutations, will certainly throw a spanner in the works for the Biden administration as the President struggles with flagging approval ratings and a pessimistic view of the economy.The administration will need to work quickly to get ahead of the new variant. The administration has already announced it will restrict travel from South Africa and seven other countries, but the president needs to do more, as the new variant has already been detected in places including Belgium and Hong Kong.  While the world waits for more data on vaccine efficacy against the Omicron variant, Biden needs to continue the push to vaccinate those who have not yet gotten the jab and to direct funds to ramp up the production and development of medical treatments for Covid. Despite the news that sent stock markets tumbling on Friday, there are plenty of positive signs for the US' economic recovery. Shortly before Thanksgiving, the Bureau of Economic Analysis reported the real gross domestic product (GDP) grew by 2.1% in the third quarter. Meanwhile, last week's unemployment claims totaled 199,000 when adjusted for seasonal swings -- marking the lowest level since November 15, 1969. With 62% of the eligible population fully vaccinated, the US has enjoyed a return to some semblance of normality -- especially with most children back in school and kids ages five and up now eligible for the Covid-19 vaccine.  Yet the good news doesn't seem to be breaking through to many Americans. Under more normal circumstances, we would expect the President to enjoy some political benefit from the economic recovery and strong legislative wins, including the passage of the $1 trillion bipartisan infrastructure package. But Biden's approval ratings remain in the 40s and Democrats are likely to get pummeled in the 2022 midterm elections. What's going on? Some of Biden's supporters have argued the media has systematically ignored the positive, focusing instead on the turmoil and conflicts plaguing the Democratic Party. While there is certainly some truth to the notion many media outlets tend to emphasize bad news, this analysis misses a number of other relevant factors.  The pandemic is far from over, and after nearly two years and more than 775,000 deaths, many Americans are traumatized and on edge. One does not have to be watching "The Morning Show" to look back at the horrible months of February and March 2020 and remember what it was like when the world shut down and the deadly virus swept through the world. With the Delta variant stymying hopes of a full recovery during the summer, it has become increasingly difficult to embrace any good news, as fear and uncertainty continue to dictate so much of our lives.There are also, of course, real economic problems such as inflation and supply chain issues Americans are confronting every time they go to the supermarket or gas station. Even if these are, as the economist Paul Krugman recently argued, temporary problems akin to the price spike from 1946 to 1948, they are very much the lived experience of millions of families trying to restore order in their lives after mass layoffs and other economic disruptions. In a polarized polity, it's also difficult for any president to break through to the other side. With a Democrat in the White House, Americans who consume information from conservative media outlets like Fox News are likely to view Biden through a partisan lens. There is little the commander in chief can do to change this. But Biden still has to try to get his message across and explain in plain language exactly how the infrastructure and reconciliation packages will have a positive impact on people's lives.It is also worth noting many of the structural issues exposed last year have not been fully addressed. The reconciliation package, which would lower the cost of health care and childcare, and help fight climate change, still faces an uncertain future in the Senate after months of infighting among Democrats. And despite the racial reckoning after George Floyd's death in May 2020, progress on policing reform on the federal level has stalled, while conservatives have tried to stir up a backlash over "critical race theory." Meanwhile, extreme weather events like Hurricane Ida have ravaged the country, all while world leaders squabble over how best to "phase down"  -- rather than "phase out" -- the use of fossil fuels. Given the ongoing pandemic and the major problems our country faces, the horrible memories of the times we have all lived through will continue to lurk in our psyches. Despite the economic recovery, we may be a long way off from feeling good about the state of our nation.  
Even in Nantucket, Biden can't escape the harsh reality of the pandemic. Nantucket, Massachusetts (CNN)President Joe Biden and first lady Jill Biden descended on the island of Nantucket this week looking to preserve the sense of normalcy that the nation was so looking forward to over this holiday season.The President and first lady brought a brood of children, grandchildren and their significant others to their island Thanksgiving getaway -- along with the Secret Service apparatus, small flock of staff and gaggle of reporters that travels with the president -- looking to send a signal to the rest of the country that it was time to return to traditions that had been skipped in 2020.They went through their Thanksgiving routine: They had their feast with family on Thursday before walking through Nantucket on Friday, dining at a local restaurant and shopping at stores they have visited for decades before attending the lighting of the town's Christmas tree. The President tweeted in support of small businesses and restaurants Friday, making good on his pledge to shop small during that afternoon stroll.But as has happened so often in the past year and a half, the pandemic is never far away for the President, as he -- like other Americans -- woke up to new worries over a concerning variant of the coronavirus spreading abroad.As the Bidens smiled through their Thanksgiving traditions, the harsh reality of Covid-19's unpredictability interrupted the celebrations on Black Friday. Reports of the new Omicron variant of the virus -- B.1.1.529, discovered in South Africa -- prompted fresh concerns among scientists and the Biden administration. As South African officials briefed the World Health Organization on Friday, a new wave of travel restrictions were imposed abroad as countries like the United Kingdom, Germany and Japan moved unusually quickly to set new travel bans for South Africa and other countries in the region. Stock markets in the US and abroad fell sharply Friday on the news, with the Dow Jones industrial Average logging its worst day since October 2020 as investors reacted to the new uncertainty of the virus's trajectory. On Friday afternoon, the President announced new travel restrictions on South Africa and seven other African nations -- a move that he said was meant to be "cautious" over a new "big concern."The stock slide, reports of cases of the new variant showing up in additional nations around the world and travel restrictions on affected nations brought back echoes of the pandemic's early days rather than the optimistic view the administration has sought to project in the last several weeks. The news from southern Africa turned Biden's annual trek to Nantucket from a signal of better days to come into a message that the nation's new normal can be preserved -- at least for now.Biden and his team view effectively tackling the pandemic as the only way for the economy to improve and for the President to recover his political fortunes. Questions are now circulating about how the administration will handle the new variant and its economic havoc, as federal health officials like Dr. Anthony Fauci warn that there is much to learn about how it spreads and how vaccines can fight it.The continued economic fallout from the pandemic -- still far from over this holiday week -- was clear both on Wall Street and in the seaside town where the Bidens broke bread. Conversations with local business owners and workers across Nantucket underlined the growing economic disparities between the summer season residents and many of the islanders who live here year-round. That gap has been exacerbated by the pandemic and resulting inflation, supply chain issues, labor shortages and a lack of affordable housing. Richard Vargas, a manager at Murray's Beverage Store, on the town's main street, told CNN that the labor shortages mean he is seeing businesses having trouble "being able to gain enough people out here for work, people wanting to go to work, and getting the supplies to be able to provide a service for everybody around the island.""There are a lot of hardworking people here," he said -- many of whom, he explained, hold at least two jobs to pay rising housing rental costs and to buy food. Vargas, who holds a second job at FedEx, said a scarcity of J-1 visas for people coming to the US seasonally to work has also made it hard to recruit workers. "We know there's a lot of people that wanted to come back this year that couldn't because they couldn't get a visa. It's just absolute craziness -- like, all the stores along here, any of the businesses over here, they say the same thing: They could not get enough help," Vargas said. Biden is staying at the home of billionaire philanthropist David Rubenstein, a sprawling waterfront compound. But on an island often described as "elite," "tony" or "posh," the economic concerns affecting the nation are acutely felt among those who keep the place running -- the landscapers, the servers, the cooks, the hotel housekeepers, the shop employees. Despite continued prosperity for the very rich, there is a "growing year-round population living at or below the median income level" and a "severe shortage of year-round affordable rental housing," according to the Nantucket Food, Fuel, Rental Assistance program.Food insecurity is on the rise, with the Greater Boston Food Bank identifying Nantucket County as one of four counties in Massachusetts that have "seen their projected food insecurity rates increase by over 70.0%" in the past year, per the town's Nantucket Cottage Hospital. And the labor shortage extends to teachers, police officers and first responders, with the Nantucket Current reporting in August that a staff exodus from the Nantucket Department of Public Works had "crippled" its workforce. Concerns about the gap between rich and poor on the island were echoed by local business owners at the Nantucket Chamber of Commerce's "Business After Hours" happy hour Wednesday evening, with one attendee describing "the different Nantucket economies" of the rich and privileged and of those supporting their lifestyles.It's no secret that presidential vacations historically do not reflect the experiences of ordinary Americans, from President Donald Trump's frequent Mar-a-Lago escapes in Palm Beach, Florida, to President Barack Obama's summer vacation in nearby Martha's Vineyard. They've often been aware of the political dangers in selecting tony locations -- in 1995, President Bill Clinton's political adviser conducted a poll to determine a voter-approved vacation spot for the Clintons, settling on Grand Teton National Park. But for the Bidens, the trip this year is meant to be a symbol to the country that Americans can enjoy the holiday traditions that the coronavirus kept them from experiencing last year. The Bidens have been spending Thanksgiving on Nantucket for 46 years. It was the spot the President spent his first Thanksgiving with Jill Biden, and the place where his late son, Beau, and son Hunter encouraged him to run for president in 2016."This year, the blessings of Thanksgiving are especially meaningful," the President said in a video message released Thursday.The first lady added, "After being apart last year, we have a new appreciation for those little moments we can't plan or replicate."
A Los Angeles woman invited an Afghan refugee family over for Thanksgiving. Here's what happened at their first Thanksgiving meal.  (CNN)For his family's first experience with a traditional Thanksgiving meal, Wahidullah Asghary had to explain to his children what turkey is: "I said, 'turkey is like a big chicken.'"Asghary, a former translator and interpreter for the U.S. Military in Afghanistan, came to the United States on a special immigrant visa in September 2020. He brought his four children, who tried to learn English while enrolled in what was then all-virtual school at the time. His wife joined them five months later.Thursday was the first time they had been invited by an American household to experience a Thanksgiving meal."Every homeland, every nation, every people, every person, they have got a culture or tradition, right? So it is our first time, and now we want to learn a little bit about what this is, really," Asghary said.Their host, Kiki Nagy, volunteers for Miry's List, a Southern California-based group that helps refugee families settle in the U.S. In August, during the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan, Miry's List enrolled more than 20 refugee families, about five times the number of families compared to the month before. Next year, the organization is working to prepare to help more than 300 families settle in Southern California.Nagy had asked the organization's founder, Miry Whitehill, if she could host an Afghan family for their first Thanksgiving. She was connected with the Asgharys, whom she had never met until the day of the feast.Nagy made a big turkey, cranberry sauce, potatoes and spinach. But she also prepared a halal lamb to make sure the Asghary family could have something familiar to eat. Asghary said his daughter, especially, liked all the food.Nagy was eager to not only introduce them to Thanksgiving dishes, but to also show them the tradition of giving thanks."From the right and the left, everyone is kind of like, 'America has got problems -- x, y, z," Nagy said. "In the midst of this conflicting cultural moment, this narrative of division that we hear so much about, that there is something essential to the American experience that is rooted in gratitude, that is rooted in the volunteerism that you leave your country, you leave a situation and you come here with sometimes very little -- sometimes with nothing. And you start over. And you create this opportunity for your family."Asghary said they have much to be thankful for: "We may have more opportunities in our life in our hands. So of course the foremost example is this, that we are together. Family."He said they're lucky his wife was able to join them before so many others tried to make a chaotic exit in August during the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan.The image of the many families trying to escape Afghanistan in August especially resonated with another guest at the same Thanksgiving party, Tam Van Tran.Tran, a friend of Nagy's, was a refugee from Vietnam in 1975. Tran told CNN he and his siblings arrived in the U.S. one week before the fall of Saigon."When I saw the photo of the Afghans and the cargo plane, it reminded me very much of just -- I was in the same, but it was a gigantic cargo ship," Tran said.When Tran came to California, he was about the same age as Asghary's oldest children. He said he and his siblings escaped initially without their parents, so they were welcomed in the home of Richard and Rejean Schulte, a foster family in Mountain View, California.He said he could offer the Asgharys a warm welcome: "Brotherhood and camaraderie. In a sense, you know...I went through that experience in '75."Like at many holiday gatherings across the country, several people at the table were at one point new to the country and had to learn American traditions. And many of them worked to seize the opportunity available in their new home country.Asghary said he tells his children, "We are here for you, the United States is here for you, and everything you have got in your hand. What are you going to do is you have to study. That's it."Nagy hopes one of their first lessons would be from their first Thanksgiving: "To see that that kind of tolerance is really possible in the United States and, um, I guess I would want them to feel, I would appreciate, that Americans are at heart, really a generous people."
Why hundreds of thousands of kids in the US dread their 21st birthdays .  (CNN)Most college students can't wait for their 21st birthdays. But Lakshmi Parvathinathan is terrified. It's the moment when everything she's worked for could slip away. "All my friends excitedly talk about turning 21 -- hitting the bars, all of that...but it's just something that I dread," she says.The day she turns 21, Parvathinathan will no longer be protected by the work visa that allowed her parents to immigrate to the United States from India. And she may face deportation.It's known as "aging out," and experts estimate that about 200,000 people like Parvathinathan are living in a similar limbo. Brought legally to the United States as children, many are scrambling to find ways to stay in the country they love. Some are forced to leave the US when they run out of options. They've dubbed themselves "documented Dreamers," and they say their plight shows how broken the US immigration system is. Even those who immigrate legally find themselves facing roadblocks that are impossible to surmount, Dip Patel says. The 25-year-old pharmacist is the founder of Improve the Dream, a group of "documented Dreamers" pressing Congress and the Biden administration to help save their futures. "The whole situation is something that most people don't really know even exists," he says, "that it's possible for an immigrant child to be brought here legally, do all their education here, but still not have a chance to become an American." 'Victims of outdated immigration laws'The issue is affecting a growing number of people, according to Julia Gelatt, a senior policy analyst at the Migration Policy Institute.One major reason: the green card backlog is immense -- especially for immigrants from India; it can take decades for them even to have a chance to apply. That means many people who came to the US as young children are still waiting for their family's turn by the time they turn 21. At that point, the adult visa holders' children are no longer considered dependents, and they're kicked out of line and forced to find their own way to remain in the country legally.Another factor: some families who come to the United States on certain temporary work visas aren't ever eligible to apply to become permanent residents. And because young adults in these groups had visas allowing them to live legally in the United States, they weren't protected by Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, the Obama-era program that provided work permits and protection from deportation to hundreds of thousands of undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children."'Documented Dreamers' are just one of many victims of our outdated immigration laws that are no longer aligned with the way immigration is really working today," Gelatt says.Members of Improve the Dream are hoping to fix that. They've been making the rounds in Washington, pushing members of Congress to pass a proposed law that would give "documented Dreamers" a chance to become permanent residents of the US, provided they've lived here for at least 10 years on a valid visa and graduated from an institution of higher education."We're just hoping there's a future for all of us, and we can stay and contribute to the country we call home," Patel says.If not, Parvathinathan says, the consequences would be devastating.She's living on edge while she waits for a student visaThe 19-year-old sophomore at Drexel University in Philadelphia hopes to become a doctor someday. Parvathinathan is majoring in biological sciences and trying to focus on her studies. But fears about her future loom over her. She first came to the US when she was 3 years old. And she doesn't want to be forced to abandon everything she's worked for and move to India, where she says she feels like a foreigner.Parvathinathan says she tried to get a student visa so she can stay in the United States past her 21st birthday. It still hasn't arrived, 14 months after her application. She's on edge, waiting for word and jumping every time an email notification flashes across her cell phone screen. "It's something that I think about all the time," she says.Applying for student visas can be difficult for documented Dreamers, says Gelatt of the Migration Policy Institute, because applicants are required to show they don't plan to stay in the United States -- something that's hard to prove for teens who've spent most of their lives here.And even securing a student visa doesn't end their worries -- it merely buys them time until they must scramble to find another temporary way to remain in the country, such as an employer-sponsored work visa."It's like you're drowning, and every couple of years you get to take one breath, then are pulled back down," says Anagh Kulkarni, who will turn 21 in January. Kulkarni is a student at Ohio State University and also hopes to become a doctor. But he knows his chances are slim, since he'll be seen as an international student -- which means most US medical schools are unlikely to even entertain the notion of accepting him. He also can't get any hospital work experience to improve his application, since his dependent visa doesn't provide employment authorization. All that leaves Kulkarni full of anxiety and unsure of whether he has a future in this country."Even if I do the best that anyone has ever done," he says, "I don't know if I'll be able to stay."She was forced to leave after she couldn't find a jobIt's a dilemma Erin Crosbie knows all too well. After living in Florida for nearly 17 years and getting a nursing degree from the University of South Florida, she says she had no other choice but to move back to Northern Ireland over the summer when she couldn't find a way to remain in the United States.She'd secured a student visa that let her stay in the country past her 21st birthday, but with its expiration date looming, Crosbie started searching for work. The pandemic had made her more determined than ever to become a critical care nurse, she says, but job after job that she applied to told her they couldn't hire her because of her immigration status. Each rejection phone call sent her into a panic. "It was hard. They weren't saying 'no' because of me. It wasn't that I had done something wrong, or didn't have the right qualifications," she says. "lt was because of something that was out of my control. I felt powerless."Now the 24-year-old is trying to start her life over in another country -- more than 4,000 miles away from her closest friends and family. The pain of having to leave them behind still stings. She hasn't been able to bring herself to update her social media profiles yet with her new location.Her parents, Nigel and Alison Crosbie, say the separation has been heartbreaking. They came to the United States in 2004 on an E-2 visa for investors in US businesses, bringing Erin, then 7, and her sister Morgan, then 3. Now the parents say they're faced with an agonizing possibility -- that the only way their close-knit family can be together again may be for them to sell the Florida business they've spent 17 years building and move back to Northern Ireland."It's frustrating to me that we've done everything legally, but if you do things illegally, you seem to get further," Nigel Crosbie says.Congress could fix this. But that may be unlikelyAnd it's hard to believe help will come from Washington, Nigel Crosbie says. Immigration matters, he says, always seem to be too toxic for any politician to touch."No matter what party is in power, it seems to be like the poison chalice. Nobody wants to do it. They keep kicking the can down the road," he says. "They just don't realize the impact that it has on people's lives that are being torn apart."Parvathinathan says she's feeling optimistic after a recent visit to Washington with other members of Improve the Dream. The group shared their stories with lawmakers on both sides of the aisle. They're hoping legislation introduced to help them earlier this year will eventually secure enough bipartisan support to pass -- and also that the Biden administration will include them in the planned revamp of DACA. The massive social spending bill House Democrats recently passed would give them some protection, but it faces an uphill battle in the Senate. When -- and whether -- any relief will come is anyone's guess. So Parvathinathan is trying to remind herself to be patient. But she finds herself still facing too many questions she can't answer.In a recent interview for a program at her university, someone asked where she sees herself in 5 or 10 years.She didn't know what to say.
A stowaway was found in the landing gear of a plane at the Miami airport, authorities say.  (CNN)Authorities discovered an apparent stowaway Saturday in the landing gear of a flight from Guatemala at the Miami International Airport, local and federal officials said. US Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers at the airport apprehended a 26-year-old man who "attempted to evade detection in the landing gear compartment of an aircraft," a CBP statement said. The flight was American Airlines #1182 from Guatemala City, according to Greg Chin, Communications Director for the Miami-Dade Aviation Department.American Airlines said in a statement the flight was met by law enforcement "due to a security issue," after landing at 10:06 a.m.The airline said it was working with authorities on the investigation.Miami-Dade Fire Rescue confirmed to CNN they transported the man to a local hospital for medical assessment.In a video posted on Instagram by the account @onlyindade, a person is seen dazed, standing in the shadow of an airplane wing with airport personnel in reflective vests, before he appears to slightly lose his balance and sits on the ground.In another video posted by the same account, law enforcement and emergency medical services are seen around the man as he is given water and other aid."Persons are taking extreme risks when they try to conceal themselves in confined spaces such as an aircraft," the CBP statement said. "This incident remains under investigation."
Thieves target Home Depot in California, making off with hammers, crowbars and other tools.  (CNN)Up to 10 people entered a Home Depot store in California on Friday night and left with a range of stolen tools, according to police officials.The incident took place at approximately 8 p.m. local time in Lakewood, Los Angeles Sheriff's Department Deputy Miguel Meza told CNN. Lakewood is a city in Los Angeles County.The thieves made off with hammers, sledgehammers, crowbars and other tools. After grabbing the items, they ran out of the store and got into a getaway car parked outside, Meza said.The theft comes as similar tools have been used in a number of smash-and-grab robberies at high-end stores in several major US cities this month. At least 18 people broke into a Nordstrom department store in Los Angeles Monday night and stole thousands of dollars in merchandise, the city's police chief said. Similar crimes have been reported in the San Francisco Bay Area, Chicago, and other cities.The Los Angeles Sheriff's Department did not have details about the getaway vehicle nor the number of items stolen Friday night at the Home Depot store, but are investigating.
Wisconsin senators warn in rare joint statement outsiders may try to exploit Waukesha tragedy for 'political purposes'.  (CNN)In a rare joint statement, Wisconsin Sens. Tammy Baldwin, a Democrat, and Ron Johnson, a Republican, warned Saturday outsiders may be looking to exploit the tragedy that unfolded last weekend in Waukesha."It has come to our attention that outside individuals or groups may attempt to exploit the tragedy that occurred last Sunday in Waukesha for their own political purposes," the statement said. "As the U.S. Senators representing Wisconsin, one from each political party, we are asking anyone considering such action to cease and desist."Six people, including an 8-year-old boy, were killed and more than 60 were injured after a driver rammed an SUV through a Christmas parade in downtown Waukesha last Sunday.An 11-year-old who was injured was on a ventilator and fighting for her life. Nearly a week later, her mother shared in a medical update.Jessalyn Torres is recovering from a broken pelvis, skull fracture and other injuries, according to one of two verified GoFundMe pages created to help the girl's mother, Amber Kohnke. The young girl "needs more time to heal," Kohnke said in the update on her daughter's condition posted Saturday.Prosecutors believe the driver was Darrell E. Brooks, 39, and they have charged him with five counts of first-degree intentional homicide and will consider a sixth homicide charge over the boy's death.The senators' statement did not provide details about why they issued the warning, but said they both have "full confidence in the local officials who responded with extraordinary professionalism, competence, integrity and compassion.""They have many difficult duties to perform in the coming days, weeks, and months, and they should be afforded the respect and support they deserve to undertake their responsibilities without outside interference," the senators' statement said. They added officials' top priorities now are to "begin the healing process" and conduct a "thorough investigation and afford the accused full due process.""These will not be easy tasks, and will be made even more difficult if conducted within a politically charged atmosphere," the statement said. "We ask everyone to demonstrate their interest and concern by praying for the victims, their families, and the entire community of Waukesha."CNN's Melissa Alonso contributed to this report.
A 5-year-old child was fatally shot by teenager making a video for social media, Minnesota police say.  (CNN)A 5-year-old in Brooklyn, Park, Minnesota, was shot and killed on Thanksgiving by a 13-year-old who accidentally fired a gun while a group of kids were making a video for social media, according to local police. Brooklyn Park Police responded to a home on Florida Avenue around 10:20 p.m. Thursday in response to reports of a child who had been shot, police said in a statement on Facebook Friday. Officers "attempted to render first aid; however, the child died at the scene," police said. Police determined through a preliminary investigation that a 13-year-old boy was "handling a gun" inside the home, police said. "Several other juveniles were present as they were attempting to make a social media video." It remains unclear exactly what circumstances led up to the shooting, but at some point the teen "shot the gun striking the 5-year-old," police said, adding investigators believe the shooting was accidental. The teen was arrested and is currently in custody at the Hennepin County Juvenile Detention Center, police said. The investigation is ongoing. CNN's Dakin Andone contributed to this report.
Moderate House Republican warns McCarthy over embracing far-right members.  (CNN)A moderate House Republican is firing off a warning shot at House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy as he caters to his right flank in a quest for the speaker's gavel.  "He's taking the middle of the conference for granted," the GOP lawmaker told CNN, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss internal conference dynamics. "McCarthy could have a bigger math problem with the moderates."Specifically, the lawmaker said a number of moderates are upset with how McCarthy, of California, has embraced some of the extremists in the GOP conference and warned it could hurt the party in swing districts and undermine their chances of winning back the majority. McCarthy has promised to reinstate Reps. Paul Gosar of Arizona and Marjorie Taylor Greene of Georgia to their committees if the GOP wins back the House. Greene -- who recently laid out a list of demands for her speaker's vote and said she has no respect for the current GOP leadership -- said Friday evening she had spoken to McCarthy by phone, describing it as a "good call." She also said she likes "what he has planned ahead."McCarthy said he spoke to Colorado Rep. Lauren Boebert Friday in the wake of her anti-Muslim remarks about Democratic Rep. Ilhan Omar, for which she has since apologized, and is encouraging she meet with the Minnesota lawmaker.Boebert "has reached out to Congresswoman Omar to meet next week," McCarthy said in a statement. "I spoke with Leader Hoyer today to help facilitate that meeting so that Congress can get back to talking to each other and working on the challenges facing the American people."CNN reached out to McCarthy's office multiple times Friday for a comment about Boebert, but they did not provide a statement to CNN until Saturday.The moderate GOP lawmaker warned the two wings of the party were headed for a "collision course," and predicted other moderate lawmakers would start speaking out publicly if McCarthy doesn't do more to rein in the fringe members in the party.  "Our side isn't going to take this much longer," the lawmaker said.This story has been updated with additional information Saturday.
How anti-Trump conservatives have fled Fox News .  (CNN)Former Fox News contributors Jonah Goldberg and Stephen Hayes decided to leave the network last week. The two have long been concerned over former President Donald Trump falsely claiming the 2020 election was stolen. The publication of Tucker Carlson's falsehood-filled "Patriot Purge" on Fox Nation, about January 6, was the last straw. The Goldberg/Hayes saga is a manifestation of a larger trend. The audience of right-wing media such as Fox News, Newsmax and One America News Network wants little to do with resisting Trump, even if that means they are resisting the truth. Republicans who don't get news from these networks are far more unfavorable to the former President.We can see this well in a CNN/SSRS poll conducted in August and September. In the poll, I isolated Republicans and independents who leaned Republican who preferred to get their television or digital news only from Fox News, Newsmax or One America News Network. Almost uniformly (88% to 11%), Republican voters who like getting their news from those conservative media outlets believe President Joe Biden did not legitimately get enough votes to win the presidency. In other words, almost all of the Republicans in the conservative media audience think a glaring falsehood is true. A majority of Republican voters (57%) who follow digital or cable news and didn't list Fox News, Newsmax or OANN (e.g. The New York Times or said they didn't have a favorite) as their primary source also falsely believe Biden didn't win the election legitimately. This level, though, is far smaller than among those who like getting their news from conservative media. Additionally, a significantly larger share of these Republicans (42%) believe the truth that Biden legitimately received enough votes to win the presidency. The difference between these two audiences, however, isn't merely about views on the 2020 election. It's how important those views are to their identity as Republicans. Republican voters who prefer to get their news from Fox, Newsmax or OANN are three times as likely (57% to 18%) to indicate that thinking Trump won in 2020 is very important to what being a Republican means to them. That is, even if a majority of Republicans, regardless of where they like to get their news, have untrue beliefs about 2020, those views are much more deeply held among those who prefer those conservative news outlets. A different slice of the data perhaps indicates this better. Just 11% of those who prefer conservative media say that thinking Trump won in 2020 is not at all important to what being a Republican means. This jumps to 38% among Republican voters who prefer other news outlets. Importantly, this demonstrates that the percentage of the non-conservative media audience who say Trump winning is not at all important to their GOP identity is far bigger than those who say it is very important. The reverse is true among Republican voters who prefer conservative media. Now, perhaps the big question is whether this is correlation (i.e. Trump fans were less likely to watch conservative media all along) or causation (i.e. conservative media is causing people to believe Biden didn't win legitimately). The answer is likely both. Yes, Republicans who prefer to get their news from conservative media were more likely to vote for Trump in 2020 (99% to 83%) among those who cast a ballot.  But even among Republicans who voted for Trump, 31% of those who prefer to get their news outside of conservative media believe Biden legitimately won. This is a low percentage, but it's significantly higher than the 10% of those who like getting their news from Fox News, Newsmax or OANN. Likewise, the percentage of Republican Trump voters who prefer their news from non-conservative outlets and think Trump winning in 2020 is very important to the Republican identity (21%) is only about a third of what it is among those who prefer to get their news from conservative media (60%). This shouldn't be surprising, given how much some in conservative media have played up the idea that Biden didn't win legitimately. Going forward, it seems unlikely that the differing views on Trump among Republicans by news consumption choice will dissipate. The Republicans who prefer to get their news from Fox News, Newsmax or One America News Network remain far bigger fans of Trump than those who don't. A large 53% of Republican voters who get their news from the conservative media say supporting Trump is very important to being a Republican. It's just 21% among those who get their media from other television or digital sources. Another way to gauge this is by examining those who argue that backing Trump is not at all important to their Republican identity. It can be argued that these are some of the most ardent anti-Trump Republicans. Just 8% of Republican voters who prefer conservative media think it's not important at all to support Trump. Among those who prefer to get their news from other sources, it's 35%. The anti-Trump resistance within the GOP is low no matter where you go, but it's far lower among those who like conservative media. Looking ahead to the 2024 presidential primary, any Republican looking to beat Trump (assuming he runs) will likely need to dominate among those who don't prefer conservative media. It probably won't be enough to win. This lane is likely a minority of Republicans (20% to 40% under the most generous definition). Without it, though, any challenge to Trump will have a very hard time succeeding. 
Her terrifying accident on a porch swing pushed her into the ultimate mission of goodwill.  (CNN)After nearly losing her life in a porch swing accident, Lalia Susini is committed to helping other injured and sick children overcome the obstacles they face.The 12-year-old Los Angeles girl had been pursuing a career in acting and fashion, but now has her mind set on becoming a doctor, the result of a harrowing accident that led to several brain surgeries. "I thought I was going to die," Susini, who most recently starred in ABC's "Station 19," told CNN. "I just had no idea what happened."More than a year ago, an eyebolt holding the swing's bungee cord snapped out of the porch ceiling and shot through Lalia's skull."It started as a cute, All-American moment, her grandfather was pushing her," said her mother, Stacey Susini. "The next thing you know there's blood everywhere and I thought I'm going to lose my daughter."Los Angeles Fire Department crews found Lalia had suffered a stroke, was unconscious and had lost movement on her left side.Members of Station 97 helped her regain consciousness and rushed her to Cedars Sinai hospital.Stacey Susini recalls her daughter underwent two blood transfusions before doctors could operate because Lalia bled so much."That projectile had traversed through her skull and into an area of the brain that is responsible for voluntary motor control," said Dr. Moise Danielpour, a neurosurgeon in Cedars' pediatric department."She was unable to move one side of her body with an open wound. Time was critical." Dr. Danielpour explained doctors and nurses fought to save Lalia's life while preserving as much of Lalia's damaged brain as possible."The life of this beautiful child was in our hands and there was no room for error," said Danielpour. Miraculously, Lalia survived the nearly five-hour operation.Inspired to give backMore than a year later, Laila's left arm is still paralyzed.But she embraces extensive physical therapy, and is back acting, as well as doing other normal kids stuff -- like riding bicycles, easing into soccer, running track and chasing after her three brothers in their Hollywood Hills home."I'm working my hardest to get back to all of that," Lalia said. "Some would think this (her injuries) is so bad my life is ruined, but you have to be positive."The upbeat attitude propelled her to help fellow pediatric patients by creating a line of fashionable and comfortable clothes for kids who live with medical devices. Laila had already been designing clothes before the accident with her best friend under the brand name LATE Clothing LA. But her accident inspired her to also focus on sick and injured children."We donate clothes to kids who have a cast on their arm, PICC lines, or feeding tubes going into their arms -- anything where clothes need be modified," said Lalia. The acronym PICC line stands for peripherally inserted central catheter and it's used for administering intravenous fluids.The seventh grade student said during her recovery she saw how she and other children would have benefited from any comfortable clothing that would have openings for those lines or casts.One of those children was her friend Jack Boulas, who also survived a massive brain injury as well as a heart attack.Six-year-old Jack suffers from rare, Catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia that causes an irregular heart rhythm."A lot of families, children, parents live in isolation at a pediatric hospital," said Jack's father, Matt Boulas."I appreciate Lalia for the kindness she has shown to Jack. He always talks about her, adores her.  "The first thing he says is 'hide' when he sees her, because he likes to play hide and seek with her."Lalia's pediatric clothing line is just getting started, with a handful of items donated.But clothes are just the beginning, Laila says. She also wants to follow in her doctor's footsteps to the operating room, and someday become a pediatric neurosurgeon.She's a straight-A student, and is confident she can do it. But for now, Laila is taking one day at a time."It's wonderful when you can have an impact on a young person's life," Danielpour said.
He ordered a letterman jacket in high school but couldn't afford to pick it up. His brother just found it at a thrift shop 28 years later.  (CNN)Jed Mottley played varsity football 28 years ago at Chaparral High School in Scottsdale, Arizona, when nothing screamed ultimate pride in your sport and school like a letterman jacket -- but Mottley didn't have one."I went down to the store that year and picked everything out," Mottley told CNN. "You had to kind of design the jacket yourself ... but I never saw the final product."When it came time to pick it up, Mottley's mother told him they didn't have the money to buy it."She was one of the greatest mothers you could ever ask for," Mottley said, "and she really did the best that she could. I mean, there were Christmases where there was IOUs under the Christmas tree, and if you've (never) had an IOU during Christmas ... you don't know what that feels like. We definitely had it rough, and she just always made it OK, but she was so loving."But Mottley's older brother Josh happened to be in the right place at the right time on November 3. He found Jed's letterman jacket hanging on the rack of a thrift shop in Pinetop, almost 180 miles away from his high school, for $25 -- a stark difference from its original $300 price tag, Mottley estimated.'The price was right, 28 years later'"My mom was one of the most religious people I knew and she always said, 'I'm going to give you guys a sign from the other side,'" Jed said. "She passed away in 2012 but we never got that sign."Josh moved to Pinetop a few years ago after touring the country as a musician. He was walking around Veterans Village Thrift Store in the area when he spotted the bright red jacket, he told CNN affiliate KNXV.The jacket had the name "Jed" stitched under the left pocket, "94" stitched under the right pocket, and a football, the letters "WR" and the number 1 stitched on the right arm. "Chaparral" was stitched inside a big letter "C" on the top left part of the jacket."We were just like, in this moment on the phone," Jed said. "The price was right, 28 years later." Jed, also a musician, lives in Los Angeles and flew to Arizona just so Josh could hand over the extraordinary find in person, he said, making this the first time the brothers had seen one another in years.Based on the condition of the jacket, Jed said, he doesn't think anyone ever wore it. The "inspected by" tag was still in its pocket."It feels like my mom's been with me this entire week," he said. "It's just given me this natural high that I hope never goes away."After a two-week visit to Arizona, Jed returned home to Los Angeles on Wednesday and said he's been wearing the jacket every chance he gets, including on stage at some of his shows with his band, Feed The Kitty."As a musician, I just love making people happy and it seems in this past week or two it's just been nothing but happiness," Jed said. "People are crying tears of joy. ... They're just so happy for me. It's made me shed some tears."Since the discovery, some of Jed's former football teammates have reached out asking why he didn't tell them his mother couldn't afford to buy the jacket."I was embarrassed," he said. "I felt like we grew up with a lot of money around Scottsdale and I came from a broken family. ... It was nice because I got to borrow their clothes, ride in their nice cars and hang out at their houses, but you know, (at home) it was just a little bit different."From one shop to another The jackets were donated by a man from Mesa, 174 miles from Pinetop -- less than 20 miles from Chaparral High School, Maggie Heath with Veterans Village told CNN."His wife passed and because of Covid he could not keep his shop opened," she said. "He drove a trailer of jackets and patches to donate to our Veterans Village Thrift Store. We have sold hundreds before we realized the jackets with names are numbers were not just samples."When Josh came in and saw Jed's name and number on the jacket, Heath said, he "flipped out." "It is wonderful to learn that one of our grads is now in possession of the letterman jacket that was intended for him so many years ago," Nancy Norman with the Scottsdale Unified School District told CNN. "Such items are of great sentimental value, and we hope that his having the jacket now brings back happy memories of his days as a Chaparral Firebird."Norman said it's unclear what happened to the jacket after Jed was unable to pick it up.As for the remaining jackets, Heath said, the shop is offering them to others who may be in search of a long-lost jacket. Since the discovery, Heath said, she's been inundated with calls and emails and plans to spend a whole day sorting jackets and patches.
US Customs officials seize nearly 4,000 bongs at DC airport.  (CNN)US Customs and Border Protection officials seized a shipment of almost 4,000 bongs at Washington Dulles International Airport, the agency said. The $56,000 shipment arrived from China on October 2 manifested as "gravity pipes," the CBP said in a release Wednesday. CBP import specialists "confirmed that the glass bongs violated U.S. laws on the importation of drug paraphernalia," the release said. The bongs were headed to an address in Los Angeles County, California. CBP officers screen international passengers and cargo for "illicit narcotics, unreported currency, weapons, counterfeit consumer goods, prohibited agriculture, and other illicit products that could potentially harm the American public, U.S. businesses, and our nation's safety and vitality," the release said. Last month, CBP officers in Pharr, Texas, seized more than $960,000 worth of cocaine weighing almost 125 pounds that was hidden in a tractor-trailer coming from Mexico, according to CBP. In last week's release, the CBP seized $23,000 in currency from a couple on a flight bound for Ghana. The couple reported having just $10,500. "While inspecting the couple's carry-on bag, officers discovered an envelope concealed behind the carry-on bag's zippered liner. Officers verified the couple's combined currency at $23,641. Officers seized the currency for violating U.S. currency reporting laws and then released the couple with $641 as humanitarian relief," the release said. Federal law requires travelers to report all currency of $10,000 or more, according to CBP. 
Prince William's overpopulation remarks will do women no favors.  (CNN)When it comes to overpopulation as the cause of wildlife loss in Africa, Prince William just won't let it go. As I was looking for reactions to the speech the second in line to the British throne gave at an awards ceremony on Monday where he said: "The increasing pressure on Africa's wildlife and wild spaces, as a result of human population, presents a huge challenge for conservationists," I stumbled upon near-identical remarks he made four years prior. "In my lifetime we have seen global wildlife populations decline by over half," the Prince is reported as having said in 2017 at a gala for the same charity, The Tusk Trust. "Africa's rapidly growing human population is predicted to more than double by 2050 -- a staggering increase of three and a half million people per month. There is no question that this increase puts wildlife and habitat under enormous pressure." Then, as now, people have been quick to point out two things: the first is the Duke of Cambridge's hypocrisy. Here is a man who's determined his own family size, travels frequently by air and lives a lavish lifestyle (read: has a high carbon footprint) in one of the world's top 15 energy-consuming countries. (Mind you, energy consumption is a limited measure of the UK's environmental impact as Britain largely imports its goods. Someone else -- China -- is accounting for the energy used to produce those goods.) The second challenge to the Prince's statements centers on the inaccurate conclusions drawn about Africa's rising population. While Africa's population is indeed growing, it remains more sparsely populated than Europe or Asia; indigenous communities that live closest to wildlife are typically excellent custodians of the environment as their survival depends on it; and again, it is human behaviors not human numbers that more directly harm the biosphere. But there is more that is wrong with what Prince William said: identifying population growth as the problem, logically presents population control as the solution. This automatically transforms wombs into legitimate sites for climate policy. In other words, women's rights to contraception and education are weaponized: they are no longer tools that help women access greater choice, but instead this gender equality goal is hijacked to impose someone else's agenda. Let's imagine for one minute that we accept that population growth -- and specifically, population growth in Africa -- leads to greater pressure on wildlife, an argument that Prince William believes is undeniable. How should this be addressed? A one-child policy as a condition for development aid? How will the impact of that reduction in population be measured? Who is to say if it is going far enough to mitigate environmental damage? If it isn't, what then? Prince William seems to have avoided speculating on how to fix his problem. His grandfather, the Duke of Edinburgh, was not so wise and was known to have called for "voluntary family limitation" to address a growing human population.  This is not the first time, nor will it be the last, that women's bodies are implicated in policy games. In 2017 Denmark, which regularly tops best-country-to-be-a-woman rankings, pledged additional funds to help women access family planning because "part of the solution to reducing migratory pressures on Europe is to reduce the very high population growth in many African countries."  It should be obvious to all that panic about population growth in Black, brown and Indigenous parts of the world is underpinned by race and class prejudice. It should be equally obvious that what every woman needs is the freedom to choose for herself if, when and how many children she will have. If despite years of talking about conservation Prince William has not considered that his concern for Africa's wildlife could stigmatize Africa's women, perhaps now is the time for him to do so. Story of the week Read or listen to the opening investigation from the new As Equals series, White Lies, on how the misuse of topical corticosteroids as a skin lightening agent is leading to drug dependencies for millions of people in India. The story by Pallabi Munsi also explores how "the deep-seated belief that lighter skin tones are better than darker ones" is manifest in India's marriage culture. Fairness mania is fueling a dangerous drug dependency in India  Women behaving badly: Kanno SugakoWritten by Vanessa Offiong Kanno Sugako (1881 -- 1911) was one of Japan's first female journalists and notable feminists, famous for her writing which explored the countless oppressions women faced in a modernizing society. She often condemned society's praising of "feminine virtues" such as chastity: "Where do all of these depraved men get the right to emphasize chastity? Before they begin stressing women's chastity, they ought to perfect their own male chastity, and concentrate on becoming wise fathers and good husbands!" But Sugako was also opposed to sex work, seeing geishas at first as "morally corrupt individuals" and later as "fallen women." Born into hardship (she reportedly lost her mother at 10, was raised by a stepmother and raped at 15) Sugako became a central figure in the early Japanese anarchist and socialist movements and urged women to develop self-awareness. "For us women, the most urgent task is to develop our own self-awareness ... women with some education and some degree of social knowledge must surely be discontented and angry about their status," she wrote. In 1910, she was accused by the Japanese government for her alleged role in the High Treason Incident, to assassinate Emperor Meiji. This led to her death by hanging at age 29, making her the first woman political prisoner to be executed in the history of modern Japan. Other stories worth your time Skin whitening is an $8.6 billion industry. This woman is trying to stop it -- CNN The woman risking it all to help child brides annul their marriages -- CNN  Diaper need is an invisible part of poverty in America -- The 19th  Experiments in Imagining Otherwise -- music playlist to accompany British writer Lola Olufemi's new book of the same name. Join the conversation Over the next six months, White lies will be investigating skin whitening practices worldwide, with the aim of exposing the underlying drivers of colorism, the industry that profits from it and the cost to individuals and communities globally. Share your story with us on social media using the hashtag #FightingWhitening, or send us a tip by emailing asequals@cnn.com  
Christina Applegate shares a message on her 50th birthday after MS diagnosis.  (CNN)Christina Applegate is marking a milestone birthday after revealing her multiple sclerosis diagnosis in August.Applegate celebrated her 50th birthday on Thanksgiving Day with a message for her fans on Twitter. "Yup. I turned 50 today. And I have MS. It's been a hard one," she wrote."Sending so much love to all of you this day," Applegate continued. "Many are hurting today, and I am thinking of you. May we find that strength to lift our heads up. Mine currently is on my pillow. But I try."Multiple sclerosis affects the central nervous system. It's considered an autoimmune disease in which the immune system attacks its own healthy cells. It affects quality of life and can be disabling.In her announcement earlier this year, the actor known for her roles in "Bad Moms," "Married ... with Children" and "Dead to Me" shared that it's not been easy living with the disease. "But I have been so supported by people that I know who also have this condition," Applegate said. "It's been a tough road. But as we all know, the road keeps going."There is no cure for multiple sclerosis -- known as MS -- but many people are able to manage their symptoms and adapt to new lifestyles after diagnosis.Researchers believe that the disease is the result of both environmental and genetic factors, but the underlying cause is not known.CNN's Jack Guy contributed to this report
Stanley Tucci and John Krasinski spent Thanksgiving together .  (CNN)Stanley Tucci and John Krasinski had a Thanksgiving Day filled with brotherly love. The author of "The Tucci Cookbook" and host of CNN's "Searching for Italy" is married to literary agent Felicity Blunt, while Krasinski's wife is actress Emily Blunt. They're brothers-in-law married to the British siblings. "Happy Thanksgiving from my family to yours," Tucci posted on Instagram, along with a photo of him with "The Office" star.  He included a TikTok video by user Alexa Shoen explaining that whenever she feels "stressed out about the weight of the world," she feels better when she remembers the actors are related by marriage."John Krasinski and Stanley Tucci are both the American sons-in-law in the Blunt family," Shoen says in the video shared by Tucci. "And that means there's probably been a situation where — I feel better already — ... they have, I don't know, worn those paper hats that you wear on Boxing Day ... and also that they probably have, like, shook hands while carrying a side dish they were bringing into a Thanksgiving dinner somewhere in America. It's my deepest meditative practice."Their Hollywood connections run deep. Tucci starred in the 2006 movie, "The Devil Wears Prada" with Emily Blunt. He's been married to her sister for nearly a decade after they met at the Krasinskis' wedding. 
Adele's '30' becomes 2021's fastest-selling album in both the US and UK.  (CNN)Adele has made another record-breaking return to the charts, as her latest album "30" claims the title of fastest-selling album of 2021 in both the US and the UK.Released on November 19, the British singer's fourth studio album also became the most successful album of the year in the US just three days after release, according to MRC data reported by Billboard.Selling more than 660,000 equivalent album units -- which includes audio and video streaming and individual track sales -- "30" has already triumphed over the other major releases of 2021. In the UK, Adele debuted at the top spot in the albums chart, with first-week sales of 261,000 according to the Official Charts, which said it was the biggest first week for an album since Ed Sheeran's "Divide" (÷) in 2017. The album's lead single "Easy on Me" also claimed a sixth consecutive week at number one on the UK singles chart, after breaking the record for most streams in a single week after its release. The Official Charts said Adele was the only female act with three or more studio albums to reach number one with all her records -- a title she has now cemented further with "30," which marks her fourth number one.However, "30" has not quite hit the heights of Adele's third studio album, "25," which became the fastest-selling album of all time in both the US and the UK in 2015 -- selling 800,000 copies in the UK and 3.3 million in the US. Although this week's album chart is yet to be released in the US, it is all but guaranteed that Adele will claim her third consecutive number one album, and "Easy on Me" previously spent four weeks in the top spot of the Hot 100 singles chart.The sales figures reflect Adele's love of conventional methods of listening to music, with 560,000 of the equivalent album units sold in the US being traditional album sales, while 67% of her sales in the UK were physical sales. The singer has shunned streaming in the past, although she appears to have now embraced it at the risk of lower physical sales -- even getting Spotify to remove the shuffle button as a default option for albums on their platform."30" has received widespread acclaim from critics, and Adele told American Vogue in October that the album was her way of explaining her divorce to her son and was very close to her heart, saying she was "not letting go of this one."  
'The Beatles: Get Back' may surprise even hardcore fans .  (CNN)There are a few surprises in "The Beatles: Get Back."One that grabbed Stephen Colbert was how pianist Billy Preston came to be known as "the fifth Beatle."During an interview on his late show that aired on Thanksgiving, Colbert talked with Peter Jackson, who directed the newly released Beatles docuseries.They discussed how Preston came to hop on the keys with the iconic band, made up of John Lennon, Paul McCartney, George Harrison and Ringo Starr."He wasn't even supposed to be on the album," Colbert said. "He was just a friend of George's who stopped by.""The album" is 1970's "Let It Be." The new docuseries builds on audio and film from the 1970 "Let It Be" documentary."The Beatles: Get Back" explores Harrison quitting the band and McCartney assuming more of a leadership role as John Lennon focused on his marriage and work with Yoko Ono.Jackson talked to the Washington Post about working on the project."I tried to make a very honest movie," he said. 
Mariah Carey proves she's the undisputed queen of Christmas.  (CNN)Every year, we can pretty much count on Mariah Carey to remind us that Christmas season actually kicks off the day after Halloween.Now, while many of you may have waited until post-Thanksgiving to put out the decorations (we don't mean you early folks who ate your turkey beside your Christmas tree), we have to roll with Carey.After all, "The All I Want for Christmas" singer represents for the holiday season big time.Whether Carey is tweeting her support after a homeowners association threatened to fine a man for putting his Christmas decorations up too early, or appearing to offer to go warrior princess when a Dallas bar put a limit on playing her perennial Christmas classic hit, the holiday season probably doesn't have a stauncher advocate. That 1994 song, b-t-dubs, is back on the charts, of course. So, how can I not lead off this week's Pop Life Chronicles with the diva, now that we are firmly in the season?Three things to watch'Mariah's Christmas: The Magic Continues'Who does a Christmas special better than Mariah Carey? Guests include Khalid and Grammy-winning gospel star Kirk Franklin. And the special features an exclusive interview with Carey and her 10-year-old twins, son Moroccan and daughter Monroe.We are also promised "a dazzling, new rendition of fan favorite, 'Christmas (Baby Please Come Home).'"You will have to wait until it starts streaming December 3 on Apple TV+, but it looks to be worth the wait.'Hawkeye'Marvel keeps on giving.Yet another one of The Avengers has gotten a series, this time Clint Barton, played by Jeremy Renner, who teams up with Hailee Steinfeld as another Marvel character, Kate Bishop.The archers take aim at some enemies, and you don't have to be a Marvel aficionado to get into the action.It's streaming on Disney+.'Hellbound'Shifting gears in a big way here ... but part of my job is to keep you in the know, so I have to include this one. "Hellbound" is the latest South Korean drama to take fire on Netflix.No spoilers, but it's about how "supernatural events cause great mayhem and enable the religious group The New Truth to grow in influence."Like another Netflix Korean hit, "Squid Game," it's definitely not for those who are squeamish or scare easily."Hellbound" is streaming now.Bonus: Let's take it back to 2006, when the paparazzi snapped a now-famous photo of Britney Spears, Paris Hilton and Lindsay Lohan in Beverly Hills. Fast-forward to present day, and see how the stars aligned for these Hollywood celebrities in the latest episode of my weekly show, Pop Life Pop Off! Check it out here:   Two things to listen toBryson Tiller has made a holiday album for the brokenhearted.The R&B singer titled it "A Different Christmas," and he told Billboard the pandemic, coupled with a bad breakup, inspired him, though he has always wanted to make a Christmas album."Experiencing that loneliness and the thought of spending Christmas alone made me (say), okay, I think I could make a Christmas album — but I'm going to do it my way," he told the publication.The album is currently streaming.If you are a fan of the "Real Housewives of New Jersey," I've got just the podcast for you.Cast member Melissa Gorga is launching "Melissa Gorga on Display" on PodcastOne on December 2. "Each week my celebrity guests and I will share stories and chat about all sorts of things like fashion, family, show business, entrepreneurship, and of course, treating yourself," Gorga told People magazine. "Believe it or not, there are stories that the cameras do not tell. And that's what you're going to get with this podcast. It's life unfiltered." Fingers crossed that Andy Cohen is one of her first guests.One thing to talk aboutChrissy Teigen has introduced me to something new: eyebrow transplants.Perhaps I am late to the party (or maybe because I have such full eyebrows that I live to have them threaded), but I had zero idea that this was even a thing.Dr. Jason Diamond, who performed the procedure for Teigen, shared her after photo on his Instagram account."Eyebrows play a huge part of the facial aesthetic," he wrote in the caption. "They frame the eyes and can either be an asset to the eyes, or they can be the annoying part of your morning you have to spend ten minutes filling in."The transplanted hair came from the back of her head, according to Teigen. No judgment over here. Whatever makes you feel you look your best. Something to sip on Plenty of celebrities talk about mental health, but Selena Gomez is walking the walk.The singer/actor/producer/cooking show host has launched Wondermind, a mental health platform that aims to help end the stigma surrounding mental illnesses and connect people with much needed educational resources.Gomez, who shared in April that she has bipolar disorder, is a big proponent of addressing mental health concerns, and her public stance could go a long way toward helping others.Because let's be honest: We are a society that looks up to the rich and famous. The more open they are about their struggles, the more it encourages others to be honest and seek support.So, thank you, Selena Gomez for letting us all know that it's OK not to be OK and that help is out there.If you are interested in this subject, please do sign up for CNN's Stress, But Less newsletter.
TV OT: 'Licorice Pizza,' 'The Beatles: Get Back' and 'The Waltons' serve up nostalgia over Thanksgiving . TV OT is a weekly look at what CNN's entertainment team is watching since too much television has us all working overtime. (CNN)Thanksgiving weekend is theoretically all about family. Yet in terms of entertainment options -- to consume with them or as a means of escaping them -- the prevailing theme is heavily tilted toward nostalgia, with projects rooted in the 1960s, '70s and '90s.Music plays a sizable role in all this, not surprisingly, with director Peter Jackson's multi-part documentary "The Beatles: Get Back" making its debut on Disney+, a few days after a film devoted to another '60s act, the Beach Boys, hit theaters and on demand with the touching "Brian Wilson: Long Promised Road."There are also strong musical undercurrents to the movies "Licorice Pizza," an unorthodox look at Southern California's San Fernando Valley during the 1970s, from directing auteur Paul Thomas Anderson; and "House of Gucci," a salacious true-crime tale about the fight over the fashion empire that spans a period from the late '70s (disco dominate the soundtrack) to the mid-'90s.Finally, the weekend features a pair of made-for-TV movie reboots and revivals, with the CW's "The Waltons' Homecoming" -- based on the 1970s TV show set in the 1930s -- and USA's "Nash Bridges," reuniting Don Johnson and Cheech Marin two decades after the cop show cracked its last case on CBS.That's obviously a relatively small part of the holiday viewing feast, which includes the customary deluge of Christmas-themed movies (which seems to start earlier every year) and other nostalgic items like Disney+'s "Home Sweet Home Alone," which strands another unlucky kid more than 30 years after the original exercise in bad parenting.Here are a few meatier thoughts on some of these titles. And whatever you choose to watch before, during or after Thanksgiving, Bon Appetit."Licorice Pizza" (theaters, Nov. 26)In a way, "Licorice Pizza" is the embodiment of nostalgia without sentiment, capturing a time and place in the 1970s when Nixon was on TV, Vin Scully called Dodger games on radio, gas lines formed because of shortages, and a boss could brazenly slap the behind of his female employee without fear of repercussions.At its core, the movie is a peculiar love story, one involving Gary (Cooper Hoffman, the son of the late Philip Seymour Hoffman), who's about to turn 16, and the older Alana (Alana Haim, of the rock band), who finds direction in an otherwise unfocused life thanks to Gary's get-rich-quick schemes, which include peddling water beds.A few actual '70s characters find their way into the pair's Hollywood-heavy plot, with Bradley Cooper portraying producer Jon Peters as a wildly flamboyant lunatic who actually purchases one of the beds. Sean Penn also turns up as an actor (the name is changed, but only slightly) full of strange stories, although it's not entirely clear that he can separate reality from his movies."Licorice Pizza" really doesn't have much of a plot, playing like a series of loosely connected episodes, in a way that becomes more obvious during the second half. Nor does it really address some of the nagging questions about Alana, whose periodic tantrums are among the film's only poorly written scenes.Those disclaimers aside, for the most part Anderson (who has directed a number of Haim videos since his last film, "Phantom Thread") has delivered another highly entertaining movie, capturing a very particular time but also the enduring and universal nature of relationships developing in the most unexpected ways.The title, incidentally, comes from a chain of record stores that were popular in the '70s but no longer exist -- a fitting symbol of the desire to give this bygone era another spin."The Beatles: Get Back" (Nov. 25, Disney+)Director Peter Jackson essentially lets loose "The Lord of the Rings" approach on the Beatles, in a three-part documentary that runs nearly eight hours. With access to previously unseen footage shot by Michael Lindsay-Hogg, the filmmaker takes a (very) deep dive into the Fab Four's creative process as they worked on the landmark 1970 album "Let It Be."It's a stunningly intimate labor of love, offering a fascinating glimpse of the group's interpersonal dynamics -- and creative tensions -- in what feel like unguarded moments despite the camera's presence. The only drawback is the exhaustive length, which in some respects requires wading through the material that operates in a lesser key, though there's an obvious method to that madness.While Jackson is clearly content to let the Beatles do the talking, a bit more curating certainly wouldn't have hurt. Still, for any student of musical history, "Get Back" presents the kind of fly-on-the-wall access and insight into why the band subsequently broke up that's pretty irresistible, even if it's perhaps better consumed in smaller bites as opposed to one great gulp.Then again, that's not bad advice for this weekend in general.As a footnote, Jackson's ode to the Beatles comes on the heels of "Brian Wilson: Long Promised Road," an extraordinary look back on the Beach Boys mastermind's life and career that features all the right voices lauding him, including Bruce Springsteen and Elton John."He had an orchestra in his head," John marvels. "The Beatles had [producer] George Martin to do it for them, but Brian did it himself."Not every musical mainstay warrants this kind of expansive treatment, but as Wilson himself wrote, wouldn't it be nice?"The Waltons' Homecoming" (Nov. 28, 8 p.m. ET, CW)Fifty years after the movie that launched the original series, Richard Thomas returns to introduce and narrate this very earnest (what else?) return to Waltons Mountain, again in TV movie form. The story hinges on whether dad will make it home for Christmas. The new cast features "Scandal's" Bellamy Young as Olivia, with Logan Shroyer ("This is Us") as John Boy. And yes, everyone says "goodnight." (It's from Warner Bros. Television, like CNN, part of WarnerMedia.)"Nash Bridges" (Nov. 27, 9 p.m. ET, USA)Nash and Joe are back in a movie-length adventure, with a lot of younger colleagues who tease the former about being a dinosaur and the occasional old-man gripe about things like using directional apps during a car chase.In perhaps the most inspired wrinkle, Marin's character has found success running a cannabis dispensary, which is certainly on brand with his Cheech & Chong comedic routes. "Aren't you glad you came back for this one?" Nash asks him. Whether fans will be glad remains to be seen, but the whole thing is breezy in a way that could easily go up in smoke.
Going to the store may be your smartest bet to navigate the supply chain crisis this holiday. New York (CNN Business)The supply chain crisis means last-minute gift buyers may have little choice but to go shopping the old-fashioned way this holiday season.High demand, combined with supply chain delays, materials' shortages and troubles hiring workers, are shrinking the availability of items both online and at stores. As customers get closer to the last minute, physical stores will become a more appealing option for shoppers than waiting around for delivery, analysts expect. Even if customers can't find exactly what they're looking for at a store, it's usually easier to browse around for an alternative in person — and they can try it on."Brick and mortar may be more attractive for consumers later in the season," Rod Sides, a vice chairman at Deloitte and leader of its US retail and distribution practice, said in an email. "Shoppers can leave with goods in hand, versus waiting on promised dates from shippers." Consumers saw more than 2 billion out-of-stock messages while browsing online in October, according to Adobe Analytics. That's a big reason why, in physical stores, sales will rise by 8% this year — a 10-year high — as shoppers return to in-person shopping and try to avoid shipping delays, according to real estate research firm CBRE.Analysts also believe buy online, pickup in store orders will boom this holiday because of shipping concerns.Shoppers will lean on curbside pickup "more than ever to give them peace of mind about their holiday purchases" with wait times and items out of stock high on consumers' minds, said Andrew Lipsman, a retail analyst at market research firm Insider Intelligence.Retailers will heavily promote pickup as an option for customers on their websites and mobile apps, in marketing emails, and on television to appeal to customers anxious about buying online late in the season, Lipsman expects.Stores say they have greater control over inventory in stores and through curbside pickup than they do on home delivery orders — meaning it's less likely there will be a mistake or delay on an order."The closer I got [to the holiday], I would absolutely be using the ship to store because that's going to give more confidence in being able to actually get the thing in time," Ben Johns, the general merchandising manager for action sports at outdoor equipment retailer REI, said in a recent interview.When customers order online and pick up their items in stores, products are either in the store already or REI sends them from one of its warehouses using its own trucks. That means REI doesn't need to rely on third-party delivery carriers it has less control over to deliver to customers' homes, he said.$5 off orders and free blanketsRetailers have an incentive to draw shoppers into their stores. It's typically more profitable for retailers to have you shop in person than order to your home because they have to pay expensive last-mile delivery costs. Return rates are also higher for items purchased online, and retailers have to eat the costs for customers' returns.Top retailers are pushing customers this year to visit their physical stores to shop or order online and scoop up their items in person. Kohl'  (KSS)is offering customers $5 off orders when they pick them up in stores. It's also trying to make the pickup process smoother for customers by adding temporary new pickup locations and more designating parking spots for pickups, as well as a self-pickup test where customers can access their orders using a link and code. Kohl's expects increased demand for pickup orders this year in part because it "eliminates the added stress of waiting for packages to arrive on your doorstep," Paul Gaffney, Kohl's chief technology and supply chain officer, said in an email.Carter', (CRI) the children's clothing chain, is offering customers gifts as an extra perk if they purchase items on certain days in stores — but not online — such as blankets from November 19 to November 21 and a Skip Hop toy from December 10 to December 12.Randa Apparel & Accessories, which sells brands such as Levi's, Tommy Hilfiger, Calvin Klein and others, has shifted a large portion of its advertising spending to push customers to stores, instead of buying online. It's also directing more of its inventory to stores than e-commerce."When inventory is limited, we prefer to drive consumers to in-store purchases over online purchases," said David Katz, Randa's chief marketing officer.Customers purchasing products in stores is more profitable for Randa than online sales, which often come with "very large reverse logistics costs" on return orders. "We've paid the tuition for this education, and it was an expensive lesson to learn," he said.When shoppers come into stores, they also tend to make impulse purchases or buy related items nearby — belts, for example, near the pants they're buying. This happens less frequently when buying online.Overall, Katz said, "the frustration level is lower when you go to mortar and brick, particularly when inventory is limited."
Craft beer might get even more expensive. San Francisco (CNN Business)Your next can of craft beer might be a lot more expensive.Ball Corp (BLL)., one of the world's largest suppliers of aluminum cans, is sending shockwaves throughout the craft beer world after lifting the minimum number of cans certain producers must order and saying it will raise prices. Ball said it will now require that non-contract customers -- who include many smaller breweries -- order no fewer than five truckloads (roughly 1.02 million cans) per each of their beverages starting on January 1. The previous purchase minimum was one truckload per product.Additionally, starting in 2022, Ball wrote that it would no longer be able to store excess cans from those non-contract customers in its warehouses and that the price-per-can would increase by nearly 50% for at least some non-contract customers, according to notices sent to breweries. The news has many small and regional breweries scrambling to secure cans and has spurred fears of heftier costs, reduced variety and higher prices for consumers. "I do see this as an economic killer for some, and certainly most small brewers are going to have to raise prices significantly or rethink their entire models," said Garrett Marrero, chief executive officer and co-founder of Maui Brewing Co. in Hawaii.The tight-knit craft beer industry was already reeling from pandemic-spurred restaurant and taproom closures, inflationary pressures, can shortages and other supply chain disruptions.Then, a little over a week ago, notices from Ball landed in the inboxes of hundreds of craft brewers across the country, according to the Brewers Association, the trade organization representing small and independent brewers. The Denver Westword was the first to report about Ball's purchase minimums. In the letters, copies of which were provided to CNN Business, Ball wrote that demand for aluminum cans continues to outstrip supply."Ball is making investments to bring additional capacity online, and in the meantime we remain in a tightly constrained supply environment for the foreseeable future," according to the letter. "This environment is making it difficult for us to deliver the quality customer experience our customers expect from Ball, and we are making some adjustments to how we do business to remedy that."With fewer than six weeks until the new year, hundreds of craft brewers will no longer be able to buy their pre-printed cans directly from Ball and instead will have to secure one of the most critical components of their business from new sources, said Bob Pease, president and chief executive officer of the Brewers Association."This is still pretty darn new, so we're still trying to gather information from our members that are being impacted," Pease told CNN Business. The Brewers Association is weighing its options and considering reaching out to policymakers, Pease said, and was hoping to talk with executives at Ball, which is a longtime member, he added. On Friday, Pease said he heard back from Ball's senior leadership, and the two sides are working to set up a meeting in December to discuss the recent changes. Ball isn't completely abandoning the craft beer industry, a company spokesperson told CNN Business. "The new model will increase our overall efficiency and allow us to actually produce more cans for our contracted customers, including craft brewers," Ball spokesperson Scott McCarty wrote in an email.  McCarty added that Ball is building five plants in the United States to produce more cans, adding that "each year, we evaluate supply and demand and will continue to invest where it makes sense."As potential solutions for customers that couldn't meet the raised minimums, Ball offered up contact information for four distributors that could take smaller orders, provide warehousing, and offer labeling options such as stickers and plastic shrink wrap. 'It will force us out of business'When Upslope Brewing Company launched in Boulder, Colorado in 2008, it was one of only a handful of craft brewers to package their beer solely in aluminum cans. "My first phone call for cans was to Ball," co-founder Matt Cutter told CNN Business. "They said, 'That's fine, you can buy a truckload.'"That wasn't doable then for Upslope, a business whose startup funds came from the second mortgage of Cutter's house. But a few years later, when Upslope's snowmelt-based beer was being consumed throughout the Mountain West region, it certainly was possible. "And Ball kept knocking on our door," he said. Ball, also a Colorado-based company, had a can-making facility just down the highway, and offered up services such as storage and cheaper shipping. Upslope, which has bought its cans by the truckload from Ball since 2014, now feels left out in the cold. Cutter fears that the higher costs -- including raw material, storage and any added margins from working with new distributors -- could ultimately lead to craft six-packs sold at stores being $1 to $2 more expensive by next spring. Ultimately, he said, these higher costs might not be sustainable for smaller businesses. "As craft brewers, we're not rolling in the dough here," he said. "We can't absorb this. It'll force us out of business." In Pueblo, Colorado, one of the co-founders of Walter Brewing Co. was frantically trying to get up to speed on what Ball's plans may mean for his brewery.Walter Brewing has purchased cans for its Walter's Original Pilsner and Walter's Pueblo Chile Beer from groups that buy from Ball, as well as directly from Ball. "It would take us more than a year's time to go through [a truckload]," said Andy Sanchez, one of Walter Brewing's co-owners. The newly required five truckloads is out of the question."With six weeks' notice, it's a lot to digest in that short time," Sanchez said. "It would be crucial for all small breweries if Ball would rethink the path and maybe think of a way to mitigate the short-term impacts."Maui Brewing, because of its scope of operations in Hawaii and close relations with Ball's plant there, should be relatively insulated from major disruptions, Marrero said. However, he fears that breweries on the Mainland and Maui Brewing's efforts to expand production there face complications. He's concerned brewers that can't float the costs to shift suppliers will be forced to change their operations, close or consolidate. He said he's also worried this may lead to a greater use of less-sustainable materials, such as plastic labels."This is going to create a paradigm shift in craft beer moving forward," he said.
