Guilty verdicts in the trial of Ahmaud Arbery's killers met with relief and joy in Georgia and beyond. Brunswick, Georgia (CNN)A jury Wednesday found three White men charged in the killing of Ahmaud Arbery, a 25-year-old Black man, guilty on multiple murder counts, as well as other charges.The verdict, delivered by nine White women, two White men and one Black man, came after more than 11 hours of deliberation spanning two days. It followed eight days of testimony, involving 23 witnesses.Ahmaud Arbery killing trial: Live updatesArbery's parents appeared alongside civil rights stalwarts outside the courthouse following the verdict. They praised the prosecution and supporters who joined the family in their fight for justice for their son, whose killing drew national outrage and helped cast a spotlight on other racially driven crimes around the country.  The defendants each faced the same nine counts, and verdicts were as follows:• Travis McMichael, who fatally shot Arbery, is guilty on all charges: malice murder, four counts of felony murder, two counts of aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony;• His father, Gregory McMichael, who rode armed in the bed of a pickup as his son pursued Arbery, is not guilty of malice murder but guilty on the other eight charges.  • And William "Roddie" Bryan Jr., a neighbor who joined the pursuit and filmed Arbery's final moments, is guilty of  three counts of felony murder, one count of aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony. Bryan was cleared on the charge of malice murder, felony murder involving aggravated assault with a firearm and the count of aggravated assault with a firearm.Their attorneys have said they will appeal.Introduced by the Rev. Al Sharpton and civil rights attorneys S. Lee Merritt and Ben Crump, Arbery's parents, Wanda Cooper-Jones and Marcus Arbery, heartily thanked the crowd. Ahmaud Arbery can now rest in peace, Cooper-Jones said. "I just want to say thank you guys," she said. "It's been a long fight. It's been a hard fight, but God is good. ... I never thought this day would come, but God is good, and I just want to tell everybody thank you, thank you for those who marched, those who prayed."She later told CNN's Jim Acosta that the verdict "means a lot. It means that my prayers have been answered."It was a very good day, she told Acosta on "The Situation Room with Wolf Blitzer.""To hear that the accused murderers were actually found guilty, I mean, that was huge," she said. "We finally got the justice for Ahmaud that he deserved back in 2020." She said she always believed God would bring justice."Like I said in the very beginning, God has never failed me. He's never failed me," she said. "And I knew that he would not begin to fail me now. So I knew that we would get a guilty verdict. I didn't know when, but I knew that it would come eventually."Marcus Arbery also gave thanks when he spoke outside the courthouse."I want to give all glory to God because that's who made all this possible. ... It's not one side did this. God put us all together to make this happen," he said.Sharpton said a prayer with the crowd and proclaimed with his trademark zeal, "Let the word go forth all over the world that a jury of 11 Whites and one Black in the Deep South stood up in the courtroom and said, 'Black lives do matter.'"Let it be clear that almost 10 years after Trayvon (Martin), God used Wanda and Marcus' son to prove that if we kept marching and kept fighting, we would make you hear us," he said. "We've got a lot more battles to fight, but this was an important battle today."Lead prosecutor Linda Dunikoski said her team's goal was make to bring the facts and evidence to the jurors."When you present the truth to people and they can see it, they will do the right thing and that's what this jury did today in getting justice for Ahmaud Arbery," she said.Sentencing date has not been setThe sentencing date for the McMichaels and Bryan is unclear. Prosecutors have indicated they will seek sentences of life in prison without the possibility of parole. Following the verdicts, Laura Hogue, an attorney for Gregory McMichael, told her client's weeping wife that she was "floored with a capital F" and plans to appeal the case after sentencing. Robert Rubin, who represented Travis McMichael, said he, too, planned to appeal. He described his client as stoic and said he was holding in his reaction following the verdict. Co-counsel Jason Sheffield insisted the McMichaels thought their actions that day were "the right thing to do" and said he is disappointed and saddened by the outcome. "We also recognize that this is a day of celebration for the Arbery family," Sheffield said. "We cannot tear our eyes away from the way that they feel about this, and we understand that they feel that they have gotten justice today. We respect that. We honor that because we honor this jury trial system."Kevin Gough, who represented Bryan, said his client was shook when the verdict was announced. Gough repeated his arguments about why Bryan should have been found not guilty."Here he is, he does everything he's supposed to do, he's fully cooperating, he's done everything that he can and now he's looking at spending the rest of his life in prison," Gough told reporters. "Anybody in that position would be disappointed, would be hurt, would be shocked."Gough said he will file an appeal asking for the conviction to be overturned.The McMichaels and Bryan have been indicted on federal hate crime charges and are scheduled to go on trial in February on counts of interference of rights and attempted kidnapping. The McMichaels each face an additional charge of using, carrying, brandishing and discharging a firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence. The men have pleaded not guilty. Arbery's mother has filed civil claims against the McMichaels, Bryan and police and prosecutorial officials. The McMichaels and Bryan were arrested last year several weeks after the shooting of Arbery in the Satilla Shores neighborhood outside Brunswick, Georgia, on February 23, 2020.The men said they believed Arbery had committed a crime. Evidence introduced in the trial showed the men chased Arbery through the streets as he repeatedly tried to elude them. The McMichaels, who were armed, were in one vehicle, while Bryan, who joined while the chase was underway, followed in his own truck, assisting in and recording the chase. Arbery was unarmed and on foot. Video of the killing showed Travis McMichael exit his truck and confront Arbery before fatally shooting him as the two tussled. McMichael's father watched from the bed of the truck. The men pleaded not guilty, with the McMichaels claiming they were conducting a citizen's arrest and acting in self-defense, and Bryan saying he took no part in the killing. Arbery was on a jog -- a common pastime, according to those who knew him -- when the McMichaels grabbed their guns and pursued him. Gregory McMichael, a former police officer and ex-investigator in the county prosecutor's office, told authorities Arbery and his son had struggled over his son's shotgun and Travis shot Arbery after he was attacked, according to a police report. On the stand, Travis McMichael echoed his dad's claim that he acted in self-defense after Arbery grabbed his shotgun. Cross-examined by a prosecutor, Travis McMichael conceded that he'd told investigators he didn't know whether Arbery grabbed the weapon and that neither he nor his dad had mentioned a citizen's arrest to police. His father and Bryan declined to testify. Travis McMichael said he was "scattered," traumatized and "mixed up" in the hours after the shooting, offering an explanation for his inconsistencies. Two prosecutors initially instructed Glynn County police not to make arrests in the case, but about two months after the shooting, a copy of Bryan's video of the killing surfaced publicly, sparking a nationwide outcry.  In May 2020, CNN spoke to Alan Tucker, a criminal defense attorney, who acknowledged his role in helping the McMichaels with the video. They wanted to release portions of the video hoping that it would settle rumors in the community about questions regarding Arbery's death. Tucker said that the McMichaels believed the video would clear them in the minds of the public from any wrongdoing.Scott Ryfun, a local radio personality, said a thumb drive containing the video was delivered to his radio station by a man he later recognized as Gregory McMichael.Ryfun posted the clip on the station's website on May 5, 2020. Within an hour of posting, management ordered him to take it down, he said, but by then it had already started to go viral. Part of a national outcryThe McMichaels were arrested May 7, 2020, and Bryan was taken into custody two weeks later. The case soon dovetailed with the killings of three Black people -- Breonna Taylor in Louisville, Kentucky, George Floyd in Minneapolis and Rayshard Brooks in Atlanta -- redoubling angst over racial injustice and civil unrest nationwide. The father and son believed Arbery was responsible for a string of recent burglaries in the neighborhood, the elder McMichael told police, but Glynn County police said there had been only one burglary reported in the roughly two months before the shooting. In that incident, a gun had been stolen from an unlocked vehicle at the McMichaels' home. Gregory McMichael also suspected Arbery had been inside a home under construction, he said, but the home's owner told CNN he had surveillance cameras and did not see Arbery commit any crime. He did not ask the McMichaels to take any action on his behalf, he testified in a deposition. Travis McMichael also acknowledged he never saw Arbery armed and never heard Arbery threaten him. Rather, Travis McMichael testified, Arbery refused to respond to him and showed no interest in conversing.  A state investigator testified during a preliminary hearing last year that Bryan and Travis McMichael used racial slurs on social media and messaging services, and that Bryan told police he heard Travis McMichael use a racial epithet after killing Arbery. Evidence of the slurs was never presented to the jury. "I believe Mr. Arbery was being pursued, and he ran till he couldn't run anymore, and it was turn his back to a man with a shotgun or fight with his bare hands against the man with the shotgun. He chose to fight," Georgia Bureau of Investigation agent Richard Dial said at a June 2020 probable cause hearing. During closing arguments, Hogue made remarks that legal experts felt stoked the racial tensions already evident in the case. She referred to Arbery as a "recurring nighttime intruder" and implied he had nefarious intent when he arrived "in his khaki shorts with no socks to cover his long, dirty toenails."Correction: This story has been updated with the correct makeup of the jury, which had nine White women, two White men and one Black man.CNN's Angela Barajas, Martin Savidge, Chris Boyette, Travis Caldwell, Adrienne Vogt and Jade Gordon contributed to this report.
Prosecutors in the trial of Ahmaud Arbery's killers explain why they had faith in the jury despite its racial makeup .  (CNN)Prosecutors in the trial of three White men convicted in Ahmaud Arbery's killing were not concerned about the racial makeup of the jury, attorneys told CNN Wednesday. Linda Dunikoski, Cobb County senior assistant district attorney, told CNN's Jim Acosta that after jurors were selected, her team "realized that we had very, very smart, very intelligent, honest jurors who were going to do their job which is to seek the truth." "We felt that putting up our case, it doesn't matter whether they were Black or White, that putting up our case that this jury would hear the truth, they would see the evidence and that they would do the right thing and come back with the correct verdict which we felt they did today," Dunikoski said. Nine White women, two White men and one Black man served on the jury, according to a CNN analysis of juror data. Historically, all-White juries in cases where White people are involved in the deaths of Black men result in acquittals, according to scholars and law experts who spoke to CNN about the trial of Arbery's murderers. The racial makeup of the jurors was reminiscent of the Jim Crow era and quickly drew comparisons with the aftermath of Emmett Till's death, when an all-White jury in 1955 acquitted the two men arrested for Emmet's slaying, experts said.  But unlike the trial of those two White men in 1955, the three White men in 2021 were all found guilty on multiple murder counts. Race did play a large role in this trial, but prosecutors did not address it as much as the defense did. At one point during closing arguments Monday, Laura Hogue, one of Gregory McMichael's lawyers, prompted outrage in the courtroom for bringing up Arbery's toenails."Turning Ahmaud Arbery into a victim after the choices that he made does not reflect the reality of what brought Ahmaud Arbery to Satilla Shores in his khaki shorts with no socks to cover his long, dirty toenails," Hogue told jurors.Larissa Ollivierre, Cobb County assistant district attorney, told CNN Wednesday she felt bad for Arbery's parents after Hogue's statements. "I think the comments were unnecessary and they were low, and I just feel bad that Ahmaud's mom and dad had to sit there and listen to all of those things," Ollivierre said.And then there were the comments by Kevin Gough, attorney for William "Roddie" Bryan, who repeatedly objected to nationally recognized civil rights leaders presence at the trial to support Arbery's family. "We don't want any more Black pastors coming in here ... sitting with the victim's family trying to influence a jury in this case," he said. Dunikoski said Gough's comments about Black pastors -- though made without the jury present -- were strategic."Mr. Gough is a very, very good attorney, and he purposefully and intentionally and strategically, I believe, did what he did in an effort to attempt to insert potentially some error into the case in case he lost the case and it went up on appeal," she said.Even though race played a huge role in and outside of the courtroom, Dunikoski said she hoped what people took away from this trial was that parents in a similar situation would trust the process and advocate for their child."Wanda Cooper-Jones and Marcus Arbery (Arbery's mother and father) were advocates for Ahmaud, and they really pushed this one when it first happened," she said. "And I think the message is that you have to let the criminal justice system work and, in this case, yes, it did work, and to trust, which they did, they trusted us, and they trusted this team to bring justice for them and their family, but to trust the system of the constitution and due process just to let it work."CNN's Christina Maxouris, Travis Caldwell, Eliott C. McLaughlin, Devon M. Sayers, Alta Spells, Steve Almasy, Nicole Chavez and Brandon Tensley contributed to this report. 
Jurors saw through the preposterous defense by Ahmaud Arbery's killers. Areva Martin is a CNN legal analyst and a civil rights attorney. The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely her own. View more opinion on CNN. (CNN)As Americans digest the guilty verdicts in the case of the three men charged with murdering Ahmaud Arbery, we can look to the powerful video evidence and the stellar work of prosecutor Linda Dunikoski and her team in managing that evidence as significant factors in an outcome 180 degrees different from the verdict in George Zimmerman's killing of Trayvon Martin.The prosecution's presentation of the evidence and surgically precise cross-examination of Travis McMichael, the shooter, on the stand, left in shreds the preposterous citizen's arrest/self-defense contentions that were raised. The jury clearly saw these efforts as what they were: a desperate attempt at trial to paint the three defendants as sympathetic, as acting on the belief they were imbued with the authority, privilege and power of law enforcement. Even if the jurors had bought into the citizen's arrest narrative, Travis McMichael's contradictory statements and testimony, along with the video evidence, demonstrated that he never had a fear of imminent harm and never even told Arbery he was holding him for the police. He never mentioned in his statements or otherwise demonstrated a true fear that Arbery would somehow use McMichael's own weapons, his gun or his truck, to harm any of the three defendants.  Reasonable fear did not motivate this killing. The prosecution had only to mention the elder McMichael's own words on the 911 call he made. What emergency did he cite? "There's a Black male running down the street." By playing those words, the prosecutor gave the jurors a clear picture of what was in the defendants' minds.  It is White privilege on steroids that these three defendants thought they had a right to stop, detain and ultimately kill a man, when they could have taken many other actions along the way. They could have waited for the police to arrive or followed at a distance without confronting Arbery; instead, they hunted him down, blocked him in and brandished a shotgun.  The prosecutor painted a clear picture of it all, and the jurors saw it in the fullest detail. And in a historical moment in which 11 White jurors and a single Black juror -- a cohort drawn from a county where nearly 27% of the population is Black -- affirmed that Black lives matter, the verdicts hopefully send a message to would-be vigilantes and everyone else that you cannot usurp the authority of law enforcement and think you won't be held accountable.  Historic as it may be, this verdict won't transform our criminal justice system or our nation. The murder convictions of Travis and Gregory McMichael and William Bryan are the outcome of one case in one jurisdiction.  We should not fool ourselves that, overnight, our system has been altered or reformed. This case showed the system can work, not that it does work, because too often, it doesn't.   Even as this jury rendered their just verdicts, this country is contending with the reality that the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act was blocked by the Senate, that restrictive voting laws have been and are being enacted across the country and gerrymandered maps are stripping voters of their power. We are reminded, daily, that the fight for justice never ends. 
'Nothing about this is normal': RNC payments to Trump attorneys irk GOP officials .  (CNN)A pair of payments the Republican National Committee made to a law firm representing former President Donald Trump is raising questions among former and current GOP officials about the party's priorities in a critical election year and its ability to remain neutral -- as long-standing RNC rules require -- in the 2024 presidential primary. The separate payments to Fischetti and Malgieri LLP totalling $121,670, listed in the committee's latest filing to the Federal Election Commission, were first reported on Monday. Ronald Fischetti, a partner at the New York-based firm, was hired by the Trump Organization in April amid ongoing investigations into the real estate company's financial practices by Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. and state Attorney General Letitia James. A spokesperson for the RNC said the party's executive committee recently "approved paying for certain legal expenses that relate to politically motivated legal proceedings waged against President Trump," and defended the payments as "entirely appropriate" as the party "continue[s] assisting in fighting back against the Democrats' never ending witch hunt and attacks on [Trump]."However, some RNC members and donors accused the party of running afoul of its own neutrality rules and misplacing its priorities. Some of these same officials who spoke to CNN also questioned why the party would foot the legal bills of a self-professed billionaire who was sitting on a $102 million war chest as recently as July and has previously used his various political committees to cover legal costs. According to FEC filings from August, the former President's Make America Great Again committee has paid Jones Day more than $37,000 since the beginning of the year, while his Make America Great Again super PAC has paid a combined $7.8 million to attorneys handling his lawsuits related to the 2020 election. "This is not normal. Nothing about this is normal, especially since he's not only a former President but a billionaire," said a former top RNC official. "What does any of this have to do with assisting Republicans in 2022 or preparing for the 2024 primary?" the official added. Bill Palatucci, a national committeeman from New Jersey, said the fact that the RNC made the payments to Trump's attorneys in October was particularly frustrating given his own plea to party officials that same month for additional resources as the New Jersey GOP sought to push Republican Jack Ciattarelli over the finish line in his challenge to incumbent Democratic Gov. Phil Murphy. "We sure as heck could have used $121,000," Palatucci told CNN. Though Murphy narrowly defeated Ciattarelli to win reelection, the unexpectedly tight race in a state that President Joe Biden carried by 15 percentage points in 2020 left Democrats reeling over what it could mean for their party next fall. "We were in the middle of hand-to-hand combat trying to win and those resources could have helped here. It just speaks for itself of what the priorities were," Palatucci added. Another former RNC official, who requested anonymity to speak candidly, said the RNC's decision to foot Trump's legal bills represents "the big conundrum" top party officials face as they try to avoid putting their thumbs on the scale ahead of the 2024 GOP presidential primary, in which Trump continues to tease his potential candidacy, while maintaining a record-breaking fundraising pace with the former President's assistance. "Trump helps them raise boatloads of money but he's also likely to be a candidate for president and it's only going to become more difficult for them to keep a distance," the official said, while also questioning why the RNC is "having to pay for this when you have these super PACs taking in unlimited money for Trump." A third RNC official described the relationship between Trump and the national party as "a hostage situation," claiming that Trump could devastate the GOP if he decided to leave the party or encouraged his supporters to stop contributing to it at any point, including if the RNC no longer agrees to cover portions of his legal bills. "They can't disentangle themselves from him because they need him," this person said. The RNC did not respond to a request for further comment.As recently as last week, RNC Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel cited the party's bylaws regarding neutrality while dodging questions about Trump's 2024 ambitions. "I know you guys love jumping to 2024. I'm just not going to go there. The bylaws of the party are you have to stay neutral," McDaniel told reporters at a breakfast hosted by the Christian Science Monitor.One of the former RNC officials who spoke to CNN said that while they didn't think the party was flouting its neutrality rules by covering Trump's legal fees right now, it is likely to present issues for the committee later on."There are no candidacies yet, so it's not really running afoul of that, but it sends a signal that it's going to at some point," the official said. Questions of whether the party organization could truly be considered neutral toward Trump if he runs again in 2024 -- which his advisers say is increasingly likely -- have existed since he left office. Not three months after the former President decamped to Palm Beach, Florida, in January, the RNC held part of its annual spring donor retreat at Mar-a-Lago -- a move that included paying the beachside club to use its facilities and cater the event. Around the same time, the party dismissed a cease-and-desist letter from Trump's team demanding that the GOP stop using his name in its fundraising appeals. The October payments to Trump's attorneys are also not the first time the RNC has covered personal legal bills for the former President or his associates. In 2017, CNN reported that the committee had spent more than $230,000 to cover some of the then-President's legal fees related to the special counsel investigation into Russian election interference. The party also covered nearly $200,000 in legal defense fees for Donald Trump Jr., who became embroiled in the probe over a meeting he took during the 2016 presidential campaign with an attorney he believed would provide damaging information about his father's opponent, then-Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. In both instances, it remains unclear if RNC donors were made aware ahead of time that their contributions could be used to subsidize the Trump family's legal fees -- a question the Democratic National Committee seized on Tuesday. "Ronna McDaniel and the Republican National Committee are using their donors' money to finance Trump's personal legal defense while he sits on hundreds of millions of his own money as well as campaign funds," DNC spokesperson Adonna Biel said in a statement. "If we were the RNC's donors, we would certainly be asking questions." Trump has not been charged in either investigation into his business dealings in New York. However, longtime Trump Organization CFO Allen Weisselberg was indicted by a grand jury in July on 15 state counts related to an alleged tax evasion scheme lasting over a decade. 
The Arctic Ocean began warming decades earlier than previously thought, new research shows.  (CNN)The Arctic Ocean has been warming since the onset of the 20th century, decades earlier than instrument observations would suggest, according to new research.The study, published Wednesday in the journal Science Advances, found that the expansion of warm Atlantic Ocean water flowing into the Arctic, a phenomenon known as "Atlantification," has caused Arctic water temperature in the region studied to increase by around 2 degrees Celsius since 1900. Francesco Muschitiello, an author on the study and assistant professor of geography at the University of Cambridge, said the findings were worrisome because the early warming suggests there might be a flaw in the models scientists use to predict how the climate will change."The Arctic Ocean has been warming up for much longer than we previously thought," Muschitiello told CNN. "And this is something that's a bit unsettling for many reasons, especially because the climate models that we use to cast projections of future climate change do not really simulate these type of changes."The researchers used marine sediments in the Fram Straight, where the Atlantic meets the Arctic east of Greenland, to reconstruct 800 years of data that paint a longer historical picture of how Atlantic water has flowed into the Arctic. The marine sediments are "natural archives," the researchers wrote, which record data on past climate conditions.Researchers found temperature and salinity, the saltiness of ocean water, remained fairly constant up until the 20th century -- then they suddenly increased."The reconstructions suggest a substantial increase in the Atlantic Ocean heat and salt transport into the Nordic Sea at the beginning of the 20th century, which is not well simulated by (climate models)," Rong Zhang, a senior scientist at NOAA's Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory, who was not involved with the study, told CNN. "It's important to understand the cause of this rapid Atlantification, as well as the discrepancies between the model simulations and the reconstructions."Muschitiello said it's not clear how much of a role, if any, human-caused climate change played in the early Arctic warming, and more research is needed. "We're talking about the early 1900s, and by then we've already been supercharging the atmosphere with carbon dioxide," he said. "It is possible that the Arctic Ocean is more sensitive to greenhouse gases than previously thought. This will require more research, of course, because we don't have a solid grip on the actual mechanisms behind this early Atlantification."The study notes that changes in the Atlantic Meridional Overturning Circulation (AMOC) — a system of currents that moderates temperatures in the Northern Hemisphere — could have played a role in the Arctic warming. Notably, the AMOC weakened after a period of cooling ended in the mid-1800s in the North Atlantic region, which researchers suggest could have led to rapid Atlantification along the east Fram Strait.A recent study found that the AMOC, often described as a "conveyor belt" that transports warm water from the tropics and redistributes it northward, is now showing signs of further instability due to human-caused climate change. Scientists have warned that a collapse of the circulation could lead to an abrupt shift in weather patterns across the globe — colder winters in Europe, changes to monsoons and potentially permanent drought in West Africa.The rapidly warming temperatures in the Arctic have caused sea ice to melt, which in turn causes more warming -- while bright white sea ice reflects the sun's energy, dark ocean absorbs the energy as heat. James E. Overland, NOAA Arctic scientist based at NOAA Pacific Marine Environmental Lab in Seattle, said such long-term changes in the North Atlantic, coupled with recent loss of sea ice in the Arctic, threatens marine ecosystems. "Loss of sea ice and ocean currents has shifted the buffer region between the Atlantic and Arctic Ocean to something closer to an arm of the central Atlantic," Overland, who was not involved with the study, told CNN. "Important fisheries and marine mammals are vulnerable to ecosystem reorganization from such Atlantification."A recent UN state-of-the-science report on the climate crisis found the Arctic will continue to warm faster than the rest of the planet as long as humans continue to burn fossil fuels and release greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. On top of that, Muschitiello said the Arctic Ocean may experience further warming due to Atlantification."When I talk to my students I always try to make them aware that the Arctic is warming very, very quickly, and much faster than any other area on the planet," Muschitiello said. "It's very unsettling and very troubling, especially because we still don't have a full understanding of feedbacks at play.""We're still slowly getting to know how the whole system works," he said. "And my fear is that by the time that we do crack the problem, it's going to be too late."
New Swedish Prime Minister resigns hours after being voted in.  (CNN)Sweden's first female Prime Minister, Magdalena Andersson, has resigned from office only hours after being voted in, Sweden's official Twitter account announced Wednesday. The dramatic move came before Andersson was fully in office as she had not yet had counsel with the King, a spokesperson told CNN.Her resignation follows a budget defeat in Parliament Wednesday, Sweden's Twitter account added, with lawmakers supporting the opposition's bill. The Green Party has also decided to leave the minority coalition government with Andersson's Social Democrats, it said. "The current government will remain as an interim government until a new government is in place," it added.Andersson, 54, said she had told the speaker of Parliament she hoped to be reappointed as prime minister at the head of a "single-party, Social Democrat government," Reuters reported.She replaced Stefan Löfven, who recently stepped down as both the country's premier and as leader of the Social Democrats party.All the other Nordic countries -- Finland, Denmark, Norway and Iceland -- have previously elected female national leaders. As Prime Minister, Andersson was preceded by 33 men. She previously worked as deputy director general of the Swedish Tax Agency, according to her CV on the Swedish government website.She holds a master's degree in economics from the Stockholm School of Economics and has served as Sweden's finance minister since 2014. She is also the second woman to head up the center-left Social Democrats party, according to Sweden's Twitter account. Already facing major hurdlesAndersson won parliamentary approval after reaching a last-minute deal with the former communist Left Party, but her grip on power was tenuous because of the Nordic country's fragmented political landscape. Her predecessor Löfven governed by performing a complex juggling act to secure support from both the Left and Center parties in Parliament, even though they are not part of the coalition government.But the Center Party was worried by the deal with the Left Party and had said it would not back Andersson's government in a vote on a finance bill proposed by three opposition parties."We cannot support a budget from a government which is moving far to the left, which we think the incoming government is doing," Center Party leader Annie Loof told reporters.Löfven, who stepped down earlier this month to give Andersson a chance to boost support for the party before a general election in September next year, said he would not continue if he lost the budget vote.Whoever leads Sweden will face significant challenges. Gang violence and shootings blight life in many suburbs of the capital, Stockholm, and other major cities.The Covid-19 pandemic exposed gaps in the much-vaunted welfare state, with the death rate in Sweden much higher than in neighboring Nordic countries. The government also needs to speed up the shift to a "green" economy if it is to meet its climate change goals.
He spent years in prison for the rape of author Alice Sebold, the subject of her memoir, 'Lucky.' A judge just exonerated him.  (CNN)For decades, throughout his years in prison and even after he was released, Anthony Broadwater insisted he was innocent of the rape of "The Lovely Bones" author Alice Sebold, a crime she described in her memoir, "Lucky."Convicted in 1982, Broadwater spent more than 16 years in prison. He was denied parole at least five times because he wouldn't admit to a crime he didn't commit, according to his attorneys. And he passed two lie detector tests.Broadwater, 61, tried five times to get the conviction overturned. And even after he was released, he didn't give up. But it didn't happen -- until Monday, when New York State Supreme Court Justice Gordon Cuffy vacated the rape conviction and other counts related to it. The Onondaga County District Attorney joined in the motion to vacate the conviction. Sebold described the rape, which happened when she was a freshman at Syracuse University in 1981, in painstaking detail in her memoir. It was published in 1999, the year after Broadwater's release from prison.Almost five months after she was raped, Sebold saw Broadwater on the street in Syracuse. He reminded her of the rapist, and she reported the encounter to police, according to Broadwater's attorneys' affirmation. But later, she failed to identify Broadwater in a police lineup. Broadwater was convicted on two pieces of evidence -- Sebold's account -- a cross-racial identification, since the author is White and Broadwater is Black -- and the analysis of a piece of hair that was later determined to be faulty, his attorneys wrote."Research has found that the risk of eyewitness misidentification is significantly increased when the witness and the subject are of different races," the affirmation stated.As to the hair analysis, in 2015, "the FBI testified that microscopic hair analysis contained errors in at least 90 percent of the cases the agency reviewed," according to the attorneys' news release."We know now that the testimony of the forensic chemist stemmed from a largely debunked forensic approach to hair microscopy," the affirmation stated.In "Lucky," Sebold wrote that "a detective and a prosecutor told her after the lineup that she picked out the wrong man and how the prosecutor deliberately coached her into rehabilitating her misidentification," according to the affirmation.CNN has reached out to Sebold and her publishing company multiple times for comment. The unreliability of the hair analysis and the conversation between the prosecutor and Sebold after the lineup would probably have led to a different verdict if it had been presented at trial, the attorneys said. "I won't sully these proceedings by saying I'm sorry," District Attorney William Fitzpatrick said in the courtroom. "That doesn't cut it. This should never have happened."Broadwater broke down in tears when the judge announced his decision."When the district attorney spoke to me, his words were so profound -- so strong -- it shook me," Broadwater told CNN on Wednesday. "It made me cry with joy and happiness because a man of this magnitude would say what he said on my behalf ... it's, it's beyond whatever I can say myself." After his release, Broadwater remained on a sex offender list. He described how the conviction had ruined his life.He struggled to find work after getting out of jail when employers found out about his criminal record."I did what I could do, and that was just you know -- creating work for myself doing landscaping, tree removal, hauling, clean-outs," he said. His wife wanted children, but "I wouldn't bring children in the world because of this. And now, we're past days, we can't have children," Broadwater told reporters after the court hearing.The couple met in 1999, about a year after he was released from prison, he told CNN. After their first date, he gave her the transcripts and other documents from his case, telling her to read them and decide if she wanted to be with him. "She believed me and she gave me more strength," he said. "I just wanted a better quality of life, but I could never get a better quality of jobs."Part of the reason Broadwater's attorneys, J. David Hammond and Melissa Swartz, got involved in the case is thanks to Tim Mucciante, who was involved in a project to develop a film adaptation of "Lucky."Mucciante "had doubts that the story was the way that it was being portrayed in the film," said Hammond, which led him to hire a private investigator who is associated with their law firm.  "It didn't take long, digging around, that we realized, OK, there's something here," said Hammond. He and Swartz listened to the transcript of the trial and found "serious legal issues," which prompted them to bring a motion, he said.Hammond and Swartz are at least the fifth set of lawyers he hired to help with his case, Broadwater said.  "I never gave up. I could never, ever give up and live under these conditions ... I was going to do everything I could to prove my innocence," he said.Days after the judge's decision, Broadwater said, "it feels so surreal, I'm still soaking it in. I'm kind of like -- afraid in a sense. I'm so happy."As to Sebold, Broadwater said he would like an apology."I sympathize with her, what happened to her," he said. "I just hope there's a sincere apology. I would accept it. I'm not bitter or have malice towards her."   
What is the 1st Amendment Praetorian, the obscure far-right group subpoenaed by the January 6 committee?.  (CNN)An obscure far-right paramilitary group is in the spotlight this week after getting subpoenaed by the House select committee investigating the January 6 insurrection. The committee subpoenaed the 1st Amendment Praetorian, a group founded in 2020 that recruits military veterans and former police officers to provide security at right-wing events. Lawmakers also subpoenaed the Oath Keepers and Proud Boys, extremist organizations with dozens of members who are facing criminal charges in connection with January 6. The panel said these subpoenas could shed light on how pro-Trump groups planned for violence that day.Here's what we know about the 1st Amendment Praetorian and its ties to January 6. What does their name mean?The group's name and logo invoke ancient Rome and the Praetorian Guard of elite bodyguards and intelligence operatives that protected the Roman emperor. They are one of many far-right groups that appropriate Greco-Roman imagery to promote political violence, according to an analysis from Pharos, a group at Vassar College that studies these historical overlaps.  The 1st Amendment Praetorian's website says the goal is to "protect the Republic and anyone who is willing to stand up on her behalf to voice their opinion or bring attention to something they've found, like voter fraud." They do this by providing security at controversial events, including at three pro-Trump rallies in Washington, DC, during the presidential transition. Like many paramilitary groups, they recruit US military veterans, retired law enforcement and ex-members of the intelligence community. Their website says their members must attend monthly training sessions. The organization didn't respond to CNN's request for comment Wednesday on the subpoena. So far, no one affiliated with the 1st Amendment Praetorian has been charged by the Justice Department in connection with the attack on the US Capitol, according to CNN's analysis of court filings.Who is the group's leader?The group was founded by Robert Patrick Lewis, an Army veteran who served in the Special Forces, who describes himself as an "author... entrepreneur, political junkie (and) investor."In a letter to Lewis about the subpoena, the committee quoted some of his previous statements about January 6. He said he was coordinating with former Trump adviser Michael Flynn and "Stop the Steal" organizer Ali Alexander, who pushed voter fraud conspiracies before the attack."Today is the day the true battles begin," Lewis tweeted at 2:18 p.m. on January 6, after the first wave of rioters breached the Capitol, which was broadcast live on national television.  A few hours later, the group's Twitter account posted, "The cost of Truth is Pain. The greater the Truth, the greater potential for pain." Rioters were still in the building at the time of this tweet.Lewis has appeared on prominent QAnon online shows, and posted his own 10-minute video promoting some of the QAnon conspiracy theories, according to an investigation by The Daily Beast. His group provided security at a major QAnon conference held in Dallas earlier this year. Lewis didn't respond to requests for comment on Wednesday.  How are they tied to January 6?The group provided security at pro-Trump rallies in November and December 2020 that were followed by violence and arrests on the streets of DC. They were also present at a rally on January 5 that featured incendiary speeches from far-right provocateurs like Alexander and Roger Stone, and conspiracy theorists like Alex Jones. Lewis was a featured speaker at the January 5 event. He invoked the American Revolution in his brief address to the crowd, where he compared the "Stop the Steal" movement to George Washington's surprise attack on pro-British troops after crossing the Delaware River in 1776."I am willing to get up here and walk into danger if we need if, if we need to be there, to make sure we don't cede this country, and have my kids grow up in a Communist hellhole," Lewis said. "And I need each of you to fight as hard as you can to ensure that does not happen."  The official permit for the event, approved by the National Park Service, said 25 "marshals" from Lewis' organization would be there to "help maintain order among participants." The permit also said these paramilitary guards would be "unarmed" and would "not act as police." What does the committee want?Rep. Bennie Thompson, a Mississippi Democrat, sent the subpoena directly to Lewis on Tuesday. The bipartisan panel is run by Democrats, along with two Republicans. The subpoena demands that Lewis turn over documents by December 7. The public version of the letter doesn't say what specific materials are being requested. The letter references the fact that Lewis has previously said that his members wear body cameras while providing security. The subpoena also demanded that Lewis appear for a closed-door deposition on December 16. It is unclear how Lewis will respond or whether he will show up to answer the panel's questions. 1st Amendment Praetorian provided security at events "that amplified the former President's unsupported claim that the election was stolen," Thompson said in a statement, adding that the group "suggested that violence was imminent" in a Twitter post two days before January 6.CNN has previously reported that the committee has asked other witnesses for information about the organization. Many of the organizers and speakers at the January 5 rally, where some 1st Amendment Praetorian members provided security, have already received subpoenas. 
Ex-girlfriend of former NFL player Zac Stacy testifies she fears for her safety after violent assault caught on camera.  (CNN)The ex-girlfriend of former NFL player Zac Stacy testified Wednesday that she fears for her and her two children's safety after allegedly being violently assaulted by Stacy on November 13 in Oakland, Florida."I was punched, slapped, literally picked up and thrown into my TV and then (he) picked me up and slammed me into my son's bouncy seat by my throat. This is not the first time he has been violent with me. I am afraid for my safety and for my children's safety," Kristin Evans told 9th Circuit Judge Mark S. Blechman. In a joint motion filed by the Office of the State Attorney and Evans on November 19, Evans said that she specifically fears for her life.  Evans asked the court to increase Stacy's bond and place him on home confinement, a request Blechman ultimately denied.  Evans posted graphic video from the incident on her Instagram account and has publicly called on the NFL "to confront the reality that players are experiencing PTSD from their time playing pro-football." CNN has reached out to the NFL. Evans says she intended to testify during Stacy's initial court appearance on November 19 but was not able to after the hearing began earlier than scheduled, according to the joint motion filed the same day requesting she be allowed to testify and that the judge reconsider the bond amount.  During a first court appearance on November 19, a judge set bond at $10,150 and ordered Stacy to have no contact with the victim and to surrender his passport and firearms, according to CNN affiliate WESH. Stacy was charged with Aggravated Battery (Great Bodily Harm) and Criminal Mischief, according to court records. Stacy bonded out of Orange County Jail over the weekend, Blechman said Wednesday during the hearing.  Evans testified Wednesday that because Stacy was released from jail on bond over the weekend, she has been too afraid to return home.  "My injuries from this incident are serious and likely permanent from what I've been told," she said without specifying. Luka said during Wednesday's proceeding that the NFL player has changed his address to Alabama where he has taken up residence with his mother or brother. Luka told the court he did not believe Stacy, now residing two states away from Evans, posed a threat to her any longer.  Stacy told the judge there are no firearms inside this home. The judge advised a condition of his bond is that he may not be in the presence of a firearm. It was disclosed Stacy intends to enter a 30-day inpatient treatment facility program and then return home to live with his mother or brother. Stacy's attorney, Thomas Luka, told CNN Wednesday the inpatient treatment program he will enter on December 1 is for mental health."He has had ongoing mental health issues for a number of years. This is in an inpatient intensive treatment program for mental health issues," Luka said over the phone.The judge reminded Stacy an important condition of his bond is that he have "absolutely no contact" with the victim, including through family members.  Although Blechman denied Evan's request to increase Stacy's bond and would not order home confinement, he did add a condition to the former NFL player's bond that he could no longer enter the state of Florida unless traveling for a court appearance. Blechman cited Stacy's willingness to appear in court Wednesday morning as the reason for denying Evan's request.  Luka said he and his client are awaiting word on what charges the State's Attorney's Office would bring against Stacy. No date for arraignment has been set yet.
China's disappearing ships: The latest headache for the global supply chain. A version of this story appeared in CNN's Meanwhile in China newsletter, a three-times-a-week update exploring what you need to know about the country's rise and how it impacts the world. Sign up here.Hong Kong (CNN Business)Ships in Chinese waters are disappearing from industry tracking systems, creating yet another headache for the global supply chain. China's growing isolation from the rest of the world — along with a deepening mistrust of foreign influence — may be to blame.Analysts say they started noticing the drop-off in shipping traffic toward the end of October, as China prepared to enact legislation governing data privacy. Usually, shipping data companies are able to track ships worldwide because they are fitted with an Automatic Identification System, or AIS, transceiver. This system allows ships to send information — such as position, speed, course and name — to stations that are based along coastlines using high-frequency radio. If a ship is out of range of those stations, the information can be exchanged via satellite.But that's not happening in the world's second-largest economy, a critical player in global trade. In the past three weeks, the number of vessels sending signals from the country has plunged by nearly 90%, according to data from the global shipping data provider VesselsValue."We are currently seeing an industry wide reduction in terrestrial AIS signals in China," said Charlotte Cook, head trade analyst at VesselsValue. New data law could worsen supply chain chaosChina's Ministry of Foreign Affairs told CNN Business that AIS stations along Chinese coastlines that are legally constructed in accordance with international treaties "have not been shut down" and "are operating normally."Publicly available AIS platforms are also operating normally, it added.The State Council Information Office, which acts as a press office for the country's cabinet, did not respond to a request for comment about why shipping providers were losing access to data. But analysts think they've found the culprit: China's Personal Information Protection Law, which took effect November 1. It requires companies that process data to receive approval from the Chinese government before they can let personal information leave Chinese soil — a rule that reflects the fear in Beijing that such data could end up in the hands of foreign governments.The law doesn't mention shipping data. But Chinese data providers might be withholding information as a precaution, according to Anastassis Touros, AIS network team leader at Marine Traffic, a major ship-tracking information provider."Whenever you have a new law, we have a time period where everyone needs to check out if things are okay, " Touros said.Other industry experts have more clues of the law's influence. Cook said that colleagues in China told her that some AIS transponders were removed from stations based along Chinese coastlines at the start of the month, at the instruction of national security authorities. The only systems allowed to remain needed to be installed by "qualified parties."Not all of the data is gone: Satellites can still be used to capture signals from ships. But Touros said that when a ship is close to shore, the information collected in space is not as good as what can be gathered on the ground."We need terrestrial stations in order to have a better picture, a more high-quality picture," he added.With Christmas approaching, a loss of information from mainland China — home to six of the world's 10 busiest container ports — could create more problems for an already troubled global shipping industry. Supply chains have been under strain this year as badly congested ports struggle to keep up with a rapidly rebounding demand for goods.Shipping firms rely on AIS data to predict vessel movement, track seasonal trends and improve port efficiency, according to Cook from VesselsValue. She said the lack of Chinese data "could significantly impact ocean supply chain visibility across China." The country is one of the world's major importers of coal and iron ore, as well as a huge exporter of containers."As we move into the Christmas period, it will have a really big impact on [supply chains] and this is the most important element right now," said Georgios Hatzimanolis, media strategist for Marine Traffic. He expects the loss of "minute by minute" ship data from China to have "a great impact on the supply chain," since companies may lose crucial information about ship docking, unloading and leaving times.The global supply chain is already under "great stress," he added. "It doesn't need another factor to make it more difficult."China's self-isolationChina's desire to retain absolute control over all data and information within its borders isn't surprising, as President Xi Jinping continues to reassert the ruling Communist Party's dominance in every aspect of the economy and society.The country has been pushing for economic self-sufficiency as it faces external threats, such as US sanctions on key technologies.Xi emphasized his self-reliance goals in the years before and during a bitter trade and tech war with former US President Donald Trump. That's the point, for example, of "Made in China 2025," an ambitious plan to push China's manufacturing sector into more advanced technological fields.Some top officials in Beijing have recently tried to quell concerns among global investors that the country is isolating itself from the rest of the world as it prioritizes national security.Chinese Vice President Wang Qishan, considered a trusted ally of Xi, told the Bloomberg New Economy Forum in Singapore that China would not "develop isolated from the world." Speaking via video, he also called on countries to keep supply chains "stable and smooth."But China has embraced policies during the coronavirus pandemic that often appear to do otherwise.For example, during the pandemic Xi has doubled down on his push for self-reliance, stressing the need to create "independent and controllable" supply chains to ensure national security.And the country's sweeping clampdown on tech extended this summer to foreign IPOs, when the Cyberspace Administration of China proposed that major companies with more than a million customers seek approval before listing shares overseas. As with the recent data privacy law, the agency cited concerns about whether personal data held by those companies could be exploited by foreign governments.China's actions this year may come at a cost, though, if the country goes too far in its attempt to protect itself from perceived foreign interference.-- CNN's Beijing bureau contributed to this report.
Reinfection from Covid-19 is rare, severe disease is even rarer, a study of people in Qatar finds.  (CNN)When people got reinfected with Covid-19, their odds of ending up in the hospital or dying were 90% lower than an initial Covid-19 infection, according to a new study. The study published Wednesday in the New England Journal of Medicine found that there were few confirmed reinfections among 353,326 people who got Covid-19 in Qatar, and the re-infections were rare and generally mild.The first wave of infections in Qatar struck between March and June of 2020. In the end about 40% of the population had detectable antibodies against Covid-19. The country then had two more waves from January through May of 2021. This was prior to the more infectious delta variant.To determine how many people got reinfected, scientists from Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar compared the records of people with PCR-confirmed infections between February of 2020 and April 2021. They excluded 87,547 people who got the vaccine.Researchers found that among the remaining cases there were 1,304 reinfections. The median time between the first illness and reinfection was about 9 months.Among those with reinfections, there were only four cases severe enough that they had to go to the hospital. There were no cases where people were sick enough that they needed to be treated in the intensive care unit. Among the initial cases, 28 were considered critical. There were no deaths among the reinfected group, while there were seven deaths in the initial infections."When you have only 1,300 reinfections among that many people, and four cases of severe disease, that's pretty remarkable," said John Alcorn, an expert in immunology and a professor of pediatrics at the University of Pittsburgh who was not affiliated with this study.The study has limits. It was done in Qatar, so it's not clear if the virus would behave the same way anywhere else. The work was done when the alpha and beta variant were the cause of many re-infections. There were 621 cases where it was undetermined and 213 from a "wild type" virus. There was no mention of the delta variant, which is now the predominant strain. That could have an impact on the number of reinfections. Earlier studies have shown that natural immunity lowers ones risk of infection. One study done in Denmark published in March found that most people who had Covid-19 seemed to have protection from reinfection that remained stable for more than six months, but a check of the demographics of who was getting infected again showed it was mostly people 65 and older. That study does not make it clear how long protection lasts, and neither does the new Qatar study.Alcorn's own research on natural immunity shows that antibody levels also vary significantly from person to person. Scientists still don't know what level of antibodies is protective, but in some cases, levels after infection may not be enough to keep someone from getting sick again."It needs to be determined whether such protection against severe disease at reinfection lasts for a longer period, analogous to the immunity that develops against other seasonal 'common-cold' coronaviruses, which elicit short-term immunity against mild reinfection but longer-term immunity against more severe illness with reinfection," the study said. "If this were the case with SARS-CoV-2, the virus (or at least the variants studied to date) could adopt a more benign pattern of infection when it becomes endemic."Dr. Kami Kim, an infectious disease specialist who is not affiliated with this study, said people need to be careful not to come away with the wrong impression that it means people don't need to get vaccinated if they've been sick with Covid-19."It's sort of like asking the question do you need airbags and seat belts?" said Kim, director of the University of South Florida's Division of Infectious Disease & International Medicine. "Just because you have airbags doesn't mean that seatbelts won't help you and vice versa. It's good to have the protection of both."Kim said it isn't worth taking your chances with the disease, particularly because an infection could bring with it long-term effects. "The incidence of long-Covid is way higher than the risk of getting a vaccine," Kim said.Also vaccinations don't just protect an individual from getting sick, it protects the community. "Modern medicine is much better, and people get cancer and survive and autoimmune diseases and thrive. Unless you are super close, you don't always know who is vulnerable to more severe disease, and you literally could be putting people you care about at risk if you get sick and expose them," Kim said. "Without vaccination you can't go back to a normal life."Limiting the number of illnesses also limits the potential of more variants to develop, variants that could be even more dangerous than what's in circulation now.Alcorn said there's another important lesson from this study."Vaccines are still our best method to get to the same place these people that have been infected are, absolutely," Alcorn said. "The major takeaway from this study here is that there's hope that through vaccination and through infection recovery that we'll get to the level where everybody has some level of protection."
Biden had benign but potentially precancerous lesion removed during colonoscopy.  (CNN)President Joe Biden had a single 3-millimeter polyp removed during his routine colonoscopy last week at Walter Reed medical center. The President's physician, Dr. Kevin O'Connor, on Wednesday reported that testing on the polyp has revealed it to be a tubular adenoma, a benign, slow-growing lesion that is thought to be potentially precancerous.The polyp, O'Connor said, is similar to one that Biden had removed in 2008, and he noted that no further action is required at this time. The physician said routine surveillance was recommended for the finding and that Biden would be due for his next colonoscopy in seven to 10 years.The colonoscopy procedure, which required anesthesia, meant that Biden on Friday temporarily transferred power to Vice President Kamala Harris, who became the first woman to assume US presidential power for 85 minutes that morning.Presidents are not required to publicly disclose the results of their annual checkups but have done so to be transparent and assure the American people in the face of questions about their state of health. Presidents, however, have also hidden their illnesses, the severity of their illnesses or medical treatments.Biden, who turned 79 on Saturday, also received a physical while at Walter Reed, marking his first such appointment since he was inaugurated as the oldest first-term president in US history.Afterward, O'Connor wrote in a memo that Biden "remains fit for duty, and fully executes all of his responsibilities without any exemptions or accommodations."The doctor, who has been with the President since he served as vice president, singled out two areas of "observation" he set aside for detailed investigation: an "increasing frequency and severity of 'throat clearing' and coughing during speaking engagements" and the President's ambulatory gait, or walking abnormality, which O'Connor said was "perceptibly stiffer and less fluid than it was a year or so ago."Both have been noticeable elements of Biden's public appearances since taking office."President Biden remains a healthy, vigorous, 78-year-old male, who is fit to successfully execute the duties of the president, to include those as Chief Executive, Head of State and Commander in Chief," O'Connor wrote in his summary following the Friday physical.CNN's Kaitlan Collins, Veronica Stracqualursi, Betsy Klein, Kevin Liptak and Kate Sullivan contributed to this report.
Sleep training for adults prevents depression, study finds.  (CNN)Undergoing cognitive behavioral sleep training, which teaches you how to break bad habits in order to prepare your mind and body for a good night's sleep, may help prevent depression in older adults with insomnia, a new clinical trial has found."What is exciting about these findings is that they are among the first to demonstrate that treating insomnia with a behavioral strategy, not a pill, can prevent the development of depression in older adults," said sleep specialist Wendy Troxel, a senior behavioral scientist at RAND Corporation, who was not involved in the study.The study's findings are "highly significant" because major depression is very common among older adults and "is associated with an increased risk of cognitive decline, disability, suicide and all-cause mortality," Troxel added.Numerous studies have shown that insomnia is a major risk factor for depression, and "some 30% to 50% of older adults complain of insomnia," said study author Dr. Michael Irwin, a professor of psychiatry and biobehavioral sciences in the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA.Adults in the randomized clinical trial who received cognitive behavior therapy for their insomnia were two times less likely to develop depression, Irwin said, adding that if remission from insomnia was sustained for three years, "there was an 83% reduction in the likelihood of developing depression.""That's why this study is so important," Irwin said. "We have shown that we can actually target insomnia with cognitive behavior therapy and prevent depression from occurring."Therapist involvement was keyThe study, published Wednesday in the journal JAMA Psychiatry, randomly split adults over age 60 with insomnia but without depression into two groups. Every week for two months, a control group received eight weeks of basic sleep education, which taught sleep hygiene, characteristics of healthy sleep, sleep biology, and how stress can impact sleep. But there was no one-on-one training, Irwin said: "They had to take that information and figure out how to use it without our help."The other group received a form of behavioral sleep training called CBT-1, administered in person in a group setting by trained therapists for eight weeks. "The benefit of this treatment approach is that it used the most evidence-based behavioral treatment for insomnia, CBT-I, which has been proven to be as effective, longer lasting, and (have) fewer side effects than sleep medications -- which can be particularly problematic in older adults," Troxel said.CBT-I has five components: Stimulus control, sleep restriction, sleep hygiene, relaxation and cognitive behavioral therapy. Sleep hygiene and relaxation involve good sleep habits -- going to bed and getting up at the same time each day, eliminating blue light and noise, taking warm baths or doing yoga for relaxation, and keeping the bedroom cool and free of electronic devices.Stimulus control involves "getting people to get out of bed when they're not able to sleep," Irwin said. Most people stay in bed, fretting about not falling asleep, which then turns the bed into a negative space, he explained. Instead, people are taught to get up after 10 minutes of tossing and turning, do quiet, non-stimulating activites, and "not to come back to bed until they are sleepy."Sleep restriction involves limiting time in bed to only the period a person sleeps, plus 30 minutes. It's another way to get people with insomnia to get up instead of lying in bed awake.Cognitive therapy works to disrupt "dysfunctional thoughts and beliefs about sleep," Irwin said, such as "I can never sleep," or "I might die if I don't sleep tonight." A therapist works with the person to counter such illogical thinking, easing them back into a more realistic mindset that will allow them to relax and see the bed as a welcoming place."I really think a group setting is also really important," Irwin said, "because hearing other people's difficulties and how they are solving them can often help inform you about something that you may be dealing with."A means to an endAt the end of two months, treatment ended, with no further intervention. However, the study then followed the 291 people for three years, checking in each month to ask about symptoms of depression. The group that received CBT-I training with the help of a sleep coach often kept the training going in their own lives, Irwin said, with good results: "About a third of the people were still free of insomnia at the end of the three-year study."The group which received sleep education did show "modest effects in improving and treating insomnia but (the improvements) were not durable. They didn't last," Irwin said."That's why CBT-I is so effective in person, because the therapist is helping that individual navigate and negotiate with themselves -- and it can be really hard work," Irwin added. "I believe that's also why CBT-I apps or online tools often don't work -- people get frustrated, disappointed or angry at themselves, and they basically stop the work."The study's results show "a completely new and innovative way" of tackling the growing problem of depression, wrote Pim Cuijpers, a professor of Clinical Psychology at the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, and Dr. Charles Reynolds, a professor in geriatric psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, in an editorial published alongside the study. "The stigma associated with major depression as a mental disorder is one of the main reasons for not seeking treatment," wrote Cuijpers and Reynolds, who were not involved in the study. "This major finding offers exciting new opportunities for the prevention field and opens a new field of research into indirect preventive interventions for avoiding the stigma of mental disorders."
Kim Kardashian and Pete Davidson are dating but taking things 'extra slow'.  (CNN)There's a slow burn happening between Kim Kardashian and comedian Pete Davidson.The two have been spotted in public together on several occasions in recent weeks, holding hands and hitting up Disneyland on Halloween weekend, sparking speculation their friendship has turned romantic."They are just getting to know each other, not serious," a source close to Kardashian tells CNN. "This is her first time seeing someone [since filing for divorce], so she's taking it extra slow."Davidson, 28, resides in New York where he films "Saturday Night Live" and Kardashian, 41, lives in Los Angeles with her kids "They live on different coasts and are both very busy," the source added. "It's harder to jump into something serious right now."The reality TV star turned billionaire business mogul celebrated Davidson's birthday last week, also there was Kris Jenner. Kardashian filed for divorce from Kanye West last February. The filing cited irreconcilable differences and Kardashian is seeking joint custody of the couple's four children. In the meantime, a few of Kardashian's friends seem excited about the possibility of her new romance. Chrissy Teigen recently said that although she wasn't sure if Kardashian and Davidson were more than friends, "Who doesn't want to be in love with a funny guy."
Keanu Reeves 'married under the eyes of God' to Winona Ryder .  (CNN)Keanu Reeves and Winona Ryder may be one of Hollywood's longest standing "marriages."Reeves has once again addressed talk that he and Ryder are actually married, thanks to actual priests officiating the wedding scene performed in Romania for the 1992 Francis Ford Coppola directed drama "Bram Stoker's Dracula.""We did a whole take of a marriage ceremony with real priests," Reeves said in an Esquire video. "Winona says we are [married]. Coppola says we are. So I guess we're married... under the eyes of God."Back in 2018, the two actors talked to Entertainment Weekly while promoting their rom-com "Destination Wedding," and Ryder said she believed that the pair had wed."In that scene, Francis [Ford Coppola] used a real Romanian priest," she said. "We shot the master and he did the whole thing. So I think we're married."Ryder had to remind Reeves that they had done the entire ceremony, including saying "I do.""Don't you remember that?," Ryder asked Reeves. "It was on Valentine's Day." "Oh my gosh, we're married," Reeves replied. 
A silent killer is choking India's capital. For millions, there's no choice but to breathe it in. New Delhi (CNN)Gulpreet Singh begs for food from a dirty hemp mat spread on the sidewalk outside Delhi's South Campus metro station.Like millions of Indians who survive on handouts or daily wages, the 84-year-old says he has no choice but to be outside, breathing air thick with smog in the Indian capital."I come here and wait. Sometimes, people give me food," said Singh, his voice straining over the noise of auto rickshaws and cars belching fumes just meters away.Delhi is often ranked among the world's most polluted cities, and air pollution there reached "hazardous" levels in early November, according to India's National Air Quality Index (AQI), which tracks the presence of harmful particles in the air.But some Delhi residents have become so accustomed to bad air that it's a part of daily life -- they barely notice it, they say.Others say it's making them sick.Choking on smog    A police officer directing traffic at one of Delhi's busy junctions says pollution levels have become "unbearable" this winter."I've taken off my mask because I need to blow the whistle to stop traffic, but it's been horrible," said the 48-year-old officer, who didn't reveal his name because he is not authorized to speak to the media.Exhaust fumes flow from the rows of vehicles around him -- he says he finds it hard to catch his breath."My eyes hurt. It's hard to breathe. It's not easy," he said.Social worker Neelam Joshi, 39, says she feels the pollution every time she steps out of her house to catch the train to work."When you leave the house in the morning, that's the first thing which hits you," Joshi said. By the end of the day, she says her body seems to have adjusted, but the next day, it happens all over again."In the last six years that I have lived in Delhi, there's never been a reduction in pollution," she said. "It only increases every year. Every year we reach a different level, and during festivals it always becomes worse."Amanpreet Kaur, 28, a flight attendant from Delhi's Rohini area, recently crewed a flight from the United States and was stunned by the difference in air quality."When I landed back into India, after my flight from USA, it was horrible. I'm continuously coughing," she said.Kaur says the smog is so bad that you can see it at night as a dirty haze around street lamps and car headlights."When the sun sets, all you see is smog, just smog all around," Kaur said."It's very dangerous to live in Delhi."'My right to breathe'Aditya Dubey, an 18-year-old environmental activist, has spent the past two years lobbying for urgent action against Delhi's pollution.Every year, the city is plagued by a throat-searing cloud of murky smog, but it's worse in winter when lower temperatures and a drop in wind speed trap particles in the air for longer."Winter has become a torture and every day feels like a punishment," Dubey said. "I have a burning sensation in my eyes and they start watering. I feel breathless."Last month, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tried to control pollution levels by banning firecrackers for Diwali, the festival of lights, but celebrations mostly proceeded as normal.The smoke from Diwali was exacerbated by a spike in the burning of crop waste in surrounding farmlands.By November 5, most locations in Delhi were recording an AQI above 500 -- the highest level on the scale.At that point, Dubey had had enough.The activist filed a petition with the Supreme Court seeking protection for his "right to breathe."On November 15, the court ruled in his favor and ordered the central government to do more. Subsequently, schools were shut, non-essential traffic was suspended, construction projects were halted, and six out of 11 coal-fired plants were ordered to close until the end of November.Construction projects resumed Monday as Delhi recorded a marginal improvement in air quality. But for many, the damage had already been done.The 'silent killer'Delhi is not the only Indian city choked by smog.Last year, nine of the world's 10 most polluted cities were in India, according to monitoring network IQAir.According to the World Health Organization (WHO), air pollution causes an estimated 7 million premature deaths a year globally, mainly as a result of increased mortality from cardiovascular diseases, cancers and respiratory infections.Bad air could be reducing the life expectancy of hundreds of millions of Indians by as much as nine years, according to a recent study by the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago (EPIC).The study also found that every single one of India's 1.3 billion residents endure annual average pollution levels that exceed guidelines set by WHO.In 2019, the central government announced a national clean air campaign, with an aim to reduce particulate pollution by up to 30% by 2024. Specific plans were created for each city; in Delhi, those plans included measures to reduce road traffic, burn-offs and road dust, and to encourage the use of cleaner fuels.But in the past few years, India's pollution problem has worsened, partly due to the country's dependency on fossil fuels -- and in particular, coal.At the recent COP26 climate summit in Glasgow, India was among a group of countries that pushed for an 11th-hour amendment to the agreement to phase "down" coal rather than phase it "out".In Delhi, noxious air is claiming tens of thousands of lives each year, according to analysis of IQAir data by Greenpeace.But despite the worsening air quality, some Delhi locals have become so accustomed to it they don't seem to notice.Many roam the streets without a face mask and have developed a general complacency toward pollution levels.Omprakash Mali, a 50-year-old gardener, say the air pollution doesn't affect him or his work."We work with mud and in dust as a gardener, so I don't feel anything additional," he said. "I think the top priority for the government should still be Covid-19. Pollution happens every year."Meanwhile, Shesh Babu, 18, a manual laborer, said he "doesn't really care" about Delhi's thick smog. His priority is earning money.Dubey, the activist, says air pollution is considered to be an "elitist" issue."Air pollution is a silent killer," he said. "There is a lack of awareness. People don't realize the seriousness of it."
French court says Real Madrid star Karim Benzema used 'subterfuge and lies' in sex tape case.  (CNN)It all started with a broken cell phone. In 2014, French footballer Mathieu Valbuena was looking to get some data off his old phone when his life changed forever and he fell into a blackmail plot.More than seven years later, Valbuena's ex-France teammate Karim Benzema, who plays for Real Madrid, was handed a one-year suspended prison sentence and a 75,000 euro fine ($84,000) for complicity in attempted blackmail.Four of Benzema's co-defendants in the trial were also found guilty, with three of them receiving prison sentences. Tewfik Bouzenoun, lawyer for defendant Younes Houass -- who was handed an 18-month suspended sentence -- told CNN that his client was "manipulated.""He never engaged in blackmail or attempt to blackmail as he never asked for money. He never had a financial request," Bouzenoun told CNN in a statement. "I think the verdicts are less severe than those requested by the prosecutor, I see leniency and clemency in them."CNN is attempting to contact the lawyers of the other co-defendants.READ: Real Madrid star found guilty of complicity in attempted blackmail in sex tape caseAmong the files transferred from Valbuena's defective phone in 2014 by Axel Angot was a video containing sexual content involving Valbuena.Almost a year later, Angot, with the assistance of others, tried to use the sex tape to blackmail the footballer, according to a statement from the Versailles court that convicted Benzema. The men attempting to blackmail Valbuena also reached out to another former French international, Djibril Cisse, who, like Benzema, has played for some of Europe's leading clubs, in an attempt to convince Valbuena to pay. However, Cisse refused to assist, according to the court documents.So the blackmailers turned to Benzema, who was a childhood friend of one of them -- Karim Zenati -- to try to convince Valbuena to pay.In handing down its judgment, the court ruled that Benzema, through "falsely presenting himself as a friend wishing to help his teammate," used his professional stature and lies to convince Valbuena to "submit to blackmail by paying a sum of money and to contact for this purpose his friend Karim Zenati who was the only one in a position to help him."After Wednesday's verdict, Benzema's legal team said the Real Madrid star would be cleared "in the court of appeal.""It was clearly announced by the court that Karim Benzema was not aware of the prior machinations and then in the end they said that 'he cannot, not have known,' without any proof," one of Benzema's lawyers, Sylvain Cormier, said outside the courtroom."They have condemned him with a very severe, unjust sentence without proof. I'm quite shocked by this ruling," added Cormier.The court statement said Benzema and Valbuena were not friends before this incident. The 33-year-old Real Madrid star didn't even have Valbuena's phone number, according to the court.Benzema lied about his meeting with Mustapha Zouaoui, who the court called the mastermind behind the blackmail, when he was first questioned by investigators, the documents said. He was doing so to protect Zenati, Benzema's childhood friend and employee, according to the court statement.Benzema insisted that Valbuena should meet with Zenati. The Real Madrid player told Valbuena, who now plays for Greek club Olympiacos, that the people in possession of the tape were from major crime groups from the southern French city of Marseille and advised him against going to the police or his lawyer.Benzema even swore "on the head of his daughter" to Valbuena that there wouldn't be any copies of the sex tape, the court findings said.Valbuena figured out "that the goal of the maneuver was to extract a sum of money from him in order to prevent the video from being made public," the court said in the statement.The court recognized that Benzema may not have been aware of the behind-the-scene maneuvers that were happening, but stated that he was personally involved in using "subterfuge and lies" to "convince his teammate [Valbuena] to submit to blackmail and to contact for this purpose his trusted man, in this case Karim Zenati."The court made this judgement based on the content of Benzema's discussion with Valbuena on October 6, 2015, in the Parisian suburb of Clairefontaine -- the site of the French National Team's training ground -- which he recounted to Zenati immediately afterward.The recorded telephone conversations between Benzema and Zenati, which were played at the trial, did not demonstrate any good will toward Valbuena and "proves the existence of an attempt to blackmail led by the duo," the statement said.Real Madrid declined to comment on the case when asked by CNN.Valbuena's lawyer, Paul-Albert Iweins, also declined to comment on Benzema's sentence.Later on Wednesday, Benzema played and scored in Real Madrid's Champions League victory against Sheriff Tiraspol. 
He visited his mother's grave for the first time after spending 43 years in prison for a murder he didn't commit.  (CNN)The first thing Kevin Strickland did after being exonerated for a triple murder he didn't commit was visit his mother's grave."To know my mother was underneath that dirt and I hadn't gotten a chance to visit with her in the last years ... I revisited those tears that I did when they told me I was guilty of a crime I didn't commit," Strickland told CNN's Brianna Keilar Wednesday.At the age of 19, Strickland, who is now 62, was convicted in 1979 of one count of capital murder and two counts of second-degree murder in a triple homicide in Kansas City, Missouri. He received a 50-year life sentence without the possibility for parole and served 43 years of that sentence behind bars at Western Missouri Correctional Center in Cameron, Missouri, -- until this Tuesday, when Senior Judge James Welsh filed his ruling to set aside Strickland's conviction.Strickland said he learned of his release through a breaking news report that interrupted the soap opera he was watching Tuesday.All criminal counts against Strickland were dismissed. His release makes his confinement the longest wrongful imprisonment in Missouri history and one of the longest in the nation, according to The National Registry of Exonerations.Facing a world he doesn't know much aboutStrickland's first night out of prison was a restless one, where thoughts of returning to prison, among others, kept him awake, he said Wednesday. "I'm used to living in a close, confined cell where I know exactly what's going on in there with me," he said. "And being home and you hear the creaks of the home settling and the electrical wiring and whatever else ... I was kind of afraid. I thought somebody was coming to get me." Now that Strickland is a free man adjusting to a new world -- one without being confined to a cell and subjected to regimented prison routines -- he's working on building a home and life for himself without any financial help from Missouri.In Missouri, only those exonerated through DNA testing are eligible for a $50 per day of post-conviction confinement, according to the Innocence Project. That was not the case for Strickland.Thirty-six states and Washington, DC, have laws on the books that offer compensation for exonerees, according to the Innocence Project. The federal standard to compensate those who are wrongfully convicted is a minimum of $50,000 per year of incarceration, plus an additional amount for each year spent on death row.A GoFundMe account has been set up by the Midwest Innocence Project to help him restart his life.Convicted as a teenager, exonerated as an adultFour people were shot in Kansas City, Missouri, on April 25, 1978, resulting in three deaths, according to CNN affiliate KSHB. The only survivor of the crime, Cynthia Douglas, who died in 2015, testified in 1978 that Strickland was at the scene of the triple murder.Douglas sustained a shotgun injury and told police then that Vincent Bell and Kiln Adkins were two of the perpetrators. But she did not identify Strickland, who she knew, as being at the scene until a day later, according to KSHB, after it was suggested to her Strickland's hair matched Douglas' description of the shooter. Douglas claimed her initial failure to identify him was due to the use of cognac and marijuana, according to KSHB.But for the past 30 years, she has been saying that she made a mistake and falsely identified Strickland. According to KSHB, Douglas made efforts to free Strickland through the Midwest Innocence Project.The two assailants she identified at the scene both pleaded guilty to second-degree murder and each ended up serving about 10 years in prison for the crimes, according to Strickland's attorney, Robert Hoffman.Over the past year, there have been several efforts calling for Strickland's release.In May, a petition to the Missouri Supreme Court for his release was filed with an accompanying letter detailing the results of an investigation by the county prosecutor's Conviction Integrity Unit. The group reviews post-conviction claims of innocence where new and credible evidence of innocence exists.In May, Jackson County Prosecutor Jean Peters Baker was joined by Strickland's attorney and the Midwest Innocence Project to present evidence that has surfaced since his conviction, according to court documents. But in June, the Missouri Supreme Court declined to hear Strickland's petition.Later that month, Missouri Gov. Mike Parson released a list with 36 people who were pardoned by him, but Strickland was not one of them.Earlier this month, Strickland testified during a three-day evidentiary hearing -- which involved eyewitness testimony given under oath -- and the evidence presented was sufficient to exonerate him.In 2020, there were 129 exonerations nationwide. Defendants exonerated last year lost a total of 1,737 years behind bars, an average of 13.4 years per exoneration, according to a report from The National Registry of Exonerations. And 30% of wrongful convictions in the registry's database can be traced back to mistaken eyewitness identifications.
Missouri dig site is home to at least 4 rare dinosaurs, and there could be more.  (CNN)The first tracings of dinosaurs in Missouri were found in the 1940s on the Chronister family's property when they were digging a well. In October, nearly 60 years later, another set of fossils from the same species were uncovered about 50 feet (15 meters) away.After comparing and matching the tail vertebrates of these discoveries, paleontologists described them as "relatively primitive" duck-billed dinosaurs.The specimen of the state dinosaur of Missouri, named Parrosaurus missouriensis, was excavated after a years-long process that began in 2017, Chronister site curator Peter Makovicky said. Makovicky is a professor of Earth and environmental sciences at the University of Minnesota."Whenever you find a locality in the Midwest or in Eastern North America, where you're getting multiple dinosaur skeletons coming out of one site, it's really a windfall with almost no parallels," he said.Fossils in Missouri are rare -- the Chronister site, a couple dozen acres of woodland located near Bollinger County in Missouri, is the only place fossils have been found in Missouri, according to Erika Woehlk, a visual materials archivist at the Missouri State Archives. Most dinosaurs in the United States have been found in the West."No one thought that there were any dinosaurs in Missouri. It's just unheard of to find dinosaur fossils in this part of the country," said Abigail Kern, office manager for the Sainte Genevieve Museum Learning Center in Missouri.But this site is rich.While uncovering the dinosaur, Makovicky and his team found several turtle fossils, which paint a fuller picture of the ancient ecosystem. Paleontologists have also found parts from at least four different dinosaurs, Makovicky said, including a juvenile dinosaur of the same species found in the early 2000s.The largest block of the dinosaur -- 2,500 pounds (1,134 kilograms) -- was excavated with the help of a crane on October 15. The fossil will make its way to Chicago's Field Museum for preparation and research. A fossil site decades in the makingThe fossils found in the 1940s were sent to the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History. The site remained stagnant until the 1980s, when renewed interest in the fossils led Missouri paleontologist Bruce Stinchcomb to purchase the property from the Chronisters.Scientists debated this fossil's genus for decades. In 2018, paleontologists landed on the initial genus, Parrosaurus, coined in 1945. This dinosaur has been reclassified four different times, but Woehlk said reclassification isn't that unusual.Wet clay at the excavation site, and the pandemic, complicated and prolonged the four-year process, Makovicky said. He's more accustomed to excavating fossils from hard rock, so the team had to work slowly around the softer clay.With the observations and findings of the site, paleontologists can have a better understanding of the ancient environment -- and assess areas for further research and excavation.Makovicky said they are still determining the exact age of these fossils and learning more about the distribution of dinosaurs across North America. "There's just a lot more to learn about these ancient environments and how they relate to our knowledge of ecosystems and evolution," he said.Sainte Genevieve Museum Learning Center is home to the juvenile specimen, and its laboratory is viewable to the public. Starting in December, museum visitors will be able to watch paleontologists and other scientists prepare the fossils, according to Kern.Because fossils are hard to come by in the Midwest, Kern hopes these rare discoveries will get children excited about archaeology and geology."We're a very small town in rural Missouri so we're just really excited to be able to bring this level of scientific finding to our town and to help push it out to all of the communities and the schools around us," Kern said.
Got turkey troubles? A hotline expert shares tips for a better turkey and common mistakes to avoid.  (CNN)Whether it's your first time cooking a turkey or you are a poultry aficionado, mishaps can happen in the kitchen, especially at the 11th hour.That's where Butterball's Turkey Talk-Line comes in. For the past 40 years during the holidays, these hotline experts have been available to help people troubleshoot their turkey troubles. Karen Wilcher has been a Turkey Talk-Line specialist for 10 years and shared her best tips and tricks for cooking a delicious turkey every time.This conversation has been edited for length and clarity. CNN: If someone has never cooked a turkey before, where should they start?Karen Wilcher: The easiest way to cook your turkey would be to roast it in the oven at 325 degrees Fahrenheit. If you're using a frozen turkey, you need to make sure it's thawed by Thanksgiving. It takes about a week to thaw a turkey, so it's recommended people move their frozen bird to the fridge the Thursday before Thanksgiving, which we like to call National Thaw Day.  If you forget to thaw it until the day before, at this point we'd recommend the water bath method. This is where you submerge your turkey in its original wrapper in cold water. You should change the water every 30 minutes until the turkey is thawed. For a turkey as large as 24 pounds, you can get it properly thawed in 12 to 15 hours with this method.Once thawed, take it out of its packaging and remove the package of giblets. Next, pat the turkey dry with a towel, brush some olive oil on it, then put it on a roasting rack in the oven. Butterball has plenty of recipes online for seasoning options.CNN: How long does it really take for a turkey to cook in the oven?Wilcher: A 10- to 18-pound turkey that has no stuffing should take three to 3 1/2 hours to cook while a 20- to 24-pound turkey should take four to 4 1/2 hours. If you have stuffing inside, add 45 to 60 minutes more of cooking time. Basting is also unnecessary. Every time you open the oven door to baste, you are slowing the cooking process. The liquid doesn't necessarily penetrate the skin so it's not doing much. This year at Butterball University, we grilled a turkey so everyone could get familiar with the grilling process. That's another way to cook a turkey if you want to free up your oven or your oven is not available. I've been grilling my turkey on a charcoal grill for two years now and have had a fabulous turkey for Thanksgiving. CNN: Why should people cook their turkey at 325 degrees Fahrenheit?Wilcher: We know that we can get it safely cooked at 325 degrees. A lot of recipes add additional steps, such as starting out with a high temperature then lowering it part of the way through cooking. It's such a busy day with so many things to do that it's often easy to forget to go lower the temperature.Additionally, we don't recommend turning up the temperature to speed up the cooking time because it could dry out the breast meat. CNN: How does someone know if their turkey is done cooking? Wilcher: It's important to use a thermometer to measure the temperature of your turkey instead of eyeballing it. The middle of the stuffing should be 165 degrees Fahrenheit, the breast should be 170 degrees Fahrenheit, and the thigh area should be 180 degrees Fahrenheit.  If you're scratching your head because you don't know where those parts are on a turkey, Butterball has a diagram on its website. CNN: Some people may be interested in deep-frying their turkey. What are some tips to stay safe? Wilcher: You want to make sure without a doubt that your turkey is thawed. If you're using propane, make sure you're outside and in a well-ventilated area to keep yourself and those around you safe. Prior to submerging the turkey, make sure to measure out the right amount of oil so that it doesn't splash over when you add the large bird. One way to do that ahead of time is to measure using water first to know how much oil you need with it submerged. Deep-fried turkeys cook much faster than a roasted turkey, about three to four minutes per pound. CNN: After 10 years working as a specialist on the Butterball Turkey Talk-Line, what are some of your favorite stories from people who have called in?Wilcher: I had one call a few years ago where someone was cleaning out their mom's deep freezer and found a frozen turkey. It was easily 10 to 15 years old, and they wanted to know if they could cook it. Truthfully, it was probably food-safe, but I'm guessing after 15 years you might not want to share that one. One of my other favorite stories was about a gentleman whose wife had asked him to help her thaw a turkey using the water bath method. He also knew that one of the things he had to do was give his kids a bath. So he figured he could do both at the same time. Needless to say, we do not recommend this. Lastly, I had this guy put his turkey outside on his deck to thaw only to find that a raccoon had nibbled on part of it. Even though Thanksgiving is an opportunity to share your dinner, I'm thinking you might not want to share it with a raccoon.
Thanksgiving is back, baby!.  (CNN)Almost 7 in 10 Americans say they plan to spend Thanksgiving with the same number of people (63%) or even more people (5%) than they did pre-Covid, according to new Monmouth University poll numbers -- data that suggest people are getting back to their normal holiday routines even as the number of cases continues to trend higher across much of the United States.The difference between how Americans are spending this Thanksgiving compared to how they spent last Thanksgiving is stark. Last year just 46% of people told Monmouth they would be with the same number (or more) people that Thanksgiving as in pre-Covid celebrations. A majority (53%) said they would spend time with fewer people than normal over the holidays in 2020; that number is down to 31% this year.While the Covid infection case rate is going up in the country, the situation we find ourselves in this year is very different than the one we were in last year. Vaccinations are widely available and 59% of Americans are fully vaccinated. The virus primarily poses a threat -- in terms of hospitalization and death -- to the people who are unvaccinated and people whose immune systems do not mount a response to the vaccine due to underlying medical conditions.Experts suggest that the number of people who have previously been vaccinated, combined with the number of people who have been infected by Covid-19, means that this winter will likely be the last season in which Covid-19 is considered a pandemic as opposed to endemic.The Point: Which means by next Thanksgiving, this will all be behind us. We all should hope so.
This startup wants you to like coffee-free coffee. New York (CNN Business)Beyond Meat and Impossible Foods have persuaded customers to dig into cow-free burgers. Atomo Coffee wants to do the same for coffee. The startup, which launched in 2019 and offered a limited release to the public in September, makes a canned cold brew designed to taste like coffee and give you a boost of energy — but it isn't made with coffee beans. Instead, the brand uses a combination of date seeds, chicory root and grape skin, plus caffeine, to mimic traditional coffee. Most of these ingredients are upcycled, the company said, meaning that if they weren't used by Atomo, they'd likely be thrown away. Date seeds, or pits, are usually "scattered in the field," said Atomo CEO Andy Kleitsch. "We give them a second life." But that's not the company's only eco-friendly selling point. Atomo used a service called Carbon Cloud to calculate its own footprint and looked at research on coffee's environmental impact to see how its process stacks up, Kleitsch said. It concluded that Atomo's product uses 94% less water and produces 93% fewer carbon emissions than conventional cold brew coffee.Atomo's pitch is similar to that of plant-based meat alternatives that have gotten popular in recent years: Producing the incumbent product — in Impossible and Beyond's case, animal protein, in Atomo's, coffee — is bad for the planet. This alternative is better, at least according to Atomo. The company is still in its early stages. It has a Seattle-based factory that can pump out 1,000 servings a day, according to Kleitsch. Eventually, the startup would like to offer a wider assortment of products, including instant coffee and grounds. It plans to launch in retail next year. The opportunity for a company like Atomo is big. But it will have plenty of challenges, including convincing customers of its environmental claims. Moreover, in order to get java drinkers to buy its coffee-free coffee, it will have to prove to them that it's as good as an actual cup of joe. Is there a market for coffee-less coffee? Because it may end up on retail shelves next to regular cans of cold brew, Atomo could get a lift from the growing ready-to-drink coffee market which, according to Euromonitor International, hit $4.4 billion in 2021.There's also opportunity in the still-new market for coffee alternatives, said Matthew Barry, senior beverages consultant at Euromonitor International, as coffee crops fall prey to extreme weather. Severe drought and unusual frost conditions in Brazil, the world's largest supplier of coffee beans, have wreaked havoc on the coffee market this year. One day, "high-tech solutions of coffee analogues and cultivated coffee could be used for everyday caffeination needs," and complement traditional coffee supplies, Barry said. The popularity of plant-based protein has also paved the way for a concept like Atomo's, said Jim Watson, senior beverage analyst at Rabobank. Consumers might "expect companies out there to be using technology to be doing more for us," he said, by replacing traditional products with healthier or more environmentally friendly alternatives. Someone who sees that Atomo uses upcycled ingredients might think, "I found a coffee product that fits right into these trends ... I should try that," he said, adding that Atomo has "the opportunity to potentially unlock a different consumer that was looking for something that coffee didn't offer." But Atomo may not have everyone convinced of its eco-friendly premise. Kleitsch warns that climate change and growing demand for coffee will force coffee farmers to find new land, and clear away more trees to do so. Coffee farming has certainly led to deforestation, and there are still plenty of coffee farms that don't use sustainable practices, noted Tensie Whelan, director of the Center for Sustainable Business at NYU Stern School of Business who previously served as president of the Rainforest Alliance. "There are significant challenges to conventional ways ... of growing coffee," she said. But there would be downsides to replacing coffee beans altogether, she stressed. "When grown sustainably, this is a really important source of income for local communities as well as a positive environmental benefit," she said. Growing coffee sustainably can contribute to biodiversity, she noted, adding that "It's overly simplistic to say that [growing coffee] always results in deforestation." Kleitsch agrees that there are sustainable ways to grow coffee and, because of high demand for the product, doesn't think Atomo will box out local farmers. But he doesn't believe that sustainably grown coffee will be enough. "It's going to take everyone to meet the demand for coffee," he said. "We're just trying to meet that demand in a way that causes the least harm possible." The taste test In order to really get consumers in its corner, the company will have to win on another, crucial factor: Taste. "When we first launched, we thought that the real coffee connoisseurs would hate us, honestly," Kleitsch said. "It's actually been the opposite." CNN Business asked Tom Bomford, coffee director at the upscale New York City coffee chain Black Fox Coffee, for his take on the drink. He said he thought that Atomo's product could indeed pass for the real thing ... with a caveat."It tastes like cold brew coffee," Bomford said. "Just a bad cold brew coffee, perhaps." This may not be a rave review, but the product still managed to exceed Bomford's expectations. "If you're into cold brew, there's a good chance you'll be OK with that," he said. 
How to financially prepare to quit your job . Millions of Americans are leaving their jobs these days -- and they don't always have another one lined up. Whether it's due to burnout, a desire for more flexibility or better pay, or the pursuit of an entirely different career, saying "I quit" can have long-term financial implications. "Before you leave, there are things you want to do to prepare. And then after you leave, you are going to want to look at the short-term, intermediate and the long-term implications," said Isabel Barrow, director of financial planning at Edelman Financial Engines.Here's what you need to know if you are considering quitting without another job offer:  Do a quick gut check It's a good time to be a job seeker, but make sure you are leaving for the right reasons. "The grass is very often not necessarily greener," said Tami Simon, a corporate consulting leader at employee benefits firm Segal. "Take the time to really think about what your own motivations are, and the real reason why you are thinking about leaving your job as opposed to just following a trend." If you are looking to leave because you're seeking more flexibility, money, responsibility or you want to learn new skills, now's the time to ask your current employer. CALCULATOR: How much do I need to save for retirement? "We have seen organizations learn how to be agile and flexible in a variety of different ways, certainly with their workforces," said Simon. "If you want to pursue a new direction in your career and are thinking about going back to school, well maybe your employer would be interested in helping you pursue that and maybe even help fund it."  Reaching out to a mentor or sponsor to discuss a possible change can also help provide some insight and clarity on the decision. "Talk to your trusted advisers, the people that you can really count on to always have your back and always give you the honesty that you may not be able to determine for yourself," said Simon. Timing is everythingRemember all that paperwork that you got when you started the job? It likely includes information about any potential financial impacts of quitting. Simon suggests reviewing your original offer letter, compensation arrangements and the employee manual before you announce your departure. "What are you contractually bound to?" Sometimes benefits are awarded based on how long you've been with the employer, and offers could also include non-compete clauses or clawbacks of signing bonuses or other incentives if you resign before a certain period of time.For instance, you might be anticipating a big payout for unused accrued paid time off, but according to Simon, laws vary in whether it has to be paid out."You shouldn't assume that if you give two weeks' notice and you have two weeks' worth of vacation that you can just spend [it] sitting on the beach. Make sure you take a look at how that is structured within the organization."  Leaving could also mean potentially losing out on bonuses. "We are about to hit the end of the year, there can be end-of-year bonuses or incentives that come with that," said Kristen Carlisle, general manager of Betterment 401(k) business. "While it's tempting to make a change as fast as possible...think of that as part of your total compensation and something that can help you as you make a transition when leaving your job." Evaluate your budget Job seekers have the upper hand right now, but it's hard to know how long that will last. "You have to look at the worst-case scenario," said Barrow. "In six to nine months down the road after you've taken some time off, you don't know what that job market is going to look like."Before walking away from a paycheck, create a budget that details your monthly cash inflow and spending. List all your non-discretionary living expenses, including housing, transportation, groceries, taxes, utility bills and any debts that would still need to be covered without a paycheck. Carlisle recommended having at least three to six months of living expenses saved in addition to your regular checking, savings and retirement accounts. Barrow advised having 12 to 24 months of living expenses on hand. "You really need to have a really strong cash reserve before you make the leap," Barrow said. "While you are out of work...your fridge might need to be replaced, or [you may] need a car repair or a major dental expense."And if you are planning to take this time for expensive endeavors like traveling through Europe, Barrow recommended saving for it outside of your emergency fund. She also suggested evaluating any debts -- especially credit card debts. "You need to try and tackle that and get rid of it before you leave the job. What you don't want to do is find out you have to make the choice between: 'Do I pay my mortgage or do I pay my credit card bill?' You want to get rid of some of those unsecured debts that might be at higher interest rates."   Benefits: What are you giving up? Leaving a job can also mean giving up other benefits, including health insurance. "Most employees know that their employers offer heath insurance benefits, but they don't necessarily always realize how much employers subsidize the cost," said Simon.  The Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA) generally requires employers with more than 20 workers to offer a temporary extension of health coverage to former employees for a certain amount of time. "Employers will sometimes subsidize the cost of COBRA, but most don't," said Simon. "And employers are permitted to charge up to 102% of the applicable premium for COBRA."   She added that employers are required to provide a COBRA notice that details your rights and responsibilities, including coverage costs.Another option is to find coverage on public health exchanges. You can review the options your state offers on healthcare.gov.  "[Health care] is a lot more expensive than people expect," said Barrow. "It's really important that you consider that as part of your overall budget before you leave your job."What about retirement savingsIf you have a 401(k) at your soon-to-be former employer, you'll have to make a decision on what to do with it. You have a few potential options: You can leave it in your current employer's plan if permitted, but you won't be able to make any further contributions. Or you may be able to roll it into a new employer's plan once you find a job.You could also roll a 401(k) into an individual retirement account (IRA). "Look into contributing into an IRA while you are between your jobs," said Carlisle. "As much as you can save for retirement, it sets you up for success in the long haul." She added that you should make sure you are rolling the money over into a qualified account so you don't get hit with fees.Try to avoid dipping into your 401(k) early. "A lot of people look at that 401(k) as a potential slush fund ... that is not a good option for most people outside of retirees. There are penalties involved and that pushes retirement back even further," said Barrow. You should also check to see if there are any vesting dates attached to your retirement plans. "Do you have a pension that you are leaving on the table or are you not vested fully in your 401(k)?," said Barrow. "Those are things you need to consider as well before you pull the trigger and leave.
Samsung will create 2,000 jobs in Texas with $17 billion chip factory. Seoul (CNN Business)Samsung is planning to build a $17 billion semiconductor manufacturing facility in Texas as part of efforts to tackle a global shortage of chips. Announcing its largest ever investment in the United States, the South Korean electronics giant said Tuesday that the factory would create 2,000 high-tech jobs directly, and thousands more in the local economy once it is in full operation. The facility is expected to begin operations in the second half of 2024"With greater manufacturing capacity, we will be able to better serve the needs of our customers and contribute to the stability of the global semiconductor supply chain," Kinam Kim, Vice Chairman and CEO of Samsung Electronics, said in a statement.The company said that it chose the city of Taylor in Texas for its new plant based on multiple factors, including its proximity to Samsung's current manufacturing site in Austin, the local semiconductor ecosystem, and government support. The Taylor site will span more than 5 million square meters and is expected to serve as a key location for Samsung's global semiconductor manufacturing capacity, along with its latest new production line in Pyeongtaek, South Korea.Samsung's announcement comes at a time when the Biden administration has been pushing semiconductor production and research in the United States.Although the current worldwide shortage of computer chips is primarily driven by the impact of the pandemic, extreme weather events that have hampered production and other factors, the United States has been lagging behind other producers for years. Its share of worldwide semiconductor manufacturing dropped to just 12% last year, according to the Semiconductor Industry Association. That's down from 37% in 1990. The trade group blamed "substantial" subsidies offered by foreign governments that place the United States at a "competitive disadvantage."Asian countries, including Taiwan and South Korea dominate the industry. Samsung and other South Korean manufacturers are spending huge amounts of money to shore up their production in the decade ahead.In May, Samsung said that it would invest 38 trillion Korean won ($34 billion) on production of logic chips, the brains that power computers. That brings its total spend on the business to 171 trillion won ($151 billion) over the next decade, including commitments announced in 2019.The chipmaker also announced in May that it has begun construction of the production line in Pyeongtaek — one of the world's largest hubs for semiconductor production — which it expects to complete in 2022.— Matt Egan and Diksha Madhok contributed to this report.
