Marjorie Taylor Greene lays out demands for GOP House speaker vote if Republicans retake majority in 2022.  (CNN)Georgia Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, one of Donald Trump's staunchest allies in Congress, on Thursday laid out demands for a GOP leader to earn her vote for House Speaker if Republicans are able to retake the majority after the 2022 elections and cast doubt on House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy being elected to the position."We know that Kevin McCarthy has a problem in our conference. He doesn't have the full support to be speaker," Greene said on an episode of Florida Rep. Matt Gaetz's podcast that aired Thursday morning. "He doesn't have the votes that are there, because there's many of us that are very unhappy about the failure to hold Republicans accountable, while conservatives like me, Paul Gosar, and many others just constantly take the abuse by the Democrats."Greene, who previously told reporters she would be laying out a list of demands to earn her speaker vote, mentioned some of the challenges that lay ahead in McCarthy's quest for the speaker's gavel. Among her demands, the Republican told Gaetz she wants fellow GOP Reps. Adam Kinzinger of Illinois and Liz Cheney of Wyoming kicked out of the House Republican Conference for serving on the January 6 committee, something McCarthy has so far resisted. She also said she has no respect for current GOP leadership.The command from Greene comes amid frustration from some Republicans with GOP House leadership as McCarthy eyes the House leadership position. Trump's allies in Congress -- who have voiced increasing skepticism and frustration with McCarthy in recent weeks -- have already started to flex their muscles in the potential race for speaker, which is still more than a year away. Depending on the party's margins, McCarthy could have a math problem if these Trump allies stick together. The House Freedom Caucus, which denied McCarthy the speakership once before, is comprised of roughly 40 members.Some in Trump's orbit, including Gaetz and Trump's former chief of staff Mark Meadows, have also teased that Trump should make a play for the speaker's gavel, a move that could be designed to put McCarthy on notice and remind him of the leverage that the MAGA wing of the party would have in a speaker's race.Greene also wants to see moderate Rep. John Katko, a New York Republican and McCarthy ally, lose his top spot on the House Homeland Security Committee. Katko, who represents a key swing district, supported the bipartisan infrastructure law, voted to impeach Trump and supported the Democratic-led effort to remove Greene from her committees."Katko's not a Republican. He's a Democrat," Greene said. "Our conference and the NRCC needs to stop playing this majority-maker game."
Trump's influence looms over McCarthy's race to be next House speaker.  (CNN)Donald Trump and his allies are starting to dangle the threat of the speakership over House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy's head, teeing up a yearlong dynamic that is already emboldening the MAGA wing of the GOP conference and influencing the California Republican's decision-making as he crafts a strategy to win back the House next year.Some in Trump's orbit have even floated the wild -- but technically possible -- idea that the former President should make a play for the gavel. While it's a highly unlikely scenario, the fact it's even being teased in some conservative circles is putting McCarthy on notice and reminding Republicans of the leverage Trump still has over the party.Underscoring the idea that Trump has the power to make or break McCarthy's quest for the speakership, Rep. Lauren Boebert of Colorado said Trump "matters in everything he weighs in on," so "obviously" that applies to a speaker's race. Rep. Jim Jordan of Ohio said "of course" Trump would have influence over the outcome if he got involved. Rep. Scott DesJarlais of Tennessee said Trump's voice indeed "carries weight." And Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene of Georgia said Trump's opinion would have an impact "big time" and "100%."If the former President were to endorse McCarthy for speaker, it would provide a crucial boost for the California Republican's path to power, according to interviews with over a dozen GOP lawmakers. That's because Trump's most loyal supporters in Congress -- some of whom have voiced increasing skepticism and frustration with McCarthy in recent weeks -- still take cues from the former President. And those lawmakers could end up being decisive votes in a speaker's race, depending on their party's margins if the GOP flips the House. The hardline House Freedom Caucus, which has become a club for Trump's fiercest defenders, is comprised of roughly 40 members.Trump staying neutral in the contest would also be a boon for McCarthy, who is the clear frontrunner for the top job as he raises piles of cash and stumps for candidates across the country. On the other hand, if Trump were to publicly or even privately come out against McCarthy -- or encourage someone else to challenge him -- it would almost certainly create a math problem for McCarthy, who needs 218 votes to clinch the speakership on the floor. Trump's potential clout in the House GOP leadership elections is a stark contrast from the Senate, where Minority Leader Mitch McConnell maintains the steadfast support of his conference despite Trump repeatedly railing against the Kentucky Republican."Leader McCarthy is an important partner in President Trump's effort to win back the House of Representatives with strong Republicans who will fight for his America First agenda," Trump spokesman Taylor Budowich said in a statement. "Kevin has his full support. But if he came out against him, it would be ugly," GOP Rep. Mike Rogers of Alabama said.Like Rogers, many Republicans believe Trump will ultimately stand behind McCarthy if Republicans win back the House next year -- or at least stay on the sidelines. McCarthy has been one of Trump's earliest and staunchest supporters, and having a reliable ally in charge of the House would be a huge benefit for Trump if he decides to run for president in 2024."I have zero doubt that Kevin will become the speaker," said Rep. Jim Banks of Indiana, the head of the conservative Republican Study Committee. "And part of that is because he's maintained a good rapport with President Trump."Threat of rebellion from McCarthy's right flank Still, some of Trump's most loyal supporters in Congress are already signaling they won't just automatically hand over their votes for speaker -- a preview of the challenges to come for McCarthy in his hunt for the gavel."I'm going to be laying things on the table that I want to see changed over time, and then we'll see what happens and see if anyone else is running," Greene told reporters before the recess.Rep. Chip Roy of Texas, who recently tangled with McCarthy during a private GOP conference meeting, has also had some strong words for the Republican leadership: "There's a growing sense in the conference generally, not just the Freedom Caucus, that we need to fight. ... We need to step on the gas."The threat of a rebellion from McCarthy's right flank, which denied him the speakership once before, has led McCarthy to execute a delicate balancing act. Last week, he was facing blowback from conservatives for not punishing the 13 House Republicans who voted for a bipartisan infrastructure law. But then McCarthy stood firmly behind Rep. Paul Gosar, an Arizona Republican who was under fire for posting a graphic video depicting violence against Democrats, which earned him widespread praise on the right. He even promised to reinstate Gosar and Greene to their committees, potentially even "better" ones, if Republicans win back the House.And later that day, McCarthy delivered a marathon, filibuster-like speech on the House floor in opposition to Democrats' massive social safety net bill. While it didn't stop the measure from passing the House, it did earn McCarthy handshakes, high fives and, perhaps most importantly for McCarthy, public plaudits from Trump."Great job by Kevin McCarthy last night, setting a record by going over 8 hours of speaking on the House Floor in order to properly oppose Communism. We must never forget what the Democrats have done, at the highest level of evil," Trump said in a statement. "If Mitch McConnell had fought, you would have a different Republican President right now." Bumps in the McCarthy-Trump relationship Trump was livid with McCarthy in the wake of the deadly January 6 insurrection, when the California Republican was critical of Trump's conduct and even floated the idea of censuring the then-President. But McCarthy, whom Trump once fondly dubbed "My Kevin," has worked tirelessly since then to stay in his good graces and the pair maintains a good working relationship as they strategize behind the scenes to win back the House, according to multiple GOP lawmakers and aides familiar with their dynamics.Trump recently headlined a House GOP fundraiser, where he had warm words for McCarthy and even referred to him as the "next speaker" at one point, according to lawmakers in attendance. McCarthy also told reporters last week that Trump called him up from the golf course last week just to catch up, emphasizing the casualness and closeness of their relationship."Catching up," McCarthy said of their conversation. "Wasn't even campaign (related) either. I have lots of friends. I talk to lots of people."But the mercurial former President can also be unpredictable, and his opinions can turn on a dime. Plus, the speaker's election would be over a year away -- plenty of time to fall in and out of favor with Trump. Rogers called Trump a "volatile, great leader," but said that he "has his ups and downs" when it comes to relationships. Added Rep. Patrick McHenry of North Carolina: "The former President is his own adviser. He has own take. He will voice his own take. Period."Some Republicans also took notice when Trump released a statement last month praising House Minority Whip Steve Scalise of Louisiana,  who would be a top candidate for speaker if McCarthy can't get to 218, for pushing back on a news story about former first lady Melania Trump. Some interpreted the statement from Trump as a message to McCarthy, who at the time was facing calls from the right to take a harder line on a number of issues, to fight harder.  And there have been other bumps in the McCarthy-Trump relationship this year. Trump was not pleased with CNN reporting that revealed McCarthy and his leadership team are quietly working to fundraise for five of the 10 House Republicans who voted to impeach Trump for inciting the January 6 insurrection. "I'm going to see who he's funding, and if he is, I'll stop the whole deal. I'll stop it," Trump told a conservative radio show. It's unclear whether Trump would actually get involved in a speaker's race or endorse a candidate. Some think he would only wade in if McCarthy were to bow out for some reason. But others don't think Trump would waste an opportunity to insert himself directly into the action."I think he'll get involved in anything he can be relevant in," DesJarlais said.
The real reason Kevin McCarthy just talked for 8 hours straight.  (CNN)Here's what Kevin McCarthy wants you to think about his 8+ hour floor speech in opposition to President Joe Biden's "Build Back Better" social safety net plan: He believes that the legislation is so harmful to American society that he was compelled to hold the House floor for much of Thursday night and Friday morning in order to express his profound displeasure with Democrats pushing the bill. But, that's not what's really going on here.Start here: This was all for show. McCarthy knows full well that as the minority party in the House, he and his Republican colleagues have precious little they can do to stop the Democratic majority from passing this $1.75 trillion spending bill and sending it to the Senate. What McCarthy was really trying to prove is that he is Trump-y enough for Trump conservatives who, of late, have begun to sound the alarm that McCarthy is not doing enough to fight the Biden agenda.It's absolutely no coincidence that McCarthy's speech came just hours after former Trump White House chief off staff (and House member) Mark Meadows lambasted his leadership."They're not skating to where the puck is," Meadows said of McCarthy and his leadership team in an interview on Florida Rep. Matt Gaetz's podcast. "And so I would give them a grade of a 'D'." Separately, in a conversation with former Trump White House political adviser Steve Bannon, Meadows suggested that, if Republicans take over the House majority in 2022, they should put the former president in as Speaker. "I'd love to see the gavel go from Nancy Pelosi to Donald Trump," Meadows said. "You talk about melting down. People would go crazy!"And, as Politico noted Thursday, Meadows hasn't been the only pro-Trump voice who has spoken out against McCarthy this week.Peter Navarro, a close Trump ally, said that McCarthy's decision not to put any of his people on the January 6 select committee was "arguably the dumbest checkers move in a chess game I've ever seen." And Georgia Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene said that McCarthy was "weak" for his refusal to punish the 13 Republicans who supported the Biden infrastructure plan. McCarthy needed a high profile way of proving to the growing chorus of critics that he was plenty Trump-y.  And what better way to do that than to hold the House floor for eight hours with a speech in which every single bit of red meat was thrown to Trump-aligned conservatives? McCarthy, quite clearly, was hoping to catch Trump's attention -- and win his favor -- with that performance and, in so doing, quiet his critics.McCarthy is likely still stinging from what happened to him in 2015 in the wake of then House Speaker John Boehner's surprise resignation. McCarthy was widely seen as the next Speaker but resistance from among the most conservative elements of the House Republican conference led McCarthy to withdraw in favor of then-Wisconsin Rep. Paul Ryan.That history makes McCarthy uniquely aware of the danger to his goal of becoming Speaker from any resistance within the Trump wing of the party. And knocking his critics back was his real aim with this House filibuster. It remains to be seen if McCarthy succeeded in that effort.
'Toxic is spot-on': House members describe roiling animosity among lawmakers.  (CNN)Many members within the House of Representatives have told CNN in recent days that they find themselves in a toxic work environment, wrought with bitter exchanges, threats and fears about what the erosion of decorum in the chamber will mean for a body that has still not recovered 10 months after the Capitol Hill riot.In interviews with more than a dozen members, CNN heard from Democrats and some Republicans who say things are as bad as they can remember, with no sign things will get better soon, and the fears and concerns aren't just coming from members, but their families as well.Last week alone, Democrats and two Republicans voted to censure Rep. Paul Gosar, a Republican from Arizona, for posting an animé video depicting the killing of fellow member Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a Democrat from New York. Initially, Gosar took the video down, but he retweeted another tweet containing the video just an hour after he endured the highest form of rebuke a member can get in the House. As he took his punishment in the well of the House, he was surrounded by a group of colleagues rushing to his defense. His leadership never came to the floor to admonish him, only attacking the process Democrats were using. Rep. Lauren Boebert, a Republican from Colorado, defended Gosar on the floor by calling some of her progressive Democratic colleagues the "Jihad squad," a term she defended to CNN on Friday. "It is shocking to me that Leader McCarthy would stand for eight and a half hours spewing disinformation about a bill that is for the American people and yet not speak a word about the atrocity of his own member putting out a video that glorifies the murder of a colleague and threatens violence against the President of the United States," said Rep. Madeleine Dean of Pennsylvania. "I don't know where the next basement is."It's all part of the challenge members are facing now in the House, and some have opted to retire rather than endure more caustic behavior. On the outskirts of the House chamber, metal detectors are still stationed at every door, a reminder of the fears that remain. And an effort to investigate the root cause of the attack on January 6 has been politicized and met with resistance by most Republicans. Some have even downplayed whether the events of that day were all that bad. It's a constant reminder for some members about the state of their workplace. "January 6th made things so much worse. I was on the floor that day. That was a forever life-changing moment on a personal level, but it was also a moment that changed Congress," Rep. Cheri Bustos, a Democrat from Illinois, told CNN. "It started with the incessant lies that weren't challenged and were amplified to January 6th to a member of Congress threatening lives of friends and colleagues." In an interview with Rep. John Garamendi, a Democrat from California, Garamendi's wife Patricia could be heard in the background during the interview responding along with her husband that yes, the threats were as bad as they had ever been. Patricia Garamendi, who works closely with other congressional spouses on events and provides guidance on how to navigate Congress, agreed to speak with CNN for the story. She said that it's the scariest time she can remember for the spouses of members who worry not just about their member of Congress, but their entire families."It took away a lot of the fun. Service is hard. Travel is hard and the issues are hard, but when you are worried about your family, it has been difficult," she said. "I mean some kids are being escorted to school." 'I'm not running again'And those are just the security threats. A massive battle over Covid-19 has only exasperated the divisions. A handful of conservative members regularly defy the House speaker's mask mandate, racking up thousands of dollars in fines while some members publicly admit they aren't getting vaccinated. Standing on the steps of the US House Friday, Bustos told CNN that all of the bitterness and lies impacted her decision not to run for reelection. "My interns are down there," she pointed. "I always write them five pieces of advice and one of those is 'don't take things personally.' I've tried to live that in politics. This, you can't help but take personally. All of this has contributed to the fact that I'm not running again. I want to love what I do. I want to love who I work with. I want to respect the people I work with and that has been compromised in ways that I hope can be repaired at some point, but right now I do not feel like I can repair."Some of the anxiety members feel stems from bitter disagreements with the opposite party, while others say the spiral of toxicity has metastasized even to how members within the same party engage with one another. For months, progressives and moderates in the Democratic party grappled with how to pass both a bipartisan infrastructure bill and a Democrat-only bill to expand the social safety net. But the divisions within their ranks threatened both bills and resulted in sometimes public and pointed personal jabs."Toxic is spot-on," Rep. Stephanie Murphy, a Democrat from Florida, said. "I think there is plenty of Dem-on-Dem violence as well as Republican and Democratic divisions. I think it is not conducive to a healthy legislative environment for colleagues to make these debates both so personal and caustic."'People here need to get thicker skin'In a series of interviews with Republicans, many downplayed the divisions outright or blamed House Speaker Nancy Pelosi for setting the wrong tone when she announced all members would need to walk through metal detectors to get to the House floor after the insurrection. "I believe it is a consolidation of power in the Speaker's office in the House and an abuse of power by the Speaker because she has one-party control and she is completely shutting down the voices of the minority and hiding behind Covid to accomplish it," Rep. Cathy McMorris Rogers, a Republican from Washington state, told CNN. Rep. Chip Roy, a Republican from Texas who advocated ahead of January 6 to certify the electoral college results, told CNN that part of the problem is that members have not moved on from January 6th."People here need to get thicker skin," Roy said. "At some point here, you gotta let some things roll."Asked if he was including the insurrection in the things that people needed to let "roll," Roy said "people here have got to get thicker skin about representing the people and doing their job and not making everything personal on the floor of the House."'I feel safe, but it is incredibly concerning'But for some members, the threats are very personal. "Congressman Boebert referred to us as the 'Jihad squad' on the House floor. What that does is it empowers and inspires people who want to do us harm, to actually go and do that harm. She is on the House floor spewing 'Jihad squad,' " Rep. Jamaal Bowman said. "I feel safe, but it is incredibly concerning that she is speaking this way and we have to respond to that in some way."Ocasio-Cortez, who was the subject of Gosar's animé video, told CNN last week that sometimes it is impossible to separate the political from the personal, even as she has tried to build relationships with some Republicans. "It is not just because they dislike me as a person. In fact, I have had many a Republican come to me on the House floor and say 'I tell folks back home that while I don't agree with you, I think you are a quite kind person.' I have had Republicans come up to me after the 6th, one of them even weeping and with guilt over what happened," Ocasio-Cortez said. "So for some ... publicly, this is a performance. But it is also personal because I cannot separate myself from my gender, I cannot separate myself of how I was born, so their hatred of non-White people, their hatred of women is a hatred of me."
What AOC gets exactly right about Democrats' political problems.  (CNN)New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is not happy with her party.She made that abundantly clear in an interview with The New York Times over the weekend, suggesting that the passage of the infrastructure bill and the House approval of President Joe Biden's "Build Back Better" measure are simply not enough to deliver on the expectations voters have for her party. And she also aptly diagnosed much of her party's current political problems."Democrats have a trifecta and have been unable to pass voting-rights protections," said Ocasio-Cortez. "And so people can wring their hands and say 'but Manchin' all they want, or 'but the filibuster' all they want, but at the end of the day, what people see are the results of their actions and the results of investing their time."I think that's exactly right.The average voter likely knows one thing about our current politics: Democrats are in control of the White House, the Senate and the House. They are far less familiar with the narrowness of the Democratic majorities in those two chambers. Or with the filibuster rules that prevent any legislation from moving forward without 60 votes.That's not for a lack of trying by Biden, of course. He explicitly made the point about the narrowness of Democrats' margin in the Senate during a CNN townhall late last month. "When you're in the United States Senate and you're President of the United States and you have 50 Democrats, every one is a president," Biden said to laughter. "Every single one."The reality, however, is closer to AOC's view. In voters' minds, they handed Democrats the keys to the kingdom, and they haven't been terribly happy with the results.Almost 6 in 10 Americans said that Biden wasn't focused enough on the nation's biggest problems, according to a CNN poll released earlier this month. That same poll showed that among those who believe the economy is the most important issue facing the country, almost 3 in 4 are not happy with the amount of attention that Biden has paid to it.While there is some broad agreement on the problem facing Democrats, the party diverges broadly on the solution.The view of most establishment Democrats -- including Biden and his White House -- is that they need to focus more on selling all that they have done to voters. "I think the White House should do 25 presidential events in the next couple months just on infrastructure," said Sean Patrick Maloney, the chairman of House Democrats' campaign arm, earlier this month. "And we should do 1,000 congressional events alongside those presidential events."That is not the view of Ocasio-Cortez, however. Her belief is not that Democrats haven't sold their accomplishments well enough but rather that the party has been too timid to push the envelope legislatively in ways that get the party's base excited and engaged."I think that if we pass the Build Back Better Act as the House passed it, that we have a shot to go back to our communities and say we delivered," said AOC. "But that's not to say that this process has not been demoralizing for a lot of folks, because there were enormous promises made. Not just at the beginning, and not just during the election, but that continued to be made. And this is where I have sounded the alarm, because what really dampens turnout is when Democrats make promises that they don't keep."If Ocasio-Cortez is right, the next few weeks/months hold little good for Democrats. The "Build Back Better" legislation is certain to be pared down in the Senate by the demands of moderate Democratic Sens. Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona (among others). And then it will be sent back to the House for, effectively, a rubber stamp of approval -- a move that seems certain to further alienate AOC and her liberal colleagues from the process.Add it up and you get nothing good for Democrats as they try to find their footing ahead of the midterm battle for control of Congress.
'Nothing about this is normal': RNC payments to Trump attorneys irk GOP officials .  (CNN)A pair of payments the Republican National Committee made to a law firm representing former President Donald Trump is raising questions among former and current GOP officials about the party's priorities in a critical election year and its ability to remain neutral -- as long-standing RNC rules require -- in the 2024 presidential primary. The separate payments to Fischetti and Malgieri LLP totalling $121,670, listed in the committee's latest filing to the Federal Election Commission, were first reported on Monday. Ronald Fischetti, a partner at the New York-based firm, was hired by the Trump Organization in April amid ongoing investigations into the real estate company's financial practices by Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. and state Attorney General Letitia James. A spokesperson for the RNC said the party's executive committee recently "approved paying for certain legal expenses that relate to politically motivated legal proceedings waged against President Trump," and defended the payments as "entirely appropriate" as the party "continue[s] assisting in fighting back against the Democrats' never ending witch hunt and attacks on [Trump]."However, some RNC members and donors accused the party of running afoul of its own neutrality rules and misplacing its priorities. Some of these same officials who spoke to CNN also questioned why the party would foot the legal bills of a self-professed billionaire who was sitting on a $102 million war chest as recently as July and has previously used his various political committees to cover legal costs. According to FEC filings from August, the former President's Make America Great Again committee has paid Jones Day more than $37,000 since the beginning of the year, while his Make America Great Again super PAC has paid a combined $7.8 million to attorneys handling his lawsuits related to the 2020 election. "This is not normal. Nothing about this is normal, especially since he's not only a former President but a billionaire," said a former top RNC official. "What does any of this have to do with assisting Republicans in 2022 or preparing for the 2024 primary?" the official added. Bill Palatucci, a national committeeman from New Jersey, said the fact that the RNC made the payments to Trump's attorneys in October was particularly frustrating given his own plea to party officials that same month for additional resources as the New Jersey GOP sought to push Republican Jack Ciattarelli over the finish line in his challenge to incumbent Democratic Gov. Phil Murphy. "We sure as heck could have used $121,000," Palatucci told CNN. Though Murphy narrowly defeated Ciattarelli to win reelection, the unexpectedly tight race in a state that President Joe Biden carried by 15 percentage points in 2020 left Democrats reeling over what it could mean for their party next fall. "We were in the middle of hand-to-hand combat trying to win and those resources could have helped here. It just speaks for itself of what the priorities were," Palatucci added. Another former RNC official, who requested anonymity to speak candidly, said the RNC's decision to foot Trump's legal bills represents "the big conundrum" top party officials face as they try to avoid putting their thumbs on the scale ahead of the 2024 GOP presidential primary, in which Trump continues to tease his potential candidacy, while maintaining a record-breaking fundraising pace with the former President's assistance. "Trump helps them raise boatloads of money but he's also likely to be a candidate for president and it's only going to become more difficult for them to keep a distance," the official said, while also questioning why the RNC is "having to pay for this when you have these super PACs taking in unlimited money for Trump." A third RNC official described the relationship between Trump and the national party as "a hostage situation," claiming that Trump could devastate the GOP if he decided to leave the party or encouraged his supporters to stop contributing to it at any point, including if the RNC no longer agrees to cover portions of his legal bills. "They can't disentangle themselves from him because they need him," this person said. The RNC did not respond to a request for further comment.As recently as last week, RNC Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel cited the party's bylaws regarding neutrality while dodging questions about Trump's 2024 ambitions. "I know you guys love jumping to 2024. I'm just not going to go there. The bylaws of the party are you have to stay neutral," McDaniel told reporters at a breakfast hosted by the Christian Science Monitor.One of the former RNC officials who spoke to CNN said that while they didn't think the party was flouting its neutrality rules by covering Trump's legal fees right now, it is likely to present issues for the committee later on."There are no candidacies yet, so it's not really running afoul of that, but it sends a signal that it's going to at some point," the official said. Questions of whether the party organization could truly be considered neutral toward Trump if he runs again in 2024 -- which his advisers say is increasingly likely -- have existed since he left office. Not three months after the former President decamped to Palm Beach, Florida, in January, the RNC held part of its annual spring donor retreat at Mar-a-Lago -- a move that included paying the beachside club to use its facilities and cater the event. Around the same time, the party dismissed a cease-and-desist letter from Trump's team demanding that the GOP stop using his name in its fundraising appeals. The October payments to Trump's attorneys are also not the first time the RNC has covered personal legal bills for the former President or his associates. In 2017, CNN reported that the committee had spent more than $230,000 to cover some of the then-President's legal fees related to the special counsel investigation into Russian election interference. The party also covered nearly $200,000 in legal defense fees for Donald Trump Jr., who became embroiled in the probe over a meeting he took during the 2016 presidential campaign with an attorney he believed would provide damaging information about his father's opponent, then-Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. In both instances, it remains unclear if RNC donors were made aware ahead of time that their contributions could be used to subsidize the Trump family's legal fees -- a question the Democratic National Committee seized on Tuesday. "Ronna McDaniel and the Republican National Committee are using their donors' money to finance Trump's personal legal defense while he sits on hundreds of millions of his own money as well as campaign funds," DNC spokesperson Adonna Biel said in a statement. "If we were the RNC's donors, we would certainly be asking questions." Trump has not been charged in either investigation into his business dealings in New York. However, longtime Trump Organization CFO Allen Weisselberg was indicted by a grand jury in July on 15 state counts related to an alleged tax evasion scheme lasting over a decade. 
Think turkey tryptophan makes you sleepy? Think again. The views expressed in this commentary are solely those of the writers. CNN is showcasing the work of The Conversation, a collaboration between journalists and academics to provide news analysis and commentary. The content is produced solely by The Conversation. (The Conversation)Every Thanksgiving, myths of the quasi-magical powers of tryptophan rise again.There's the turkey/drowsiness myth: Eating lots of juicy turkey meat supposedly makes people feel tired because it contains an amino acid called tryptophan. This molecule travels into the brain, where it's converted into a neurotransmitter called serotonin, which in turn is converted into a hormone called melatonin. Voila! Sleepiness.But science and the internet agree: It's not the turkey's tryptophan to blame for your post-feast nap. All protein sources, and even vegetables, contain some tryptophan; turkey isn't at all special in this regard.So the sleepiness myth of turkey may be fading, but other legends around tryptophan's effects in the brain are taking hold. Some people are eyeing tryptophan supplements as an unconventional treatment for depression. Others are curious whether eating foods that are high or low in tryptophan could be useful for influencing mood. Recently, some scientists have even proposed that gut bacteria are driving changes in emotion by producing or breaking down tryptophan.READ MORE: Light versus dark -- the color of the turkey meat is due to the job of the muscleThis tryptophan/mood connection is an area of ongoing research. And while some are captivated by tryptophan's potential, it's not clear whether the excitement is warranted.Looking for a tryptophan link to moodThere is some scientific evidence that eating tryptophan can alter your mood.For example, back in 2000, researchers found that when people ate an isolated protein that was very high in tryptophan, they felt less stress while doing math problems.However, placebo-controlled clinical trials haven't, in general, shown much of a connection. A few studies have found that supplementing with pure tryptophan provided little to no benefit for people with depression. Some studies have even looked at what happens when you remove tryptophan from people's diets, but also found little to no effect.So what explains the mixed results?READ MORE: Thank fungi for cheese, wine and beer this holiday seasonSerotonin itself still holds mysteriesAlongside human studies, the biology of tryptophan has been well studied in rodents. Research in the early 1970s showed that taking tryptophan supplements can boost serotonin, a neurotransmitter that was historically associated with feelings of well-being and happiness.Since then, scientists have learned lots of interesting facts about serotonin. For example, there are 14 separate receptors for serotonin, and they're found all over the brain.Researchers have learned how to affect this system with drugs, but not with much precision. For example, drugs like the antidepressant selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors -- more widely known as SSRIs -- don't target individual receptors and they don't restrict themselves to particular brain regions. Instead, SSRIs, the best-known of which is Prozac, bluntly boost serotonin everywhere.This non-specificity is why, in my mind, it's hard to believe that SSRIs work at all. Here's an analogy: Say you're Jeff Bezos and you want to increase Amazon's revenue by speeding up your deliveries. So you decide to crank up the speed on all delivery vehicles. From now on, every truck will boost its speed by 5%. It may be a stroke of logistical genius, or it may, perhaps more likely, end up in chaos. Like ramping up serotonin all over the brain, this blunt approach might not be ideal.READ MORE: Ack! I need chocolate! The science of PMS food cravingsAnalogies aside, whether SSRIs affect people's moods is an experimental question, and some research has supported the idea that these drugs work. However, especially lately, their effectiveness has come under intense scrutiny. Some recent analyses cite 30 years' worth of studies and question the clinical value of SSRIs, while others maintain that these drugs improve the symptoms of depression.It's complicated, and there's still some disagreement, but most psychiatrists agree that SSRIs are not effective for everyone. These drugs are not psychiatric-cure-alls.More chemical fine-tuning for moodIn light of all this, I've often found myself asking whether psychiatric researchers needed 73 studies looking at whether tryptophan depletion has an impact on mood.When it comes to understanding connections between gut bacteria and the brain, or the bigger challenge of understanding and treating mental illness, should researchers really still be thinking about tryptophan?It's seems true that, similar to SSRIs, boosting tryptophan has a broad impact on serotonin. It's definitely possible that cranking up serotonin can influence mood, and that therefore boosting tryptophan could do the same. But it's also possible that to manipulate something as complicated as human emotion requires a little more nuance.READ MORE: Health Check: 'Food comas,' or why eating sometimes makes you sleepyPsychiatric research has long been moving away from the idea that your brain is a bag of chemicals; modern neuroscientists are asking for a little more specificity. From this perspective, I'm skeptical of the notion that tryptophan is the depression remedy psychiatry needs. Not only has experimental research found fairly weak results, but the theory itself isn't very compelling.Serotonin, seemingly full of psychiatric possibility, has long fascinated psychiatric researchers. But what the past half century seems to have demonstrated is that the neuroscience of human emotion is not simple. To promote lasting changes in mental health, scientists may need a little more reverence for the complex emotional beings that we all are.So no, a big turkey dinner, as filled with delicious tryptophans as it might be, will likely not be the neurochemical driver for your mood on Thanksgiving.Andrew Neff is an adjunct faculty member in psychology at Rochester University in New York. Neff does not work for, consult, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organization that would benefit from this article, and has disclosed no relevant affiliations beyond their academic appointment.Republished under a Creative Commons license from The Conversation.
Demonizing Black victims is an old racist trope that didn't work for defense attorneys this time. Washington (CNN)Ahmaud Arbery was the victim. But for weeks, he was painted as a brute and a thug in the trial of the three White men who killed him. This tactic isn't new, but rather the latest example in a long history of court cases that criminalize and dehumanize Black victims.Emmett Till. Jordan Davis. Trayvon Martin. Botham Jean. George Floyd -- all of them Black, all of them victims, just as Arbery was. Arbery's family can now feel a sense of justice after Gregory McMichael, Travis McMichael and William "Roddie" Bryan Jr. were convicted on Wednesday, but that outcome is a rare exception to the rule."I wouldn't want to see no daddy watch their kid get lynched and shot down like that. So it's all our problem. ... Let's keep fighting. Let's keep doing and making this a better place for all human beings. All human beings," Marcus Arbery Sr. said after the reading of the verdict.Race and racial tensions were clearly on display inside and outside the Georgia courtroom where the three men were tried, even as both the defense and the prosecution shied away from those discussions. Instead, the jury heard from the defense a number of racist dog whistles.From assertions that Black pastors might frighten jurors to a remark about Arbery's "long, dirty toenails," the defense's strategy was rife with rhetoric that sought to dehumanize and devalue Black Americans."What I saw was the defense preying on White fears," said Carol Anderson, a historian and the chair of African American studies at Emory University. "The 'long, dirty toenails' -- that is an old trope of the 'Black Beast.' That is the stuff coming out of Reconstruction and Jim Crow."Here's why the heart-wrenching trial was a textbook example of the criminalization and dehumanization of Black male victims:Arbery had 'long, dirty toenails,' defense attorney said During closing arguments, a defense attorney for Gregory McMichael, one of the men charged with Arbery's murder, tried to portray Arbery as a "runaway slave," said Charles Coleman Jr., a civil rights attorney and former prosecutor."Turning Ahmaud Arbery into a victim after the choices that he made does not reflect the reality of what brought Ahmaud Arbery to Satilla Shores in his khaki shorts with no socks to cover his long, dirty toenails," attorney Laura Hogue told the jurors.The remark, which appeared to be based on Arbery's autopsy, brought an audible gasp from people in the courtroom and prompted Arbery's mother to walk out."Regardless of what kind of toenails he had, what size legs he had, that was still my son, and my son actually was running for his life in that description. I thought that was just flat-out rude," Arbery's mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones, told CNN's John Berman on "AC 360" earlier this week.To Cooper-Jones, the defense was trying to deflect from the fact that it didn't "have the proper evidence to get a conviction."Angie Maxwell, a political scientist at the University of Arkansas and the co-author of the 2019 book "The Long Southern Strategy: How Chasing White Voters in the South Changed American Politics," said that she believes that the defense was trying to put Arbery "in a (specific) category of Black person."The toenails comment attempted to signal to jurors that Arbery was "one of 'those' Black people who isn't someone you would admire or respect," Maxwell said, someone "you can't trust, and who doesn't take care of himself."Benjamin Crump, the civil rights attorney who represented Arbery's father, said that Hogue used "dog-whistle rhetoric.""She was saying he's a scary Black man, and so if you say he's a scary Black person and make the jury believe that, then you want them to divorce themselves of what they see on that video of a human being being chased down and being lynched in broad daylight," Crump told CNN.Those tactics were unsettling for the family and for many watching the trial not because they were novel -- but because the country has seen them all before. During the Reconstruction and Jim Crow eras, Black Americans were depicted as brutes, a caricature that was echoed last year in former President Donald Trump's description of protesters chanting "Black Lives Matter" as "very bad people" and "thugs."Arbery was linked to crimes and fearFear was another racist dog whistle used by defense attorneys, who highlighted the worries prompted by a string of unreported crimes in the neighborhood.Travis McMichael testified that on the night of February 11, 2020 -- nearly two weeks before Arbery's shooting -- he saw someone "creeping through the shadows" in the neighborhood.He testified that the person, whom he later described to police as a Black man, "pulled up his shirt" and went for his "pocket, waistband area." McMichael said that he assumed that the person was armed, so he jumped back into his vehicle, and the person ran to the house under construction. He called the authorities, but the police never caught, talked to or even saw the person he said that he saw that night, he testified.When he encountered Arbery weeks later, McMichael was fearing for his and his father's lives, defense attorney Jason Sheffield argued in court.Arbery was jogging and stopped by the unoccupied house, his family said. Prosecutors showed the jury surveillance videos of Arbery entering the site, each time wandering around and leaving without incident.But the defense insisted that, even if he hadn't stolen anything, Arbery was committing burglary because he entered the under-construction house illegally.Anderson, the historian, said that people of many races and ethnicities look at houses under construction, and their behavior is seen as standard or normal."But for a Black person to do that, somehow that's criminal. So you have the criminalization of Blackness coursing through this thing," Anderson said.The property's owner, Larry English Jr., testified in September that several people besides Arbery entered the property and that he never authorized the McMichaels to confront anyone.The McMicheals' decision to chase Arbery was rooted in the idea that Black people are criminals, Anderson said."This was like the slave patrol that felt that it had the right to question Black people, to police the movements of Black people, to challenge Black people wherever they were," Anderson said.Defense argued Black pastors were intimidatingDefense attorney Kevin Gough's attempt to ban Black pastors from the courtroom during the trial was an affront to Black pastors' role in comforting grieving families.Gough said that having high-profile figures was intimidating and an attempt to pressure or influence the jury. While he apologized for his comments, days later, more than 100 Black pastors formed a "Wall of Prayer" to show their solidarity with Arbery's family and their opposition to Gough's comments.For Anderson, the author of the 2021 book "The Second: Race and Guns in a Fatally Unequal America," the attorney's remarks recalled those made by the defense attorney for the men who killed Emmett Till in 1955."When he looked at the jury and said something like, 'Every last Anglo-Saxon one of you knows that this is what we're fighting down here. You'll find these men not guilty.' That's what that sounded like to me," Anderson said."It sounded like, 'Every last Anglo-Saxon one of you knows that Black people are threatening. They're intimidating. And they're out to destroy our community. What the McMichaels and Bryan did was protect our community,'" she added.A nearly all-White jury The trial jury that found the McMichaels and Bryan guilty consisted of 11 White jurors and one Black juror, a breakdown that fueled the Black community's lack of confidence in the criminal justice system early on in the trial.Scholars and law experts said that the racial breakdown was reminiscent of the Jim Crow era and quickly drew comparisons with the aftermath of Emmett Till's death."Here some 65 years later, we've advanced to the point of having potentially one Black juror who will sit on this jury," said Daryl D. Jones, an attorney with the Transformative Justice Coalition, referring to the 1955 trial in which the two men arrested in Till's slaying were acquitted by an all-White jury.During the jury selection, defense attorneys drew criticism when they expressed their concerns over the lack of "Bubba" men."It would appear that White males born in the South, over 40 years of age, without four-year college degrees, sometimes euphemistically known as 'Bubba' or 'Joe Six Pack,' seem to be significantly underrepresented," Gough, the attorney who represented Bryan, told the court at the time.Other cases are 'eerily similar'Over the past decade, many unarmed Black men and boys have been dehumanized during court procedures."Remember they assassinated the character of Trayvon Martin after he had been assassinated, and now they're doing the exact same thing almost 10 years later with Ahmaud Arbery. I mean, the similarities are eerily similar," Crump, the attorney representing Arbery's father, said hours before the verdict was read on Wednesday, Crump also called the case "Trayvon Martin 2.0" on CNN's New Day.Martin was 17 years old when he was shot to death by George Zimmerman in 2012. The shooting and Zimmerman's subsequent acquittal in 2013 launched the Black Lives Matter movement and reminded Americans that they weren't living in a post-racial society.After Martin's death, protesters nationwide wore hoodies in a nod to the shooter's description of the teenager. Zimmerman told a 911 operator that he saw a "suspicious" person wearing a "dark hoodie" moments before he shot the teenager in what he said was self-defense, according to the police. Martin's family and supporters said that they believe that race played a role in the shooting.But nearly 10 years after Martin's death, civil rights activists and protesters secured some solace from Wednesday's verdict in the Arbery death trial case.Speaking outside the courtroom following the convictions of all three defendants, family attorney Crump said, "Think about how long he (Marcus Arbery Sr.) and Wanda have been enduring all the innuendo, all the allegations, all the character assassinations, long legs with dirty toenails. Just imagine all they went through."CNN's Alta Spells, Angela Barajas, Theresa Waldrop and Amir Vera contributed to this report.
Snowboarder Marko Grilc dies in accident, according to sponsors.  (CNN)Snowboarder Marko Grilc has died following an accident in the Austrian ski resort of Sölden, two of his sponsors have confirmed.A press release from police in Tyrol, Austria said that a 38-year-old Slovenian man suffered fatal head injuries in a snowboarding accident on Tuesday. According to the statement, the man was part of a filming team exploring the terrain when the snowboarder, who was not wearing a helmet, fell and hit his head on a snow-covered rock. Despite efforts to resuscitate the Slovenian man by his team and employees of the resort, the victim died at the scene, the statement concluded.Two of Grilc's sponsors -- Burton Snowboards and GoPro -- confirmed the death of the snowboarder via Twitter Wednesday."With a heavy heart we share that yesterday, our dear friend and Burton team rider Marko "Grilo" Grilc passed away in an accident while snowboarding," Burton Snowboards tweeted."Our heart goes out to his fiancé Nina and their children, family, and friends, who all shared his love and passion for snowboarding."A statement from GoPro read: "We are saddened to hear the news of Marko Grilc's passing. He was a beloved member of the GoPro family and inspired us not only as a professional athlete, but as a father and an amazing human."He was a legend and will be truly missed. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family."Grilc is survived by his fiancée and two children.Born in Ljubljana, Grilc became a prominent name in the freestyle snowboarding scene over the course his lengthy career. According to the International Ski Federation's (FIS) website, the Slovenian made his debut competitive appearance at the FIS Junior World Championships in Finland in 2002. Over the course of an 11-year competitive career, Grilc would record nine podium finishes -- victories coming via the Big Air events at the European Cup in Croatia in 2004 and the World Cup in London in 2010.His final competitive appearance came in the World Cup at Copper Mountain, Colorado in 2013, and Grilc subsequently moved into a variety of filming ventures relating to snowboarding. The 38-year-old documented many of his trips on his YouTube channel, with his last video 'Disconnected' -- posted in March earlier this year -- showcasing his time snowboarding in the Prokletije mountain range, which borders Kosovo, Albania and Montenegro."Snowboarding is so simple, it's basically just shredding down the mountain on a piece of wood," Grilc says towards the end of the video."Just the stoke that you get from riding, from doing a sick line, and the happiness I saw out here was unreal. I'm sure this crew of people will have stories to tell for years to come."
Five US lawmakers defy China by meeting with officials in Taiwan. Washington (CNN)Five US lawmakers arrived in Taiwan on Thursday to meet with government officials, defying Beijing to visit the contested island."When news of our trip broke yesterday, my office received a blunt message from the Chinese Embassy, telling me to call off the trip," Rep. Elissa Slotkin, a Michigan Democrat, wrote Thursday on Twitter. "The auto industry's largest supplier of microchips is here in Taiwan, so supply chain issues will most definitely be on the agenda."Slotkin said the side trip to Taiwan came after celebrating Thanksgiving with US troops in South Korea and that the stop would "be good to connect with leaders here to discuss a whole host of economic and national security issues."Taiwan holds a fraught position in the deteriorating relationship between Washington and Beijing, with tensions running high as China increases its military posturing and warplane flights around the self-ruled island. The congressional delegation's visit comes on the heels of another informal visit from US lawmakers earlier this month.House Veterans' Affairs Chairman Mark Takano, a California Democrat, led the delegation that arrived Thursday. It included fellow panel members Slotkin and Reps. Colin Allred, a Texas Democrat, Nancy Mace, a South Carolina Republican, and Sara Jacobs, a California Democrat, according to Reuters, which first reported the trip.The news of the lawmakers' trip comes a day after the Biden administration extended an invitation to Taiwan for its "Summit for Democracy," which will take place next month -- a decision that the Chinese government dubbed a "mistake," Reuters reported.Earlier this month, President Joe Biden made clear that he was not encouraging Taiwan's "independence" after using the word to describe the progress he had made during a discussion of the island with his Chinese counterpart."I said that they have to decide -- Taiwan, not us. We are not encouraging independence," Biden said on an airport tarmac in New Hampshire where he was promoting his recently signed infrastructure law."We're encouraging that they do exactly what the Taiwan Act requires," he went on, referring to the 1979 law dictating the American approach to the island. "That's what we're doing. Let them make up their mind. Period."Explaining his position while greeting attendees following his infrastructure speech that day, Biden said he had made limited progress on the topic with Chinese President Xi Jinping. "We made very clear we support the Taiwan Act, and that's it," he said at the time."Its independence," he went on. "It makes its own decisions."Earlier this month, an unspecified group of US lawmakers landed in Taipei on a Boeing C-40 military plane, and subsequently took off for Okinawa after a brief stay at the airport.The delegation's arrival sparked immediate condemnation from China, with Beijing describing the trip as an "act of provocation."Taiwan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs confirmed that visit and said the trip was arranged by the American Institute in Taiwan, the de facto US embassy in Taipei. It did not disclose the names of the lawmakers involved in the visit, nor their itinerary.The American Institute in Taiwan did not confirm a list of lawmakers but directed CNN at the time to Texas GOP Sen. John Cornyn's office.Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin told reporters that trip "seriously violated the one-China principle" and demanded the US "immediately stop any form of official interaction with Taiwan.""We urge the US congressmen to recognize the situation. Collaborating with the 'Taiwan independence' forces is a dangerous game; playing with 'Taiwan independence' will eventually lead to fire," Wang said.Beijing views the self-ruled island as an inseparable part of its territory -- even though the two sides have been governed separately for more than seven decades.In a statement at the time, China's Ministry of National Defense condemned the US for "grossly interfering in China's internal affairs" and said it should stop "provocative actions" that may escalate tensions on the Taiwan Strait."(The US) should refrain from sending wrong signals to 'Taiwan independence' forces," the statement read. "The People's Liberation Army will always be on high alert and adopt all necessary measures to resolutely smash any interference by foreign forces and separatist attempts."The visits aren't the only time delegations of US lawmakers have flown to Taiwan. In June, an American delegation including Sen. Tammy Duckworth, an Illinois Democrat, landed on a US Air Force C-17 Globemaster III freighter to announce the donation of 750,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccine. And previously, US officials and politicians have flown to Taiwan on the C-40, a military version of the Boeing 737 commercial airliner.Pentagon press secretary John Kirby had told reporters following the unspecified group's visit that "congressional delegation visits to Taiwan are fairly routine" and the visit was "in keeping with our obligations under the Taiwan Relations Act, which has been supported by multiple administrations, both Democratic and Republican, that reinforces our requirement to help Taiwan with its self-defense needs."Relations between Taipei and Beijing are at their lowest point in decades. Last month, China's military sent a record number of warplanes into Taiwan's air defense identification zone -- the area surrounding the island where Taipei says it will respond to any incursions.This story has been updated with additional details Thursday.CNN's Rachel Janfaza and Kevin Liptak contributed to this report.
Hundreds of FedEx packages were found tossed into an Alabama ravine, sheriff says.  (CNN)Hundreds of FedEx packages were discovered discarded in a ravine Wednesday in Blount County, Alabama, some 40 miles northeast of Birmingham, according to the local sheriff's office. Deputies responded Wednesday afternoon to a ravine on private property, where they discovered 300 to 400 FedEx packages of assorted sizes that appeared to have been thrown into the ravine, the Blount County Sheriff's Office said in a statement on Facebook. "Hopefully we will have some answers soon," the office said. An area manager for FedEx responded to the scene, the sheriff's office said, and the company "sent multiple trucks and drivers from all over the south" who were set to begin loading the packages at sunrise Thursday. An update by the sheriff's office Thursday morning said officials were "making a dent" in the cleanup and recovery effort. In a statement to CNN, FedEx said the "security of our customers' shipments is a top priority and we are committed to treating our customers' packages with the utmost care." "We are taking steps to recover and transport the affected packages as quickly as possible," the statement said. "In addition to cooperating with law enforcement, we are conducting a review of this situation and will take the appropriate action." CNN's Dakin Andone contributed to this report.
A new Covid-19 variant could show immune evasion and enhanced transmissibility, South African scientists warn.  (CNN)South Africa's health minister announced Thursday the discovery of a new coronavirus variant that appears to be spreading rapidly in parts of the country. "Initially it looked like some cluster outbreaks, but from yesterday, the indication came from our scientists from the Network of Genomic Surveillance that they were observing a new variant," Minister of Health Joe Phaahla said, stressing that it is currently unclear where the variant -- currently dubbed B.1.1.529 -- first emerged.It has so far been detected in South Africa, Botswana and in a traveler to Hong Kong from South Africa, Phaahla added.During a news briefing, genomic scientists said the variant has an unusually high number of mutations, with more than 30 in the key spike protein -- the structure the virus uses to get into the cells they attack.Professor Tulio de Oliveira, the director of the Center for Epidemic Response and Innovation, said the variant has "many more mutations than we have expected," adding it is "spreading very fast and we expect to see pressure in the health system in the next few days and weeks." He advised the public to "try to avoid super spreading events."Officials also expressed concern that the mutation could result in immune evasion and enhanced transmissibility of the virus, but added it is too early to tell what kind of impact the mutations will have on vaccine efficacy. More studies also need to be conducted to understand the clinical severity of the variant compared to previous variants, officials said."The full significance of this variant remains uncertain and the best tool we have is still the vaccines," De Oliveira said. He added that lab studies still need to be carried out to test vaccine and antibody evasion. UK bans flights from 6 African countriesAlso Thursday, UK officials announced that six African countries will be added to England's travel "red list" after the UK Health Security Agency flagged concern over the variant. UK's Health Minister Sajid Javid said flights to the UK from South Africa, Namibia, Lesotho, Botswana, Eswatini and Zimbabwe will be suspended from midday Friday and all six countries will be added to the red list -- meaning UK residents and British and Irish nationals arriving home from those points of departure must undergo a 10-day hotel quarantine at their own expense."UKHSA is investigating a new variant. More data is needed but we're taking precautions now," Javid said, adding the variant identified in South Africa "may be more transmissible" than the Delta strain and that "the vaccines that we currently have may be less effective." Javid added the UK "hasn't detected any of this new variant" in the country so far.On Friday, South African officials will brief the World Health Organization, which has classified B.1.1.529  as a "variant under monitoring."  South Africa, like much of the region, has suffered through three significant Covid-19 waves since the pandemic's start. While the number of new infections across the country is now still relatively low and positivity levels are under 5%, public health officials have already predicted a fourth wave because of a slow vaccine uptake.CNN's Duarte Mendonca contributed to this report.
A year after Mary Johnson's disappearance, federal officials are finally acting on the crisis of missing Indigenous people in America  .  (CNN)Mary Johnson was on her way to a friend's home in Oso, Washington, the day before Thanksgiving, but she never made it. A year later, her disappearance remains a mystery.Johnson, then 39 years old and an enrolled citizen of the Tulalip Tribes, was last seen on the reservation on November 25, 2020. Even though family members have posted flyers, put up a billboard on a local interstate, and a reward for information was offered by the FBI, Johnson, like many other missing Indigenous women in the United States, has not been found."At this point, we're information-driven, any information we get is followed up on, but leads are harder and harder to find as we get further along," said Wayne Schakel, a detective sergeant with the Tulalip Tribal Police Department.For years, families and activists have demanded that authorities direct more attention and resources to cases involving missing and murdered Indigenous women, arguing their cases are often overlooked or dismissed. Federal and state officials have recently publicly acknowledged that there is a "crisis of violence" against Native Americans, and have launched efforts to address it, but advocates say their response is not enough. "Nothing has changed. Nothing has changed for our communities. The rate of violence has not decreased. The rate of prosecution has not increased," said Annita Lucchesi, executive director of the Sovereign Bodies Institute, an organization that has been tabulating cases of missing and murdered Native Americans for several years.Last week, President Joe Biden signed an executive order directing federal agencies, including the departments of Justice, Interior and Homeland Security, to create a strategy within 240 days to address this "crisis of violence" against Native Americans. "For far too long, justice has been elusive for many Native American victims, survivors, and families. Criminal jurisdiction complexities and resource constraints have left many injustices unaddressed," Biden said in the order. The President also said, "previous executive action has not achieved changes sufficient to reverse the epidemic."  Nearly 5,300 American Indian and Alaska Native girls and women were reported missing last year, data from the National Crime Information Center shows. Of those cases, 578 were reported "active" at the end of the year.Advocates and experts say those figures are not comprehensive, and a number of groups, like the Sovereign Bodies Institute, have taken it upon themselves to collect data as a way to raise awareness and hold law enforcement agencies accountable. Lucchesi, who is a descendant of the Cheyenne Tribe, says a key issue fueling this crisis is the lack of empathy for victims from both community members and law enforcement."Families still have the same needs they had two years ago, five years ago. Law enforcement are still ignoring them. Cases are still going unsolved and violence continues to occur," she said.Federal officials are stepping up effortsThe issue of missing and murdered Indigenous people is now under a spotlight, with federal officials announcing actions to bolster resources to address it.The Department of Justice said on Tuesday it will be allocating $800,000 to the National Missing and Unidentified Persons System (NamUs), to provide outreach, investigative support and forensic services to cases involving American Indians and Alaska Natives. Last week, Attorney General Merrick Garland said the Justice Department will dedicate over $90 million in award grants to launch a committee dedicated to tackling the crisis of missing or murdered Indigenous people."The Justice Department has already started piloting these plans, which are driven by community needs, led by Tribes and supported by federal law enforcement. It is our hope that we will advance meaningful responses to cases of missing or murdered Indigenous people and serve as a blueprint moving forward," Garland said during the White House Tribal Nations Summit last week.Biden's order and the Justice Department's financial commitments come only weeks after the Government Accountability Office released an analysis of the federal response to this crisis of violence. The report indicates federal officials have not done enough to address the problem and have failed to fully implement two laws aimed at combating it.The legislation, the Savanna's Act and the Not Invisible Act, were enacted in October 2020 and require the Justice and Interior departments to take various actions to increase coordination, training and data collection. The report shows the agencies have taken some initial steps, but have missed statutory deadlines.While there are four federal databases that include some information on missing and murdered Indigenous people, the report's authors did not find comprehensive data on the crisis, which prevents federal officials from knowing the full extent of the problem.  Within a month after being confirmed, Interior Secretary Deb Haaland took steps to address this crisis of violence against Indigenous people. In April, she announced the creation of a new unit within the Bureau of Indian Affairs to "help put the full weight of the federal government" to investigate the cases and coordinate resources among federal agencies and Indian country. At the state level, lawmakers in Arizona, Wisconsin, Utah and several other states have in the past three years launched task forces or created offices to fight crime against Native Americans.In Oklahoma, Gov. Kevin Stitt signed Ida's law earlier this year to secure federal funding to create a local bureau of the Office of Liaison for Missing and Murdered Indigenous Persons. The legislation was named after 29-year-old Ida Beard, a citizen of the Cheyenne and Arapaho Tribes, who went missing in 2015 and has not been found. Lucchesi and other advocates welcome the increased awareness about the problem but remain skeptical about whether their efforts will help overcome a myriad of challenges that families face when a loved one goes missing, including jurisdictional issues and bureaucracy that often slow down investigations."What's the point of creating (new) initiatives to address this crisis when the laws they've already passed are not being implemented?" Lucchesi said.CNN's Christina Carrega contributed to this report.
Thousands of people have raised more than $1 million for a man who served 43 years in prison for a crime he didn't commit .  (CNN)Thousands of people are raising money online for a Missouri man who served 43 years in prison for a crime he didn't commit.Kevin Strickland, 62, was exonerated Tuesday morning after serving decades at Western Missouri Correctional Center in Cameron, Missouri. Strickland was convicted in 1979 of one count of capital murder and two counts of second-degree murder in a triple homicide. He received a 50-year life sentence without the possibility for parole for a crime that, over the years, he maintained he had not been involved in.Senior Judge James Welsh dismissed all criminal counts against Strickland. His release makes his confinement the longest wrongful imprisonment in Missouri history and one of the longest in the nation, according to The National Registry of Exonerations.The Midwest Innocence Project created a GoFundMe account to help Strickland restart his life, since he doesn't qualify for help from the state of Missouri.In Missouri, only those exonerated through DNA testing are eligible for a $50 per day of post-conviction confinement, according to the Innocence Project. That was not the case for Strickland.As of Thursday evening, donations for Strickland had topped $1 million. The fund was created over the summer with a goal of raising $7,500, which the fund says would amount to approximately $175 dollars for every year Strickland spent wrongfully convicted.Thirty-six states and Washington, DC, have laws on the books that offer compensation for exonerees, according to the Innocence Project. The federal standard to compensate those who are wrongfully convicted is a minimum of $50,000 per year of incarceration, plus an additional amount for each year spent on death row.Adjusting to a new worldStrickland said he learned of his release through a breaking news report that interrupted the soap opera he was watching Tuesday.The first thing he did after his release was visit his mother's grave."To know my mother was underneath that dirt and I hadn't gotten a chance to visit with her in the last years ... I revisited those tears that I did when they told me I was guilty of a crime I didn't commit," Strickland told CNN's Brianna Keilar Wednesday.His first night out of prison was a restless one, where thoughts of returning to prison, among others, kept him awake, he said Wednesday."I'm used to living in a close, confined cell where I know exactly what's going on in there with me," he said. "And being home and you hear the creaks of the home settling and the electrical wiring and whatever else ... I was kind of afraid. I thought somebody was coming to get me."Convicted as a teenager, exonerated as an adultFour people were shot in Kansas City, Missouri, on April 25, 1978, resulting in three deaths, according to CNN affiliate KSHB. The only survivor of the crime, Cynthia Douglas, who died in 2015, testified in 1978 that Strickland was at the scene of the triple murder.Douglas sustained a shotgun injury and told police then that Vincent Bell and Kiln Adkins were two of the perpetrators. But she did not identify Strickland, who she knew, as being at the scene until a day later, according to KSHB, after it was suggested to her Strickland's hair matched Douglas' description of the shooter. Douglas claimed her initial failure to identify him was due to the use of cognac and marijuana, according to KSHB.But for the past 30 years, she has been saying that she made a mistake and falsely identified Strickland. According to KSHB, Douglas made efforts to free Strickland through the Midwest Innocence Project.The two assailants she identified at the scene both pleaded guilty to second-degree murder and each ended up serving about 10 years in prison for the crimes, according to Strickland's attorney, Robert Hoffman.
He spent years in prison for the rape of author Alice Sebold, the subject of her memoir, 'Lucky.' A judge just exonerated him.  (CNN)For decades, throughout his years in prison and even after he was released, Anthony Broadwater insisted he was innocent of the rape of "The Lovely Bones" author Alice Sebold, a crime she described in her memoir, "Lucky."Convicted in 1982, Broadwater spent more than 16 years in prison. He was denied parole at least five times because he wouldn't admit to a crime he didn't commit, according to his attorneys. And he passed two lie detector tests.Broadwater, 61, tried five times to get the conviction overturned. And even after he was released, he didn't give up. But it didn't happen -- until Monday, when New York State Supreme Court Justice Gordon Cuffy vacated the rape conviction and other counts related to it. The Onondaga County District Attorney joined in the motion to vacate the conviction. Sebold described the rape, which happened when she was a freshman at Syracuse University in 1981, in painstaking detail in her memoir. It was published in 1999, the year after Broadwater's release from prison.Almost five months after she was raped, Sebold saw Broadwater on the street in Syracuse. He reminded her of the rapist, and she reported the encounter to police, according to Broadwater's attorneys' affirmation. But later, she failed to identify Broadwater in a police lineup. Broadwater was convicted on two pieces of evidence -- Sebold's account -- a cross-racial identification, since the author is White and Broadwater is Black -- and the analysis of a piece of hair that was later determined to be faulty, his attorneys wrote."Research has found that the risk of eyewitness misidentification is significantly increased when the witness and the subject are of different races," the affirmation stated.As to the hair analysis, in 2015, "the FBI testified that microscopic hair analysis contained errors in at least 90 percent of the cases the agency reviewed," according to the attorneys' news release."We know now that the testimony of the forensic chemist stemmed from a largely debunked forensic approach to hair microscopy," the affirmation stated.In "Lucky," Sebold wrote that "a detective and a prosecutor told her after the lineup that she picked out the wrong man and how the prosecutor deliberately coached her into rehabilitating her misidentification," according to the affirmation.CNN has reached out to Sebold and her publishing company multiple times for comment. The unreliability of the hair analysis and the conversation between the prosecutor and Sebold after the lineup would probably have led to a different verdict if it had been presented at trial, the attorneys said. "I won't sully these proceedings by saying I'm sorry," District Attorney William Fitzpatrick said in the courtroom. "That doesn't cut it. This should never have happened."Broadwater broke down in tears when the judge announced his decision."When the district attorney spoke to me, his words were so profound -- so strong -- it shook me," Broadwater told CNN on Wednesday. "It made me cry with joy and happiness because a man of this magnitude would say what he said on my behalf ... it's, it's beyond whatever I can say myself." After his release, Broadwater remained on a sex offender list. He described how the conviction had ruined his life.He struggled to find work after getting out of jail when employers found out about his criminal record."I did what I could do, and that was just you know -- creating work for myself doing landscaping, tree removal, hauling, clean-outs," he said. His wife wanted children, but "I wouldn't bring children in the world because of this. And now, we're past days, we can't have children," Broadwater told reporters after the court hearing.The couple met in 1999, about a year after he was released from prison, he told CNN. After their first date, he gave her the transcripts and other documents from his case, telling her to read them and decide if she wanted to be with him. "She believed me and she gave me more strength," he said. "I just wanted a better quality of life, but I could never get a better quality of jobs."Part of the reason Broadwater's attorneys, J. David Hammond and Melissa Swartz, got involved in the case is thanks to Tim Mucciante, who was involved in a project to develop a film adaptation of "Lucky."Mucciante "had doubts that the story was the way that it was being portrayed in the film," said Hammond, which led him to hire a private investigator who is associated with their law firm.  "It didn't take long, digging around, that we realized, OK, there's something here," said Hammond. He and Swartz listened to the transcript of the trial and found "serious legal issues," which prompted them to bring a motion, he said.Hammond and Swartz are at least the fifth set of lawyers he hired to help with his case, Broadwater said.  "I never gave up. I could never, ever give up and live under these conditions ... I was going to do everything I could to prove my innocence," he said.Days after the judge's decision, Broadwater said, "it feels so surreal, I'm still soaking it in. I'm kind of like -- afraid in a sense. I'm so happy."As to Sebold, Broadwater said he would like an apology."I sympathize with her, what happened to her," he said. "I just hope there's a sincere apology. I would accept it. I'm not bitter or have malice towards her."   
New Jersey officer faces charges after body of hit-and-run victim was found in the back seat of his car, prosecutors say. New York (CNN)A Newark, New Jersey, police officer is facing multiple charges after prosecutors said he was involved in a hit-and-run that left a 29-year-old nurse dead.Louis Santiago, 25, was off duty when prosecutors allege he traveled onto the right shoulder of the Garden State Parkway around 3 a.m. on November 1, hitting nurse Damian Dymka, according to a news release from the Essex County Prosecutor's Office. Prosecutors allege Santiago and his passenger, 25-year-old Albert Guzman, didn't render aid or call 911, "but returned to the scene multiple times" before Santiago loaded Dymka into the car "and removed him from the scene," the release said.Santiago then went to his home in Bloomfield, where he, Guzman, and Santiago's mother, Annette Santiago, discussed what to do with the body, the release said.  Eventually Santiago went back to the scene, the prosecutor's office said. Santiago's father, who is a lieutenant with the Newark Police Department, called 911 and reported his son was in an accident, the release said. "When the New Jersey State Police arrived, the victim was dead in the back seat of the car," the prosecutor's office said.Santiago has been charged with reckless vehicular homicide, desecrating/moving human remains, leaving the scene of a crash resulting in death, endangering an injured victim, tampering with physical evidence, hindering one's own apprehension, conspiracy to hinder prosecution, obstructing the administration of law and two counts of official misconduct, prosecutors said. Patrick Toscano, the attorney representing Louis Santiago, told CNN, "Officer Santiago was charged with over a dozen crimes, most of which are unfounded ... there truly was no intentional or reckless homicidal act committed by Officer Santiago at any time."Both Guzman and Annette Santiago have been charged with conspiracy to desecrate human remains, hindering apprehension, and conspiracy to hinder apprehension and tamper with physical evidence, prosecutors said.CNN reached out to Guzman's attorney for comment and was unable to determine whether Annette Santiago has representation.Louis and Annette Santiago and Guzman "have been arrested, charged, and released with conditions," the prosecutor's office said. 
Scottish deerhound Claire becomes first repeat Best in Show winner at National Dog Show.  (CNN)Claire, a Scottish deerhound, is a history maker.For the second consecutive year, Claire bested more than 180 breeds of other dogs and won the Best in Show title at the National Dog Show in Philadelphia.It is the first time a defending champion has won the top title two years in a row.Good genes must run in the family; Claire's grandmother Hickory won Best in Show at the 2011 Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show.The National Dog Show, hosted by the Kennel Club of Philadelphia, was held over two days on November 20 and 21. The show, which was first broadcast on NBC in 2002, has aired on Thanksgiving following the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade for almost 20 years.Founded by The Kennel Club of Philadelphia in 1879, the show has been held annually since 1933.The 2022 Westminster show will be held in January. 
Bear featured in countless films and TV shows dies.  (CNN)Bart the Bear II, a famed grizzly bear who had appeared in countless movies and TV series such as "We Bought a Zoo" and "Game of Thrones," has died, according to his family, Lynne and Doug Seus.In a post on The Vital Ground Foundation, which was co-founded by the Seus, it said they are "forever humbled and grateful to have shared our lives with this noble grizzly."Vital Ground works predominantly in the Rocky Mountains to conserve land for grizzly bears and other wildlife, its website says.In 2000, Bart was orphaned in Alaska with his sister, Honey Bump, after their mother was killed by a hunter, Vital Ground said. He was brought to Utah where he lived out his life as a 1,400-pound bear and became the ambassador for The Vital Ground Foundation.He was "featured in many motion pictures, including Dr. Dolittle 2, An Unfinished Life, Into the West, Evan Almighty, Have You Heard About the Morgans?, Without a Paddle, Zookeeper, Pete's Dragon, We Bought a Zoo, Into the Wild, The Grizzly Maze and Game of Thrones, as well as many other TV shows and commercials," Vital Ground said.Bart died "silently and naturally" along the banks of Daniel Creek in Utah earlier this week. He is survived by his sister Honey Bump and many at the foundation who loved him, his obituary says.
Keanu Reeves 'married under the eyes of God' to Winona Ryder .  (CNN)Keanu Reeves and Winona Ryder may be one of Hollywood's longest standing "marriages."Reeves has once again addressed talk that he and Ryder are actually married, thanks to actual priests officiating the wedding scene performed in Romania for the 1992 Francis Ford Coppola directed drama "Bram Stoker's Dracula.""We did a whole take of a marriage ceremony with real priests," Reeves said in an Esquire video. "Winona says we are [married]. Coppola says we are. So I guess we're married... under the eyes of God."Back in 2018, the two actors talked to Entertainment Weekly while promoting their rom-com "Destination Wedding," and Ryder said she believed that the pair had wed."In that scene, Francis [Ford Coppola] used a real Romanian priest," she said. "We shot the master and he did the whole thing. So I think we're married."Ryder had to remind Reeves that they had done the entire ceremony, including saying "I do.""Don't you remember that?," Ryder asked Reeves. "It was on Valentine's Day." "Oh my gosh, we're married," Reeves replied. 
Country where 54 percent of adults drink alcohol once a week may run out of liquor for Christmas . London (CNN Business)Shops in the United Kingdom could run short of wine and liquor ahead of Christmas because there aren't enough drivers to make deliveries.The warning was made in a letter sent by the UK Wine and Spirit Trade Association (WTSA) to UK Transport Secretary Grant Shapps last week. It was signed by 48 members of the industry association, including champagne and cognac makers Moet Hennessy, owned by LVMH (LVMHF), and Laurent-Perrier. "This is an urgent issue for our businesses, and it is imperative that [the UK] Government takes immediate steps to help mitigate the impact of the driver shortages crisis before the Christmas period," the letter stated.The industry wants help with better routing of freight from ports, as well as more regular updates from the government on how quickly it's processing heavy goods vehicle (HGV) driving tests and licenses. It also urged the government to extend by one year a temporary visa program allowing drivers from abroad to meet shortfalls over the longer term. The three-month program is set to expire on February 28 next year."We are already seeing major delays on wine and spirit delivery times which is pushing up costs and limiting the range of products available to UK consumers," WSTA chief executive Miles Beale said in a statement.In 2019, 54% of adults in England reported drinking alcohol at least once a week, according to research by the UK parliament.The drinks industry association said that it was taking up to five times longer for some of its members to import wine and spirits than a year ago. It also said rising costs have been passed on to importers by freight forwarders having to pay more for scarce drivers.Ed Baker, managing director of wine distributor Kingsland Drinks, said his company fills around 185 million bottles of wine every year, equal "to about one in every eight bottles" drunk in the United Kingdom.The backlog of deliveries has meant container spaces at rail hubs are in high demand, he said in a statement."We would normally expect to have 80 to 100 tank spaces, but at the moment we can be down at 10 to 20. This is limiting the amount of liquid getting to our plant and comes on top of the HGV driver shortages doing the deliveries," Baker said. The UK government said in a statement that it did not expect disruption to the supply of alcohol this Christmas. "The government acted quickly to tackle the challenges to our supply chains, which were brought on by global pressures including the pandemic and the international shortage of HGV drivers," a government spokesperson said. The shortage of truck drivers caused a fuel crisis earlier this year, with many gas stations closed and long lines at the ones that were lucky enough to get supplies. In September, the UK government deployed army fuel tankers to plug the fuel supply gaps. Supermarkets have also been struggling for months to keep their shelves fully stocked amid a supply chain crunch caused by the pandemic and worker shortages partly caused by the country's departure from the European Union. Some EU workers left after Brexit, and farms, food processing factories and trucking companies can no longer recruit from the European Union because of new UK immigration rules.The government issued 5,000 temporary visas for foreign drivers, but the UK's Road Haulage Association has said Britain needs 100,000 more drivers to meet demand. Farmers, bankers, retailers, logistics firms and restaurateurs have all warned the government in recent months that tighter immigration rules put in place after Britain left the European Union were making it hard for them to find workers and keep their businesses running. 
Ikea is offering a tiny apartment in Tokyo for less than $1 per month.  (CNN Business)Swedish retailer Ikea is becoming a landlord in Japan with a tiny apartment it will rent out in Tokyo.The 10-square-meter (107-square-foot) apartment is located in the Shinjuku district and will cost just 99 yen ($0.86) per month to rent, according to details released by Ikea this week.Only one unit is available, and it is fully furnished with Ikea furniture and accessories. The company is accepting applications from potential tenants, who must be over 20 years old, until December 3.The apartment will then be rented out with a lease through January 15, 2023, said Ikea. The tenant will have to pay their own utility bills.Ten square meters isn't much, but Ikea say they have worked hard to make the most of the available area."One of the keys is to make good use of the vertical space," the company said on its website. "By capturing the room three-dimensionally, new possibilities open up in a limited space."Tokyo is one of the most densely populated cities in the world, driving a trend for micro apartments. It is home to just over 14 million people, according to the Tokyo Metropolitan Government.Ikea is promoting its tiny home with the help of a shark named Blahaj, who features in a series of promotional videos published on YouTube.The character Blahaj portrays a real estate agent that specializes in small spaces. In the clips, Blahaj sets out his vision for the tiny apartment with the help of a member of the Ikea interior design team.This is not the first time Ikea has got involved in property.The company has a joint venture, BoKlok, with Swedish construction company Skanska, which has built affordable modular homes in Sweden, Finland and Norway.In 2019, BoKlok launched a new style of home for dementia patients, designed to let them continue living at home.Design tweaks included taking mirrors out of bathrooms and fitting kitchen appliances with old-fashioned knobs, rather than digital controls.
British man given 3D printed eye in world first, hospital says.  (CNN)A British man has become the first patient in the world to be fitted with a 3D printed eye, according to Moorfields Eye Hospital in London.Steve Verze, who is 47 and an engineer from Hackney, east London, was given the left eye on Thursday and first tried it for size earlier this month.Moorfields Eye Hospital said in a press release Thursday that the prosthetic is the first fully digital prosthetic eye created for a patient.The eye is more realistic than other alternatives, and is designed to have "clearer definition and real depth to the pupil," the hospital said.Other prosthetic eyes consist of an iris hand-painted onto a disc that is then embedded into the eye socket.However, their design prevents light from passing into the "full depth" of the eye, the hospital added in the release.As well as appearing more realistic, the procedure is considered less invasive.Fitting traditional prosthetics requires a mold to be taken of the eye socket, whereas in 3D prosthetic eye development the socket is scanned digitally to create a detailed image.Verze's functional eye was also scanned to ensure both eyes look the same.Potential to cut waiting times 'in half'The 3D image was then sent to Germany to be printed before being shipped back to the UK, where it was finished and polished by a Moorfields Eye Hospital ocularist."I've needed a prosthetic since I was 20, and I've always felt self conscious about it," Verze was quoted as saying in the press release."When I leave my home I often take a second glance in the mirror, and I've not liked what I've seen. This new eye looks fantastic and, being based on 3D digital printing technology, it's only going to be better and better," he added.Moorfields Eye Hospital said 3D printing had the potential to "cut in half" the time it takes to develop a prosthetic eye, from six weeks to around two or three.A spokesperson told CNN a clinical trial involving more patients would soon begin.Professor Mandeep Sagoo, clinical lead for the project at Moorfields Eye Hospital and professor of ophthalmology and ocular oncology at University College London, said in a statement he was "excited" about the potential of the new development method.Speaking ahead of the eye being fitted, Sagoo said: "We hope the forthcoming clinical trial will provide us with robust evidence about the value of this new technology, showing what a difference it makes for patients."
This startup wants you to like coffee-free coffee. New York (CNN Business)Beyond Meat and Impossible Foods have persuaded customers to dig into cow-free burgers. Atomo Coffee wants to do the same for coffee. The startup, which launched in 2019 and offered a limited release to the public in September, makes a canned cold brew designed to taste like coffee and give you a boost of energy — but it isn't made with coffee beans. Instead, the brand uses a combination of date seeds, chicory root and grape skin, plus caffeine, to mimic traditional coffee. Most of these ingredients are upcycled, the company said, meaning that if they weren't used by Atomo, they'd likely be thrown away. Date seeds, or pits, are usually "scattered in the field," said Atomo CEO Andy Kleitsch. "We give them a second life." But that's not the company's only eco-friendly selling point. Atomo used a service called Carbon Cloud to calculate its own footprint and looked at research on coffee's environmental impact to see how its process stacks up, Kleitsch said. It concluded that Atomo's product uses 94% less water and produces 93% fewer carbon emissions than conventional cold brew coffee.Atomo's pitch is similar to that of plant-based meat alternatives that have gotten popular in recent years: Producing the incumbent product — in Impossible and Beyond's case, animal protein, in Atomo's, coffee — is bad for the planet. This alternative is better, at least according to Atomo. The company is still in its early stages. It has a Seattle-based factory that can pump out 1,000 servings a day, according to Kleitsch. Eventually, the startup would like to offer a wider assortment of products, including instant coffee and grounds. It plans to launch in retail next year. The opportunity for a company like Atomo is big. But it will have plenty of challenges, including convincing customers of its environmental claims. Moreover, in order to get java drinkers to buy its coffee-free coffee, it will have to prove to them that it's as good as an actual cup of joe. Is there a market for coffee-less coffee? Because it may end up on retail shelves next to regular cans of cold brew, Atomo could get a lift from the growing ready-to-drink coffee market which, according to Euromonitor International, hit $4.4 billion in 2021.There's also opportunity in the still-new market for coffee alternatives, said Matthew Barry, senior beverages consultant at Euromonitor International, as coffee crops fall prey to extreme weather. Severe drought and unusual frost conditions in Brazil, the world's largest supplier of coffee beans, have wreaked havoc on the coffee market this year. One day, "high-tech solutions of coffee analogues and cultivated coffee could be used for everyday caffeination needs," and complement traditional coffee supplies, Barry said. The popularity of plant-based protein has also paved the way for a concept like Atomo's, said Jim Watson, senior beverage analyst at Rabobank. Consumers might "expect companies out there to be using technology to be doing more for us," he said, by replacing traditional products with healthier or more environmentally friendly alternatives. Someone who sees that Atomo uses upcycled ingredients might think, "I found a coffee product that fits right into these trends ... I should try that," he said, adding that Atomo has "the opportunity to potentially unlock a different consumer that was looking for something that coffee didn't offer." But Atomo may not have everyone convinced of its eco-friendly premise. Kleitsch warns that climate change and growing demand for coffee will force coffee farmers to find new land, and clear away more trees to do so. Coffee farming has certainly led to deforestation, and there are still plenty of coffee farms that don't use sustainable practices, noted Tensie Whelan, director of the Center for Sustainable Business at NYU Stern School of Business who previously served as president of the Rainforest Alliance. "There are significant challenges to conventional ways ... of growing coffee," she said. But there would be downsides to replacing coffee beans altogether, she stressed. "When grown sustainably, this is a really important source of income for local communities as well as a positive environmental benefit," she said. Growing coffee sustainably can contribute to biodiversity, she noted, adding that "It's overly simplistic to say that [growing coffee] always results in deforestation." Kleitsch agrees that there are sustainable ways to grow coffee and, because of high demand for the product, doesn't think Atomo will box out local farmers. But he doesn't believe that sustainably grown coffee will be enough. "It's going to take everyone to meet the demand for coffee," he said. "We're just trying to meet that demand in a way that causes the least harm possible." The taste test In order to really get consumers in its corner, the company will have to win on another, crucial factor: Taste. "When we first launched, we thought that the real coffee connoisseurs would hate us, honestly," Kleitsch said. "It's actually been the opposite." CNN Business asked Tom Bomford, coffee director at the upscale New York City coffee chain Black Fox Coffee, for his take on the drink. He said he thought that Atomo's product could indeed pass for the real thing ... with a caveat."It tastes like cold brew coffee," Bomford said. "Just a bad cold brew coffee, perhaps." This may not be a rave review, but the product still managed to exceed Bomford's expectations. "If you're into cold brew, there's a good chance you'll be OK with that," he said. 
How to financially prepare to quit your job . Millions of Americans are leaving their jobs these days -- and they don't always have another one lined up. Whether it's due to burnout, a desire for more flexibility or better pay, or the pursuit of an entirely different career, saying "I quit" can have long-term financial implications. "Before you leave, there are things you want to do to prepare. And then after you leave, you are going to want to look at the short-term, intermediate and the long-term implications," said Isabel Barrow, director of financial planning at Edelman Financial Engines.Here's what you need to know if you are considering quitting without another job offer:  Do a quick gut check It's a good time to be a job seeker, but make sure you are leaving for the right reasons. "The grass is very often not necessarily greener," said Tami Simon, a corporate consulting leader at employee benefits firm Segal. "Take the time to really think about what your own motivations are, and the real reason why you are thinking about leaving your job as opposed to just following a trend." If you are looking to leave because you're seeking more flexibility, money, responsibility or you want to learn new skills, now's the time to ask your current employer. CALCULATOR: How much do I need to save for retirement? "We have seen organizations learn how to be agile and flexible in a variety of different ways, certainly with their workforces," said Simon. "If you want to pursue a new direction in your career and are thinking about going back to school, well maybe your employer would be interested in helping you pursue that and maybe even help fund it."  Reaching out to a mentor or sponsor to discuss a possible change can also help provide some insight and clarity on the decision. "Talk to your trusted advisers, the people that you can really count on to always have your back and always give you the honesty that you may not be able to determine for yourself," said Simon. Timing is everythingRemember all that paperwork that you got when you started the job? It likely includes information about any potential financial impacts of quitting. Simon suggests reviewing your original offer letter, compensation arrangements and the employee manual before you announce your departure. "What are you contractually bound to?" Sometimes benefits are awarded based on how long you've been with the employer, and offers could also include non-compete clauses or clawbacks of signing bonuses or other incentives if you resign before a certain period of time.For instance, you might be anticipating a big payout for unused accrued paid time off, but according to Simon, laws vary in whether it has to be paid out."You shouldn't assume that if you give two weeks' notice and you have two weeks' worth of vacation that you can just spend [it] sitting on the beach. Make sure you take a look at how that is structured within the organization."  Leaving could also mean potentially losing out on bonuses. "We are about to hit the end of the year, there can be end-of-year bonuses or incentives that come with that," said Kristen Carlisle, general manager of Betterment 401(k) business. "While it's tempting to make a change as fast as possible...think of that as part of your total compensation and something that can help you as you make a transition when leaving your job." Evaluate your budget Job seekers have the upper hand right now, but it's hard to know how long that will last. "You have to look at the worst-case scenario," said Barrow. "In six to nine months down the road after you've taken some time off, you don't know what that job market is going to look like."Before walking away from a paycheck, create a budget that details your monthly cash inflow and spending. List all your non-discretionary living expenses, including housing, transportation, groceries, taxes, utility bills and any debts that would still need to be covered without a paycheck. Carlisle recommended having at least three to six months of living expenses saved in addition to your regular checking, savings and retirement accounts. Barrow advised having 12 to 24 months of living expenses on hand. "You really need to have a really strong cash reserve before you make the leap," Barrow said. "While you are out of work...your fridge might need to be replaced, or [you may] need a car repair or a major dental expense."And if you are planning to take this time for expensive endeavors like traveling through Europe, Barrow recommended saving for it outside of your emergency fund. She also suggested evaluating any debts -- especially credit card debts. "You need to try and tackle that and get rid of it before you leave the job. What you don't want to do is find out you have to make the choice between: 'Do I pay my mortgage or do I pay my credit card bill?' You want to get rid of some of those unsecured debts that might be at higher interest rates."   Benefits: What are you giving up? Leaving a job can also mean giving up other benefits, including health insurance. "Most employees know that their employers offer heath insurance benefits, but they don't necessarily always realize how much employers subsidize the cost," said Simon.  The Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA) generally requires employers with more than 20 workers to offer a temporary extension of health coverage to former employees for a certain amount of time. "Employers will sometimes subsidize the cost of COBRA, but most don't," said Simon. "And employers are permitted to charge up to 102% of the applicable premium for COBRA."   She added that employers are required to provide a COBRA notice that details your rights and responsibilities, including coverage costs.Another option is to find coverage on public health exchanges. You can review the options your state offers on healthcare.gov.  "[Health care] is a lot more expensive than people expect," said Barrow. "It's really important that you consider that as part of your overall budget before you leave your job."What about retirement savingsIf you have a 401(k) at your soon-to-be former employer, you'll have to make a decision on what to do with it. You have a few potential options: You can leave it in your current employer's plan if permitted, but you won't be able to make any further contributions. Or you may be able to roll it into a new employer's plan once you find a job.You could also roll a 401(k) into an individual retirement account (IRA). "Look into contributing into an IRA while you are between your jobs," said Carlisle. "As much as you can save for retirement, it sets you up for success in the long haul." She added that you should make sure you are rolling the money over into a qualified account so you don't get hit with fees.Try to avoid dipping into your 401(k) early. "A lot of people look at that 401(k) as a potential slush fund ... that is not a good option for most people outside of retirees. There are penalties involved and that pushes retirement back even further," said Barrow. You should also check to see if there are any vesting dates attached to your retirement plans. "Do you have a pension that you are leaving on the table or are you not vested fully in your 401(k)?," said Barrow. "Those are things you need to consider as well before you pull the trigger and leave.
Samsung will create 2,000 jobs in Texas with $17 billion chip factory. Seoul (CNN Business)Samsung is planning to build a $17 billion semiconductor manufacturing facility in Texas as part of efforts to tackle a global shortage of chips. Announcing its largest ever investment in the United States, the South Korean electronics giant said Tuesday that the factory would create 2,000 high-tech jobs directly, and thousands more in the local economy once it is in full operation. The facility is expected to begin operations in the second half of 2024"With greater manufacturing capacity, we will be able to better serve the needs of our customers and contribute to the stability of the global semiconductor supply chain," Kinam Kim, Vice Chairman and CEO of Samsung Electronics, said in a statement.The company said that it chose the city of Taylor in Texas for its new plant based on multiple factors, including its proximity to Samsung's current manufacturing site in Austin, the local semiconductor ecosystem, and government support. The Taylor site will span more than 5 million square meters and is expected to serve as a key location for Samsung's global semiconductor manufacturing capacity, along with its latest new production line in Pyeongtaek, South Korea.Samsung's announcement comes at a time when the Biden administration has been pushing semiconductor production and research in the United States.Although the current worldwide shortage of computer chips is primarily driven by the impact of the pandemic, extreme weather events that have hampered production and other factors, the United States has been lagging behind other producers for years. Its share of worldwide semiconductor manufacturing dropped to just 12% last year, according to the Semiconductor Industry Association. That's down from 37% in 1990. The trade group blamed "substantial" subsidies offered by foreign governments that place the United States at a "competitive disadvantage."Asian countries, including Taiwan and South Korea dominate the industry. Samsung and other South Korean manufacturers are spending huge amounts of money to shore up their production in the decade ahead.In May, Samsung said that it would invest 38 trillion Korean won ($34 billion) on production of logic chips, the brains that power computers. That brings its total spend on the business to 171 trillion won ($151 billion) over the next decade, including commitments announced in 2019.The chipmaker also announced in May that it has begun construction of the production line in Pyeongtaek — one of the world's largest hubs for semiconductor production — which it expects to complete in 2022.— Matt Egan and Diksha Madhok contributed to this report.
