Bad Bunny and Olivia Rodrigo topped Spotify streams in 2021.  (CNN)In what may come as no surprise, two names dominated this year in music streaming: Bad Bunny and Olivia Rodrigo.For the second year in a row, Puerto Rican rapper and singer Bad Bunny was the most streamed artist, according to Spotify's 2021 Wrapped, the annual breakdown of Spotify's streaming data. (Users can also check out more personal breakdowns of what they listened to in 2021.)With more than 9.1 billion streams this year, Bad Bunny beat out Taylor Swift, who came in at No. 2, followed by BTS, Drake and Justin Bieber, respectively.But the most streamed song in the world, almost predictably, is Olivia Rodrigo's smash hit "drivers license," which became so ubiquitous that it inspired its own sketch on "Saturday Night Live" and scored Rodrigo an invite to the White House. The song was streamed over 1.1 billion times, with Lil Nas X's "MONTERO (Call Me By Your Name)" coming in second.That's not the only success Rodrigo saw -- her hit "good 4 u" was the fourth most streamed song of the year, and her album "SOUR" was the most streamed album in the world -- beating Doja Cat's Grammy-nominated "Planet Her," which came in at No. 5. New albums by Dua Lipa, Justin Bieber and Ed Sheeran rounded out the top streamed albums of the year.Here's more of what the world listened to, according to Spotify's "2021 Wrapped."Most Streamed Artists GloballyBad BunnyTaylor SwiftBTSDrakeJustin BieberMost Streamed Songs Globally"drivers license" by Olivia Rodrigo"MONTERO (Call Me By Your Name)" by Lil Nas X"STAY" (with Justin Bieber) by The Kid LAROI"good 4 u" by Olivia Rodrigo"Levitating" (feat. DaBaby) by Dua LipaMost Streamed Albums GloballySOUR, Olivia Rodrigo"Future Nostalgia," Dua Lipa"Justice," Justin Bieber"=," Ed Sheeran"Planet Her," Doja Cat
Here's why the suspected Michigan school shooter has been charged with terrorism. Oxford, Michigan (CNN)Ethan Crumbley, who is accused of killing four fellow students at a Michigan high school, will be tried as an adult and faces murder, assault and weapons charges.He will also face one count of terrorism causing death, a rare charge for a school shooting.The events unfolded Tuesday at Oxford High School when, law enforcement officials say, the 15-year-old shot at people in a school hallway, firing more than 30 shots at people and through classroom doors. Three people died Tuesday and another passed away at a hospital Wednesday.Seven others -- six students and a teacher -- were wounded, Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard said.The county's top prosecutor addressed the terrorism charge."There is no playbook about how to prosecute a school shooting and candidly, I wish I'd never even had -- it didn't occur so I wouldn't have to consider it, but when we sat down, I wanted to make sure all of the victims were represented in the charges that we filed against this individual," Oakland County Prosecutor Karen McDonald told CNN. "If that's not terrorism, I don't know what is."She said there is a lot of digital evidence in the case -- video and things on social media."But you probably don't even need to see that to know how terrifying it is to be in close proximity of another student shooting and killing fellow students. I mean, it's terror," she added."Like every other child that was in that building, and I address that about the terrorism charge, we must have an appropriate consequence that speaks for the victims that were not killed or injured but also, they were affected, how do they go back to school?"She said many students can't eat or sleep."Their parents are sleeping next to them and we shouldn't ignore that," she told CNN. "There are obviously four children who were murdered and many others injured but over 1,000 were also victimized as well."At Crumbley's arraignment Wednesday, prosecutor Marc Keast said Crumbley came out of a school bathroom and started firing. Crumbley walked down the hall at a "methodical pace" and fired more shots.This continued for another four or five minutes and he went to another bathroom, Keast said. When deputies arrived, Crumbley put the gun down and surrendered, the prosecutor said.Michigan law defines an act of terrorism as a "willful and deliberate act that is all of the following:""An act that would be a violent felony under the laws of this state, whether or not committed in this state."An act that the person knows or has reason to know is dangerous to human life."An act that is intended to intimidate or coerce a civilian population or influence or affect the conduct of government or a unit of government through intimidation or coercion."The criminal complaint against Crumbley refers to the third condition and says the act was committed against the Oxford High School community.Charging an accused school shooter with terrorism is rare. In 2018, an Ocala, Florida student who shot through a door and wounded another student, was charged with terrorism and later pleaded no contest to that count and other charges. That incident occurred two months after gunman Nikolas Cruz shot more than 30 people as he moved for more than 10 minutes through Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida.Cruz was charged with 34 counts of premeditated murder and attempted murder. He did not face a terrorism charge. He recently pleaded guilty and is awaiting sentencing.CNN's Shimon Prokupecz reported from Oxford and CNN's Steve Almasy reported and wrote in Atlanta. CNN's Carolyn Sung in Michigan and Kristina Squeglia contributed to this report.
Authorities look for motive with 15-year-old Michigan high school shooting suspect in custody. Here's what we know.  (CNN)School bells were replaced by police sirens Tuesday after a shooting at Michigan's Oxford High School left four students dead.Six other students and a teacher were wounded by gunfire, and a 15-year-old suspect is in custody and has been charged as an adult, authorities said.  The attack was the deadliest US school shooting since eight students and two teachers were slain in May 2018 at Texas' Santa Fe High School, according to a CNN tally. There have been 48 shootings this year on K-12 campuses, 32 of them since August 1.Here's what we know about Tuesday's mass shooting:How the incident unfoldedDeputies were dispatched to the school at 12:52 p.m., Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard said, noting that more than 100 911 calls were placed. As police were swarming the campus, students and staff began barricading doors and hiding in classrooms.Law enforcement officers quickly entered the building and had the suspect in custody within three minutes of their arrival, the sheriff said.Once the suspect encountered the officers, he put his hands up and they took a gun from him before placing him in custody.The weapon deputies said was used in the shooting, a 9mm Sig Sauer SP2022 semiautomatic pistol, was purchased by the suspect's father on Friday, four days before the shootings at the school, Bouchard said.Three 15-round magazines were found at the scene, and the gun had seven rounds of ammunition, Bouchard said. Investigators recovered more than 30 shell casings, said the sheriff, who'd earlier said at least a dozen rounds were fired."We believe he fired at least 30 shots," he said.Bouchard said two 15-round magazines were recovered by investigators and a third was recovered in the overnight hours. Investigators also learned the suspect had 18 rounds left, with seven in his pocket."With this much ammunition still with him ... the quick actions of the school and the lockdown as well as the deputies going to the danger, saved lives," Bouchard said.An Oakland County Sheriff's Office deputy assigned to the school helped take the suspect into custody, Undersheriff Michael McCabe said. Investigators believe there were no other weapons involved, and there's no indication the suspect was wearing body armor. No shots were fired by responding law enforcement and the suspect was not injured, McCabe said.What we know about the victimsInvestigators identified the victims who died as Madisyn Baldwin, 17, Tate Myre, 16, Hana St. Juliana, 14, and Justin Shilling, 17. Tate died in a patrol car as a deputy was attempting to rush him to the hospital due to the "severity of his wounds," Bouchard said. Justin died Wednesday morning, according to the Oakland County Sheriff's office.Seven others -- six students and a teacher -- were shot, Bouchard said.Among the wounded were a 14-year-old girl who was on a ventilator following surgery, Bouchard said Tuesday night. On Wednesday, it was announced she had been taken off the ventilator and was in stable condition. A 14-year-old boy also had a gunshot wound to the jaw and head. The teacher, a 15-year-old and 17-year-old boy were discharged, Bouchard said Wednesday. There were multiple other non-life-threatening injuries sustained by people as they rushed out of the school, Bouchard said. Most were treated and released at a staging area, he said.What we know about the suspectThe suspect was identified as Ethan Crumbley, 15, a sophomore at the school. He was held at Oakland County Children's Village -- a juvenile detention facility -- and later transferred to the Oakland County Jail. "We don't have a motive at this point in time," McCabe said Tuesday. "We are still investigating that."Michigan law prevents police from talking to a juvenile without parental permission, and the suspect's parents have refused that permission and requested a lawyer, Bouchard said.Oakland County Prosecutor Karen D. McDonald said the suspect has been charged with the following: one count of terrorism causing deathfour counts of first-degree murderseven counts of assault with intent to murder12 counts of possession of a firearm during the commission of a felony."It is possible there could be additional charges" when the investigation is complete, McDonald said. McDonald's office will consider charges against the suspect's parents, she said. The potential charges stem from the parents owning a gun. McDonald said that means securing it properly, ensuring ammunition is kept separate, among other legal responsibilities."We have to hold individuals accountable who don't do that," she said.CNN has pressed the prosecutor to speak on whether evidence was recovered to support potential charges, and which charges are being considered. The prosecutor declined to go into detail citing the investigation, but reiterated that an announcement would be made as soon as possible regarding whether charges would be brought.CNN has attempted to reach out to the Crumbley's parents and is attempting to identify an attorney for them.Bouchard said the 15-year-old had not been on law enforcement radar prior to the shooting.Authorities did learn after the shooting that Crumbley and his parents met with school officials a few hours before the shooting. Officials met with just the suspect the day before and with the suspect and parents the day of the shooting, Bouchard said."The day before, it was a meeting with school personnel about some concerning behavior and the meeting the day of was with school personnel and parents about a different issue," Bouchard said.The sheriff declined to go into issues on either day."Prior to those two meetings there was no contact or nothing in his file by either concerning behavior or discipline," he said.What we know about the investigationInvestigators have a "tremendous amount of video footage" to review from cameras in the school, Bouchard said.A search warrant was executed at Crumbley's home Tuesday, McCabe said. Authorities seized a phone and are examining other seized items, Bouchard said.Authorities also are investigating pictures of a target and the weapon posted on social media by the suspect, he added.During Crumbley's arraignment Wednesday, Lt. Tim Willis said two separate videos were recovered from the suspected shooter's cellphone in which he talked about shooting and killing students the next day at Oxford High School.In addition to the cellphone, a journal was recovered from Crumbley's backpack detailing his "desire to shoot up the school," Willis said."We believe we have some writings that contain some of his thoughts," Bouchard said Wednesday, adding he didn't immediately know whether the writings reveal intent.Video from the school shows the assailant was "shooting people at close range -- oftentimes toward the head or chest," Bouchard told CNN's "New Day" on Wednesday."It's chilling. It's absolutely cold-hearted, murderous," he said.Prosecutors said during the arraignment they've seen video from the school surveillance cameras showing Crumbley "methodically and deliberately" walking the hallways, aiming a gun at students and firing."What is depicted on that video, honestly judge, I don't have the words to describe how horrific that was," said prosecutor Marc Keast.Correction: An earlier version of this story misspelled the name of Hana St. Juliana.
A beloved football player and a senior with college scholarships among Michigan school shooting victims.  (CNN)Friends, family and an entire Michigan high school are grieving the loss of four students after a 15-year-old boy opened fire during the school day, killing four peers and shooting seven others on campus.A suspect was in custody after Tuesday's shooting at Oxford High School in Oxford, Michigan, authorities said. More than 100 calls to 911 were made. About two to three minutes after officers arrived, they found the 15-year-old -- and took him into custody without incident, Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard said.The students who lost their lives were Tate Myre, 16; Hana St. Juliana, 14, Madisyn Baldwin, 17 and Justin Shilling, 17, authorities said. Shilling died Wednesday morning, according to the Oakland County Sheriff's office.Here's what we know about some of the victims:Tate Myre, 16It's clear Tate Myre was dedicated to his sport. He was a star football player who had earned a spot on the varsity team since he was a freshman at Oxford High School, the team said in a tweet. Not only was he talented on the field, he excelled academically and was an honor student."It is with great grief that one of the victims of the tragic event at OHS today was one of our own, Tate Myre," the team tweeted Tuesday evening. "Tate was a great young man with a bright future and beloved by all. You will be missed, Tate." Myre's own Twitter account is full of game highlights and scrimmage videos showcasing his abilities. One of his last tweets, on November 28, thanked the University of Toledo football team for having him at one of their games. A deputy had loaded Myre into their car after the shooting, but he died on the way to the hospital, the sheriff said.An online petition has surfaced calling for the school's football stadium to be renamed after Myre."Tate is not just a hero to his fellow students at Oxford High School but a legend, his act of bravery should be remembered forever and passed down through generations, he put his life in danger to try and help the thousands of other students at Oxford High School," the petition says.As of Wednesday morning, it had collected more than 48,000 signatures. Madisyn Baldwin, 17Madisyn Baldwin was expected to graduate this year, her family told CNN affiliate WDIV, and had already been accepted to several colleges -- some with full scholarships. Her grandmother, Jennifer Graves Mosqueda, known to Baldwin as "GiGi,"  announced the family's loss on Facebook and created a GoFundMe campaign on behalf of Baldwin's mother and father."This beautiful, smart, sweet loving girl was tragically taken from us all today leaving a huge hole in all of our hearts ... ," Graves Mosqueda wrote on Facebook. "This horrific day could never have been imagined or planned for.""My daughter and son-in-law would never ask for anything during this time, however I want them to be able to be with each other, their other children and family during this time without worrying about work, bills and arrangements," she wrote on the campaign site.Baldwin was an artist who loved to draw, read and write, her family told WDIV. She was the eldest of three siblings, had a younger half brother and two sisters she loved dearly, they said.Hana St. Juliana, 14The Oxford High School women's basketball team shared a tribute Wednesday to 14-year-old school shooting victim Hana St. Juliana. "We will never forget your kind heart, silly personality, and passion for the game," the team wrote on Twitter. "Since 6th grade camp you have stayed dedicated to Oxford Basketball, soaking in the game."The team stated Tuesday night it would have been her debut with the team."This season we play for you Hana," the team wrote.Justin Shilling, 17Justin Shilling, who died Wednesday morning, according to the Oakland County Sheriff's Office, was described by his employer as co-captain of the bowling team, a devoted friend and so much more.Anita's Kitchen, where Shilling worked, shared a statement on social media about him."We've just learned of the passing of one of our bright, young Lake Orion employees, Justin Shilling, in relation to the tragic events that took place at Oxford High School yesterday," his workplace wrote. "Justin was an exemplary employee, a devoted friend and co-worker, co-captain of his bowling team, and simply a pleasure to be around. Our thoughts are with his family and friends at this difficult time."The family-owned business has three locations in Michigan and they have employed many Oxford High School students."Since we opened our doors in Lake Orion in December of 2019, much of our staff has consisted of Oxford High School students," the business wrote. "We often marvel at how blessed we are to have such amazing kids as part of our Lake Orion team. Simply put - we would not be a restaurant without them. Our heart aches for them all today, as they begin to heal from this terrible tragedy."Six other students and a teacher shotSeven others -- six students and a teacher -- were shot, authorities said.Among the wounded were a 14-year-old girl who was on a ventilator following surgery, Bouchard said Tuesday night. A 14-year-old boy also had a gunshot wound to the jaw and head, while the teacher who was shot has been discharged. Senior Aiden Page was in a classroom when he heard two gunshots Tuesday afternoon -- part of what authorities called a sophomore's "absolutely cold-hearted, murderous" rampage. Just like in the active shooter drills they'd practiced, Page watched his teacher run in and lock the door, then students shoved desks against it, he told CNN's Anderson Cooper."We grabbed calculators, we grabbed scissors just in case the shooter got in and we had to attack them," he said, describing how a bullet pierced one of the desks they'd used to block the door.The attack was the deadliest US school shooting since eight students and two teachers were slain in May 2018 at Texas' Santa Fe High School, according to Education Week. There have been 28 school shootings this year -- 20 since August 1 -- by its tally.CNN's Amanda Jackson contributed to this report.
January 6 committee moves to hold former DOJ official in contempt but also gives him one last chance to cooperate.  (CNN)The House select committee investigating the January 6 attack on the US Capitol approved on Wednesday night the report to hold former Department of Justice official Jeffrey Clark in contempt of Congress for defying his subpoena by refusing to answer questions during a recent deposition and failing to hand over documents to the panel. But the panel is also giving Clark another opportunity to appear, on Saturday, in light of a new letter he sent to the committee stating that he intends to claim Fifth Amendment protection.A select committee aide tells CNN that due to Clark getting the new deposition date, the plan is to wait to hold a full House vote on the contempt report until at least after the weekend.If Clark answers the committee's questions by pleading the Fifth Amendment, the panel will likely have to stop the process of holding him in criminal contempt. If Clark continues to stonewall the committee, and invoke the Fifth Amendment in ways the committee deems illegitimate, the panel will proceed with a floor vote as soon as next week.Committee Chairman Bennie Thompson, a Mississippi Democrat, said in his opening remarks on Wednesday that Clark will be given the opportunity to appear in front of the panel on Saturday for a new deposition in light of him sending the new letter to the committee indicating that he intends to claim Fifth Amendment protection.  "Even though Mr. Clark previously had the opportunity to make these claims on the record, the Select Committee will provide him another chance to do so. I have informed Mr. Clark's attorney that I am willing to convene another deposition at which Mr. Clark can assert that privilege on a question-by-question basis, which is what the law requires of someone who asserts the privilege against self-incrimination," Thompson said. "We have just learned that Mr. Clark has agreed to appear again to continue his deposition."But Thompson said the committee would proceed with considering the contempt request, and all nine members voted to pass the report out of committee Wednesday night. Following passage in the House chamber, it would get referred to the Justice Department, which would then have to decide whether to prosecute. Republican Rep. Liz Cheney of Wyoming, the vice chair of the committee, said Wednesday that the committee "will not finalize his contempt process if Mr. Clark genuinely cures his failure to comply with the subpoena this Saturday."Rep. Jamie Raskin, who also serves on the committee, told CNN after the meeting that Clark's attempt to assert his Fifth Amendment right at this point in the process "may reflect an eroding confidence in the executive privilege argument."The Maryland Democrat warned, however, that pleading the Fifth will not be a simple process and it will still force Clark to confront specific questions about what he may or may not know about the events leading up to January 6."You can't plead the Fifth to an entire prosecution. You can't plead the Fifth to every question you might be asked. So it applies only when you have a specific and reasonable apprehension that your answer could be used against you in a criminal prosecution," Raskin said.He pointed out that when asked a specific question Clark will be forced to confront what about the query may put him in a compromised legal situation: "He didn't state which criminal statutes he was referring to -- whether it was election fraud or criminal conspiracy or whatever -- but presumably he would have an opportunity to explain what are the underlying criminal statutes he's afraid of being prosecuted under."Although Raskin said the committee would not "begrudge anyone in honest invocation of the Fifth Amendment," he added that Clark's case to invoke it here is "certainly unusual" and noted that Clark's former Justice Department superiors, Jeffrey Rosen and Richard Donoghue, had spoken to the committee without invoking the Fifth Amendment.The criminal contempt report marks another critical milestone in the investigation as the panel hopes that even the remote threat of jail time inspires more Trump-aligned witnesses to cooperate. A decision by Clark's former department to prosecute him on criminal contempt charges would make him the second person to face a serious legal penalty for blowing off the select committee's requests.Former President Donald Trump ally Steve Bannon is awaiting trial for a misdemeanor criminal contempt charge after he refused to show up for a deposition or provide documents to the committee, citing executive privilege claims made by Trump.The contempt report on Clark, which was released Tuesday night, outlines the efforts the committee made to get him to comply with the subpoena, and Clark's failure to do so.Hours before the meeting was scheduled to take place, Thompson told CNN the new letter to the committee suggested Clark may invoke his Fifth Amendment right to not answer the committee's questions.The letter indicated a new strategy by Clark, who has gone to great lengths to avoid cooperating with the committee, including claiming that any information he'd be able to provide is protecting by either executive or attorney-client privilege.Clark has not formally invoked the Fifth Amendment with his dealings with the committee, but Thompson said his actions indicated that was the direction he was headed. The chairman made it clear, however, it was not something that would prevent the committee from moving ahead with its plans to refer him for criminal contempt."He walked out on a deposition," Thompson said. "That kind of puts you in a weak position to make any type of assertion."Democratic Rep. Zoe Lofgren of California, one of the members on the panel described the new letter from Clark's legal team as "frivolous" earlier in the day."They've just sent a very long letter that I've read through that just seems like frivolous honestly, but I want the lawyers on the committee staff to give us their advice," Lofgren said.In its 22-page report, the committee said Clark had violated Justice Department policy when he met with Trump to discuss efforts to overturn the 2020 election and, further, held conversations with members of Congress about delegitimizing the election.The report states that the committee communicated with Clark's attorneys multiple times, even allowing an extension for them to produce records and appear for a deposition. But when Clark did finally appear, the committee said, his attorney handed the panel's staff a 12-page letter objecting to almost every question on the grounds that Trump was entitled to confidential legal advice -- what Clark's attorney called a "sacred trust."The letter further argued that "the general category of executive privilege, the specific categories of the presidential communications, law enforcement, and deliberative process privileges, as well as attorney-client privilege and the work product doctrine, all harmonize on this point," according to the report.After being pressed to answer questions that the committee believed wouldn't justify executive privilege claims, Clark "abruptly left" the deposition.The documents Clark was asked to hand over included communications with Trump, senior members of the White House, Trump's reelection campaign, John Eastman -- a conservative lawyer working with the then-President's legal team -- and state officials.Ahead of the vote, Thompson said he felt confident the measure will pass the committee with ease, but did not guarantee a unanimous vote. "I think we've made the effort to be as agreeable as we can, and now it's time for us as a committee to make a decision and move on," Thompson said.  "We can't continue to waste time on a person who was subpoenaed who doesn't follow through on what's required."This story and headline have been updated to reflect additional developments Wednesday.
Symone Sanders, Harris' chief spokesperson, to leave White House.  (CNN)Symone Sanders, Vice President Kamala Harris' chief spokesperson and senior adviser, is leaving the Biden administration at the end of the year, according to a source familiar with the decision."Symone has served honorably for three years," the source told CNN. "The President and vice president are grateful for Symone's service and advocacy for this White House. She is a valued member, a team player, and she will be missed. We are grateful to have her working through the end of the year."Her expected exit marks the second departure among Harris' top communication staff in recent weeks. Last month, a White House official told CNN that the vice president's communications director, Ashley Etienne, was leaving to pursue "other opportunities." News of each departure followed a myriad of reports, including by CNN, of staff infighting and dysfunction. Still, the source dismissed that Sanders' exit has to do with reports of dysfunction, calling it the right time for her to go.Harris has known for some time about Sanders' upcoming departure, according to a second source familiar. Anita Dunn, a former top Biden aide, praised Sanders as "an extraordinary talent" in an interview with CNN on Wednesday night."Symone has been working at the highest levels and in an extraordinarily intense environment for three years for Joe Biden. And now also for Vice President Harris," Dunn said. "When you look at the three years, two on the campaign, one in the White House, nobody can question her decision that she needs a break and it's time to move on. And she'll always be a member of the Biden-Harris family."Sanders, a 31-year-old African American political strategist, joined the White House from Joe Biden's 2020 presidential campaign, on which she served as a senior adviser. She was also the national press secretary for Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders' 2016 presidential campaign and was a political analyst for CNN prior to joining Biden's campaign.During her time in the vice president's office, Sanders helped lead messaging for Harris, who has been tasked with what allies and supporters view as a thorny portfolio. Adding another dimension to Sanders' efforts, Harris -- who has been dogged with messaging challenges since her unsuccessful presidential campaign -- has publicly fumbled the White House's message during her time as vice president.In February, West Virginia Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin expressed frustration over a television interview Harris did in his home state to promote the American Rescue Plan, suggesting the administration did not give him a heads up. During her first foreign trip, Harris -- who heads diplomatic efforts to stem migration from the Northern Triangle -- had to deal with the fallout over her response about why she has not at that point visited the US-Mexico border as vice president. And over the summer, White House had to dive into damage control following reports of dysfunction within Harris' staff. The interview during which she made the border comment came after Harris had participated in a wide-ranging media training session to improve her delivery and presentation in interviews and speeches. That training had been one of several sessions over the last year, according to multiple sources. In September, the vice president's office also attempted to contain the fallout over Harris' lack of pushback in an exchange with a student who characterized Israel's actions toward Palestinians as "an ethnic genocide and a displacement of people."Since the messaging missteps, the vice president's office has hired two communications veterans -- Lorraine Voles, a crisis communications specialist, and Adam Frankel, a former Obama speechwriter -- to focus their efforts on "organizational development, strategic communications and long-term planning," according to the White House. Sanders had previously made her White House ambitions known, writing in her 2020 memoir, "No, You Shut Up," "One day I want to be White House press secretary." Bakari Sellers, a friend of Sanders, told the Washington Post this past spring that the decision to make Jen Psaki the White House press secretary "stung" Sanders and that being passed over "hurt." Harris' team will likely see other exits over time."Offices reconstitute themselves. Symone is not the last person who will leave the White House," Dunn told CNN. This story has been updated with additional details Wednesday.CNN's Jeremy Diamond, Arlette Saenz and Rachel Janfaza contributed to this report.
Alec Baldwin: 'I didn't pull the trigger' of gun on 'Rust' set.  (CNN)Alec Baldwin told ABC News he never pulled the trigger of the gun that shot director of photography Halyna Hutchins on the set of "Rust.""The trigger wasn't pulled. I didn't pull the trigger," Baldwin said in an excerpt released Wednesday from the sit-down interview -- his first since the October shooting.When asked why he pointed the gun at Hutchins and pulled the trigger when that wasn't in the script, Baldwin said, "I would never point a gun at anyone and then pull the trigger, never."Baldwin also said he has no idea how a live bullet got in the Colt .45 revolver he used in the scene. "Someone put a live bullet in the gun, a bullet that wasn't even supposed to be on the property," he said.An emotional Baldwin visibly fights back tears when talking about Hutchins. "She was someone who was loved by everyone who worked with her, liked by everyone who worked with her -- and admired," Baldwin said, adding, "it doesn't seem real to me."  When asked by George Stephanopoulos if the shooting was the worst thing that had ever happened to him, Baldwin said yes, "because I think back and I think, what could I have done?"ABC is set to air the interview Thursday night.Hutchins was killed and director Joel Souza injured in October after Baldwin discharged a weapon during a rehearsal that contained what authorities suspect was a live round.The incident, which remains under investigation, has renewed calls for better safety practices on sets with regards to the use of weapons.Baldwin has said he believes police officers should be present on "every film/TV set that uses guns, fake or otherwise" to monitor weapons safety. 
Stacey Abrams announces she's running for governor in Georgia.  (CNN)Georgia Democrat Stacey Abrams announced on Wednesday that she is running for governor, setting up a possible rematch with Georgia GOP Gov. Brian Kemp in what could become one of the most closely watched races in the country.The voting rights advocate and former top Democrat in the Georgia House of Representatives tweeted her announcement, saying she is running "because opportunity in our state shouldn't be determined by zip code, background or access to power."Abrams' announcement is a boon for Democrats. Abrams ran for governor in 2018, losing to Kemp by 1.4 points, but her campaign vaulted her into the upper echelons of the Democratic Party and made her a fundraising force who will be able to throw millions at a run. Democrats believe demographic and political changes in Georgia -- as evidenced by President Joe Biden's electoral victory there last year and the state being represented by two Democrats in the Senate -- make it more possible for a Democrat to become the top executive in the state."That's the job of governor -- to fight for one Georgia, our Georgia," Abrams said in her announcement video. "And now, it is time to get the job done."Abrams is also expected to clear the Democratic field in the race, something that has not been the case for Kemp and Republicans. After drawing the ire of former President Donald Trump for not more forcefully going along with his baseless claims of voter fraud in Georgia and elsewhere in the 2020 election, Trump turned on Kemp and has pledged to make him politically pay for his disloyalty.A possible vehicle for Trump's revenge tour: Former Sen. David Perdue, who lost reelection to Sen. Jon Ossoff in a runoff at the beginning of the year.Republicans in the state have told CNN they expect Perdue to make a decision soon about running against Kemp in next year's primary, after Perdue allies floated the possibility in October.A match-up between Kemp and Perdue could not only upend Georgia's governor race but split the GOP at a time when the party's dominance in the state has been threatened by recent electoral wins by Democrats. Some Republicans fear that a contested primary over the issue of the 2020 election could only further damage the GOP.Trump's anger at Kemp is so deep that he has at times lauded Abrams as a way to attack the Republican governor. While speaking in Georgia earlier this year, Trump said of Kemp, "Stacey, would you like to take his place? It's OK with me."He added: "Of course having her, I think, might be better than having your existing governor, if you want to know what I think. Might very well be better."GOP division would give a boost to Abrams in an election year that is otherwise looking difficult for Democrats."The odds are only in her favor if the Republicans have a bloody primary," said Erick Erickson, the Atlanta-based conservative talk-radio host.The Republican Governors Association has said it will support GOP incumbents, including Kemp, who face primary challenges. Dave Rexrode, the RGA's executive director, reiterated that position in a tweet that also went after Abrams."We defeated her once (even though she failed to admit it) and we'll do it again," Rexrode tweeted Wednesday. "[The RGA] are all-in to re-elect [Kemp] and keep GA heading in the right direction."Abrams first ran for office in 2007, when she won her Georgia House seat. Over the next 10 years, she built a strong reputation within the Democratic Party in Georgia, a standing that helped her launch her 2018 gubernatorial campaign -- a bid that would've made her the nation's first Black woman state leader.She lost that election, but the exposure during the race turned Abrams into a well-known and sought-after Democrat. After the election, Abrams founded Fair Fight, an organization that advocates for voter protection across the country, and found herself high on Biden's list of possible vice presidential nominees in 2020.Abrams' rise in the Democratic Party made her more of a target to Republicans, who have repeatedly criticized the way she refused to concede the 2018 race to Kemp because of voter suppression concerns."So, let's be clear -- this is not a speech of concession, because concession means to acknowledge an action is right, true or proper," she said when she ended her campaign. "As a woman of conscience and faith, I cannot concede that. But, my assessment is the law currently allows no further viable remedy."Kemp responded to Abrams' Wednesday announcement by saying "next November's election for Governor is a battle for the soul of our state.""I'm in the fight against Stacey Abrams, the failed Biden agenda, and their woke allies to keep Georgia the best place to live, work, and raise a family," the governor added.
Sobbing Capitol rioter described his assault of police Officer Michael Fanone: 'My God. What did I just do?'.  (CNN)The Capitol rioter accused of firing the Taser at one of the most outspoken police officers wounded on January 6 had told federal investigators in March he had come to Washington, DC, to respond to then-President Donald Trump's call -- and that he regretted what he had done.The Justice Department released video on Tuesday of the extensive March 2021 interview two federal investigators did with alleged Capitol rioter Daniel Joseph Rodriguez. The 38-year-old Californian is accused of shocking Metropolitan Police Officer Michael Fanone with a stun gun amid an intense standoff between Trump supporters and law enforcement during the insurrection, and of participating in a conspiracy to attack of the Capitol. He has pleaded not guilty."This is not how we back the blue. And I tased one of them," Rodriguez said in the interview. When asked what he would tell Fanone now, Rodriguez sobbed, then muttered, with his head down: "I'm sorry he had to go through that. It's not right that he had to suffer like that. And it puts fear in him and worrying about his life. He was scared for his own life and thought about having to kill us. And he was willing to die because of his beliefs, too.""Do you think he was doing the right thing?" the agent asked him. "Yeah. He was doing his job," Rodriguez said.Rodriguez also described the moment of the assault: "When I did it, I was like, oh, my God. What did I just do? And I got out of there. I left. I did it and I left," he said.In the interview, conducted with Rodriguez behind a table cornered by the agents, Rodriguez said he felt prompted to take part in right-wing political rallies because of InfoWars, and because he was called by Trump to battle. He also spoke about a belief he was being antagonized by leftist activists from Black Lives Matter and Antifa before January 6."Trump called us. Trump called us to D.C. ... If he's the commander in chief and the leader of our country, and he's calling for help -- I thought he was calling for help," Rodriguez said in the interview. He also described preparing for a "big battle" or "civil war" with leftists."Are we all that stupid that we thought we were going to go do this and save the country and it was all going to be fine after? We really thought that. That's so stupid, huh?" he said near the end of the interview. The video is the first of its kind released as part of the Capitol riot investigation. It became part of the court record after Rodriguez's attorneys attempted to suppress it from his case, so his admissions could not be held against him at trial. A federal judge ordered the video's release this week, after a media coalition led by CNN that has sought public access in the Capitol riot cases asked for it to be made public.Rodriguez was indicted last week as part of a group that prosecutors say planned to be violent together on January 6. He was originally charged in March and is in jail while he awaits trial.The video of his interview provides a gripping window into the approach the FBI has taken toward many of the rioters -- pressing them for hours shortly after their arrests but before their court proceedings are in full swing. With Rodriguez, two agents, one identified as Enrique Armenta and the other only identified as "Special Agent Elias" coax him to open up about why Rodriguez came to Washington on January 6.They also warned him how serious the charges he faces could be, the importance that he not lie to them, and by telling him they can help him if he helps them get the facts straight. "Danny, you understand how serious this is, right?" Armenta asks him during the interview. "Full disclosure, all the cards are out on the table, you're looking at seven federal felony counts. Seven.""What is that? The rest of my life in prison?" Rodriguez responded. Rodriguez currently faces eight federal criminal counts, in one of the most serious sets of charges among the almost 700 riot defendants. In addition to assault and conspiracy, prosecutors also allege Rodriguez destroyed property inside the Capitol and stole an emergency hood from a congressional office.In parts of the interview, the investigators press Rodriguez for the names and actions of other alleged rioters with whom he interacted on or before January 6, and where he got the Taser he used on Fanone. He insisted it was not the same Taser his group brought to Washington.
CNN suspends Chris Cuomo indefinitely. New York (CNN Business)CNN has suspended prime time anchor Chris Cuomo "indefinitely, pending further evaluation," after new documents revealed the cozy and improper nature of his relationship with aides to his brother, former New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo.A second hour of "Anderson Cooper 360" aired in Cuomo's place on Tuesday night. A town hall about Covid-19 will air Wednesday night.Tuesday's announcement about the suspension was the equivalent of a cable news shockwave. Cuomo's 9 p.m. program is frequently CNN's most-watched hour of the day. He is a larger-than-life presence at the network. And he was determined to stay on TV this year despite a flurry of sexual misconduct allegations against his brother, which culminated in the governor's resignation three months ago.But new documents released on Monday showed that the veteran journalist was more intimately involved than previously known in shaping his brother's defense."The New York Attorney General's office released transcripts and exhibits Monday that shed new light on Chris Cuomo's involvement in his brother's defense," a CNN spokesperson said Tuesday evening. "The documents, which we were not privy to before their public release, raise serious questions.""When Chris admitted to us that he had offered advice to his brother's staff, he broke our rules and we acknowledged that publicly," the spokesperson continued. "But we also appreciated the unique position he was in and understood his need to put family first and job second.""However, these documents point to a greater level of involvement in his brother's efforts than we previously knew," the spokesperson added. "As a result, we have suspended Chris indefinitely, pending further evaluation."The spokesperson did not share any further details, but it's possible that Cuomo will remain on the bench for weeks.The anchorman declined to comment on Tuesday night, but he took to his radio show Wednesday to address the suspension. "It hurts to even say it. It's embarrassing," he said on his SiriusXM show. "But I understand it."Chris Cuomo said that he never wanted to "compromise any of my colleagues" and said he will respect the process evaluating his conduct. He added he will refrain from talking about the issue further. The suspension came after significant criticism from people who noted that Cuomo had violated widely accepted journalistic norms. Inside CNN, some staffers expressed dismay about the anchor's conduct. Charlotte Bennett, a former aide to Andrew Cuomo who came forward in February to accuse him of sexual harassment, called for CNN to "immediately take action.""Anything short of firing Chris Cuomo reflects a network lacking both morals and a backbone," Bennett said in a tweet Tuesday.The "Cuomo Prime Time" team had been planning for Tuesday's broadcast up until the suspension announcement around 6:15 p.m. Eastern, a person familiar with the matter said. Cooper's team was also blindsided by the news and left scrambling to fill the extra hour.After the news was made public, an emotional Chris Cuomo met with the show's staff.While many media critics said the suspension was necessary, some viewers expressed disappointment that he was taken off the air.CNN has not said what will fill the time slot while Cuomo is sidelined.The documents released by New York Attorney General Letitia James on Monday included text messages and transcripts of interviews with investigators who led the probe into allegations against the governor.The cache of documents included text messages between Chris Cuomo and Melissa DeRosa, a then-top aide to Gov. Andrew Cuomo, that suggested he was instrumental in working to craft a defense against a flood of sexual misconduct allegations.The text messages also revealed that Chris Cuomo sought to use his connections in the press to help prepare the then-governor's team as accusers started to make their stories public.Chris Cuomo also acknowledged to investigators that he did attempt to learn more about a story by journalist Ronan Farrow. The anchor defended the practice as conventional."The idea of one reporter calling another to find out about what's coming down the pipe is completely business-as-usual," he said.When Andrew Cuomo resigned as governor in August, Chris Cuomo told CNN viewers that he was "not an advisor," but "a brother." He acknowledged that he talked with his brother's aides and gave his "take" until CNN told him to stop doing so in May.The "Cuomo Prime Time" anchor also said on the air in August, "I never attacked nor encouraged anyone to attack any woman who came forward. I never made calls to the press about my brother's situation."Monday's revelations cast some doubt on his statement about his interactions with the press."I would -- when asked, I would reach out to sources, other journalists, to see if they had heard of anybody else coming out," Chris Cuomo said during testimony.Chris Cuomo also said under oath what he told CNN viewers earlier this year: That he "never influenced or attempted to control CNN's coverage of my family."During the questioning, he reiterated that sentiment, saying, "If I had tried to influence any of the reporting at CNN or anywhere else, I guarantee you people would know, and so would a lot of others."In its May statement, CNN had said, "Chris has not been involved in CNN's extensive coverage of the allegations against Governor Cuomo — on air or behind the scenes." The network's statement added, "In part because, as he has said on his show, he could never be objective. But also because he often serves as a sounding board for his brother. However, it was inappropriate to engage in conversations that included members of the Governor's staff, which Chris acknowledges. He will not participate in such conversations going forward."The anchor at the time also took to his show to say that he is "family first and job second" and apologized for how he helped his brother."It will not happen again. It was a mistake, because I put my colleagues here, who I believe are the best in the business, in a bad spot," he said. "I never intended for that I would never intend for that and I am sorry for that."While a report on the sexual misconduct allegations against Andrew Cuomo was released in August, James' office continues with a separate investigation into allegations he misused state resources for the development, production and promotion of a book he wrote on the pandemic.Rich Azzopardi, a spokesman for Andrew Cuomo, called the latest release of transcripts, documents and videos a "manipulated release.""New Yorkers are no one's fool and James and her colleagues' obvious misuse of government resources to damage political opponents is as obvious and repugnant as it is unethical and illegal," Azzopardi said in a statement.CNN's Sonia Moghe contributed to this report.
Ex-White House official says Trump showed 'flagrant lack of regard for public health' in keeping positive Covid test secret. Washington (CNN)Former President Donald Trump showed "a flagrant lack of regard for public health" and endangered White House staff by not disclosing a positive Covid-19 test he received last year, his former communications director said Wednesday. "Full stop, this demonstrates a flagrant lack of regard for public health and for the well-being of others," Alyssa Farah Griffin, who served for a time as the director of strategic communications and assistant to the president in the Trump White House, told CNN's Jake Tapper on "The Lead."She added: "At this time in the White House, I had staffers who were pregnant. I had one who is a multi-time cancer survivor. We had plenty of people in the West Wing who are over 65. We could have killed one of our colleagues and instead they decided to not tell anyone, putting every single one of us at risk." The previously unknown positive test was disclosed in a memoir by Trump's former chief of staff Mark Meadows, a copy of which was obtained by The Guardian ahead of the book's publication next week. According to Meadows, Trump received the positive test on September 26, 2020, three days ahead of his first presidential debate with Joe Biden. The then-President also received a negative test in that timeframe. The day of the reported positive test, Trump hosted a ceremony in the White House Rose Garden for then-Supreme Court nominee Amy Coney Barrett, which was later deemed a super spreader event, by medical experts. At least 12 people who attended the event later tested positive.Farah Grffin, who was serving in the White House at the time, told Tapper that she had not been aware of the positive test detailed by Meadows. Trump denied that positive test in a statement Wednesday, saying, "The story of me having COVID prior to, or during, the first debate is Fake News. In fact, a test revealed that I did not have COVID prior to the debate."Meadows claims in his book that the positive test was done with an old model kit, The Guardian reported.Trump was subsequently tested with "the Binax system," an antigen test for Covid-19, and returned a negative result, Meadows wrote. It is unclear if the first test that returned the positive result was an antigen test or PCR test.According to the FDA's guidelines, when using the Binax test, "negative results do not rule out SARS-Covid-2 infection and should not be used as the sole basis for treatment or patient management decisions, including infection control decision."Farah Grffin, who has on occasion criticized her former boss since leaving the White House, also took aim at Meadows on Wednesday, calling out his decision to just now reveal the positive Covid test. "He doesn't seem to have reflected on the fact this was a terrible move in how to handle this and he absolutely should have disclosed to the public and quarantined the President," she said, adding Meadows' decision "was deeply reckless." During the debate, Trump and Biden adhered to social distance protocols, but the two candidates -- both in their 70s -- were indoors in a room with dozens of people in the audience, some of whom were not masked.Trump on September 30 traveled to Minnesota for an outdoor rally in Duluth and a private fundraiser in Minneapolis.He announced on October 2, 2020, that he and first lady Melania Trump had tested positive for Covid-19. He was hospitalized later that night.This story has been updated with additional details Wednesday.
Antiperspirant recall: What the finding of a cancer-causing chemical means for you.  (CNN)Benzene, a known cancer-causing chemical, was found in over half of 108 batches of antiperspirant and deodorant body sprays from 30 different brands, according to a citizen's petition filed this month with the US Food and Drug Administration. Benzene should not be used in the manufacture of drug substances or products because it is a class one solvent with "unacceptable toxicity," according to the FDA. However, the FDA did allow a "temporary" use of benzene in liquid hand sanitizers during the pandemic, setting the upper limit to 2 parts per million. The US Environmental Protection Agency has set a much lower limit -- 5 parts per billion (ppb) -- for exposure to benzene in drinking water. The agency has also set a "goal of 0 ppb for benzene in drinking water and in water such as rivers and lakes because benzene can cause leukemia."Last week, "in an abundance of caution," manufacturer Procter & Gamble voluntarily pulled 17 different types of Old Spice and Secret antiperspirant off the shelves, according to a press release.A number of other brands have not yet been recalled, including batches of Tag, Sure, Equate, Suave, Right Guard and Brut that had levels of benzene at or above 2 parts per million, said David Light, CEO and founder of Valisure, the independent lab that ran the tests and filed the petition.Additional batches of antiperspirants and deodorants, which Valisure said tested at levels up to 2 parts per million, include products made by Summer's Eve, Right Guard, Power Stick, Soft & Dri and Victoria's Secret. To date, CNN was not able to verify that any of these products except Old Spice and Secret have been recalled following Valisure's early November request to that effect to the FDA.CNN reached out to all of these companies for response. The Village Company, which makes Soft&Dri, declined to provide a comment. Unilever, which makes Suave, told CNN in an email: "Unilever takes all safety concerns seriously, and we are conducting a robust investigation into the Valisure petition's assertions about two Suave antiperspirant aerosols."CNN did not receive a response from the rest of the brands before publication, but the Personal Care Products Council, an industry association that speaks for 600 consumer product companies, put out this statement."Benzene is not an intentionally added ingredient in body spray products; however, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), as well as product manufacturers, are aware that it may be present in food and drug products at very low levels," PCPC wrote."PCPC and its member companies are firmly committed to ensuring consumers have access to cosmetics and personal care products with ingredients that have been thoroughly tested for safety and follow the requirements of the law," the statement said. "Companies and individuals have a legal responsibility to ensure their products and ingredients are safe for the intended use."High levels of benzene detectedBenzene is created by natural and man-made processes. The chemical, which can trick the body's cells into not working properly, is also a natural part of crude oil, gasoline and cigarette smoke, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.It's also used to manufacture a variety of "plastics, lubricants, rubbers, dyes, detergents, drugs, and pesticides," according to the American Cancer Society.  Exposure can be dangerous, by increasing the "risk of developing leukemia and other blood disorders," the National Cancer Institute said.Exposure to high levels of benzene in the air can cause death, and if "you spill benzene on your skin, it may cause redness and sores," according to the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR). "Benzene in your eyes may cause general irritation and damage to your cornea." In its recall, P&G said it has had no reports of adverse reactions, adding that "daily exposure to benzene in the recalled products at the levels detected in our testing would not be expected to cause adverse health consequences."Tests by Valisure, however, found concerning levels of benzene in some batches of P&G products. The most highly contaminated -- two lots of an Old Spice antiperspirant called Pure Sport (Lots 11671458SQ and 11671458SB; UPC 012044001912) -- contained 17.7 and 17.4 average parts per million of benzene, said Valisure CEO David Light."That's nearly nine times the upper limit of 2 parts per million the FDA has set for emergency use," Light said. Secret Powder Fresh, 24 HR Aerosol (Lots 11721458SG and 11701458SH; UPC 037000711087) had about 16 average parts per million, tests showed."With aerosols, you might be using it every day, probably in a closed space like a bathroom," Light said. The company tested the product with the highest levels of benzene (Old Spice Pure Sport with 17.7 ppm) in a closed bathroom, spraying once under each arm as a consumer would. By doing so, you "could bring the entire bathroom air to 15 times the limit for what the EPA has said is an increased risk for leukemia," Light said.How does the product become contaminated?In overall testing, levels of benzene varied greatly from batch to batch, even within a single brand, Valisure noted, while initial analysis of at least one sample of 49 lots of body sprays from 19 different brands showed no benzene at all.In total, "24 lots of body spray products from 8 different brands contained between 2.24 -- 17.7 ppm of benzene; 14 lots from 8 brands contained detectable benzene between 0.20 -- 1.89 ppm; and 21 lots from 8 brands contained detectable benzene at < 0.1 ppm," Valisure said in a press release.None of the products have benzene as an ingredient, experts say, so the only way the chemical could have been introduced is via an error in the manufacturing process -- or by the way the chemical is delivered to the body.Valisure said one possibility is that benzene could come from ingredients such as hydrofluorocarbon 152a, butane, isobutane, propane and alcohol used to propel sprays onto the skin."Our investigation showed that traces of benzene came from the propellant that sprays the product out of the can," said Kate DiCarlo, senior director of communications for the Personal Care Portfolio of P&G. "Due to the highly specialized nature of aerosol products, we use a manufacturing partner to produce these products," Dicarlo continued. "That manufacturing partner identified an issue with their propellant supply and is implementing additional measures to address the issue identified in the investigation. "Once the recall is complete, we are preparing to ship new product that meets our quality standards to re-stock shelves."Other products with benzeneIs avoiding the propellants in spray products the answer to reducing risk? Possibly, experts say. However, Valisure also found higher levels of benzene in non-aerosol body odor products, including powders and sticks, Light said."I think there's good evidence that propellants are a significant source of this contamination but there's a variety of potential sources in the raw materials used to create the products as well," Light said."Impurities may be present in the manufacturing environment due to the use of certain chemicals, equipment or containers. We need more testing," said David Andrews, a senior scientist for the Environmental Working Group (EWG), a non-profit environmental and consumer health advocacy group."We need independent analysis as part of the overall supply chain. It's really critically important to find these problems before they get on the shelves," Light added.Benzene has been found in other consumer products as well. The FDA warmed consumers not to use certain hand sanitizers early in the pandemic due to high levels of the solvent, and this summer Johnson & Johnson (J&J) voluntarily pulled four brands of Neutrogena sunscreen and one of Aveeno after Valisure's lab found alarming levels of benzene and filed a petition with the FDA.CVS Health and Coppertone also voluntarily stopped selling several sunscreen or after-sun care products due to similar findings. Light said to the best of his knowledge other sunscreens and after-sun cosmetics, which also tested positive for the toxin, remain on the market."There is not a safe level of benzene that can exist in sunscreen products," said Dr. Christopher Bunick, associate professor of dermatology at Yale University, in a press release at the time. "Even benzene at 0.1 ppm (parts per million) in a sunscreen could expose people to excessively high nanogram amounts of benzene."The vast majority of tested sunscreens, however, were free of benzene, and experts stress the importance of sunscreen use to protect skin from the aging and cancerous effects of the sun.The sunscreens tested by Valisure were only a tiny sample of the more than 11,000 registered sun care products on the market.In response to Valisure's petition on sunscreens, the FDA told CNN that it "evaluates and assesses the information provided in citizen petitions of this type and, generally, initiates an independent testing and verification process."In response to the new petition on antiperspirants and deodorants, the FDA said: "The FDA is committed to helping ensure that the products we regulate are safe for use. We continually gain new knowledge which allows us to identify and quickly address previously unknown risks. When we identify drug quality lapses that pose potential risks for patients, we make every effort to understand the issues and provide our best recommendation to the public as quickly and accurately as possible. We will continue to investigate and work to ensure these types of impurities do not exceed acceptable limits."
What you don't understand about Lauren Boebert.  (CNN)On Day 3 of the controversy caused by Lauren Boebert's suggestion that a Muslim member of Congress might be a terrorist, the Colorado Republican said that she "can't wait" to debate the issue with Rep. Ilhan Omar on a Fox News primetime show.Yup. That's what she said.What the two would debate is not entirely clear to me. Boebert said on multiple occasions that Omar, a Democrat who represents Minnesota in Congress, was a terrorist. She also said that Omar was "black-hearted" and "evil."  And she regularly refers to Omar as well as Reps. Rashida Tlaib of Michigan, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts as the "Jihad Squad." Omar, for her part, asked Boebert in a phone conversation Monday to issue a public apology. Boebert refused to do so, saying later in an Instagram post, "I will fearlessly continue to put America first, never sympathizing with terrorists. Unfortunately Ilhan can't say the same thing and our country is worse off for it."On Tuesday afternoon, Omar played a recording of a voice message she had received following Boebert's comments in which several slurs were used and the caller told the congresswoman that she "will not live much longer."After all that happened is when Boebert made her comment that she "can't wait" to debate Omar on Laura Ingraham's Fox News Channel show.As ugly and unsavory as Boebert's actions are, they do provide insight into just how radically the mission of serving in Congress has changed -- particularly for those, like Boebert, who have come into politics in the age of Donald Trump.Whenever I see an episode like this one, I am reminded of this quote from Trump -- long before he was president: "The show is Trump, and it is sold-out performances everywhere."That quote, from a 1990 Playboy interview with the then-business mogul, not only illuminates how he approached his political career beginning in 2015 but also how a whole generation of Trump acolytes view politics now too.Gone is the idea that politics is about making the country (and its people) better through compromise. Or even that passing any sort of legislation -- or sponsoring any -- matters at all.In its place is politics as performance. Running for office and being in office are about promoting your personal #brand (barf).  The best way to show "effectiveness" is not in bills passed but in appearances on Fox News. Boebert -- as well as Georgia Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, who has rushed to her defense -- is a perfect encapsulation of this modern Republican politician. Prompted by House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy into calling Omar to offer an apology, Boebert turned that call into yet another opportunity to virtue-signal to a party base ready to hate whomever their leaders tell them they should.Take even the seemingly offhand reference to Omar as a member of the "Jihad Squad" by Boebert.  Does she actually believe that Omar (and Tlaib and Ocasio-Cortez and Pressley) are engaged in a holy war on behalf of Islam against America? (Worth noting: Neither Ocasio-Cortez nor Pressley are Muslims.)Of course she doesn't. It's just name-calling as a way to wink at a party base in which intolerance for the other simmers just below the surface -- and increasingly frolics freely above the surface.The unfortunate thing for our politics is that there are a whole lot of Republican politicians like Boebert in the pipeline. She's the rule, not the exception, in the modern Republican party.
John Roberts has a plan that would gut -- yet save -- Roe v. Wade. Can it work? .  (CNN)Chief Justice John Roberts came to Wednesday's abortion arguments with an idea, an idea that no other Supreme Court justice would likely want but one that a slim majority might eventually accept.  By his questions during the intense session that ran nearly two hours, Roberts suggested the high court reverse a significant part of Roe v. Wade but preserve some constitutional right to abortion. Roberts would end the existing protection for a woman's abortion decision before viability -- that is when the fetus can survive outside the womb -- at about 23 weeks. He suggested he would let states ban abortion at 15 weeks of pregnancy, as Mississippi has done in the case before the justices, but that he would not go further to completely ban abortion. The chief's gambit, however, would require at least one of the five other conservatives to join him. Otherwise, this newly remade Supreme Court appears ready to reverse the Roe landmark altogether. One way or another, the court is poised to retrench on nearly a half century of constitutional protection. RELATED: Takeaways from the historic Supreme Court arguments on abortion rightsThe five conservatives to Roberts' right, including three appointees of former President Donald Trump, have signaled through the years their opposition to abortion rights. Trump vowed to appoint justices who would overturn Roe, and Neil Gorsuch, Brett Kavanaugh and Amy Coney Barrett have all previously criticized decisions giving women a choice to end a pregnancy.  Despite his history of fighting abortion rights, the institutionally minded Roberts showed little interest Wednesday in going further than the precise question that the justices had agreed to take up: May states ban abortions before fetal viability without infringing the Constitution? All told, the robust Q&A demonstrated the new era of reproductive rights for American women. Not since 1992 has the court heard such a direct threat to Roe, and today's bench lacks the moderate Republican-nominated justices who steered the 1992 compromise decision that endorsed the core of Roe's essential holding that gave women the right to end a pregnancy before fetal viability. Because of Covid-19 restrictions, the tableau in the courtroom was spare, as well as solemn, belying the clamor of hundreds of demonstrators outside. The few dozen spectators inside (mainly journalists and law clerks) donned high-grade, tight-fitting masks and were well spaced on the red upholstered benches in a courtroom that usually seats 300. The justices -- all but Sonia Sotomayor were unmasked -- wore the weight of the moment on their faces, and their questions cut to important issues of a woman's autonomy, fetal life and the court's institutional integrity -- built on regard for precedent. The 1973 Roe v. Wade and 1992 Planned Parenthood v. Casey decisions used viability as a cutoff point for when a state's interest in protecting the life of a fetus could overtake the woman's ability to end a pregnancy.RELATED: Roe has lasted almost 50 years. How unusual would it be to overturn it?Roberts repeatedly suggested the viability line was arbitrary and irrelevant to the fundamental holdings of Roe and Casey -- a point contradicted by lawyers challenging the Mississippi law. At the same time, Roberts revealed an openness to retaining some right for women to terminate a pregnancy at an early stage.   Three justices to his left, Stephen Breyer, Sotomayor and Elena Kagan, want to preserve the full breadth of Roe v. Wade and Planned Parenthood v. Casey. They noted that for more than a half century, women have relied on those rulings, they are woven into the American legal and social fabric, and to reverse any part of them would compromise the high court's usual adherence to precedent.  But the votes of those three liberals -- in the minority -- are unlikely to determine the resolution of this make-or-break controversy. Will any justice go along? Trump appointees Gorsuch and Kavanaugh appeared inclined to eliminate Roe v. Wade. Barrett, perhaps less so, by her questions.  Gorsuch responded to Roberts' strategy with skepticism, questioning whether, if the viability cutoff line were dissolved, the justices could ever develop a new "workable standard." RELATED: Brett Kavanaugh, who touted importance of precedent during confirmation fight, downplays it as he considers reversing RoeOf the court's other two conservatives, Clarence Thomas vigorously challenged the validity of Roe but Samuel Alito was not so clear. Alito appears a definite vote to uphold the 15-week Mississippi ban but perhaps to postpone a final judgment on Roe. It seemed that if any right to abortion emerges from this case, it would be through the votes of Roberts with the three liberals (who would nonetheless dissent from upholding the Mississippi law), and a fifth vote from Alito or one of the three Trump appointees. As a lawyer in the Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations, Roberts opposed Roe and even urged the Supreme Court to reverse it. But since taking the bench, he has adopted a more cautious stance. He has voted to uphold abortion regulations, but, in a 2020 Louisiana dispute, cast a vote to strike down a restriction on physicians who perform abortions, based on 2016 precedent with which he had disagreed. As chief and as a justice near the ideological center of the bench, he has tried to keep it from lurching too far to the right. He has voiced concerns about public attitudes toward the court and the potential for political taint. Sotomayor addressed that possibility in harsh terms Wednesday. She referred to remarks from Mississippi sponsors of the abortion ban that suggested they believed the court, with its new justices and cemented conservatism, would welcome the prohibition. "Will this institution survive the stench that this creates in the public perception that the Constitution and its reading are just political acts?" she asked, adding, "I don't see how it is possible." READ: Transcript of Supreme Court oral arguments in Dobbs v. Jackson Women's HealthFellow liberals Breyer and Kagan emphasized the court's usual regard for precedent, especially when, as in this situation, the court seriously reconsidered Roe's validity and upheld it in 1992. "Usually there has to be a justification, a strong justification, in a case like this beyond the fact that you think the case is wrong," said Kagan. "And I guess what strikes me when I look at this case is that, you know, not much has changed since Roe and Casey, that people think it's right or wrong based on the things that they have always thought it was right or wrong for." From the other side of the ideological divide, Kavanaugh has expressed an interest in turning over the issue to state legislators, which would mean the end of any constitutional right to abortion. He prefaced one question with the notion that "the Constitution is neither pro-life nor pro-choice on the question of abortion but leaves the issue for the people of the states or perhaps Congress to resolve in the democratic process." Is a shorter legal viability standard practical? When the court first established a right to abortion in 1973, it rooted it in the 14th Amendment's due process clause, which protects a right to privacy.  The justices in Roe acknowledged that the Constitution contains no explicit reference to a right of privacy but said that in a line of decisions dating to the late 1800s, "the Court has recognized that a right of personal privacy, or a guarantee of certain areas or zones of privacy, does exist under the Constitution."  The Roe court said the right extends to activities related to marriage, contraception and child rearing, and "is broad enough to encompass a woman's decision whether or not to terminate her pregnancy." As Roberts trod toward some position that would undercut but not eliminate that right, he asked Julie Rikelman, representing the Jackson Women's Health Organization, if his idea was workable. "If you think that the issue is one of choice, that women should have a choice to terminate their pregnancy, that supposes that there is a point at which they've had the fair choice ... and why would 15 weeks be an inappropriate line?" the chief justice asked. Roberts added that he failed to see how the viability cutoff had "anything to do with choice." Rikelman countered that, in a practical vein, some women, those in "the most challenging circumstances" farther along in their pregnancies, would be unable to obtain needed medical care. She said that any alternative standard would be "less principled and less workable than viability."  She also warned that states would likely drop to fewer weeks, such as occurred in Texas, which has an abortion ban after roughly six weeks. The Supreme Court has allowed that prohibition to remain while it assesses the merits of the law's procedures. The court in 1973 tried to balance a woman's interests with those of the fetus and chose viability as a cutoff, it said at the time, "because the fetus then presumably has the capability of meaningful life outside the mother's womb. State regulation protective of fetal life after viability thus has both logical and biological justifications." Barrett asked about any burden women who cannot obtain abortions would face, in light of the ability to give a child up for adoption or to relinquish parental rights under state law. Why don't such options "take care of that problem?" Barrett asked. "It seems to me that it focuses the burden much more narrowly. There is, without question, an infringement on bodily autonomy, which we have in other contexts, like vaccines. However, it doesn't seem to me to follow that pregnancy and then parenthood are all part of the same burden."   Rikelman stressed that the abortion right encompasses "bodily integrity" as well as "decisional autonomy and specifically decisions relating to childbearing, marriage and procreation." Pregnancy, Rikelman said, "imposes unique physical demands and risks on women and, in fact, has impact on all of their lives, on their ability to care for other children, other family members, on their ability to work."  Alito tried to poke holes in the justification for the viability cutoff. In past cases, he has sought to limit reproductive rights and might be inclined toward complete reversal of Roe. But during Wednesday's session, he sounded as though he was struggling, like Roberts, for an option that was not as definite as those on the far right or left seek, for or against Roe. At one point Alito asked if "the only real options we have are to reaffirm Roe and Casey as they stand or to overrule them in their entirety?" If he or any other justice were to join Roberts in some attempted middle ground, the result would still halt abortion rights as they exist today. The question then would be: What is left for the future? 
This rare McDonald's treat is making a comeback. New York (CNN Business)'Tis the season for McDonald's to bring back a fan favorite sweet treat: the Holiday Pie. The dessert has returned to menus in "select regions" across the United States, the company confirmed. McDonald's has released the festive pastry for the past 10 years, but the areas of availability vary. Fans have spotted the pies in places including Oregon, Illinois and Texas so far this year.According to the chain, the Holiday Pie is a "mouthwatering pastry" that's filled with vanilla custard and baked in a buttery crust (similar in shape to its rectangular apple pie) and topped with rainbow sprinkles. McDonald's (MCD) said the pie will be available until early January, and as usual won't be released nationwide — making it a rare treat . The McRib was sold in a similar manner, but last year McDonald's finally launched it nationwide. The pie is just one of McDonald's holiday promotions. From December 13 to December 24, the fast food chain is partnering with singer Mariah Carey to offer a different free menu item each day — dubbed the "Mariah Menu" — featuring some of her favorite selections. Eligibility for the free item requires an order placed on the McDonald's app with a minimum $1 purchase price.McDonald's recently said that in the three months ended September 30, sales at global restaurants open at least 13 months jumped 12.7% compared to the same period last year, in part because of the buzz around its celebrity meals.
Fox host doubles down on outrageous comparison of Fauci to Nazi 'Angel of Death' doctor as network remains silent. New York (CNN Business)Lara Logan, a Fox News personality and host on the network's streaming service, appeared on Wednesday to stand by her widely condemned comparison of Dr. Anthony Fauci to an infamous Nazi doctor — all while the right-wing channel remains silent about the matter.Logan tweeted a number of articles about how the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, which Fauci heads, decades ago funded clinical trials of drugs on HIV-positive foster children.The suggestion seemed to be that the research was somehow akin to the grotesque — and often lethal — experiments that the infamous Nazi doctor Josef Mengele performed on unwilling prisoners at Auschwitz with no regard to their safety or physical and emotional pain.Wednesday's tweets come one day after Logan was condemned by the Anti-Defamation League, Auschwitz Museum, and American Jewish Committee for comparing Fauci and to Mengele, who was known as the "Angel of Death" for performing brutal experiments on those at the Auschwitz death camp.But instead of apologizing, Logan doubled down, continuing in her aim to demonize Fauci.While on her Twitter rant, Logan bizarrely posted links to two websites that promoted the fringe and false claim that AIDS is not caused by HIV. Logan also amplified an attack on the Auschwitz Museum, retweeting a user who slammed the organization for criticizing her comments the day before. A representative for the Auschwitz Museum told CNN that she meanwhile had blocked the organization's account on Twitter.A Fox News representative did not respond to requests for comment on Logan's Wednesday behavior, which comes during the Jewish holiday of Hanukkah.Consistent with how it handles many controversies, the right-wing channel has ignored questions about Logan's incendiary rhetoric since the backlash first erupted when she made her comments Monday night.But Logan's choice to stand by her remarks, and Fox News' refusal to address the matter, earned both fresh criticism on Wednesday."It's not surprising that neither Logan or Fox News have apologized for the incredibly offensive remarks Logan made on a program earlier this week comparing Dr. Fauci to Nazi war criminal Josef Mengele," Anti-Defamation League spokesman Jake Hyman told CNN Business in a statement."Logan and the network seem to be immune to shame and allergic to remorse," Hyman added. "It's equally disturbing, yet also not surprising, Logan would double-down this morning on Twitter. Make no mistake, these odious comparisons only serve to trivialize and distort the meaning and memory of the Holocaust."Holly Huffnagle, the American Jewish Committee's director for combating antisemitism, said in a Wednesday statement that it is "deeply upsetting that not only has Lara Logan failed to apologize for likening Dr. Fauci to Nazi war criminal Josef Mengele, she also appears to be doubling down on this disgusting comparison on social media.""Holocaust distortion is an attack on Jewish identity and memory, and Logan should apologize immediately," Huffnagle said. "We also call on her employer Fox to voice their disapproval of her statements. Their silence has been deafening."Michael Bornstein, a survivor of the Auschwitz death camp, also appeared on CNN's "New Day" Wednesday morning and called Logan's comments "disgusting."Bornstein told anchor John Berman that "there is absolutely zero comparison" to be made between Mengele, who committed unspeakable atrocities, and Fauci, who is working to save lives amid a global pandemic.His daughter, Debbie Bornstein Holinstat, who co-wrote a book about the Holocaust with her father, described Logan's comment as "sickening." She also blasted Fox News for remaining silent on the matter."For a network to not stand up ... is equally disturbing," she said.Logan was formerly a correspondent for CBS News' famed program "60 Minutes." At the network, she faced significant scrutiny for errors in a report she did on the Benghazi attack, ultimately resulting in her apologizing for the inaccuracies and being forced to take a leave of absence.Logan left CBS News in 2018 and joined Fox News in 2020. She told The Los Angeles Times when she joined that she wasn't "trying to be an opinion person," but has since become one of the right-wing channel's most conspiratorial talking heads.
Jacqueline Avant, wife of music exec Clarence Avant, shot and killed in home robbery.  (CNN)Jacqueline Avant, a philanthropist and the wife of music icon Clarence Avant and mother-in-law to Netflix CEO Ted Sarandos, was fatally shot in her home early Wednesday, according to a spokesperson for Netflix.Police suggested Avant may have been targeted."I don't think it's a random attack, but I can't speculate on that right now," Beverly Hills Police Department (BHPD) Chief Mark Stainbrook said at a press conference on Wednesday afternoon.The suspect or suspects are at large and the motive is still unknown, Stainbrook said. An investigation is ongoing.Stainbrook also read a statement shared by the Avant family."Jacqueline was an amazing woman, wife, mother, philanthropist, and a 55-year resident of Beverly Hills, who has made an immeasurable positive contribution and impact on the arts community," said Stainbrook. "She will be missed by her family, friends, and all of the people she has helped throughout her amazing life."The Avants married in 1967 and had two children together. Clarence Avant was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame earlier this year. He was the subject of the 2019 documentary "The Black Godfather," which looked at his political influence, musical legacy and work with musicians like Bill Withers and Babyface. After news of her death, leaders in the Los Angeles community paid tribute to Avant."I'm heartbroken by this morning's news of the tragic and shocking murder of Mrs. Jacqueline Avant," Congresswoman Karen Bass (D-CA) said in a statement. "Mrs. Avant was a force of compassion and empowerment locally and nationally for decades, as well as a model of service and giving back to those who needed it most." "Cookie and I are absolutely devastated at the loss of one of our closest friends Jackie Avant," Magic Johnson tweeted. "This is the saddest day in our lives." CNN's Sarah Moon contributed to this story.
Jussie Smollett 'wanted me to beat him up,' Abimbola Osundairo testifies. Chicago (CNN)On January 25, 2019, a few days before Jussie Smollett reported an alleged hate crime attack, he told an acquaintance he "wanted me to beat him up," the man testified Wednesday.Abimbola Osundairo, also known as "Bola," said the "Empire" actor's comment was puzzling."I was confused," Osundairo continued to testify. "Then he explained he wanted me to fake beat him up."Osundairo said he agreed to do it because he felt indebted to the actor."I believed he could help further my acting career," Osundairo testified. "He told me that we would need another person to fake beat him up. He mentioned could my brother do it. I said yes."He said the discussion happened in a car as Smollett was driving him home from near the show's Chicago studio.Court adjourned for the day at 7 p.m. with Osundairo still on the stand. He was not cross-examined by a defense attorney, but that is expected to happen Thursday morning after court resumes at 9:15 a.m. CT (10:15 a.m. ET).Smollett, who is Black and gay, has said two men struck him, yelled anti-gay and racist remarks, put a noose around his neck and poured bleach on him.Authorities have argued evidence, including texts and accounts from Osundairo and his brother, Olabinjo, point to Smollett paying the pair $3,500 to stage a hate crime attack against him so he could get publicity and a career boost. Smollett has pleaded not guilty to faces six counts of disorderly conduct for allegedly making false reports to police that he was a victim of a hate crime.Neither of the brothers has been charged with a crime.In 2019, one of Smollett's attorneys said he paid the brothers for training services and nutritional advice.Testimony in Smollett's trial began Tuesday with police officers describing the extensive investigation into the case.Osundairo: Plan was discussed while parked in an alleyAbimbola Osundairo testified Wednesday that after the two eventually drove back to the Osundairo residence, they parked in an alley as Olabinjo Osundairo came out to join them in the car."We went over the details of what he wanted us to say and do," Abimbola Osundairo told jurors. Smollett allegedly told him to say, "Empire, f****t, n***er, MAGA" then the conversation moved to the more physical aspect, he said.Osundairo testified, "He wants me to attack him, but he wanted me to pull the punch so I don't hurt him, give him a bruise." The final part of the plan would be to "pour bleach on him and then he would run away," Osundairo testified."Who was in charge of this thing?" Special Prosecutor Daniel Webb asked."Jussie was," Osundairo told the jury. Osundairo told Webb that Smollett "wanted to use the fake attack or camera footage for media."He said Smollett also told the brothers not to take a rideshare to where they planned to meet so there wouldn't be a record of their trip.  Osundairo testified that while he didn't expect payment for helping Smollett stage the attack, the actor still gave him a check for $3,500.   "If he hadn't given you money, were you going to do the attack for nothing?" Webb asked."Yes," Osundairo replied, saying Smollett was like a brother and he felt he owed the actor. Osundairo also told the jury that Smollett had instructed him to write a letter in the days after the reported attack in an effort to show sympathy.    "I was supposed to send him a condolence letter, to show that I wasn't a part of this," he said.Osundairo also told the jury that he and Smollett shared private messages on Instagram the night of the attack and the actor kept him updated on the status of his delayed flight to Chicago. The delay pushed the alleged attack hours back and into the early morning hours of January 29, he said.  Osundairo testified his brother left for Nigeria later on the 29th and Smollett called him to ask whether he and his brother were still on their way. Hours after that call, after the Osundairo brothers landed in Turkey for a layover, Smollett called him again asking if they were still on their way, he said. Osundairo testified he believed Smollett wanted to know whether they were "alright" and if there were any problems.
Takeaways from the historic Supreme Court arguments on abortion rights.  (CNN)The Supreme Court heard oral arguments Wednesday on one of its most important cases in decades and considered the future of abortion rights in America. Front and center was the fate of Roe v. Wade, the 1973 landmark Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion nationwide prior to viability, which can occur at around 24 weeks of pregnancy, and has been at the center of US politics ever since. Here's what to know from a dramatic day in court: Majority is ready to green-light Mississippi's 15-week ban It appears the Supreme Court is going to uphold the Mississippi law that bans abortion 15 weeks into a pregnancy, long before the viability line set by prior precedent.  The law -- that has no exception for rape or incest -- was passed in 2018 but immediately blocked by two federal courts that held it was contrary to Roe.  Judge Carlton Reeves of the US District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi struck down the law and said the state legislature had chosen to pass something "it knew was unconstitutional to endorse a decades long campaign, fueled by national interest groups, to ask the Supreme Court to overturn Roe v. Wade." Reeves also concluded that the legislature's "professed interest in women's health is pure gaslighting."  A federal appeals court also blocked the law, noting that it conflicted with Roe, which had been "affirmed, and reaffirmed."  But with a 6-3 conservative majority, only the court's liberals and the lawyers fighting the law made a case for keeping it intact. Roberts floats a middle ground Chief Justice John Roberts was quick to float a middle ground position that would uphold the Mississippi law but stop short of ending the right to abortion rights nationwide entirely.  He seemed to be suggesting that the court could move up the viability line to the 15 weeks in the Mississippi law and leave for another day whether the justices had to overturn Roe. "Why is 15 weeks not enough time?" to decide whether to get an abortion, he said. As for supporters of abortion rights, they have long said there would be no way to uphold the law without gutting Roe -- even if the justices don't say that part out loud. It's unclear if there are any justices interested in Roberts' idea.If the court does overturn Roe, people in large swaths of the South and the Midwest would be left without access to an abortion. The impact would be felt most by poor women who may be unable to travel or to get the necessary time off of work.  Trump's nominees were sometimes hard to read President Donald Trump, during his original White House campaign, prioritized judicial confirmations hoping to fill the courts with what he called "pro-life" judges. The very fact that the court agreed to hear this case showed that Trump's emphasis on the courts paid off. The lingering question is whether Trump's three nominees are ready to overturn Roe this term.For his part Justice Brett Kavanaugh -- who has not always revealed his true feelings at oral arguments -- noted pointedly that if the Court were to overrule Roe, the issue would return to the states and a "majority" of them could continue to "freely allow abortion."  At another point he told one lawyer in support of abortion that she was making a "forceful argument" but then shifted gears. He said if the issue was balancing the "interests of the pregnant woman and the interests of the fetus," it might be better resolved by state courts or legislatures. He said that opponents of abortion think the court should be "scrupulously neutral."  Barrett, who as a law professor signed a letter in opposition to abortion, was a little harder to read at oral arguments. Supporters of abortion were alarmed, however, when she brought up so-called "safe haven" laws that allow a woman to legally relinquish a newborn and adoption. It seemed to play into Mississippi's argument that the landscape is better for women in those areas now, decades after Roe and Casey were decided.   Liberals stress importance of precedent  All three liberals -- Stephen Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan -- looked almost pained during oral arguments at times.   Sotomayor was the most strenuous in defending precedent, especially towards the beginning of arguments when Mississippi's solicitor general was at the lectern. At one point she noted that "15 justices" in 50 years have voted to reaffirm the viability rule in court precedent. She suggested that the only thing that had changed was the composition of the court.  "Will this institution survive the stench that this creates in the public perception that the Constitution and its reading are just political acts?" Sotomayor asked. Meanwhile, Texas' 6-week ban remains in place While this was the first time the justices discussed the Mississippi law while they were all together on the bench, they have been talking about abortion for weeks behind the scenes.   That's because on September 1 they allowed Texas' abortion law to go into effect that bans abortion at six weeks. They have since held expedited oral arguments on that case, but they have yet to issue an opinion. It's even likely that they already know how this case is going to come out. A ruling may not come until next summer. 
Capital One is the first big bank to get rid of overdraft fees. New York (CNN Business)What's in your wallet? If you're a Capital One customer, it might soon be more money: The company will be the first large bank to eliminate overdraft charges.Capital One (COF) made the announcement Wednesday, saying is it getting rid of all fees for overdrafts and non-sufficient funds. It will also continue to allow customers to get free overdraft protection on their accounts.That makes Capital One, which is the sixth-largest retail bank in the United States, the first top-ten bank to stop penalizing clients for taking out more cash or writing checks for more money than they have in their account.Smaller banks such as Ally and digital-only financial firm Alliant have also recently eliminated overdraft fees."The bank account is a cornerstone of a person's financial life," said Capital One CEO Richard Fairbank in a press release, adding that "Overdraft protection is a valuable and convenient feature and can be an important safety net for families."Advocacy groups hope is other banks will follow Capital One's lead in eliminating these fees, which have been moneymakers for companies that levy them."This move by Capital One will have tremendous benefits for the most vulnerable consumers," said said Lauren Saunders, associate director of the National Consumer Law Center, in Capital One's release. "It's critical we keep working to make the banking system more inclusive and fair for all."Many lawmakers and regulators have criticized banks for penalizing already cash-strapped customers with onerous overdraft fees that have generated billions of dollars in revenue for financial institutions.  Capital One had more than $425 billion in assets as of the third quarter and reported a profit of $3.1 billion in the three months that ended in September.Senator Elizabeth Warren lambasted JPMorgan Chase (JPM) CEO Jamie Dimon earlier this year, referring to him as "the star of the overdraft show." The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau said in a statement Wednesday that banks pocketed nearly $15.5 billion in overdraft fees in 2019. The CFPB added that more than 40% of the fees generated by big banks were brought in by JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo (WFC) and Bank of America (BAC)."Rather than competing on quality service and attractive interest rates, many banks have become hooked on overdraft fees to feed their profit model," said CFPB Director Rohit Chopra in a press release. "We will be taking action to restore meaningful competition to this market."One prominent analyst wrote that other banks may soon follow Capital One's lead — or else risk having regulators impose even tougher restrictions. "Our expectation is that more banks will try to avoid CFPB enforcement actions," said Cowen Washington Research Group's Jaret Seiberg in a report."Enforcement actions are likely starting next spring. Enforcement is the fastest way for the CFPB to try to change banking industry behavior," he added.— CNN Business' Jeanne Sahadi contributed to this report.
Elizabeth Holmes testifies she reached out to Rupert Murdoch to try to kill a damning Wall Street Journal story.  (CNN)When Elizabeth Holmes got wind that then-Wall Street Journal reporter John Carreyrou was working on a damning expose that would publish in October 2015 about her blood testing startup Theranos, she went straight to the top in an effort to get the story killed.Holmes, who is on trial over criminal fraud charges, testified Tuesday that she appealed to media mogul and Theranos investor Rupert Murdoch to see if she could have him throw his weight behind her fight over the Journal story. Murdoch is the executive chairman of News Corp, which owns The Wall Street Journal. "You personally went to the owner of The Wall Street Journal to try to get him to quash the story, isn't that correct?" assistant US attorney Robert Leach asked the former Theranos CEO in the San Jose federal courtroom where she has been on the witness stand testifying in her own defense for the past five days of the trial. "I did," Holmes testified. Holmes acknowledged her outreach to Murdoch came after the law firm of Theranos investor, board member and legal counsel David Boies had attempted to intervene. Holmes testified that Boies had been "actively meeting with people at the Journal" and writing to them. "I don't know if he was threatening litigation," she said.The prosecution displayed an email she sent to Murdoch one month before the story published: "I thought that were I in your shoes I would want to know/be in the loop on this one," Holmes wrote to Murdoch."It was part of my effort to get Mr. Murdoch to make sure that our trade secrets were not published," Holmes testified. Leach replied: "You keep injecting trade secrets, and I promise we will get to trade secrets."Murdoch reportedly sunk $125 million into Theranos, making him one of the company's largest individual investors. He was listed as a possible government witness but was not called to testify during its 11-week case against Holmes.Holmes, a Stanford University dropout who founded Theranos in 2003 at age 19, is facing nine counts of wire fraud and two counts of conspiracy to commit wire fraud over allegations she knowingly misled doctors, patients, and investors about her company's blood testing capabilities in order to take their money. Now 37, she faces up to 20 years in prison, as well as a fine of $250,000, plus restitution, for each count of wire fraud and each conspiracy count. She has pleaded not guilty.Holmes was first called to testify last month shortly after the defense's case began. She quickly admitted to one of the government's allegations: that the company only performed a dozen small blood sample tests on its proprietary blood analyzer device, despite its claims that it could run hundreds of tests. But Holmes has attempted to reframe Theranos' concealed use of modified third-party machines for other tests as a trade secret. A key revelation from the Journal's October 2015 article was that the company was only using its proprietary technology on roughly a dozen tests and was instead relying on the use of third-party machines to test patient blood. Carreyrou, who has since left the Journal, went on to chronicle Holmes' effort to leverage Murdoch and others against his reporting in his definitive book on the Theranos saga, "Bad Blood." He was in attendance at the trial as Holmes testified on the topic, including her acknowledgment that she and the former COO of Theranos attempted to figure out who his sources were for his article.During cross-examination, which began Tuesday and will continue next week, Leach sought to show lengths Holmes and Theranos went to in trying to stymie the story that would upend the company and eventually land her in the federal courtroom where her criminal trial has been underway for the past three months.  Holmes was repeatedly asked by the prosecutor about how she handled her response to the Journal's reporting, after having previously testified that her response was was "too aggressive." Leach sought to pull out what that meant in practice, including how she treated whistleblowers. Holmes expressed contrition."I couldn't say more strongly, the way we handled the Wall Street Journal process was a disaster," she testified Tuesday. "We totally messed it up."But Leach sought to point out her efforts to conceal didn't stop there. After the Journal article was published, Holmes went on CNBC's "Mad Money," where Leach noted she was asked "point blank" by host Jim Cramer whether it was true that the company was performing "only 12 or 15 tests on your device, isn't that right?"Holmes said she didn't remember the question specifically but knew she was addressing the contents of the Journal's report. Leach then played a clip -- which jurors have seen before -- but this time, with Holmes sitting on the witness stand. "You heard Mr. Cramer ask you the question how many tests could be performed on the Edison?" Leach asked, referring to Theranos' proprietary blood testing machine."I did," Holmes replied."And I didn't hear the number 12 in that clip. Did you hear it?" Leach asked."I did not," Holmes testified.
Christian television network founder and preacher Marcus Lamb, who discouraged vaccinations, dies after being hospitalized for Covid-19.  (CNN Business)Prominent Christian televangelist and anti-vaccine advocate Marcus Lamb died after being hospitalized with Covid-19, his family announced Tuesday. Lamb founded Christian television network Daystar Television Network in 1997. His wife Joni Lamb, announced the televangelist's death on Daystar's program streamed to Facebook Tuesday. She said her husband had diabetes but was healthy and was hospitalized after being diagnosed with Covid-19."He never talked about that, but he had diabetes, but he kept it in check. He was very healthy, he ate healthy, he kept his weight down, and always kept his sugar at a good level. But with trying to treat Covid and the pneumonia, the different protocols that are used, including many of the protocols we talked about here on Daystar, and we used those, and I used them and breezed through Covid.It caused his blood sugar to spike and just a decrease in his oxygen and that's why he went to the hospital, so he could have oxygen," Joni Lamb said. "He 100% believed in everything that we've talked about here on Daystar and helping so many people around the world with early protocol treatments for Covid. We still stand by that, obviously." Joni Lamb said her husband's "heart just gave out." Marcus Lamb often spoke out against the Covid-19 vaccines on his show. In an episode earlier this year featuring anti-vaccine activists Robert F. Kennedy Jr. and Del Bigtree, Lamb said the Covid-19 vaccine was "not really a vaccine," but an "an experimental shot" that was "dangerous. Marcus Lamb alleged that people were dying or having neurological disorders from the vaccine.The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention say Covid-19 vaccines "are safe and effective" and that any adverse events after vaccination "are rare but may occur." People who are not vaccinated against Covid-19 were 11 times more likely to die of the disease and 10 times more likely to be hospitalized with the disease, according to a study published by the CDC. Marcus Lamb's son, Jonathan Lamb, described his father's Covid-19 diagnosis as a "spiritual attack from the enemy" as he hosted the show on November 23. "There's no doubt in my mind that this is a spiritual attack from the enemy. As much as my parents have gone on here to kind of inform everyone about everything going on in the pandemic and some of the ways to treat Covid, there's no doubt that the enemy is not happy about that, and he's doing everything he can to take down my dad," Jonathan Lamb said. Joni Lamb described the illness as "riding a roller coaster" on that same episode. She asked people in November to "pray specifically for [Lamb's] lungs to clear, the Covid pneumonia, and pray for his oxygen levels to continue to be strong and to go up and so that we can wean him off of oxygen and then bring him home." A statement from Daystar Television Network said in part, "The family asks at this time that their privacy be respected as they grieve this difficult loss, and they wish to express their deep love and gratitude for all those who prayed during Marcus's health battle. Continue to lift them up in prayer in the days ahead." 
