What Biden's sweeping social safety plan might include -- and what it likely won't.  (CNN)Democrats are still negotiating the final details of their sweeping $1.9 trillion budget reconciliation package so the House can vote on it soon. The bill would transform the nation's social safety net despite being whittled down to roughly half its original size amid infighting between the party's moderate and progressive wings. It would create a universal pre-K program, assist families with child care and send them the enhanced child tax credit for another year. It would also provide beefed-up subsidies on the Affordable Care Act exchanges through 2025 and offer federal help to those who fall below the poverty line.It would funnel nearly $570 billion into climate measures, attempt to address affordable housing shortfalls and provide money to parents to buy their kids food over the summer.Once it gets through the House, the legislation would still have to be approved in the Senate, where Democrats can't afford to lose a single vote in the reconciliation process.Here's what's in:Universal pre-K: The bill would provide free pre-K for 3- and 4-year-olds. It would expand access to 6 million children a year. Funding would last six years. The provision, along with the child care measure, would cost $390 billion, according to the White House's latest estimate. Child care: The legislation would limit child care costs for families with children younger than age 6 to no more than 7% of income for those earning up to 250% of state median income, expanding access to about 20 million children. Funding would last six years. This provision, along with universal pre-K, would cost $390 billion, according to the White House's latest estimate.Paid family and sick leave: Biden also wants to create a federally funded paid family and sick leave program for the millions of Americans who don't already receive the benefit from their employer. He first called for 12 weeks of paid leave, which was then reduced to four weeks during negotiations. The latest House version of the bill includes four weeks of paid family and sick leave, costing an estimated $194 billion -- but the provision is likely to be cut out of the legislation once it is taken up by the Senate. West Virginia Sen. Joe Manchin is opposed to including the benefit in this bill and Democrats can't afford to lose one vote. Enhanced child tax credit: The beefed-up child tax credit -- which provides $300 a month for each child under age 6 and $250 a month for each one ages 6 through 17 -- would be extended through 2022 for more than 35 million families. Heads of household earning up to $112,500 and joint filers making up to $150,000 annually would qualify for the enhanced payments. But, unlike in 2021, only these families would receive the funds in monthly installments next year. Eligible parents with higher incomes would have to claim the credit on their tax return the following year.The credit would be made permanently refundable so the lowest income families would continue to qualify. The enhancement, which was part of the $1.9 trillion coronavirus relief package Democrats enacted earlier this year, is currently only in place for 2021. This credit, along with the earned income tax credit, would cost about $203 billion, according to the White House's latest estimate. The House bill unveiled in September would have extended the credit through 2025.Earned income tax credit: The expanded earned income tax credit would be extended through 2022, helping 17 million low-wage childless workers. The boost, also part of the relief package, is only in place for this year. It nearly triples the maximum credit childless workers can receive, extends eligibility to more people, reduces the minimum age and eliminates the upper age limit. This credit, along with the enhanced child tax credit, would cost about $203 billion, according to the White House's latest estimate. The earlier House bill would have extended it permanently.Home health care: The proposal calls for permanently improving Medicaid coverage for home care services for seniors and people with disabilities, with the goal of reducing the more than 800,000 people on state Medicaid waiting lists. It also aims to improve the quality of caregiving jobs. The measure would cost $150 billion, according to the White House's latest estimate.Originally, Biden had hoped to shower $400 billion on this effort as part of his infrastructure package.Affordable Care Act subsidies: The enhanced federal premium subsidies would be extended through 2025 under the bill. It would reduce the cost of coverage on the Obamacare exchanges, particularly for moderate-income and middle-class Americans. The boost, also part of the Democrats' relief package, is currently set to expire after 2022. This provision, along with Medicaid expansion, would cost $126 billion, according to the White House's latest estimate.The initial House bill would have made the enhancement permanent.The legislation also would extend for one year a provision of the American Rescue Plan that allows those receiving unemployment benefits to qualify for federal subsidies that reduce their monthly premiums to as little as $0.Medicaid expansion: The Democrats are calling for providing Affordable Care Act premium subsidies for low-income Americans in the 12 states that have not expanded Medicaid, enabling them to buy Obamacare policies with no monthly premiums, through 2025. This provision, along with the enhanced Affordable Care Act subsidies, would cost $126 billion, according to the White House's latest estimate.The original House bill would have provided premium subsidies to low-income Americans until the Department of Health and Human Services would have set up a federal Medicaid expansion program that would have picked up the entire tab for enrollees' medical care. However, several Democrats from states that already expanded Medicaid raised objections because their states have to foot 10% of the bill, while the federal government picks up 90%.The bill would also increase the federal assistance for expansion states to 93% through 2025.And it would require state Medicaid programs to provide 12 months of eligibility to women after they give birth. States now typically provide 60 days of coverage.Medicare hearing benefits: Hearing services would be covered under Medicare, starting in 2023, but vision and dental benefits would not be included. Only 30% of seniors over age 70 who could benefit from hearing aids have ever used them, the White House said.This measure would cost $28 billion, according to the White House's latest estimate.Climate change: The bill would deliver nearly $570 billion in tax credits and investments aimed at combating climate change. It would offer tax credits to families that install solar rooftops or buy electric vehicles, for example. The investments are aimed at providing incentives to grow domestic supply chains in solar and wind industries. The legislation also calls for creating 300,000 jobs by establishing a Civilian Climate Corps that works to conserve public lands and bolster community resiliency.Affordable housing: The legislation would funnel $25 billion into the construction, rehabilitation or purchase of affordable homes for low-income people and for the creation and preservation of affordable rental housing. It would provide $65 billion to address the capital needs backlog of public housing and would bolster rental assistance to hundreds of thousands of families. The measure would also invest in down payment assistance and in community-led redevelopment projects in under-resourced neighborhoods. And it would provide $24 billion to fund housing vouchers and supportive services.The effort would cost about $155 billion, according to the White House's latest estimate.Pell grants: The measure would increase the maximum Pell grant by $550 for more than 5 million students enrolled in public and private nonprofit colleges and expand access to undocumented students brought to the US as children, who are known as Dreamers.It would invest in historically Black colleges and universities and other institutions that serve underrepresented communities. And it would increase funding for workforce development.These provisions would cost a total of $40 billion, according to the White House's latest estimate.Children's nutrition: The bill would expand free school meals to nearly 9 million children during the school year and provide the parents of 29 million kids a $65 per child per month benefit to purchase food during the summer.Immigration: The President has called for a $100 billion investment to reform the nation's immigration system, as well as reduce backlogs, expand legal representation and make changes to the asylum system and border processing. But the Senate parliamentarian, who has the final say on whether the legislation adheres to procedural rules, has ruled twice against arguments from Democrats to include an immigration provision in the economic bill. Still, some Democrats are continuing to push to include protections for undocumented immigrants in the bill and plan to present another plan to the parliamentarian later this month. The cost of the immigration provision is not currently included in the total cost of the legislation. State and local tax deduction: It is critical to some Democrats from the Northeast and West Coast that the package lifts or repeals the $10,000 cap on state and local tax deductions, known as SALT, that was put in place by the Republican-backed Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in 2017. Under the latest agreement, deductions would be capped at $80,000 per year over a nine-year time span. But many Democrats are opposed to lifting the cap, which would largely benefit higher-income households. New Jersey Sen. Bob Menendez and Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders have proposed an income threshold limiting those who can deduct a higher amount.Here's how Democrats will pay for itThe Democrats fractured over measures to cover their original sweeping $3.5 trillion spending proposal. Initial plans to make companies and well-off Americans pay by raising the corporate tax rate and the top marginal individual income and capital gains rates were scuttled by Democratic moderate Sen. Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona.The party then floated a billionaire tax on the capital gains of the super-wealthy, but that quickly withered after resistance from Manchin, another key Democratic moderate, and several others in the Senate and House.Biden and congressional Democratic leaders ultimately settled on a mix of corporate and individual revenue raising measures, along with two prescription drug provisions.Corporate taxes: The bill would put in place a 15% minimum tax on the corporate profits that large companies report to shareholders, not to the Internal Revenue Service. This would apply to companies with more than $1 billion in profits. The legislation also includes a 1% surcharge on corporate stock buybacks. Also, it would impose a 15% minimum tax, calculated on a country-by-country basis, that American companies pay on foreign profits, consistent with an agreement Biden recently won among 136 countries. The provisions would yield an estimated $814 billion, the Joint Committee on Taxation said.Taxes on the rich: The wealthiest Americans would pay a 5% surcharge on income above $10 million, and an additional 3% levy on income above $25 million. Next year, about 30,000 tax filers are expected to make $10 million or more, according to the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center. About 12,000 of them are likely to earn at least $25 million.The bill would also close the loopholes to allow some affluent taxpayers to avoid paying the 3.8% net investment income tax on their earnings. And it would continue the limitation on excess business losses. This measure would raise $640 billion, the committee estimates.IRS enforcement: The bill would beef up IRS enforcement so that it can ensure that people are paying what they owe to Uncle Sam. The new enforcement measure would focus on Americans with the highest incomes, not those earning less than $400,000 a year. This provision would bring in an estimated $400 billion, according to the Treasury Department. But the Congressional Budget Office has said that a similar proposal would raise half that amount over 10 years.Medicare drug negotiation: The bill would empower Medicare to negotiate prices of certain costly medications administered in doctors' offices or purchased at the pharmacy. The Health and Human Services Secretary would negotiate up to 10 drugs in 2025. The number would rise to up to 20 medications starting in 2028. This controversial provision, which was dropped from the package and then restored after a deal was reached in the Senate, is a far more limited proposal than the one House Democratic leaders have backed in the past.The legislation would also impose penalties if drug companies increase their prices faster than inflation. And it would redesign Medicare's Part D drug plans so that seniors and people with disabilities wouldn't pay more than $2,000 for medications bought at the pharmacy. The bill would also cap what Americans pay for insulin at $35 a month.Drug rebate rule: The bill calls for blocking the implementation of a Trump administration regulation that would change the drug industry's rebate system, though it isn't set to go into effect until 2023. The rule effectively would ban drug makers from providing rebates to pharmacy benefit managers and insurers. Instead, drug companies would be encouraged to pass the discounts directly to patients at the pharmacy counter. The prescription drug measures would save about $250 billion, according to the Biden administration, though the Congressional Budget Office will provide a more precise estimate.Here's what's out:Free community college: Biden initially called for making tuition free for two years at community colleges, but it's been dropped entirely from the bill.Medicare dental and vision benefits: The bill does not include expanding Medicare to include vision and dental coverage, both longtime goals of Sanders. Dental coverage, in particular, would have been costly.This story has been updated with details on the congressional negotiations.CNN's Phil Mattingly, Lauren Fox and Ella Nilsen contributed reporting.
McCarthy stalls House vote on Biden's social safety net bill as Democrats push for passage.  (CNN)House Democrats are gearing up to pass President Joe Biden's plan to dramatically expand the social safety net in the early hours of Friday morning, with leadership racing to secure a legislative victory for the party even as major obstacles await in the Senate.Democrats had been hoping to pass the legislation Thursday evening, but House GOP leader Kevin McCarthy has so far brought action to a halt for more than three hours by delivering a lengthy speech railing against Democrats on the House floor. It's unclear when McCarthy will finish speaking.The sweeping $1.9 trillion economic legislation stands as a key pillar of Biden's domestic agenda. It would deliver on long-standing Democratic priorities by dramatically expanding social services for Americans, working to mitigate the climate crisis, increasing access to health care and delivering aid to families and children.Once the legislation passes the House, it will face key hurdles in the Senate, with a fight looming over a controversial tax provision and Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia still not on board.As a result, Democrats are working hard to keep their fragile coalition of moderates and progressives united behind the package. The legislation has already been the subject of intense disputes between warring party factions in the House, and Democrats have no margin for error in the Senate. The legislation will likely have to be altered, potentially significantly, to get every member of the Senate Democratic caucus to vote for it as key members raise major concerns with the contents of the bill.  Speaker Nancy Pelosi said at her weekly news conference Thursday that the legislation is on track to for a vote in the House after a vote on a rule governing floor debate. "We will vote on the rule and then on the bill. Those votes will hopefully take place later this afternoon," she said. What's in the legislationThe Build Back Better Act represents a central part of Biden's policy agenda and an attempt by congressional Democrats to go it alone without GOP support to enact a major expansion of the social safety net. The House and Senate recently passed, and Biden then signed into law, a separate $1.2 trillion bipartisan infrastructure package, which marked a major legislative achievement for both parties. The Build Back Better Act is an effort by Democrats to build on that investment in traditional infrastructure by making extensive investments to ramp up social programs and address the climate crisis. Among its many provisions, the legislation would create a universal pre-K program, extend the enhanced child tax credit and expand access to health care, affordable housing and home care for seniors. The Congressional Budget Office released its final scoring for the bill early Thursday evening, estimating that the package "would result in a net increase in the deficit totaling $367 billion over the 2022-2031 period, not counting any additional revenue that may be generated by additional funding for tax enforcement," according to a summary.The White House worked to make the case that the bill will be fully paid for, despite the CBO analysis showing a shortfall.Senior White House officials Brian Deese and Louisa Terrell met with moderate House Democrats after the numbers were released, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.The CBO's analysis score does not include revenue from tighter IRS enforcement. The CBO estimated earlier that would raise $207 billion. The White House argues that increased IRS enforcement would actually raise more than what the CBO projects, meaning the bill would be fully paid for in their estimate.Obstacles ahead in the Senate In a warning sign for the party, Manchin, the most important swing vote who has expressed major concerns over a variety of elements of the bill, told CNN on Thursday that he has not decided whether to support voting to proceed to the Build Back Better bill, the critical first vote to take up the measure in the Senate. Any one Democratic defection would stall the effort."No," Manchin said when asked if he had made a decision to vote to proceed. "I'm still looking at everything." The comments reflect that Manchin is still not on board with the legislation and signal the tough road ahead for Democrats.The West Virginia Democrat said that he wants to see the final numbers from the Congressional Budget Office and changes made to the bill. "I just haven't seen the final, the final bill. So when the final bill comes out, CBO score comes out, then we'll go from there," he said.Manchin also reiterated his concerns about inflation. "Everyone's concerned, they should be concerned about inflation, because it's real. Inflation is real," he said. "So we got to make sure we get through this the best we can, and put no more burden on them."A fight is also brewing over a controversial tax provision that some progressives have decried as a giveaway to the rich. Earlier this month, House Democrats came to an agreement to deal with state and local tax deductions after Democrats from the Northeast and West Coast had pushed to loosen the caps imposed by the 2017 tax law. Under the SALT deal, deductions would be capped at $80,000 per year over a nine-year time span.Sen. Bernie Sanders, the Vermont independent and chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, on Thursday railed on the House provisions dealing with the state and local tax deductions, calling it "wrong" and "bad politics.""Democrats correctly have campaigned on the understanding that amidst massive income and wealth inequality, we've got to demand that the wealthy start paying their fair share of taxes, not give them more tax breaks," Sanders said."So what I can tell you is I am working with a number of Democrats who share that concern, and I hope as soon as possible to come up with a plan. But bottom line is we have to help the middle class and not the one percent."Democratic Rep. Jared Golden of Maine announced ahead of the final House vote that he would vote against the bill, citing the tax provision. "Many of my colleagues argue this major line item is worth accepting to pass the rest of the bill,"  Golden said in a statement to the Bangor Daily News. "I disagree: the SALT giveaway in the Build Back Better Act is larger than the child care, pre-K, healthcare or senior care provisions of the bill." Golden did not rule out voting for the final package in the future.Pelosi defended the legislation against criticism that wealthy Americans will benefit disproportionately as a result of the provisions."That's not about tax cuts for wealthy people. It's about services for the American people," she said earlier in the day. "This isn't about who gets a tax cut. It's about which states get the revenue that they need in order to meet the needs of the people, and that is a fight that I will continue to make."This story and headline have been updated with additional developments Friday.CNN's Lauren Fox, Annie Grayer and Katie Lobosco contributed to this report. 
Here's why some millionaires might see a tax cut under the Democrats' spending plan. Washington (CNN)Most households won't see a tax increase in 2022 if the Democrats' $1.9 trillion spending plan is passed, according to a recent analysis from the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center.The Democrats' proposal is still in flux. But under the latest version, most middle-income families with children would get a tax cut in 2022 -- thanks to an expanded child tax credit -- and those without kids would generally see little change in their tax bills, said Howard Gleckman, a senior fellow at the Tax Policy Center.But the analysis also shows that some very high-income households would see a tax cut, too, flying in the face of the Democrats' pledge to make wealthy Americans pay more in taxes. In fact, about 70% of those earning more than $1 million a year would see an average tax cut of nearly $17,000. That's largely due to a provision recently added to the Democrats' tax plan that would lift the cap on state and local tax deductions, known as SALT. It's critical to some Democrats in high-tax states in the Northeast and West Coast that this change gets in the final bill -- but it also could cause major messaging problems for the party as they try to push their agenda through Congress with razor-thin majorities in both the House and Senate. Overall, nearly 40% of households would see a tax cut and nearly 19% would pay more in 2022 than they do now, the analysis also shows. The Democrats' goal is to raise taxes on the wealthy and corporations in order to pay for the massive spending plan that aims to revamp the nation's social safety net by, among other things, creating universal pre-K, making child care more affordable and boosting Pell grants for low-income college students.Lawmakers are still negotiating the details of their sweeping agenda. The legislation must first get approval in the House before it moves to the Senate, where Democrats are planning to use a procedure called reconciliation so that they can approve the bill without any Republican votes. Still, Democrats can't afford to lose a single vote in the process.Households earning less than $400,000 a yearPresident Joe Biden has repeatedly promised that the plan would not raise taxes by "one cent" for families earning less than $400,000 a year. Looking at direct taxes only -- the individual income tax and the payroll tax, which affect a taxpayer's federal tax rate -- every income group except those in the top 1% would see an average tax cut, the analysis shows. Fewer than 0.1% of those making $500,000 or less would pay more in taxes than under current law. The report does not look specifically at the $400,000 threshold.The tax cuts are largely due to the expanded child tax credit included in the spending plan. Democrats want to keep the temporary changes Congress made to the child tax credit during the coronavirus pandemic. Through the enhanced payments, eligible families receive $3,600 for each child under age 6 and up to $3,000 for each one ages 6 through 17 for 2021 -- up from $2,000 per child up to age 17.But there are other changes in the plan that could affect Americans' after-tax income indirectly. Many economists assume, for example, an increase in the corporate tax rate will result in lower wages for workers.When accounting for all tax changes included in the plan, the Tax Policy Center found that roughly 20% to 30% of middle-income households would pay more in taxes in 2022. The increase would be small, compared with the tax hike on very wealthy Americans -- averaging an additional $100 or less. But not all provisions in the plan would be in effect at the same time. The expanded child tax credit, for example, would only be extended through 2022 and a corporate minimum tax on book income won't take effect until 2023. That means more households will have to pay more in taxes in 2023 than in 2022. When looking at direct taxes only, most households will still not see an increase in 2023. But when accounting for the indirect impact of the corporate tax changes, more than 70% of taxpayers would see a hike. Taxes on the wealthyDemocrats have long wanted to revamp the tax system so that the wealthy pay a higher tax rate than they do now -- or what Biden refers to as their "fair share."The Tax Policy Center analysis shows that some very high-income households would see a significant tax hike under the Democrats' plan.For example, taxpayers in the top 1% -- those earning about $885,000 or more a year --  would pay an average of about $54,000 more than under current law. Those in the top 0.1%, who generally earn at least $4 million a year -- would pay an average of about $585,000 more. The tax increases on the wealthy are largely due to a provision in the tax plan that would require the wealthiest Americans to pay a 5% surcharge on income above $10 million and an additional 3% levy on income above $25 million.The bill would also close the loopholes that allow some affluent taxpayers to avoid paying the 3.8% net investment income tax on their earnings. And it would continue the limitation on excess business losses.But while 22% of taxpayers earning more than $1 million a year would see a tax increase in 2022, more than two-thirds of them would get a tax cut due to the proposed change to the SALT cap. The current $10,000 cap was put in place by the Republican-backed Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in 2017. Under the latest Democratic-backed plan, deductions would be capped at $80,000 per year over a nine-year time span.A separate analysis from the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation released Tuesday also indicated that high earners would benefit, showing that 68% of those earning at least $1 million would see a tax cut greater than $500 while between 20% and 30% of middle-income earners would see as big of a cut.CNN's Lauren Fox and Manu Raju contributed to this report.
How low will Biden go?.  (CNN)A new Quinnipiac University national poll has some very dire news for President Joe Biden: His job approval rating sits at a lousy 36%.That's the lowest number for Biden in the Q poll so far in his presidency -- and part of a broader several-months-long sag for the President.CNN's poll of polls, the average of the last five national polls, has Biden at 44% approval. The Real Clear Politics polling average pegs his average approval at just over 41%. The 538 average has the President at 42.5% approval.There's no real debate that Biden is in a bad place with the American public.  The question that Democrats have to be asking themselves is whether it will get worse and, if so, how much worse.The answer, judging from recent history, is that Biden would seem to be nearing his lowest possible ebb.The worst job approval rating Donald Trump ever scored in Gallup data was 37% in January 2019. Barack Obama's low point was 40% in August 2011. (He also hit that number several times in early 2014.)Those numbers suggest that, almost no matter what happens, Biden's approval rating is unlikely to dip all that much below where it currently is.The nightmare scenario for Biden (and his party) is the presidency of George W. Bush, who saw his approval rating go as low as 25% in the midst of the global financial crisis in October 2008. But that was also a drastically different time -- Bush was three months away from the end of his second term (with two midterm elections already under his belt), while Biden is less than a year away from his first midterms. Barring that sort of massive global collapse, however, it seems unlikely Biden's approval could come close to where Bush found himself.The problem for Biden and his party is that even if he is now nearing his polling nadir, it needs him to begin to bounce back -- and quickly.Historically, seat losses for a president's party in a midterm election when the president's approval rating is less than 50% are in the upper 30s -- a shift that would give Republicans not just the House majority but also a comfortable margin from which to govern.The Point: Yes, the 2022 election is less than a year away. But presidential approval ratings don't usually change drastically over a short period of time. Democrats need Biden to bottom out and begin the climb back -- and soon.
US can fight inflation and still 'build back better'. Jeffrey Sachs is a professor and director of the Center for Sustainable Development at Columbia University and president of the United Nations Sustainable Development Solutions Network. His most recent book is "The Ages of Globalization" (Columbia University Press, 2020). The opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author. View more opinion on CNN. (CNN)Consumer prices in October 2021 were 6.2% higher than a year ago. This is the highest year-over-year price inflation since 1990. It raises three main questions. What is the cause? What should be done? And in particular, how should it affect the design of the Build Back Better (BBB) legislation?There are several factors at play. None, however, should deflect from the importance of the longer-term Build Back Better agenda. The Wall Street Journal's editorial page, which leads the media campaign against tax increases on the rich and corporations, is calling on Congress to "kill the bill" in the supposed interest of fighting inflation. Sen. Joe Manchin, working tirelessly in favor of the rich and the corporate lobbyists, is also pointing to inflation as a reason to delay, cut, or oppose the legislation.  Such opposition to BBB completely mixes up the short-term and the long-term, and utterly confuses deficit spending to fight Covid-19 with fully paid-for spending to fund long-term reforms. BBB is not about the next month, or the next year; it is about the next generation.  We need to set a long-term direction for the country toward a fairer and more productive society by enabling the working poor in America to get health care, family leave, affordable drug prices, child care, and affordable community college.  Unlike the temporary Covid-19 spending, the long-term BBB outlays should be fully paid for by higher taxes on the rich and corporations, which have enjoyed a massive windfall in the past two years. If BBB is paid for with taxes, then it won't add to the public debt or create long-term inflationary pressures. Inflation results when the overall demand for goods and services exceeds the available supply at today's prices. Therefore, inflation can result from a rise in demand, a fall in supply, or some combination of the two. Analyzing the current inflation requires that we parse the demand-side and supply-side factors at play.  This is not simple. The Covid-19 pandemic has whipsawed the economy, both in the US and globally, more than any other shock since World War II. The swings in demand and supply, because of lockdowns and government policies, are bigger than the 1970s oil shocks and the 2008 financial crisis.  We are in somewhat uncharted territory. Still, we can identify some of the key factors driving demand and supply.  The story starts, of course, with Covid-19. In March 2020, the US and world economy partially shut down to slow the spread of the virus. The shutdown mainly affected travel, tourism, hotels, entertainment, restaurants, and schools. Most of agriculture, mining, and manufacturing (the goods-producing sectors) continued operations, as did most office-bound activities that could be shifted online.  With tens of millions of service-sector jobs quickly ended, the government resorted to a massive transfer of income -- payments to households and businesses funded by deficits -- especially to keep household disposable income from plummeting. Money sent by the government to most Americans prevented the disastrous loss of income of tens of millions of households, which could have led to a massive collapse of consumer spending. In fact, households saved most of the government payments, as they were unable to spend the money on activities out of the home.  These payments were provided by Congress in three distinct packages, two under Trump, in March 2020 (CARES Act) and December 2020 (Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2021), and one under Biden, in March 2021 (American Rescue Plan). The federal government ran unprecedented peacetime deficits, around 14.9% of GDP in 2020 and 10.3% of GDP in 2021, to pay for the increased outlays.    In the meantime, the Federal Reserve bought up a remarkable amount of public debt, thereby expanding the monetary base by around $2.4 trillion between March 2020 and August 2021, and thereby preventing a liquidity crisis -- that is, a sudden drying up of lending and borrowing as occurred, for example, in the 2008 financial crisis. Much of the cheap money found its way into stock prices, which have soared. That in turn has boosted the wealth of the superrich.  These were extraordinary measures, certainly the largest fiscal and monetary expansion in peacetime history. It was indeed very hard to calibrate the proper magnitude of the response given the uncertainties over the size and timing of the Covid-19 disruption.  In retrospect, the demand measures were a bit too large, but we should still credit these strong steps with preventing a much deeper and prolonged economic downturn. The economy might well have fallen into a deep contraction or even a depression but for these proactive policies.At the same time, the supply side has been negatively impacted, especially in three areas that account for a considerable amount of the recent price increases. First, when petroleum-based transportation plummeted in 2020, oil prices collapsed (even reaching a negative price in Texas one day in April 2020).  Saudi Arabia responded by cutting daily oil production by around 1 million barrels (from roughly 10 million to 9 million barrels per day). Yet when demand picked up this year, Saudi production was brought back online gradually, causing world oil prices to soar in the short term.  Second, a surge in demand for electronics components, notably microchips, has led to a shortage of parts for new car production, and a sharp fall in monthly automobile production in the US, from 197,000 cars in September 2020 to just 84,000 cars this September. This supply shortfall has caused the prices of new and used cars to soar.  Third, after a sharp fall in consumer demand for and production of meat products early on in the pandemic, demand for meat is now soaring while production and shipments are still lagging behind, causing sticker shock on consumer meat prices.  In summary, both demand-side and supply-side factors are at play. Overall, demand is high, pumped up by enormous budget deficits and easy money, while supply shortages are hitting energy, food products and automobiles. While energy prices are up 30% in October (over October 2020), meat prices are up 14.5%, new car and truck prices are up 9.8%, and used car and truck prices are up 26.4%, services other than energy are up by only 3.2%.  So, the question is what to do. First, the economy does not need any more fiscal or monetary stimulus. The budget deficit is expected to drop from 10.3% of GDP this year to around 4.6% of GDP in 2022, according to CBO estimates, and this is a good thing. The Fed, likewise, should tighten monetary policy step by step, with interest rates rising from today's rock-bottom levels (0.05% on 3-month treasury bills) to more historically normal levels in the next few years.  OPEC should increase production to reduce sky-high oil prices in the short run, and also plan for a downward trajectory of production over the coming years as electric vehicles replace cars with internal combustion engines, thereby driving down the global demand for oil.     In summary, inflation in the coming months should be controlled by ending stimulus spending, tightening monetary policy, slashing the budget deficit and increasing OPEC monthly oil production to counter the recent surge in global oil and gas prices.   At the same time, we should persevere in making long-term federal investments in health, education, and child care for the working poor, paying for those policies with higher taxes on the superrich and corporations.
The Steele dossier: A reckoning   . Washington (CNN)When it came to light in January 2017, just days before Donald Trump took office, the so-called Steele dossier landed like a bombshell and sent shockwaves around the world with its salacious allegations about Trump and his supposed ties to Russia.The central allegations, that Trump conspired with the Kremlin to win the 2016 election and that Russia had compromising information on him, were given a veneer of credibility because they originated from a retired British spy, Christopher Steele, who had a solid reputation.But five years later, the credibility of the dossier has significantly diminished.A series of investigations and lawsuits have discredited many of its central allegations and exposed the unreliability of Steele's sources. They also raise serious questions about the political underpinnings of some key explosive claims about Trump by shedding new light on the involvement of some well-connected Democrats in the dossier, and separate efforts to prod the FBI to investigate ties between Trump's campaign and Russia.These revelations have triggered a reckoning around the Steele dossier, particularly in the wake of two recent indictments secured by John Durham, the special counsel appointed during the Trump administration to investigate the FBI's Russia probe. Durham alleges that Steele's primary source, a US-based foreign policy analyst, repeatedly lied to the FBI about where he got his information.To be clear, multiple US government inquiries uncovered dozens of contacts between Trump campaign associates and Russians, which have since been acknowledged. The candidate himself and his closest advisers even welcomed the Kremlin's interference in the election. Still, none of it added up to the collusion suggested in Steele's memos.Legitimate questions are now being raised about the dossier -- how it was used by Democrats as a political weapon against Trump, how it was handled by the FBI and US intelligence agencies, and how it was portrayed in the mainstream media.Democrats' hidden hand revealed  Trump swiftly rejected Steele's claims and said a "group of opponents ... put that crap together." Nearly five years later, it's clearer than ever that he wasn't too far off about the origins of the dossier.Two special counsel investigations, multiple congressional inquiries, civil lawsuits in the US and the United Kingdom, and an internal Justice Department review have now fully unspooled the behind-the-scenes role that some Democrats played in this saga. They paid for the research, funneled information to Steele's sources, and then urged the FBI to investigate Trump's connections to Russia.Mother Jones first revealed the existence of the dossier a few days before the 2016 election, and said the memos were part of an "opposition research project" underwritten by Democrats. Nearly a year passed before the full truth came out about the financing: The money flowed from Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign to law firm Perkins Coie, to the research company Fusion GPS, and then ultimately to Steele, who got $168,000.(Anti-Trump Republicans initially funded Fusion GPS' research during the 2016 GOP primaries, but the Clinton campaign and Democratic National Committee picked up the tab before Steele got involved.)But Democratic involvement in Steele's work was much deeper than previously known. Court filings from the Durham inquiry recently revealed that some information in the dossier originated from Charles Dolan, 71, a public relations executive with expertise in Russian affairs who had a decades-long political relationship with the Clinton family. He has not been accused of any crimes.Federal prosecutors said Dolan was in regular contact in 2016 with Steele's primary source Igor Danchenko, 49, a Russian citizen and foreign policy analyst who lives in Virginia. Danchenko was indicted on November 4 for allegedly lying to the FBI about his dealings with Dolan and a fellow Soviet-born expat that he claimed was one of his sources.Danchenko pleaded not guilty last week. In a statement to CNN, his defense attorney Mark Schamel said Durham is pushing a "false narrative designed to humiliate and slander a renowned expert in business intelligence for political gain." Schamel also accused Durham of including legally unnecessary information in the 39-page indictment to smear Danchenko."For the past five years, those with an agenda have sought to expose Mr. Danchenko's identity and tarnish his reputation while undermining U.S. National Security," Schamel said. "...This latest injustice will not stand. We will expose how Mr. Danchenko has been unfairly maligned by these false allegations."The indictment indirectly connected Dolan to the infamous claim that Russia possessed a compromising tape of Trump with prostitutes in Moscow, which became known as the "pee tape." (Trump and Russia both denied the allegations.) According to the Danchenko indictment, in June 2016, Dolan toured the Ritz-Carlton suite where the alleged liaison occurred, and discussed Trump's 2013 visit with hotel staff, but wasn't told about any sexual escapades. It's still unclear where those salacious details that ended up in the dossier came from.Dolan was also indirectly linked in the indictment to still-unverified claims about Russian officials who were allegedly part of the election meddling. The indictment also suggested that Steele's memos exaggerated what Dolan had passed along to Danchenko.The indictment also says the dossier contained a relatively mundane item about Trump campaign infighting that Dolan later told the FBI he actually gleaned from news articles. Prosecutors say Dolan even lied to Danchenko about where he got the gossip, by attributing it to a "GOP friend" who was "a close associate of Trump."An attorney representing Dolan, Ralph Martin, declined to comment for this story because his client "is a witness in an ongoing case."Durham explicitly stated in the Danchenko indictment that the Clinton campaign didn't direct, and wasn't aware of, Dolan's activities regarding the dossier. Clinton has said she only learned about the dossier when it was posted online, two months after the 2016 election. Senior Clinton campaign aides also said they found out about Steele's work from press reports.Clinton's allies prod the FBI  The Danchenko indictment raises new concerns about the circular nature of portions of Steele's work, and how it fit into a larger effort by Democrats to dirty up Trump. Clinton's campaign funded the project, and we now know that much of the material in Steele's memos ended up being mere political gossip. Steele then sent his explosive but unverified findings to the FBI and State Department.While Steele was passing his tips onto the FBI in fall 2016, a Clinton campaign lawyer separately met with a senior FBI official and gave him information about strange cyberactivity between servers at the Trump Organization and Alfa Bank, the largest private bank in Russia.The lawyer, Michael Sussmann, has since been charged with lying to the FBI during that meeting, for allegedly saying he wasn't providing the dirt on behalf of any client, even though he ultimately billed that time to the Clinton campaign, and also billed them for other work he did on the server issue. Durham says Sussmann repeated this lie during a meeting with CIA officials in February 2017, where he told them about the server theory. Sussmann has pleaded not guilty.The indictment says Sussman peddled the same material to a Slate reporter, who published a story right before the election. The story said reputable computer scientists uncovered unusual activity between servers belonging to the Trump Organization and the Moscow-based Alfa Bank, suggesting a secret backchannel.The Trump Organization and Alfa Bank both denied there was a backchannel. The FBI investigated the underlying data and ruled out any improper cyber links by February 2017.But after the Slate article came out, Clinton's campaign went on a PR blitz, tying Trump to Russia. Clinton had already slammed Trump for months, for embracing Russia's interference in the election, which included releasing hacked emails from Clinton's campaign chairman and the Democratic National Committee.Sussmann was a partner at the law firm Perkins Coie, which indirectly hired Steele. Both men separately went to the FBI in 2016 with dirt about Trump, though there's no indication Sussmann knew about the dossier. (A 2019 Justice Department watchdog report pointed out that the FBI routinely accepts information from biased or dubious sources, and then investigators try to independently vet the material.)After he was charged, Sussmann resigned from Perkins Coie. He declined to comment for this story.Rumors, hearsay and fabrications   When the dossier burst into public view, much of the conversation revolved around Steele's résumé: He worked undercover in Moscow, ran the Russia desk at MI6 headquarters, and maintained a network of sources in the country. This lent credibility to his findings, even though nobody, including CNN, was able to confirm the explosive allegations of collusion or the salacious "pee tape" claims.In January 2017, CNN broke the story that senior US intelligence officials had briefed Trump and then-President Barack Obama about the dossier. CNN never published the dossier itself, but hours later, BuzzFeed posted the full 35 pages of Steele's memos online for all to see. CNN said the author was "a former British intelligence operative, whose past work US intelligence officials consider credible."That was true. The FBI formalized Steele's role as a confidential informant in 2013. He aided the FBI's groundbreaking corruption case against dozens of FIFA soccer officials in 2015, and he also provided the FBI with reliable information about Russian oligarchs.But the once well-connected British spy had been out of the intelligence services for a while.For starters, we now know that Steele's primary source, Danchenko, wasn't some deep-cover Kremlin insider. He was a DC-based think tank analyst with a Rolodex of Russians.The FBI tracked down Danchenko and interviewed him a few times in 2017 while they scrambled to verify the dossier. Danchenko said the information he gave to Steele was mostly "hearsay," "just talk," "word of mouth," and came from "conversations he had with friends over beers." Danchenko also said Steele puffed up the memos and leaned too hard into the raw information he received, according to a bombshell 2019 report from Justice Department inspector general Michael Horowitz about the Russia probe.Some of Steele's sourcing disintegrates  The Danchenko indictment alleges that he lied to the FBI, and possibly Steele too, about another detail that became central to the dossier: where he heard there was a "well-developed conspiracy of cooperation" between Trump and the Kremlin.In interviews with the FBI, Danchenko attributed the information to Sergei Millian, a Belarusian-American businessman who did some real estate work with the Trump Organization. The indictment also says Danchenko sourced the "pee tape" story, in part, to Millian. But Millian wasn't the source, Durham says, contradicting press reports from 2017. (Some outlets recently corrected or clarified those reports.)Millian has since said he was "framed" by Danchenko and has publicly denied that they ever spoke, though there is no indication in the indictment that Millian ever denied it to the FBI or under oath."This fraud destroyed my health, life, businesses and turned my American dream into (a) nightmare," Millian told CNN in a statement, declining further comment.A bipartisan Senate Intelligence Committee report released last year said Millian's behavior during the 2016 election "resembles activities by a Russian intelligence officer or cooptee." He has vehemently denied working for the Russian government.Another Russian who Danchenko told the FBI was one of his sources said in a sworn affidavit in a civil case that she wasn't the source for at least one claim that was attributed to her. The woman, publicist Olga Galkina, said she believes Danchenko told the FBI she was his source "to create more authoritativeness for his work," according to court filings.The indictment against Danchenko quotes emails where Galkina told Dolan she is a "big Hillary fan," and hoped to land a job at the State Department after Clinton became president.Taken together, these revelations about Dolan, Millian and Galkina raise grave questions about where Danchenko got his information, or if he perhaps made some of it up.Attorneys for Danchenko didn't respond to CNN's request for an interview.The Durham investigation is ongoing. He continues to use a federal grand jury in Washington, DC, signaling that he might be interested in bringing charges against additional defendants.'Underpinned by poor judgment'   It took five years of criminal investigations, civil cases and congressional reports to pull back the curtain on the flimsiness of the dossier. The big picture really came into focus in 2019 with the release of a Justice Department watchdog report.That report described for the first time Danchenko's many walk-backs in his FBI interviews. It also said FBI agents gave Steele mixed reviews, with some seeing him as a "person of integrity," while others said he had a "lack of self-awareness" and was "underpinned by poor judgment," even if he was acting in good faith.The report also said the CIA viewed Steele's material as an "Internet rumor."Last year's bipartisan Senate report said "the tradecraft reflected in the dossier is generally poor relative to (US intelligence community) standards." The blockbuster 966-page report also raised concerns that some of the material Steele put in his memos was Russian disinformation.These revelations undermined Steele's credibility -- and led to renewed scrutiny and right-wing criticism of how many news outlets, including CNN, covered the dossier story.Efforts to corroborate fall flat   Everyone but Steele talked about his work for nearly five years, but he finally broke his silence in an ABC News interview last month, shortly before Danchenko was arrested. (Steele and his company, Orbis Business Intelligence, declined CNN's repeated requests for an interview.)Steele defended his work and said he was right about three big takeaways from his memos: Russian spy agencies interfered in the 2016 election; Russian President Vladimir Putin approved the operation; and the goal was to help Trump and hurt Clinton.He pointed to the US intelligence community's landmark 2017 report that said Russia meddled in the election at Putin's orders to help Trump. US intelligence agencies had examined the dossier but didn't rely on his findings for their report.But Steele's findings on Russian election-meddling, which were ahead of the curve at the time, now seem more like prescient geopolitical observations rather than insider information. Plus, his final and most consequential takeaway -- that Trump's campaign worked hand-in-hand with the Kremlin -- was essentially debunked by special counsel Robert Mueller's sweeping investigation.CNN reported in February 2017 that US investigators had corroborated some of the communications detailed in the dossier, citing multiple current and former US law enforcement and intelligence officials.The CNN report said US investigators were able to confirm the time, place and people involved in some of the conversations between foreign nationals mentioned by Steele. The story said CNN couldn't confirm if those conversations were about Trump, and the sources told CNN that the corroborated information had nothing to do with the salacious claims in the dossier.The sources also told CNN that the corroboration gave investigators "greater confidence" in the credibility of some aspects of the dossier, which the FBI was still actively investigating at the time.Two years later, the Justice Department watchdog said only limited information was corroborated from the dossier relating to "time, location, and title information, much of which was publicly available."Horowitz's watchdog report, released in December 2019, also said much of the material in the dossier about Trump and his campaign "could not be corroborated" and that "certain allegations were inaccurate or inconsistent" with subsequent FBI findings.But Horowitz said the FBI determined that Steele's big-picture conclusions about Russian meddling were "consistent with known efforts by Russia to interfere in the 2016 U.S. elections."What's right? What's wrong?   Looking at the big picture, Steele was right that Russia used "trusted agents of influence" to target Trump's inner circle. And he was correct to suspect there were secret contacts between Trump aides and Russian officials, even though Trump denied any Russian ties. But Steele was wrong about so many of the key details.Despite a worldwide hunt for the Trump "kompromat," no tapes ever emerged, and the Danchenko indictment puts the source of that underlying claim into doubt.There is no proof of something in the dossier that would've been a smoking gun for collusion -- that Trump's longtime personal attorney Michael Cohen went to Prague in 2016 to coordinate with Russian officials about their anti-Clinton hacking efforts. The watchdog report said the FBI concluded that these claims "were not true." Even after Cohen turned on Trump and started helping Mueller, and implicated his former boss in an illegal campaign finance scheme, Cohen always denied the Prague allegations.The dossier said Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort and foreign policy adviser Carter Page led the collusion efforts. But this was never verified by any government investigations. Mueller found that both men had extensive contacts with Russian agents, but he couldn't verify that Page met with the specific Kremlin officials as alleged in the dossier.The Mueller report said there wasn't evidence of a criminal conspiracy to collude.Five years on, Steele continues to defend his work. He told ABC News that "the evidence suggests" there was collusion, that he believes Cohen traveled to Prague after all, and that the compromising tape of Trump with Russian prostitutes "probably" exists."I stand by the work we did, the sources that we had, and the professionalism which we applied to it," Steele said in the interview with ABC News.Origins of the Russia probe  Democratic officials, the media and Internet conspiracy theorists initially hyped Steele's work. But as his credibility waned, Trump started exaggerating Steele's influence, and pushed the lie that the dossier triggered "the entire Russia probe."In truth, the dossier played a remarkably limited role in the Russia investigation.Four US government reports concluded that the probe began in July 2016, two months before the FBI team handling the inquiry even learned about the dossier.(After a lengthy review, Horowitz said there was a legal basis to open the Russia probe, and that the process was free of political bias. However, Durham publicly rebuked Horowitz and said he disagreed with some of Horowitz's conclusions, leading to criticism that his own work is politically motivated.)Mueller's team interviewed Steele, but largely ignored the dossier as they found dozens of links between the Trump campaign and Russia. Mueller's report didn't say all that much about the dossier, and he didn't attribute any findings to Steele.And there's no indication that the dossier influenced Mueller's successful criminal prosecutions against six Trump campaign associates: Manafort, Cohen, Roger Stone, Rick Gates, retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn and George Papadopoulos.But the dossier did play a major role in the investigation into Page, the lower-level Trump foreign policy adviser, and helped the FBI secure a warrant to wiretap him after he left the campaign in September 2016.Tainted FBI wiretaps  The fallout from the dossier was largely contained to the Page surveillance. But when internal investigators looked under the hood, they found catastrophic issues.Before the dossier, investigators already considered applying for a warrant under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act to wiretap Page's communications, but they weren't sure if they could establish probable cause. The dossier's explosive claims about Page's alleged meetings during his recent trip to Moscow "pushed it over" the line, a lawyer involved in the case told the Justice Department watchdog.The FBI included snippets of Steele's reporting in the FISA application, along with other information, like details of Page's previous interactions with Russian spies, and the fact that he suggested to an FBI informant that he had an "open checkbook" from the Kremlin. The secretive FISA court approved the warrant in October 2016, as well as three subsequent renewal requests, meaning Page was wiretapped for about one year.In April 2017, CNN was first to report that the FBI included some material from the dossier in the FISA applications. The article said prosecutors would only have done this "after the FBI had corroborated the information through its own investigation," according to officials familiar with the process.It's now clear that this level of verification never materialized. The watchdog report said Steele's claims about Page "remained uncorroborated" when the wiretaps ended in 2017.Page was never charged with any crimes, and Mueller said his investigation "did not establish that Page coordinated with the Russian government" to meddle in the election, which was a far cry from the FBI's initial assertions in FISA applications that Page "is an agent of a foreign power" who was "collaborating and conspiring with the Russian Government."The inspector general examined the FBI's handling of the FISA applications and found that there were widespread mistakes, omissions and errors that deeply undermined the integrity of the process. In response, the Justice Department declared that the final two FISA warrants against Page were legally invalid.But even Durham, who has been accused of cherry-picking an unfair narrative to undermine the Russia probe, hasn't said in his recent indictments, spanning 66 pages, that the FBI or Mueller ever relied on Steele for anything beyond the Page surveillance.Partial vindication for Trump    Critics of the Russia probe -- conservative pundits, Republican lawmakers and Trump himself -- took a victory lap after the inspector general blasted the Page FISA applications.That's because the inspector general's report confirmed what many of them had argued all along, including in a highly disputed memo from GOP Rep. Devin Nunes: That there were systemic problems with the FBI surveillance of someone tied to the Trump, and the Steele dossier was improperly used to influence part of the Russia probe.But the report refuted the more outlandish conspiracy theories that Trump, Nunes and other Republicans pushed about the Russia probe. The report said the FISA process, while flawed, wasn't intentionally abused and wasn't politically biased. And the report debunked Trump's lie that the FBI planted spies in his campaign.The latest Durham indictments also injected new life into Russia probe skeptics.After wall-to-wall coverage of the Steele dossier, public opinion was quickly locked in on the question of collusion. Many Democrats clung to hope that the dossier was true. Most Republicans denounced it as a deep state hoax. Post-Mueller polling found that about half of Americans believed Trump was guilty of collusion.Mueller and a bipartisan Senate inquiry concluded that Trump's team welcomed Russian help, and tried to coordinate on a few fronts, but it didn't come to fruition.But so much suspicion was fueled by Trump's massive cover-up about Russia.Trump and his team systematically lied about almost every aspect of the Russia probe. (At the start, they falsely denied any contacts with Russians.) After so many of their denials were disproved, they repeatedly shifted their story. Trump repeatedly undermined and obstructed Mueller's investigation.All the while, Trump heaped praise on Putin. He infamously took Putin's side at the 2018 Helsinki summit by agreeing with Putin's lie that Russia didn't try to help Trump win in 2016, leading many to wonder if Trump was compromised after all.CNN's Ben Krolowitz, Pamela Brown and Zachary Cohen contributed to this story. Graphics by CNN's Janie Boschma.
Fresh look at pandemic origins points straight to food market in Wuhan, scientist says.  (CNN)A fresh look at the possible origins of the Covid-19 pandemic points straight back to the Huanan seafood market in the Chinese city of Wuhan, a scientist who has been studying the pandemic from the beginning asserted Thursday.The researcher, Michael Worobey of the University of Arizona, has put together a painstaking timeline of all the known cases of SARS-Cov-2 before it was known a pandemic was starting.He found many were in people who lived or worked near the market, the original suspected source of the pandemic, even if they didn't have direct links to the market. But as Chinese government officials sought to deflect blame, and as the Trump administration and, later, intelligence officials in the Biden administration, pointed to the possibility of a virology research lab in Wuhan, the picture has become muddled.Worobey, who specializes in tracing the genetic evolution of viruses, has found considerable evidence that the virus arose in an animal, and did not start circulating until the end of 2019. He has published multiple studies on the probable origins of the virus. But he said he wanted to check his own theories against the real-life evidence from what was known about actual people with documented infections.So he dove into the known cases. He says what he found strengthens the theory that the virus originated in animals sold in the market -- much like the first SARS outbreak in 2002-2004 that infected 8,000 people before it was stopped.One case especially stood out -- that of a 41-year-old accountant who allegedly got sick on December 8, 2019 and who had no connection to the market. The case has been cited as evidence the pandemic must not have started at the market. Worobey found records that showed the man didn't become ill with Covid-19 until later in December and that his December 8 problem was related to his teeth. "This is corroborated by hospital records and a scientific paper that reports his COVID-19 onset date as 16 December and date of hospitalization as 22 December," Worobey wrote in a commentary in the journal Science.That would make a seafood vendor who worked at the market and who got sick December 11, 2019, the earliest documented case, Worobey said.Other research helped Worobey come up with a map of the earliest cases that clusters them all around the market. "That so many of the more than 100 COVID-19 cases from December with no identified epidemiologic link to Huanan Market nonetheless lived in its direct vicinity is notable and provides compelling evidence that community transmission started at the market," he wrote."Big red flashing arrow""It tells us that there's a big red flashing arrow pointing at Huanan Market as the most likely place that the pandemic started," Worobey told CNN. "The virus didn't come from some other part of Wuhan and then get to Huanan market. The evidence speaks really quite strongly to the virus starting at the market and then leaking into the neighborhoods around the market." The World Health Organization made its own investigation into the origins of the pandemic, and said animals were the most likely origin of the pandemic. But WHO also said its conclusions were not definite and asked the Chinese government to provide more information and access.This information might not ever come to light, Worobey said. The Chinese government cleared the Huanan market of all animals and disinfected it when it became clear it was associated with an outbreak of infectious disease in January of 2020-- removing the risk of more spread, but also destroying  crucial evidence."I wouldn't call this conclusive evidence, but I would call this pretty darn strong evidence," Worobey said.The journal Science subjected Worobey's research to outside scrutiny before publishing it. And Peter Daszak, president of EcoHealth Alliance and one of WHO's investigators, said he thinks it holds up."I was really impressed with the detective work he's put in. Everything he says about the Dec 8th case fits with what we experienced in Wuhan on the WHO trip -- there were a cluster of early cases coming into hospitals in late December and clinicians worked back to the presumed date of onset," Daszak told CNN by email."They just made a mistake with this person because he likely visited hospital for another reason. This puts the first known case as a Huanan market worker, not the accountant who lived near one of the Wuhan lab campuses," Daszak added. "This is now adding to around 10 pieces of other scientific evidence that I've seen since the end of our WHO work, all of which point towards an origin through the wildlife farms and markets. No single piece of evidence is totally conclusive, but when you lay them all out, it really tips the balance towards the 'natural' origin."Worobey joined a group of scientists who signed a letter in Science in May saying the theory that the coronavirus leaked from a lab needs thorough investigation."I co-signed that letter in Science suggesting that the lab leak needs to be investigated, which I still believe and that it should be," Worobey told CNN. "But in the meantime, holy smokes -- is there a lot of evidence against it and in favor of natural origin."
WTA chairman willing to pull out of China if tennis star Peng Shuai not fully accounted for. Hong Kong (CNN)The head of the Women's Tennis Association (WTA) Steve Simon has said he is willing to lose hundreds of millions of dollars worth of business in China if tennis player Peng Shuai is not fully accounted for and her allegations are not properly investigated. "We're definitely willing to pull our business and deal with all the complications that come with it," Simon said in an interview Thursday with CNN. "Because this is certainly, this is bigger than the business," added Simon."Women need to be respected and not censored," said Simon. Peng, who is one of China's most recognizable sports stars, has not been seen in public since she accused former Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli of coercing her into sex at his home, according to screenshots of a since-deleted social media post dated November 2.Her post on Weibo, China's Twitter-like platform, was deleted within 30 minutes of publication, with Chinese censors moving swiftly to wipe out any mention of the accusation online. Her Weibo account, which has more than half a million followers, is still blocked from searchers on the platform.The forceful intervention from Simon puts the tennis chief on a likely collision course with authorities in China, which have so far refused to publicly acknowledge Peng's allegations. Perceived criticisms of China, which is also due to host the 2022 Winter Olympics in February, have previously resulted in significant public and political backlash, as well as loss of access.Simon said the WTA had been in conversation with counterparts at the Chinese Tennis Association, who had provided assurances Peng was unharmed in Beijing. However, attempts to reach Peng directly had proved unsuccessful. "We have reached out to her on every phone number and email address and other forms of contact," he said. "There's so many digital approaches to contact people these days that we have, and to date we still have not been able to get a response."Earlier this week, Chinese state-media released an email, purportedly sent to Simon from Peng, walking back her allegations and claiming she is fine.The alleged email was released only on English-language platforms and domestic Chinese media have not reported on its contents, despite Peng being a household name in China.When asked about the email, Simon questioned its veracity, describing it as a "staged statement of some type," noting he had yet to receive a follow up reply, despite responding immediately. "Whether she was coerced into writing it, someone wrote it for her, we don't know," said Simon. "But at this point I don't think there's any validity in it and we won't be comfortable until we have a chance to speak with her," he added.Tennis' popularity in China has grown rapidly over the past few decades, with several Chinese players breaking into the global rankings. The women's game, in particular, is a big market, thanks in part to the success of Chinese tennis star Li Na, who in 2011 became Asia's first grand slam singles tennis champion when she won the French Open, followed by a second major title at the 2014 Australian Open.In recent years, the WTA has made a big push into China. In 2019, the WTA Finals relocated from Singapore to the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen, entering into a lengthy ten year deal. In an interview with the New York Times from 2018, Simon described the arrangement with authorities in Shenzhen, which reportedly includes the construction of a new multimillion dollar tennis stadium, as a "huge opportunity" for women's tennis in China."When you factor in the commitment to prize money and the commitments to the WTA, and you factor in the stadium build and real-estate elements, it's over a $1 billion dollar commitment they have made to the WTA Finals and the WTA," Simon was quoted as saying. On Thursday, Serena Williams joined a growing number of international tennis players to voice concern over Peng's whereabouts. "I am devastated and shocked to hear about the news of my peer, Peng Shuai. I hope she is safe and found as soon as possible," Williams wrote on Twitter. "This must be investigated and we must not stay silent."Tennis superstar Naomi Osaka on Tuesday said she was "in shock of the current situation." "Censorship is never OK at any cost, I hope Peng Shuai and her family are safe and OK," she wrote as part of a statement on Twitter alongside the hashtag #WhereIsPengShuai.The controversy risks impacting the forthcoming 2022 Winter Olympics, which are set to kick off in Beijing in less than three months. Calls for a boycott have been growing in recent months, owing to concerns over China's alleged human rights abuses. On Thursday, US President Joe Biden confirmed he is mulling a diplomatic boycott of the event. The international concern for Peng, who is a three-time Olympian, having represented China at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio, London in 2012, and Beijing in 2008, could now strengthen those calls. CNN has reached out to the International Olympic Committee for comment.Human Rights Watch accused the IOC of being "silent on the Olympian's disappearance." In a statement, the global rights group said it is "astonishing that the IOC would accept the government's assurances, particularly at the expense of a female Olympian making grave allegations."Speaking at a press conference Thursday, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said Peng's accusation is not a diplomatic issue and declined to comment further.
Head of RNC says Biden won 2020 election, the first time she's clearly acknowledged his victory.  (CNN)Republican National Committee Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel said Thursday she recognizes President Joe Biden as the 46th president of the United States, even as she claimed there were "lots of problems" with the 2020 election that Republican candidates should address.  "Painfully, Joe Biden won the election and it's very painful to watch. He's the President. We know that," McDaniel said at a breakfast hosted by the Christian Science Monitor in Washington, DC.While the RNC has for months criticized Biden in press releases and rapid response materials, McDaniel's comments Thursday marked the first time the party chairwoman has clearly stated that Biden "won" the 2020 election. Her comments also come as former President Donald Trump, who McDaniel said remains an overwhelming influence on the Republican Party, continues to push conspiracy theories about the 2020 election with the help of leaders across the GOP's election apparatus. Earlier this year, the RNC unveiled a "Committee on Election Integrity," and, on Thursday, McDaniel declined to say whether Trump's pressure campaign to convince then-Vice President Mike Pence to block congressional certification of Biden's Electoral College victory was unconstitutional. "I'm not a constitutional scholar," McDaniel said. Despite encouraging Republicans to focus on pocketbook issues and their political opponents as next year's midterm elections approach, McDaniel did not bat down Trump's relentless focus on relitigating the 2020 election or his attempts to strong-arm GOP governors and lawmakers into supporting election audits in various states. "I think every Republican right now should be talking about 2022. I'm not talking about anything else other than what Biden is doing to destroy our country: high gas prices, an open border, an opioid crisis," she said. "Everybody else can do their own thing, but I think we should be talking about Joe Biden." However, McDaniel added, Republicans in certain parts of the country can also benefit from talking about election reform."We have to talk about the things that people saw," she said when asked about Trump's false claims of widespread voter fraud. "We have to show our voters we are putting processes in place that will ensure the election is fair and transparent." Some Republicans have expressed concern that the party's relentless focus on voter fraud and willingness to enable Trump's lies about the election will depress turnout in the midterms, potentially thwarting a GOP wave that could place the House and Senate back under the party's control. Still, leaders at the highest levels of the party's election apparatus have done little to steer the former President's focus in a different direction. Over the summer, for instance, the RNC issued a 23-page report accusing Democrat-led states of using the Covid-19 pandemic to change election practices to the benefit of Democratic candidates. The report claimed there were numerous instances in the 2020 election where Democrats "brought chaos and uncertainty to our sacred Democratic processes" and made a series of policy recommendations for Republicans to pursue -- including the elimination of universal mail-in voting. With McDaniel at its helm, the RNC also joined Trump's 2020 campaign immediately after the 2020 election in filing dozens of unsuccessful lawsuits that challenged statewide results or changes to election practices. At the time, RNC chief counsel Justin Riemer reportedly warned his colleagues in emails later unearthed by The Washington Post that they shouldn't elevate the claims about ballot fraud and a stolen election that Trump's allies were making.  "They are misleading millions of people who have wishful thinking that the president is going to somehow win this thing," Riemer wrote in one of the emails obtained by the Post, specifically referring to Trump attorneys Jenna Ellis and Rudy Giuliani. 
Kamala Harris' communications director is leaving the administration.  (CNN)Vice President Kamala Harris' communications director, Ashley Etienne, is leaving the Biden administration to pursue "other opportunities," a White House official tells CNN. "Ashley is a valued member of the vice president's team, who has worked tirelessly to advance the goals of this administration," the official said. "She is leaving the office in December to pursue other opportunities."Etienne's exit comes after CNN detailed significant tension between West Wing aides and the vice president's office. CNN reported that several people on Harris' staff had started to reach out to contacts to say they're looking to leave, according to sources who've gotten calls. Vanity Fair was first to report Etienne's departure.Etienne's exit has been a long time coming, two sources familiar with the matter told CNN.  One source said Etienne "was not a good fit" for Harris' office and did not play a sufficiently active role in crafting a communications strategy for Harris' topsy-turvy first year in office.Both sources said there are no immediate plans to replace Etienne as Harris' communications director.Prior to joining the Biden administration, Etienne was a senior adviser to the Biden presidential campaign and a communications professional for a number of elected officials in Washington, including then-House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and then-President Barack Obama.  Harris has been dogged with messaging challenges since her unsuccessful presidential campaign, and has at times publicly fumbled the White House's message.Those public missteps have included drawing the ire of key moderate Democrat Sen. Joe Manchin over her comments made on local West Virginia television about the American Rescue Plan and garnering criticism over an answer on why she had not yet visited the US-Mexico border. Many in the vice president's circle told CNN this fall that she's not being adequately prepared or positioned, and instead is being sidelined. The vice president herself has told several confidants she feels constrained in what she's able to do politically. And those around her remain wary of even hinting at future political ambitions, with President Joe Biden's team highly attuned to signs of disloyalty, particularly from the vice president.Several sources speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss the situation more frankly have told CNN Harris' staff has repeatedly failed her and left her exposed, and family members have often had an informal say within her office. Reports of disarray within Harris' office earlier this summer and again this fall have sent the White House into damage control on more than one occasion. Earlier this week, following CNN's report of the dysfunction within the vice president's office, the White House defended Harris, calling her a "key partner" to the President."The President selected the vice president because -- to serve as his running mate -- because he felt she was exactly the person he wanted to have by his side to govern the country," White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters at a White House briefing on Monday. House Democratic Whip Rep. James Clyburn, who had private conversations with Biden during his vice president selection process, downplayed the recent reporting about Harris' office and Etienne's exit. "I'm always concerned when I read headlines that are not complimentary ... but headlines are headlines," the South Carolina Democrat told CNN's Erin Burnett on "OutFront" Thursday evening.He continued: "People leave jobs all the time. I've been a part of transitions myself at the state level. And I know that within the first several months -- sometimes it takes a year -- that people may find out this is not exactly for me. So these things tend to happen."The vice president's office also hired additional communications advisers earlier this fall, including a crisis communications specialist who is expected to serve in a temporary capacity for several months. In late September, the vice president's office hired two communications veterans -- Lorraine Voles, the crisis communications specialist who previously worked for Hillary Clinton and Al Gore, and Adam Frankel, a former Obama speechwriter -- to focus their efforts on "organizational development, strategic communications and long-term planning," according to the White House. Harris on Thursday morning downplayed concerns over her role and stressed unity with the President. "This was a good week. And this week, when we got the bipartisan infrastructure act passed and signed by the President, makes a statement about all of the hard work that has gone into it. ... We're getting things done and we're doing it together," she told George Stephanopoulos in a brief interview on ABC's "Good Morning America."Asked if she felt misused, Harris said, "No, I don't," laughing.This story has been updated with additional reporting.CNN's Jeremy Diamond and Edward-Isaac Dovere contributed to this report.
Defense rests in the trial over Ahmaud Arbery's death .  (CNN)The defense teams for the three White men accused in Ahmaud Arbery's killing rested Thursday after presenting their case for two days and calling seven witnesses, including Travis McMichael, one of the defendants, to the stand. Travis McMichael, his father Gregory McMichael and their neighbor William "Roddie" Bryan Jr. face charges including malice and felony murder in the death of Arbery, a 25-year-old Black man who was chased by the trio on February 23, 2020, in the Satilla Shores neighborhood near Brunswick, Georgia. The younger McMichael shot and killed Arbery and it was captured on cell phone video by Bryan. All three defendants have pleaded not guilty. Arbery's family has said he was out for a jog when he was shot and killed. Defense attorneys contend the McMichaels, suspecting him of burglary, were trying to conduct a lawful citizen's arrest, and that Bryan, after seeing the McMichaels chase Arbery, attempted to cut Arbery off, followed and recorded video of the pursuit and shooting.Defense attorneys rested their case following the prosecution's cross-examination of Travis McMichael as well as testimony from several residents in the neighborhood where the shooting took place. Among them, Cindy Clark, who testified she has lived in the Satilla Shores neighborhood since 2004 and was aware of "petty crime" incidents since 2006.Another resident, Sube Lawrence, said she was an administrator for a neighborhood Facebook page in which she would keep up with what people said about crime in the area, and was in touch with a neighbor who would alert her if there was a "suspicious person lurking" at a nearby home under construction so that Lawrence could get her children inside. After Arbery's shooting, she testified, Travis McMichael asked her to accept him in the Facebook group with a different last name because his account had been hacked, so that he could look at what people were saying.Closing arguments in the trial will begin Monday morning.Standing outside the courthouse doors on Thursday evening, Arbery's mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones, said she was "very confident that we will get a guilty verdict.""Very confident," she repeated.Earlier in the day, Black ministers and pastors from all over the country gathered for a prayer event to support Arbery's family, in a show of solidarity against the comments of a defense attorney who attempted to have Black pastors barred from the courtroom. "Our agenda is that the God we serve will give strength to this woman and this man and this family and an agenda that God would give us justice in this courtroom," the Rev. Al Sharpton said during the outdoor gathering. "We did not come for an ulterior motive."Defendant pressed about differences in accountsIn Travis McMichael's second day on the witness stand Thursday, a prosecutor pressed him about differences in his initial accounts to police and his later testimony about the pursuit and killing of Arbery.She also probed him on the final moments of Arbery's life -- including asking why McMichael ever raised his shotgun."You're not letting him run away -- you're pointing (the) shotgun at him," prosecutor Linda Dunikoski said about the encounter during cross-examination."I am not letting him run to me, directly to me," McMichael countered, talking of his raising his weapon.McMichael had testified a day earlier that he acted in self-defense as he and Arbery wrestled over McMichael's shotgun.On Thursday, Dunikoski challenged McMichael over what she said were inconsistencies in his accounts. That included not telling police initially that he and his father were trying to make a citizen's arrest, though that's what the defense has since contended. She also covered differences in his accounts on when and where he told Arbery certain things, such as to stop.McMichael responded he was "scattered" and "mixed up" in the hours after the shooting, because "this is the most traumatic event I've ever been through in my life."LIVE UPDATES: The trial in the killing of Ahmaud ArberyMcMichael also acknowledged several times, under Dunikoski's questioning, that he never saw Arbery armed during the pursuit, never heard Arbery verbally threaten him and that Arbery never responded or showed any interest in conversing with McMichael as he tried to ask what he was doing.She also pushed him on what he chose not to do."You could have driven behind (Arbery) and not spoken to him at all," and "you could have stayed in your truck" instead of getting out and eventually drawing a gun, Dunikoski said.McMichael responded "yes" to both statements.In addition to malice murder and felony murder, the defendants face charges of aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony. All have pleaded not guilty. If convicted, each man could face life in prison without the possibility of parole.Cross-examination focuses on final encounterOn Thursday, Dunikoski also challenged Travis McMichael on why he now claims Arbery grabbed his gun in the final encounter, since he initially told police he didn't know if that's what happened."It's obvious he had the gun. ... I obviously missed every minute detail" when speaking to police that day under stress, McMichael testified.On Tuesday, the forensic pathologist who performed Arbery's autopsy testified that Arbery's first gunshot wounds -- to his wrist and chest -- could be consistent with Arbery grabbing or pushing away the shotgun.When McMichael described the encounter Wednesday, he said that after he and his father pursued Arbery in a pickup truck, he'd parked his vehicle and saw Arbery coming in their direction. He yelled at Arbery to "stop where you're at" and went to grab his shotgun. Arbery turned and ran, before eventually coming back again, Travis McMichael said.As Arbery got closer, Travis McMichael drew his weapon on Arbery, McMichael said Wednesday. Arbery darted to the right and later, "starts running back straight to the truck where my father's at the back of it." The younger McMichael testified he made his way to the front of the vehicle, and Arbery "turns and is on me, is on me in a flash.""He grabs the shotgun, and I believe I was struck on that first instance that we made contact," Travis McMichael testified. McMichael said that "if he would have got the shotgun from me, then it was, this is a life-or-death situation. And I'm gonna have to stop him from doing this, so I shot."Dunikoski asked him Thursday about what she called his "attitudes toward ... vigilantism." She asked about a January 2019 Facebook exchange with someone, in which that person felt that examples needed to be made out of somebody if they steal things."You (responded), 'That's right. Hope y'all catch the vermin,'" Dunikoski said."That's correct," McMichael said.Travis McMichael describes days and moments leading to pursuitThe McMichaels, according to their attorneys, suspected Arbery of burglary in part because they and several neighbors were concerned about people entering an under-construction home -- and because of Travis McMichaels' encounter with a man in the neighborhood on February 11, 2020, nearly two weeks before the shooting.Defense attorney Bob Rubin said in opening statements two weeks ago that the person that Travis McMichael saw was Arbery -- verified by surveillance video -- and that the encounter gave Travis McMichael the belief 12 days later that the person now running could be armed.According to testimony, the deadly pursuit started with this: A neighbor called police on the afternoon of February 23 to say a man later identified as Arbery was at the construction site alone. Arbery ran off as the man called police, the neighbor testified.Gregory McMichael, investigators testified, said he initiated the pursuit after seeing Arbery speedily run by McMichael's home, and that he believed Arbery matched the description of someone who'd been recorded at the construction site before. On Wednesday, Travis McMichael testified that he was sitting in his home on February 23 when his father ran inside in a "frantic state" and told his son to get his gun, saying the man from days earlier had "just ran by the house" and "something's happened."  "I was under the assumption that it was the same individual that I saw (at the unfinished home) on the 11th," and he had heard previously that things had been stolen from the site, Travis McMichael testified.The prosecution has said surveillance videos do show Arbery at the construction site multiple times, including the day he was killed, but always without breaking in and without taking anything.However, prosecution witnesses have testified that the McMichaels did not know for certain at the time of the chase that Arbery was at the site that day, or whether the man in the videos had ever taken anything from the construction site. Travis McMichael said he grabbed his shotgun when his father beckoned him. As Travis and Gregory McMichael drove and encountered Arbery on February 23, they "identified that yes, this is him," Travis McMichael testified Wednesday."(We decided) let's try to hold him for the police to talk to him," Travis McMichael testified. He said he his father told him he had called police, and so assumed police were on their way -- but it turned out the father did not have his phone.The son testified he tried to ask Arbery while still in his truck what was going on, "trying to deescalate" the situation. He said Arbery did not respond and kept running. He testified he tried talking to Arbery a second time, during which Arbery stopped, did not say anything, but took off again after Travis McMichael said police were coming. Eventually, Travis McMichael said he noticed another truck in the neighborhood. Prosecutors contend Bryan, the third defendant, got in his own truck and joined the pursuit, though he did not know what was going on, and struck Arbery with his vehicle. Arbery at one point seemed to be "grabbing" the other truck well before the final encounter, Travis McMichael testified.Only late in the sequence, shortly before the shooting, did Travis McMichael realize that his father hadn't called police. Travis McMichael dialed 911 and handed the phone to his father, he testified.Arbery had no weapon when he was killed, authorities said. Correction: A previous version of this story misspelled Linda Dunikoski's last name.CNN's Travis Caldwell and Chris Boyette contributed to this report.
Why the tide may be turning on Trump. Frida Ghitis, (@fridaghitis) a former CNN producer and correspondent, is a world affairs columnist. She is a weekly opinion contributor to CNN, a contributing columnist to The Washington Post and a columnist for World Politics Review. The views expressed in this commentary are her own. View more opinion on CNN. (CNN)What's that we hear? Is it the sound of prominent conservatives and Trump allies openly rebuking former President Donald Trump? Are these the early murmurs of a conservative backlash against Trump? And is it possible a political lane is opening for another Republican presidential candidate in 2024?It's too soon to know, of course, and there's plenty of evidence that those who stand up against the vindictive Trump will end up crushed by either his bullying ways or by his loyal followers, with little support from the rest of the GOP. And yet, it is noteworthy that in the past few days we have heard from two major figures in the conservative camp telling Trump that he should stop whining about the election he lost and let the Republican Party focus on real issues, instead of his self-serving fantasies.The statements from Rupert Murdoch -- who controls a media empire that includes, among other properties, the shamelessly pro-Trump Fox News -- and from former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie -- an adviser who worked with the former president and helped him prepare for the presidential debates during the 2020 election -- may serve as a test for Republicans who understand just how harmful Trump's dominance of the GOP is, and how it could ultimately sink the party.It was startling when Murdoch, addressing his company at the annual shareholder meeting on Wednesday, said that the United States faces a number of major political decisions that conservatives will fail to shape unless Trump moves on. "The current American political debate is profound," he said, citing education, welfare and economic opportunity. "It is crucial that conservatives play an active, forceful role in that debate," he added, "but that will not happen if President Trump stays focused on the past."Murdoch is not alone in arguing that Trump is a threat to conservatives. Christie, who has just published a new book that looks very much like his unofficial entry into the 2024 presidential race, is making the same case, only more forcefully.Consider the title of Christie's book -- which effectively labels Trump a threat to the GOP: "Republican Rescue: Saving the Party from Truth Deniers, Conspiracy Theorists, and the Dangerous Policies of Joe Biden." Notice that Trump fits two of the three reasons the party needs saving (by Christie, presumably).Murdoch and Christie are not the first Republicans who have stood up to the former president --  but their rebukes of Trump are markedly different. Trump's early critics, like Senators Marco Rubio, Ted Cruz, Lindsey Graham and others, melted into passionate defenders once their criticisms proved perilous to their own standing. Their reversals bring to mind a quote often attributed to Groucho Marx: "Those are my principles, and if you don't like them...well, I have others." Christie says many in the GOP are frightened of Trump, whose "conduct is meant to instill fear." Conservative Republicans who refuse to fall in line, such as Rep. Liz Cheney, are being hounded out of a party that is increasingly remade into the former president's raging, iconoclastic and intolerant brand.Sure, it's possible Murdoch and Christie's words may also fail to change the course of the GOP, but their criticism is different. They both helped Trump throughout his presidency, and it's significant that they are the ones now speaking out against him. Their plea that he stop complaining about the last election, however, will only fall on deaf ears, since Trump is simply incapable of admitting he lost. But Murdoch and Christie are sending an important message to other members of the party -- and the rest of the country -- that to continue supporting Trump is a dangerous folly.Coincidentally or not, the chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, Ronna McDaniel, finally acknowledged Biden's win on Thursday, more than a year after the 2020 vote. "Painfully," she said, "Joe Biden won the election and it's very painful to watch. He's the President. We know that." Murdoch and Christie undoubtedly have their own personal motives for speaking out against Trump in this moment, and there's plenty of evidence to warrant accusations of hypocrisy. Murdoch, whose Fox News -- home of Tucker Carlson, a purveyor of harmful lies and propaganda about everything from the Covid vaccine to American democracy -- is still serving Trump's goals. But Fox News now faces billion-dollar defamation lawsuits brought by two voting technology companies that allege the network spread false claims of election fraud. Murdoch might be driven by a fear of liability and the potential damage additional lawsuits could inflict on his bottom line if Fox News continues to follow Trump down a rabbit hole of conspiracy theories and baseless claims. There is, also the possibility that he cares about the future of conservative politics, and genuinely fears the GOP might get trampled if Trump doesn't let up.Christie, for his part, is trying to promote his book and his prospects of occupying the White House.Still, it is remarkable that they have done the calculus and decided they can benefit from speaking out against the former president, even after other Republicans have been badly hurt by doing the same thing. I think their calculation makes sense. With President Joe Biden's ratings sinking, the conventional wisdom seems to be that Democrats are doomed. But it is Republicans who may be doomed if they continue to stick with the former president.There's no doubt the Biden administration is terrible at messaging. The economy is booming and yet consumers are feeling pessimistic. Meanwhile, Biden is making important legislative progress, and the inflationary pressures that are creating the false impression that the economy is failing could be resolved in time to boost Democrats' fortunes.Even if Democrats are still in the doldrums in 2024, it's hard to imagine that voters will be yearning for another four years of Trumpian chaos. Biden may look uninspiring now, but the former president, who had the most consistently poor approval ratings of any president in the modern era, remains highly unpopular and controversial. Do Republicans want a candidate embroiled in endless -- and serious -- legal troubles? According to the New York Times, prosecutors are likely to impanel a grand jury in Georgia in the criminal investigation of the former president's attempt to overturn the 2020 election (In September, he suggested he was being unfairly targeted, saying, "Even the Fulton County DA, district attorney, is after me.") Meanwhile, prosecutors in New York have convened a second grand jury to hear evidence about Trump Organization's business practices, according to the Washington Post. (The first grand jury, which convened this spring, charged two Trump companies and an executive with tax evasion. Trump, who was not charged, blasted the indictment and called the investigation a "political witch hunt.")A Pew poll conducted in September found that two-thirds of Republicans want Trump to remain a major force in the party, but only 44% want him to run again. One-third of Republicans and 92% of Democrats don't want him to be a major national political figure going forward. That's not the arithmetic of victory. There's the potential for a post-Trump Republican Party to gain ground. It still seems like a long shot at this point, but if his critics are successful in persuading the GOP to move in a different direction, there's a chance American democracy can return some semblance of normality, where political leaders debate what policies are best for the country, without fear of upsetting the tender, explosive feelings of a very bad loser.
Jury to begin fourth day of deliberations in Kyle Rittenhouse's homicide trial.  (CNN)The jury in Kyle Rittenhouse's homicide trial is set to enter its fourth day of deliberations Friday on five felony charges related to the fatal shooting of two people and the wounding of another during last year's unrest in Kenosha, Wisconsin.The 12-person jury, made up of five men and seven women, deliberated for an estimated 23 hours total on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. They have asked the court a handful of questions so far, including requests Wednesday to rewatch much of the video evidence of the shootings.One of those videos, a drone video showing Rittenhouse shooting Joseph Rosenbaum, is at the heart of a defense request for a mistrial in the case. Rittenhouse's defense team said the prosecution sent a compressed, lower-quality version of the video during the trial, which the prosecution described as a technical glitch. The defense realized the discrepancy after testimony had ended and so asked the judge to declare a mistrial.The defense has also filed a motion for mistrial with prejudice -- meaning the state would not be able to retry Rittenhouse -- for intentional "prosecutorial overreach" related to the prosecution's line of questioning during Rittenhouse's testimony last week.Judge Bruce Schroeder has not ruled on either motion.The deliberations come after a two-week trial highlighted by emotional and compelling testimony from Rittenhouse, the 18-year-old at the center of debates around self-defense, gun ownership and Black Lives Matter demonstrations. On the stand, he told jurors -- and the viewing public -- that he acted in self-defense."I didn't do anything wrong. I defended myself," he testified.Rittenhouse is charged with five felonies: first-degree intentional homicide, first-degree reckless homicide, attempted first-degree intentional homicide and two counts of first-degree recklessly endangering safety. Jurors are also able to consider lesser offenses for two of the five counts. If convicted on the most serious charge, Rittenhouse could face a mandatory sentence of life in prison.Schroeder dismissed a misdemeanor weapons possession charge and a non-criminal curfew violation prior to deliberations.The charges stem from the chaotic unrest last year in the wake of the Kenosha police shooting of Jacob Blake, a 29-year-old Black man. After instances of rioting and fiery destruction, Rittenhouse, 17 at the time, took a medical kit and an AR-15-style rifle and joined up with a group of other armed people in Kenosha on August 25, 2020. There, Rittenhouse fatally shot Rosenbaum -- who was chasing the teenager and threw a bag at him -- and then tried to flee. A crowd of people pursued the teenager, and Rittenhouse shot at an unidentified man who kicked him; fatally shot Anthony Huber, who had hit him with a skateboard; and wounded Gaige Grosskreutz, who was armed with a pistol. What happened in the trialProsecutors called 22 witnesses over the course of six days as they sought to show Rittenhouse acted recklessly that night and provoked Rosenbaum by pointing the rifle at him, setting off the ensuing series of events."That is what provokes this entire incident," Binger said in closing arguments. "When the defendant provokes this incident, he loses the right to self-defense. You cannot claim self-defense against a danger you create."The prosecution portrayed the three other people who confronted the teen as "heroes" trying to stop what they believed to be an active shooting. Binger also questioned the teenager's decision to take a gun into the city in the first place, calling him a "chaos tourist."However, on the stand, Rittenhouse testified he acted in self-defense when he shot four times at Rosenbaum, who he said had threatened him earlier, chased him, thrown a bag at him and lunged for his gun. Rittenhouse also referred to the three other people he shot at as part of a "mob" chasing him.He became emotional and broke down into tears during his testimony as he began to recount the initial shooting, leading to a break in the case. In closing arguments, defense attorney Mark Richards said Rittenhouse feared for his life when he opened fire."Every person who was shot was attacking Kyle. One with a skateboard, one with his hands, and one with his feet, one with a gun," Richards said. "Hands and feet can cause great bodily harm."The trial featured more than a dozen videos from the night that showed what happened before, during and after the shootings. Most of the facts of what happened that night were not up for debate -- rather, at the heart of the trial was the analysis of Rittenhouse's actions and whether they can be considered "reasonable."The prosecution faced an uphill challenge in the case because Wisconsin law requires the state to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Rittenhouse did not act in self-defense. But there are limits to a self-defense claim. "The defendant may intentionally use force which is intended or likely to cause death or great bodily harm only if the defendant reasonably believed that the force used was necessary to prevent imminent death or great bodily harm to himself," the jury instructions explain.CNN's Mike Hayes, Carma Hassan and Cheri Mossburg contributed to this report.
Weather will impact holiday travel. Here is the day-by-day forecast.  (CNN)Thanksgiving holiday travel could be a messy one, as forecast models continue to show the potential for plunging temperatures and a "significant storm" in the coming week.Depending on where you live, it may be best to leave early. Not everyone has flexibility in their travel plans, but if you do, Friday and Saturday appear to be better days than Sunday through Tuesday. Traveling by airline for the holiday? You may be in for a bumpy ride.Stay on top of the latest delays and the most recent forecast modelsHere is the day-by-day breakdown.FridayOn Friday, rain and snow showers will be moving from the Pacific Ocean all the way to Yellowstone National Park.Elsewhere, it will be fairly tranquil, but the temperature change might be a bit of a shock to the system."After a warm Thursday in the mid-Atlantic and Northeast with temperatures in the 60s and 70s, Friday will feel much more like November," said CNN meteorologist Taylor Ward. "Highs on Friday will be 20 to 25 degrees cooler with most locations struggling to get out of the 40s."The only above-average temperatures will be in the areas between Arizona and North Dakota. SaturdayNext week's nicest travel day may be Saturday, since the vast majority of precipitation will only happen in the intermountain West. Snow and rain showers will occur in areas of Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Utah, and western Colorado.After Saturday, travel becomes a bit more hazardous.SundayStarting Sunday, many more states will feel the impact of snow, ice and dangerous winds.From the Great Lakes down to the Gulf Coast, rain will be the primary threat, though snow showers will mix in at times in areas of the upper Midwest. Rain in Detroit, Milwaukee, Cincinnati, Nashville, Memphis and Pittsburgh may lead to some airport delays as well as traffic jams on interstates and highways. Overall, rainfall accumulations are expected to be around one inch or less, but some isolated spots could pick up as much as two inches. "Confidence is higher in a period of brisk to strong winds from the upper Midwest through the East Sunday into Tuesday and then possibly lingering over the Northeast thereafter," the WPC says. On Sunday, strong winds begin to kick up in the northern Plains, shifting to the Midwest by Monday. This could lead to significant airline delays as well as very bumpy flights over some locations.MondayOn Monday, the cold front will extend from New York to Florida, with rain and wind being the main threats. Cleveland, Chicago and Detroit will all be experiencing gusty crosswinds that could lead to flight delays. "Significant airline disruptions are possible from the Great Lakes to the Northeast with winds gusting over 50 mph in some locations," says CNN meteorologist Chad Myers. Even as far south as Knoxville and Atlanta could be looking at gusty winds on Monday."Models are predicting wind speeds inside the jet stream to be over 190 mph in places," Myers said. "Pilots will be looking for the smoothest air to fly in, but many passengers are sure to hear 'Ladies and gentlemen, please keep your seat belts securely fastened.'"Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday will also be quite windy in the Northeast, potentially causing some flight delays in Boston, New York and Washington, DC.Monday also marks another big day of temperature swings across the US.Much of the Midwest and Ohio River Valley temperatures will be well below normal. Cincinnati, Indianapolis, Detroit, Nashville and St. Louis will all have high temperatures 10 to 15 degrees below seasonal averages. The above-average temperatures will be limited to the area from Denver to the Canadian border, where high temperatures will be 15-20 degrees above normal. TuesdayBy Tuesday, we have some lingering snow showers along the eastern Great Lakes, but we are also watching a new low-pressure system pushing into the Mountain West. This storm will become the focal point of travel troubles in the Midwest on Wednesday.Keep in mind there is still enough uncertainty in the evolution of this system to allow for other possibilities regarding precipitation types because if the temperatures are warmer by just a few degrees, it will mean the difference between snow and rain for several states. Timing is also important because the European model nudges this storm along a little faster, whereas the American forecast model is a bit slower. Forward speed is also important in determining how long it lingers over a particular area."Many of these details have lower predictability several days out in time, especially since the supporting energy is still over or near Alaska at this time," the WPC said. Mother Nature might also be getting her holidays confused thanks to big swings in temperatures. From Cleveland down through Miami, temperatures on Tuesday will average 10-15 degrees below normal, making it feel more like Christmas than Thanksgiving.Quite the opposite for the intermountain West and High Plains regions, which will be 10-20 degrees above normal Tuesday, resembling Halloween temperatures more than Thanksgiving. WednesdayOn Wednesday, there is a triple dose of travel troubles ahead. The first is the storm that may still be lingering over the Northeast continuing to bring rain, snow and gusty winds that could make roadways and runways a mess.The best snow potential would likely be from lake effect snow on the Great Lakes and along the Appalachians, from the Carolinas northeastward.The second will be the storm entering the Midwest. Rain, snow, and even ice are possible for Michigan, Wisconsin, and Illinois, which could be very dangerous for both road and air travel.The third is the system moving through the Mountain West. Snow showers are possible for Denver, Salt Lake City and Cheyenne, Wyoming. "Across the northern tier, the combination of low temperatures and wind would produce cold wind chills," the WPC says. Thanksgiving could feel more like ChristmasHopefully, you've made it to your destination by now, but if not, the good news is that there are relatively few areas with poor weather. Temperatures rebound mostly back to normal by Thursday for much of the eastern half of the US, but keep in mind that "normal" can still be cold. For example, New York will likely see temperatures in the low 40s, so for anyone that might venture out to watch the big morning parade, make sure you bundle up!What about the return home? While it is too far out to get a really good handle on the forecast for the weekend after Thanksgiving, two areas look to have more potential than others for dicey travel: the Pacific Northwest and the Gulf Coast region.CNN Meteorologist Judson Jones contributed to this story
November's full moon will be the longest partial lunar eclipse in over 500 years. Sign up for CNN's Wonder Theory science newsletter. Explore the universe with news on fascinating discoveries, scientific advancements and more. (CNN)With a once-in-a-few-centuries partial lunar eclipse in the sky, stargazers in North America and northeast Russia are in for a historic treat this week.November's full beaver moon will see the longest partial lunar eclipse in over 500 years, lasting over six hours from Thursday night into Friday morning, according to NASA. Parts of South America can catch a glimpse at moonset, and parts of East Asia and Australia might see the eclipse at moonrise.A partial lunar eclipse occurs when part of the full moon falls under Earth's shadow (unlike May's total lunar eclipse) — more than 97% of the moon will be covered at the peak of the eclipse, according to NASA. The eclipse can be divided into the penumbral and umbral phases, according to Sky & Telescope magazine. The penumbra is the outer edge of the Earth's shadow, lasting over six hours, and the umbra is the deepest part of the shadow, lasting 3.5 hours.You won't have to stay outside the whole time for the experience, but you might have to choose between going to bed late and waking up early, depending on where you live. NASA forecasts the eclipse to peak at 4:03 a.m. ET on Friday. The eclipse will begin at 1:03 a.m. ET, but the dimming of the moon won't be noticeable until 2:19 a.m. ET, when the moon falls under the Earth's umbra. The website timeanddate.com can tell you when you'll be able to see the eclipse based on where you are.We can expect clear skies across the Northeast, mid-Atlantic, and from Michigan and Ohio to Texas in the United States, CNN meteorologist Chad Myers said. Most of western Mexico and Southern Baja to Mazatlán will also have a clear view. The eclipse in other regions of North America — most of the Southeast, from the High Plains to the West Coast and in most of New England and Canada — could be obscured by clouds. But don't be entirely discouraged."It is a very long eclipse so be a little patient and try to stay warm," Myers said. In full autumnal spirit, the moon will appear a reddish-brown color during the eclipse. The Earth's atmosphere, which scatters sunlight, will create the effect of a sunset projected onto the moon. Beaver moon festivitiesKnown as the beaver moon, November's full moon will be visible for about three days. The beaver moon is named after the time of year beavers retreat to their shelters for the winter, according to The Old Farmer's Almanac. The Cree and Assiniboine peoples call this moon the frost moon as cold weather settles in, and the Tlingit call this the digging moon for foraging animals, according to The Old Farmer's Almanac.Cultures throughout Southeast Asia also celebrate this moon with festivals, according to NASA. During the Loi Krathong festival in Thailand, people decorate and release baskets into a river. This full moon also marks the Cambodian Water Festival, which features dragon boat races.Celestial events in DecemberIf you still need to knock stargazing off your 2021 bucket list, there are a handful of celestial events to catch before the year ends.The Geminid meteor shower will peak from December 13 to 14, and the Ursid meteor shower will peak on December 22, according to EarthSky. A total eclipse of the sun, when the moon passes between the Earth and sun, will occur on December 4, according to NASA.
CVS is closing 900 stores. New York (CNN Business)CVS Health is closing 900 stores over the next three years, amounting to nearly 10% of its footprint, in response to the changing of "consumer buying patterns."The drug store chain said Thursday that the closures will result in a retail presence that ensures it has the "right kinds of stores in the right locations for consumers and for the business." A list of locations shutting down, which will happen beginning next spring, was not immediately released.The closures are part of broader realignment of its retail strategy of its roughly 10,000 locations. That includes remodeling some stores to include more health services, such as primary care, and an "enhanced version" of its HealthHub layout."We remain focused on the competitive advantage provided by our presence in thousands of communities across the country, which complements our rapidly expanding digital presence," said CVS CEO Karen Lynch. She joined the company a year ago.The closures will cost the company about $1 billion dollars in the fourth quarter of 2021. Affected employees will be offered jobs at nearby locations. Neil Saunders, retail industry analyst and managing director of GlobalData, said in a note to investors that the closures are the result of CVS having "too many overlapping locations" and the dilapidated state of its stores that has "pushed some of them into the downward spiral of irrelevance.""Too many stores are stuck in the past with bad lighting, depressing interiors, messy merchandising, and a weak assortment of products. They are not destinations or places where people go out of anything other than necessity," Saunders said. CVS (CVS) shares jumped 1% early trading. The stock is up nearly 40% for the year.
CEOs are joining the 'Great Resignation'. CEO turnover spiked in the first half of 2021, as companies tapped new talent to navigate the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic and stressed-out chief executives sought a career change, a study from recruiting firm Heidrick & Struggles found.The findings illustrate how CEOs are not immune to the exhaustion that has swept hundreds of millions of workers worldwide since the onset of the pandemic and has pushed many to consider a new job or lifestyle in a wave dubbed "The Great Resignation." "Our belief is that it will only accelerate going into next year as people have delayed their retirements," said Jeff Sanders, co-managing partner of Heidrick's global CEO and board practice.There were 103 CEO appointments in the first half of 2021 out of 1,095 companies in 24 regions that Heidrick studied, including the United States, China and some European countries.Six months prior, in the second half of 2020, 49 companies changed CEOs, according to the study.Most companies kept their leaders in place last year as they closed ranks to deal with the challenges of the pandemic. But as it receded with the help of vaccines, companies felt they were stable enough to find a new leader, Sanders said."Many CEOs didn't have to travel as much," which helped them preserve their energy, Sanders said. But communicating "virtually" in a new medium was "exhausting," he said.The reluctance of many boards to meet CEO candidates physically or place risky bets on outsiders while the pandemic lingers favored internal applicants, the study found. Nearly two-thirds of new CEOs were internal candidates, up from just a little over half during the same period in 2020.Women made up 13% of the new CEOs in the first half of this year, up from 6% in the prior period in the regions the report studied.Yet the churn did not lead to big strides in diversity, according to the study. It found that 3% of Fortune 100 CEOs are Black, 4% are Hispanic or Latino, 4% are Asian and 1% are Middle Eastern or North African, less than their share of the U.S. population."I don't think (CEO diversity) is where it needs to be," Sanders said. 
Oklahoma governor grants clemency to Julius Jones, halting his execution.  (CNN)Oklahoma Gov. Kevin Stitt has granted clemency to Julius Jones, commuting Jones' death sentence just hours before he was scheduled to be executed for a 1999 murder he says he did not commit. Jones' sentence will be commuted to life in prison without the possibility of parole, according to an executive order filed Thursday. Jones was scheduled to be executed at 4 p.m. CT at the Oklahoma State Penitentiary in McAlester. Jones and his attorneys found out about the clemency at 12:45 p.m. CT while having their final visit.  Jones had been in a holding cell outside the execution chamber for the past two weeks, the attorneys said, and he received his last meal Wednesday evening. They did not provide details on what was in the meal.An enormous sense of relief broke loose when the news arrived that Jones would not be executed, according to the attorneys. The Republican governor came to the decision following "prayerful consideration and reviewing materials presented by all sides of this case," he said in a statement on Twitter. Oklahoma's Pardon and Parole Board had recommended Jones' sentence be commuted to life in prison with the possibility of parole in a 3-1 vote on November 1. However, in his executive order, Stitt said neither the state constitution nor state law give the board the authority to recommend that commutation, nor do they give the governor the authority to grant it. As a result, the governor was commuting Jones' sentence with the condition that he "shall not be eligible to apply for or be considered for a commutation, pardon, or parole for the remainder of his life," the order says.In her own statement, Jones attorney Amanda Bass called the governor's decision an "important step towards restoring public faith in the criminal justice system by ensuring that Oklahoma does not execute an innocent man."But she acknowledged Jones' family and supporters had hoped he might get parole one day.  "While we had hoped the Governor would adopt the Board's recommendation in full by commuting Julius's sentence to life with the possibility of parole in light of the overwhelming evidence of Julius's innocence," Bass said, "we are grateful that the Governor has prevented an irreparable mistake."The 11th-hour decision comes after years of protest over Jones' death sentence. He had been convicted of the 1999 murder of Paul Howell during a carjacking. Jones has been on death row for nearly 20 years, but he, his family, attorneys and supporters say he is innocent. Jones' clemency petition says he's been on death row because of "fundamental breakdowns in the system tasked with deciding" his guilt, including ineffective and inexperienced defense attorneys, racial bias among his jury and alleged prosecutorial misconduct.Howell's family remains convinced of his guilt, reiterating that belief in a statement. "We know Governor Stitt had a difficult decision to make," the family said. "We take comfort that his decision affirmed the guilt of Julius Jones and that he shall not be eligible to apply for, or be considered for, a commutation, pardon or parole for the remainder of his life." "Julius Jones forever changed our lives and the lives of (Paul Howell's) family and friends," the statement said.Supporters protested at governor's mansion Jones' case has attracted widespread attention in recent years, in part due to the ABC documentary series "The Last Defense," which spotlighted his case in 2018. And more than 6 million people have signed an online Change.org Justice for Julius petition asking Stitt to intervene and prevent his execution. That support has only ramped up with the impending execution date. Supporters have gathered near the governor's mansion in Oklahoma City over the past few nights, and some even set up tents overnight, CNN affiliate KOCO reported.At a news conference Wednesday evening, Jones' mother described her son's scheduled execution as a lynching."If you think Julius is guilty, give him a fair trial. Do it over again, do it right!" Davis-Jones said as the crowd erupted in applause. "If my child is executed tomorrow or any day, it should be without a doubt. Not even a little bit of doubt."Reality TV star Kim Kardashian -- who has long advocated against Jones' death sentence -- actors Kerry Washington and Mandy Patinkin, and even professional athletes like Cleveland Browns quarterback Baker Mayfield have been using their voices in calling for the governor to spare Jones."It's a shame it's gotten this far," Mayfield told reporters Wednesday as he teared up. Mayfield played football at the University of Oklahoma. "Hopefully, God can intervene and handle it correctly and do the things He needs to do."Support for Jones has also gone international, with a representative from the European Union weighing in via a letter to Stitt."We respectfully urge you to exercise all powers vested in your office to grant clemency to Mr. Julius Jones," wrote Stavros Lambrinidis, the EU Ambassador to the US.The NAACP and the Oklahoma American Civil Liberties Union released statements praising the governor's decision Thursday. The NAACP said there is much work to be done and is demanding a retrial.  "Although we can find some comfort in his decision, this story does not end here," said Derrick Johnson, NAACP president and CEO. "We demand a retrial. His case is just one example of our country's long history of denying due process to Black men and women. We will continue to advocate for Julius and the countless others who are victims of a broken system. "Cassandra Stubbs, director of the ACLU Capital Punishment Project, said in a statement it is time to end the death penalty. "The racism that tainted Mr. Jones' case is a shameful and intractable feature of the death penalty's administration in the United States," Stubbs said. "It is beyond time to end America's failed experiment with the racist and unequal death penalty."Victim's daughter says the family has been 're-victimized' Howell was killed in a carjacking the night of July 28, 1999. Around 9:30 p.m., Howell, his adult sister and his daughters pulled into his parents' driveway in his 1997 Suburban, according to court documents. Howell's sister told his daughters to gather their belongings and was exiting the vehicle when she heard a gunshot, court documents say. Howell's sister glanced back, court documents say, and saw a Black man who she said was wearing jeans, a white T-shirt, a black cap and a red bandana over his face. The shooter fired again as Howell's sister and his daughters ran to the house, documents say. Howell died about 1:45 the next morning. Jones, 19 at the time, was arrested on July 31, the day after authorities found the murder weapon wrapped in a red bandana inside his family's home. He was tried alongside a co-defendant, Christopher Jordan, who was sentenced to 30 years in prison after pleading guilty to first-degree murder and conspiracy to commit a robbery, per online court records. Jordan testified against Jones, who was convicted and sentenced to death. Howell's daughter, Rachel Howell, and her family believe Jones is guilty of her father's murder. She said in a statement to CNN that Jones, his family and the defense team "want people to believe that Julius Jones is completely innocent, despite the overwhelming amount of evidence against him." "Overall, this has been extremely tough on our family," she said, "as we have continued to be revictimized by Julius Jones when we have done absolutely nothing wrong." Davis-Jones, Julius Jones' mother, has said the last two decades have been "a waking nightmare for my family," but she said she will keep the Howell family in her prayers. "I know what it is like to have a loved one ripped away from you and to constantly relive that loss. I hope and pray they find healing and peace," Davis-Jones said. There are conflicting stories about the evidence in Jones' case  The case has been marked by stark conflicts over the evidence against Jones, as well as questions about the reliability of the testimony of his co-defendant.First, there's the alibi. Jones' family said he was home the night of the murder, according to the clemency petition.  Then-Attorney General Mike Hunter's office said the alibi was thoroughly investigated and found not to be credible, adding the claim was explored in an evidentiary hearing ordered by the Oklahoma Court of Criminal Appeals. Jones himself was inconsistent about where he was the night of the murder, the AG's office said, adding two of Jones' trial attorneys testified he told them his family was mistaken and he was not home when Howell was killed. Another point of contention has been over a red bandana, which was found inside Jones' family home with the murder weapon wrapped in it. The clemency petition cites several individuals who said Jordan admitted to killing Howell and hiding the weapon and bandana inside Jones' house.  The petition also said Jordan spent the night at the home a day after the murder.  Jordan was released from prison in 2014, according to Jones' clemency petition. An attorney for Jordan, Billy Bock, told ABC News in September that "Chris Jordan maintains his position that his role in the death of Paul Howell was as an accomplice to Julius Jones. Mr. Jordan testified truthfully in the jury trial of Mr. Jones and denies 'confessing' to anyone." The AG's office pointed to DNA testing done at the defense's request on the red bandana. The results, the office said in a document released in July 2020, indicated the major component of the DNA profile matched Jones and excluded Jordan.  In response, Jones' team said the DNA tests results were limited, and Jordan's DNA could not be excluded. The jury was also not shown a photo of Jones, taken days before Howell's killing, that the petition says would have shown he did not match the shooter's description. Several jurors have come forward and indicated this evidence might have changed the outcome of the case.Then there's the issue of alleged racial bias in the case. According to the petition, one juror said they heard another juror refer to Jones as the n-word. Additionally, when Jones was arrested, a police officer also called him the n-word, the petition alleges. The AG's office contests claims of racial bias, noting the juror who claimed to have heard another use the n-word did not specifically raise the issue during Jones' trial. She had brought to the court's attention another comment made by a juror, but per the AG's office, an appellate found it unlikely the juror would fail to mention the racial epithet when she'd reported the other comment. Jones and his supporters, however, have similarly repudiated these arguments. Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly attributed a quote. It was the clemency petition that stated Julius Jones has been on death row because of "fundamental breakdowns in the system tasked with deciding" his guilt.CNN's Raja Razek, Theresa Waldrop, Ashley Killough, Ed Lavandera, Amy Simonson and Claudia Dominguez contributed to this report. 
Walking's 'sister activity' may burn more calories. Sign up for CNN's Fitness, But Better newsletter series. Ease into a healthy routine with this seven-part fitness guide, backed by experts. (CNN)Walking is the most popular aerobic physical activity in the United States, with 111 million people hitting the pavement in 2018 as part of their fitness goals. In addition, walking's sister activity, hiking, enticed 57.8 million Americans to get out on the trails in 2020, a figure that has increased notably since 2014. Both tick the boxes for getting you moving outdoors, a low-risk activity in a pandemic. But are these two forms of exercise really that different from one another? And if so, which one is better for you?Walking is generally an exercise that you do outside in an urban or suburban setting, or indoors in a gym on a track or treadmill. Hiking, in contrast, is walking that's done in the outdoors and along natural terrain. You'll usually encounter elevation changes when hiking, but not necessarily when walking. Both activities are low-impact cardiovascular exercises that can help you manage blood pressure and cholesterol levels. They are also great for your heart, said cardiologist Dr. Fahmi Farah, founder and medical director of Bentley Heart Medical Center in Fort Worth, Texas. "Walking is one of the best workouts for heart health for all ages, including those with heart problems and conditions," she said. "Hiking is also heart-healthy and provides a higher calorie burn in a shorter amount of time." Neither form of exercise is better than the other, according to Farah. "Both are great at improving heart and lung performance, and both hiking and walking can help you lose weight," said Darryl Higgins, a fitness expert and founder of Athlete Desk, a company that tests and reviews products such as treadmill and bicycle desks. Which exercise is best for you depends upon your fitness goals and personal preferences. Here are four top considerations to help you determine whether to head out for a stroll or a hike.Important note: Before beginning any new exercise program, consult your doctor. Stop immediately if you experience pain.You want to burn the most calories: Go for a hikeThe number of calories you can torch on a hike versus a walk mainly depends upon how much you weigh, the trail grade and how much weight you're carrying on your back. Other factors include the weather, your age and sex, and the ruggedness of the terrain.While you can burn around 100 calories per mile walking, you can easily double that figure when hiking. And if you strap a heavy pack on your back and tackle steep, arduous terrain, that number can soar to well over 500 calories per hour.Don't have time to drive to a trail? Then strike out on an urban hike, where you load up a backpack and walk around a hilly neighborhood. If you use trekking poles and move at a brisk pace, the arm movement adds intensity to your aerobic workout, helping to increase your calorie burn, according to the Mayo Clinic.You want the least expensive option: Take a walkWalking is free. Just put on some comfy, loose-fitting clothing and supportive shoes, then head out the door. There really isn't much more to it, but watch the video above for some expert tips on proper form. Hiking can be as low-cost as walking if you've got easy access to a trail and are only heading out for a short jaunt. But that's not typically the case.Hiking often requires driving to a trail, which may be several hours away and require a user fee. And while you may be able to get away with hiking in the same clothes you use for walking, you're better off wearing duds specifically made for trekking, such as trail shoes, hiking pants and breathable layers. You'll also need at least some specialty gear, such as a backpack, trekking poles, and a water bottle or bladder. And if you're backpacking, be prepared to potentially shell out hundreds of dollars for additional gear such as a tent, sleeping bag and camp stove. You want the safer activity: Take a walkWhile hiking isn't a dangerous activity per se, it carries risks. "Hiking can be strenuous," Higgins said. "It may not be ideal for beginners unfamiliar with uneven terrain." Trip and fall on a rocky, root-filled path, and you could end up with a sprained ankle or broken bone. And there are the various insects and critters out in the woods, which range from pesky mosquitoes to the potentially life-threatening snakes, bears or cougars. Cell service is often spotty or nonexistent on the trail, too, so if you run into trouble, it might be hard to summon help. Walking, in contrast, is much safer. Sure, you can still sprain an ankle while stepping off a curb. But if you do, help is nearby. If the weather turns nasty? You can call a friend for a ride or hail a cab. Perhaps the biggest concern comes with walking after dark. If this is your preferred time, make sure to wear reflective clothing and be aware of your surroundings. And don't head out alone in the wee hours of the morning. You want to de-stress: Go for a hikeBoth walking and hiking help dial down stress and anxiety, as do most forms of physical activity. Exercise is also great at improving alertness and concentration, lessening fatigue and boosting your overall cognitive function, according to the Anxiety & Depression Association of America. But hiking delivers additional calming benefits because it's done out in nature. Scores of studies over the years have linked being in the great outdoors with mental well-being. A mere 10 minutes out in a natural setting increased happiness and lessened physical and mental stress, according to a 2020 Cornell University study. And a 2018 study published in Archives of Psychiatric Nursing showed that when people were out in nature, they became calmer, plus developed a sense of community, shared purpose and belonging. If you're not able to go on a hike but could use a big dose of calm, walking outside around town or in a local park is still better than walking in the gym. But if you can wander through the woods, do it.Melanie Radzicki McManus is a freelance writer who specializes in hiking, travel and fitness.
Florist who refused to make an arrangement for a same-sex couple drops Supreme Court challenge.  (CNN)A Washington state florist who refused to make an arrangement for a couple out of religious objections to same-sex marriage is withdrawing a pending petition before the Supreme Court after announcing that she has settled her dispute, according to her lawyers.The settlement means the justices won't -- for now -- wade into another bitter religious liberty dispute pitting a business owner who refuses to serve a same-sex couple against state laws that bar discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.Barronelle Stutzman "has chosen to retire so her beloved employees can run her business, Arlene's Flowers," attorneys for the Alliance Defending Freedom said in a statement. "She will withdraw a pending petition for rehearing at the U.S. Supreme Court and make a payment of only $5,000 to the two men who sued her."Her lawyers said that she is "at peace" with the settlement because she can "finally retire with her conscience intact, and she knows that the legal effort to protect the artistic freedoms of creative professionals" will continue in other challenges.The dispute started when Stutzman declined to make an arrangement in 2013 for her long-time client Robert Ingersoll and Curt Freed for his wedding. The Washington state Supreme Court held that Stutzman violated a state law that bars discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. It said the law was "neutral" and served the states' interest in eradicating discrimination in public accommodations.  "We are glad the Washington Supreme Court rulings will stay in place to ensure that same-sex couples are protected from discrimination and should be served by businesses like anyone else," plaintiffs Ingersoll and Freed said in a statement. "It was painful to be turned away and we are thankful that this long journey for us is finally over."The couple said they will donate the $5,000 to a local advocacy group that provides peer support, education and advocacy to LGBTQ+ people, their parents and allies.The US Supreme Court denied a petition from Stutzman last July over the dissent of Justices Clarence Thomas, Neil Gorsuch and Samuel Alito, but lawyers for the florist asked the court to reconsider its decision, citing a decision in a separate dispute."Barronelle has been embroiled in litigation for almost nine years, and with this Court's denial of her petition, she now faces a crippling financial penalty in the form of Respondents' claim for attorney fees," her lawyers told the justices in briefs at the time.In 2018, the court had sided with a Colorado baker who refused to make a cake for a same-sex wedding. That ruling, however, was carefully tailored to the case at hand and was not a broad nationwide verdict on whether businesses could decline services to same-sex couples based on religious objections to same-sex marriage.This story has been updated with additional details.
Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, tells Ellen DeGeneres she's having sleepless nights over daughter's teething.  (CNN)Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, is opening up about some very relatable parenting experiences.Meghan stopped by "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" on Thursday for an interview that touched on a range of topics, including being a parent to young children.The Sussex's daughter Lilibet Diana, who was born in in June, is currently teething, Meghan said, which is keeping the mother of two up at night."She's a good sleeper but the teeth are coming in," Meghan explained to DeGeneres. She shared that she has tried freezing washcloths with apple juice to soothe her daughter. That's when DeGeneres joked that some tequila might do the trick. "That's Auntie Ellen for you," Meghan laughed.DeGeneres replied, "That's why I don't have kids."Meghan also shared that their son Archie was a dinosaur for Halloween and that Lilibet was dressed as a skunk.At the end of the show, Meghan and DeGeneres surprised a single mom who is giving back to her community by braiding kids' hair through her non-profit, "A Twist of Greatness." The Sussex's donated $20,000 from their Archewell Foundation to support the program.
'King Richard' puts Will Smith on center court as Venus and Serena's dad.  (CNN)Stage parents seldom fare well in movies and TV, but "King Richard" bucks that trend, placing Will Smith on center court in an overwhelmingly flattering portrait of tennis patriarch Richard Williams. Smith aces the performance, which is the main attribute in elevating the story above the standard sports-movie conventions.The film actually follows a fairly concentrated stretch in the formative years of Venus (Saniyya Sidney) and Serena Williams (Demi Singleton) under the watchful eye and tutelage of their father Richard, who speaks frequently of the 78-page plan he mapped out for conquering the nearly all-White tennis world before they were old enough to hold a racquet."I'm in the champion-raising business," Williams announces as he makes the rounds looking for a coach, met with dismissive and vaguely racist replies, including "You ever think about basketball?"Williams can be imperious (hence the title) and overbearing, much to the occasional chagrin of his daughters and wife (Aunjanue Ellis), who is no wallflower when it comes to the coaching chores or speaking her mind.The portrait that emerges from director Reinaldo Marcus Green and writer Zach Baylin consistently paints him as a heroic figure, protecting his daughters from dangers in the community, stressing their education as well as their ground strokes and working tirelessly to advance their careers, perusing tennis magazines while holding down a job as a night watchman.Any excesses, such as having the girls practice in a pouring rain, are filtered through that prism. And obviously, Williams' determination to "stick to the plan" paid off handsomely, despite the irritation and exasperation of tennis coaches (the most prominent played by Tony Goldwyn and Jon Bernthal) riled by his refusal to follow the customary script, including his decision to pull Venus out of juniors tournaments.Smith not only captures the cadence of Williams' voice but the unwavering confidence that he embodied, absolutely convinced that he knew what was best for his girls. It's down the movie's final stretch, as those plans begin to bear fruit, that "King Richard" feels more and more conventional, from the stirring music to the questions of how and when to cash in on Venus' prowess while the younger Serena is left behind, but as we all know, not for long.Smith (who also produced the film) is receiving a vigorous push for awards consideration, and he certainly nails the role in a way that belongs in that conversation, even if the movie as a whole seems unlikely to join him.Perhaps foremost, "King Richard" is framed as a response to the criticism and second-guessing that the outspoken Williams faced as his daughters took the tennis world by storm, which might explain why both signed on as executive producers.Indeed, it's hard to escape the sense that "King Richard" exists in part to let the Williams family set the record straight. And when it comes to giving Williams his due as both a tennis guru and a father, in this case, love means everything."King Richard" premieres Nov. 19 in US theaters and on HBO Max, from Warner Bros., like CNN, a unit of WarnerMedia. It's rated PG-13.
This holiday shopping season is going to be tough. Here are 4 ways to keep from overspending. Catherine Franssen, Ph.D. is a broadly trained neurobiologist, distinctive scientific communicator, experienced professor and life scientist at the Science Museum of Virginia. The opinions expressed in this commentary are her own. As supply chain disruptions continue to impact businesses around the globe, consumers could have a tough time holiday shopping this year — whether due to a lack of inventory, higher prices or both. And given the nearly two years of constant stress and exhaustion around Covid-19, shoppers will be more vulnerable than ever to the marketing tactics retailers use to trick their brains into frantic spending and hoarding. Most of us don't realize it, but our brains are inherently lazy. Due to both resource availability and functional properties, neurons (a.k.a. brain cells) get tired with use. To prevent its own fatigue, the brain takes shortcuts and tries to make quick, "intuitive" judgements rather than long, drawn-out considerations. These quick assessments of the world can be incredibly useful as we make thousands of decisions each day, but they can also often lead to errors in judgement. Retailers and marketers know this. The essence of decision making usually lies within the limbic system, which regulates emotions, memories and habits. This means that nostalgia and traditions drive many of our holiday purchases, making it easier for retailers to trick your brain by pulling on your heartstrings.To ensure you make rational decisions amongst the shortages this holiday season, there are a few things you can do to teach your brain to slow down and think through each purchase.Be intentional and make a listIt may sound silly, but lists can keep emotion from ruling the shopping trip. By slowly thinking through each item you may need ahead of time, you'll remove the burden of decisions and increase intentionality in your shopping. Scribbling a list quickly beforehand doesn't count, as it opens the door for not trusting what you wrote down and makes it that much easier for you to stray from it and fall prey to retailers' marketing tactics. By having a list that you know you've thought through, you can train your brain to trust that you will not make the additional just-in-case purchases that retailers want you to make. Minimize discomfortJust as you might cue up a favorite podcast and wear certain shoes for yardwork, you can prepare yourself for shopping. Discomfort leads to urgency in decision making, which leads to purchases that fulfill immediate needs rather than solid strategic purchases. Once you get into a store, it's often difficult to find a spot to sit down or a restroom, encouraging you to rush your shopping and make convenience purchases. Even a few minutes to breathe deeply, have a snack, drink water, visit the restroom and sit for a moment to review your list prior to shopping can reshape the physical stress signals your body is sending and slow down your processing to make better choices. This short time investment can yield big gains in time and money over a shopping trip (in person or online).Manage your biases To influence your purchases, retailers take advantage of cognitive biases in advertisements, floor layout, display techniques and more. They often display expensive items near more moderately priced items, knowing that most customers will purchase in a middle range. Those pricier items skew the customer's perception of value, and they end up buying a slightly more expensive item than intended, buying more items, or both. To further take advantage of this effect, retailers display the original price of an item that's on sale.Another cognitive bias that leads us to shopping frenzies, overspending and questionable decisions is the scarcity effect, which describes the change in our perception of an item when it is more rare. Retailers exploit this by offering a deal or product for a "limited time only" or "while supplies last." Our brains perceive these advertising cues as a threat, and evoke competitiveness and our fear of missing out.Scarcity is aversive, and it triggers the desire for abundance. As we saw at the beginning of the pandemic with toilet paper and cleaning supplies, when items are more difficult to find, customers purchase higher quantities when they do find those items, hoarding the products for themselves against the possibility of ongoing future scarcity. What's more, this need for abundance leads customers to become less selective, and they will purchase other items to fill in the gaps. Every Black Friday, shoppers get carried away. Current global supply chain shortages mean we can expect record-breaking battles throughout the holiday season over the last jar of pumpkin pie spice and the last Baby Yoda toy on the shelf. Retailers are counting on this. Instead of replacing items that will be out of stock for an extended time due to supply chain issues, they'll leave the tags up with a gaping hole on the shelf, while making sure to add alternatives and options nearby. They'll want you to see the gap and feel the panic of missing items. This is an obvious signal that what they purported is true: Everything in the store is available only "while supplies last." Many people saved money during the pandemic and have a surplus of savings. Even more so than in years past, retailers will capitalize on this to get them to spend. And in a time of supply uncertainty and inflation, the fear centers of our brain are primed to protect us from pain and loss, setting an ideal landscape for marketing ploys. Check your emotionsHoliday marketing campaigns are designed to tap into deeply rooted emotions. Nostalgia is a special form of long-term memory that activates reward pathways in the brain along with memory regions. Interestingly, it also activates an area called the striatum, which plays a role in motivation, action planning and decision making. When triggered by watching a commercial or hearing a song, this "rosy glow" on childhood memories motivates you to do something, such as buy a little something extra for your sibling. After a disrupted holiday season last year, our brains are seeking additional pleasure to add to that memory network. We're going to be particularly susceptible to messaging that reminds us of holidays past, and we're going to very likely want to buy extra gifts and food in an attempt to recreate, and perhaps surpass, the pleasure we remember. Holiday advertising typically features traditional family gatherings and interactions to remind you of the past. This year that will be layered with details like music, fashion and games from earlier eras to capitalize on key markets. We'll also potentially be even more easily triggered by environmental cues, especially smells that are connected to positive holiday experiences. Retailers are likely to utilize these to bump sales, too.If you're shopping and feeling nostalgic for someone, shoot them a text and let them know you're thinking of them rather than overbuying. If an item reminds you of someone or an old story, snap a picture or grab a screenshot, and spend some time reminiscing later, no purchase necessary.Being aware of holiday marketing tricks usually helps you defend against them. This is the value of metacognition, or thinking about thinking. When we engage our brain in analyzing itself, we start to observe and shape our own behaviors accordingly. That's how we can utilize these strategies to make rational shopping decisions.Correction: A previous version of this article misstated the author's title at the Science Museum of Virginia. She is a life scientist there.
Shares of Sweetgreen soar following Wall Street debut . New York  (CNN Business)Wall Street is hungry for fancy salads. Sweetgreen's stock nearly doubled in price mid-day Thursday, hours after the upscale salad chain made its Wall Street debut. The company set its price at $28 per share Wednesday, ahead of its initial public offering Thursday. The stock price jumped to about $54 at one point, and was hovering around $52 per share in afternoon trading. The salad chain, which opened in 2007 and today has 140 restaurants, has a goal of serving "healthy food at scale," according to an SEC filing related to its IPO. Sweetgreen customers can build their own salad or choose from a selection of pre-set menu items, which also include warm bowls. The meals are expensive, with some salads priced at about $15 before any additions or sides. A Sweetgreen salad might be the perfect meal for office workers who want to eat healthy and aren't too concerned about spending. But with the future of office work unknown, it's a precarious time to bet on the appetites of those customers."It is uncertain whether workers will return to offices in urban centers on a consistent basis, and even if they do, whether they will have a more flexible work schedule, which could reduce our revenues at our urban locations," the company wrote in the SEC filing. "If the shift toward remote work continues even after the COVID-19 pandemic has ended and workers do not return to offices in urban centers, or work from those locations less frequently, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected," the company said. Some were skeptical of the chain's business model ahead of the IPO. David Trainer, CEO of investment research firm New Constructs, wrote in a note this week that competition in the space is stiff, and that Sweetgreen hasn't done a great job differentiating its offerings. Still, it's an attractive time for private companies to go public. Startups are taking advantage of low interest rates and other stimulus from the Federal Reserve as well as investors' appetite for rapidly growing companies. As a result, there already have been more initial public offerings through the first three quarters of 2021 than there were in all of 1996 — the biggest year ever for IPOs, according to FactSet.— CNN Business' Paul R. La Monica contributed to this report. 
Inflation is coming for your cup of coffee next. New York (CNN Business)Not even coffee is immune to the powerful forces of extreme weather and inflation. Coffee futures climbed on Thursday to the highest level since January 2012. It's just the latest spike for a commodity that has seen its value surge more than 80% so far this year.  Unfortunately, this means coffee drinkers will be paying higher prices at grocery stores and coffee shops in the coming months. And that will only add to the inflationary pressures currently causing anxiety for millions of Americans.  The blame for the coffee spike falls in large part on severe drought and unusual frost conditions in Brazil, the world's largest supplier of coffee beans.  This extreme weather has threatened coffee supply and set off alarm bells in financial markets.  "It created a panic in the market," said Carlos Mera, head of agricultural commodities research at Rabobank.  'Atrocious' weatherCoffee inflation is the latest example of how extreme weather — at least some of which is driven by the climate crisis — is creating nightmares for farmers across the globe. And that in turn is making food more expensive for everyday Americans and people around the world. As of August, world food prices soared 31% over the past year, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Like many parts of the planet, Brazil's coffee growing regions have been hammered by a prolonged drought that could be the country's worst dry spell in nearly a century.  And then in July, Brazil was hit by the worst frost since 1994, dealing a further blow to coffee and other crops."The weather has been atrocious for coffee, especially in Brazil," said Mera.  At the same time, analysts pointed to the ongoing supply chain turmoil that is causing issues around the world, including the lack of shipping containers. Covid hasn't dented demandDemand, on the other hand, has remained robust despite the changes set off by the pandemic. People are still drinking plenty coffee, though consumption shifted during Covid-19 from offices and coffee shops to at-home.  "We were all very afraid. But demand is very steady, surprisingly enough," said Jorge Cuevas, chief coffee officer at Sustainable Harvest Coffee Importers. The National Coffee Association, the industry's trade group, also said demand didn't get dented by Covid.  In a statement to CNN, the trade group blamed rising coffee prices on shifts in supply. "For many years, the world grew more coffee than we drank, but the US Department of Agriculture forecasts that this year we'll consume more coffee than farmers grow," the National Coffee Association said. "We don't expect current conditions to change coffee's status as America's favorite beverage."'Imminent' price hikes for coffee drinkers Retail coffee prices are on the rise, but they have not increased as dramatically as many other items. Coffee prices are up 4.7% over the past 12 months, according to the October consumer inflation report. That's below the overall level of inflation, which hit a 30-year high in October.That's because Starbucks (SBUX) and other coffee companies buy coffee far in advance and have hedging strategies in place to lock in prices. That allows them to defend their profit margins and keep prices in check, cushioning the blow from swings in the futures market.  The bad news is that if prices stay high, they will eventually translate to higher prices for coffee drinkers. "It is imminent," said Cuevas.  Indeed, citing "rapid inflation" linked to logistics, commodities and labor costs, Starbucks said last month it plans to exercise its "pricing power" in a "very thoughtful" way.  "But we are taking price and we will continue to take price in an inflationary environment," Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson told analysts during a conference call.  JM Smucker (SJM), which owns the Folgers and Dunkin' coffee brands, said in August that rising costs will impact its business.  The industry is also facing the same inflationary pressures hitting other businesses, including higher wages and elevated transportation and energy costs.  "It is absolutely inevitable that the costs will have to be passed on to consumers," Ceuvas said.  
